Avril 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CORRESPONDANCE TABLE BETWEEN MERSEN’S REFERENCE DOCUMENT AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 Reference Document & Code of Ethics HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: businesses should The Group's Ethics Code, which is circulated internally and published support and respect the on Mersen's web site, restates the collective and individual protection of internationally commitment of the Group and its employees. It was updated in July proclaimed human rights ; 2017 and has been translated into more than 10 languages. It particularly addresses the Group's relationships with its employees, and customers, suppliers, competitors, shareholders, and surrounding ecosystem. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in The audits carried out by the Group's internal audit function provide human rights abuses. regular insight into whether these rules are applied properly. Over the last three years, 93% of Group sites were covered by an internal audit (the others not being material in size). In addition, the Group implemented an Ethics & Compliance function in 2017, which ensures the proper application of these rules. The Purchasing Department is improving its selection process for audits and supplier development in compliance with the Ethics Code and the ILO’s fundamental principles and rights at work. Ref.: 2017 Reference document: 4.1 Corporate Social responsibility P96 107 4.2 Health & Safety Commitment P110 111 4.4 Societal Responsibility P121 – 122 4.6 Overview of social and societal indicators P126 128 Code of Ethics (July 2017 update) APRIL 2018 LABOUR RIGHTS Principle 3: businesses should The Ethics Code describes the principles that govern relations within the uphold the freedom of Group, with our customers, suppliers and competitors, our shareholders association and the effective and our obligations with regard to protecting the Group's assets and recognition of the right to Mersen's commitments as a responsible company. It was updated in July collective bargaining; 2017. The fundamental principles of the ILO (International Labour Principle 4: the elimination of Organization), which the Group has committed to adhering to under all forms of forced and current legislation, are reaffirmed in this Code of ethics. They include compulsory labor; labor law issues such as freedom of association, effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, elimination of all forms of forced or Principle 5: the effective compulsory labor, effective abolition of child labor and elimination of abolition of child labor; and discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. An ethics awareness campaign was launched in 2017 in the form of a Principle 6: the elimination of training program to present the Code and its core principles using discrimination in respect of practical case studies (e-training available in several languages: Arabic, employment and occupation. Chinese, Czech, English, French, German, Hindi, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Spanish and Turkish). This training is mandatory for all employees. At the end of December 2017, close to one third of employees had already completed this training. Mersen's international presence makes diversity a natural part of the company. There is diversity in our teams' origins, training, cultures and ways of thinking; all qualities which stimulate creativity in the Group, that give us a better grasp of what customers want around the world. Mersen promotes a corporate culture that inspires mutual respect and recognition of the intrinsic value of each individual, whatever their background or origin. The human resources staff strives to ensure equal opportunities at every level, while maintaining and strengthening the multi-disciplinary capabilities of teams. The Group undertakes to combat all forms of discrimination through respect and diversity. While Mersen's corporate culture is strong, it is also adapted in each country to fit in with local cultures and customs. The best way to achieve this integration is to give the management reins to local managers, which is the practice at nearly all of the Group's facilities. The Group's human dimension takes on its full meaning in this drive for a subtle balance between respecting its principles and values and embracing local customs and practices. Lastly, Mersen wants its management structures to reflect the diversity of its teams. Ref.: 2017 Reference document: 4.1 Corporate Social responsibility P96 107 4.4 Societal Responsibility P121 – 122 4.6 Overview of social and societal indicators P126 128 Code of Ethics (July 2017 update) APRIL 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: businesses should A significant share of Mersen's business is related to the sustainable support a precautionary development sector, such as renewable energies, energy efficiency, and clean approach to environmental mass transit. In 2017, that sector represented approximately 40% of Mersen's challenges; sales. Regarding environmental practices, Mersen undertakes to: Principle 8: undertake 1. Comply with the regulations in force, via legal and other requirements, for initiatives to promote greater existing products and installations. environmental responsibility; 2. Identify the potential risks of installations and products, determine and whether the preventive measures in place are sufficient to prevent any accidents that could be harmful for persons and for neighboring locations (especially clients, the company's personnel and persons living in the Principle 9: encourage the vicinity of the production sites). development and diffusion of 3. Make regular visits to installations to detect anomalies. environmentally friendly 4. Make use of best practices and previous experience to continuously technologies. improve our performance, specifically through the implementation of an ISO 14001-certified environmental management system at certain sites. 5. Reduce consumption of water, energy, raw materials and packaging and encourage the recycling and reuse of waste. 6. Encourage the development of eco-design, in particular through more extensive use of the dedicated EIME application. In the field, Mersen's environmental approach translates into a quest to identify best practices and an extremely high level of vigilance. It is intended to help the Group achieve a virtuous circle. Ref.: 2017 Reference Document: 4.3 Environmental Responsibility P114 120 4.6 Overview of environmental indicators P127 – 128 Code of Ethics (July 2017 update) APRIL 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: businesses An “anti-corruption” training module was introduced during the second half should work against of 2017 which is primarily intended for site manager functions and the corruption in all its forms, finance, sales, purchasing and HR teams. Around one hundred people including extortion and completed this module in 2017. bribery. Notices are displayed on all sites to inform employees on what alert action they should take if they become aware of any practices that do not comply with the Ethics Code. All of these measures are coordinated by the Ethics & Compliance function set up in 2017 to develop and coordinate an effective and sustainable ethics and compliance policy (see chapter 3 of this document). Ref.: 2017 Reference Document: 4.4 Societal Responsibility P121 – 122 4.6 Overview of societal indicators P128 Code of Ethics (July 2017 update) RELATED DOCUMENTS Extract of Mersen’s 2017 Reference document: Chapter 4: Corporate Social responsibility and sustainable development Group Code of Ethics (July 2017 update) APRIL 2018 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Corporate Social Responsibility 96 Health and Safety Commitment 110 Environmental Responsibility 114 Societal Responsibility 121 Reporting program and methodology 123 Overview of indicators 126 Report by the independent third party 129 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 95 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Corporate Social Responsibility CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Mersen’s corporate project relies first and foremost on the men these values with those encountered on a daily basis, or those and women who work for the Group. Our employees have the that appeared essential to Mersen’s future. Conducted at all sites expertise. They respond to customers’ day-to-day needs and worldwide, the survey provided both a local and global vision. It develop innovative solutions by analyzing market trends and was used to define a certain number of indicators for each site keeping a close eye on the latest technological advances. Their (degree of cultural entropy(1), alignment with the Group’s values knowledge and savoir-faire represent our most precious asset and purpose, level of engagement, quality of action plans) as our human capital. well as various action plans that continued to be implemented in 2017. A new survey is planned for 2018 in order to measure the progress made. One of the targets defined, for example, is to see the degree of cultural entropy at Mersen drop from 17% in 2017 1. Human Resources plan to below a threshold of 15% in 20187. Every five years, the Human Resources Department determines the policy that guides work in a manner consistent with Group FOCUS strategy. The 2016-2020 HR master plan is predicated on four pillars and is implemented by the entire management team, with When rolling out the Group’s values helps the support of the HR teams. The plan aims to build a strong improve its communications HR identity to support the achievement of Mersen’s strategic As part of its initiatives to promote the Group’s values, project, taking into account the priorities of the divisions and its employees’ expectations and needs, while giving managers the Mersen’s site in Cabreuva (Brazil) launched its own requisite visibility and clarity in the medium term concerning the employee satisfaction survey. The managers were trained changes to be implemented. in how to lead the workshops and 90% of employees took part in the survey. The end objective was to strengthen exchanges and discussions between managers and their 1.1. Increase the sense of belonging to teams in order to get a clearer understanding of employee the Group and its attractiveness expectations and improve global communications. by reinforcing its common culture based on its values Ethics Code The Ethics Code describes the principles that govern relations 1.1.1. Changing standards within the Group, with our customers, suppliers and competitors, our shareholders and our obligations with regard to protecting Values the Group’s assets and Mersen’s commitments as a responsible 2016 saw Mersen redefine the professional values and behavior company. It was updated in July 2017. policy that apply to all employees as well as its management The fundamental principles of the ILO (International Labour guidelines after consultation with the Group’s manager and HR Organization), which the Group has committed to adhering to community. Out of this dialogue arose an expression of these under current legislation, were reaffirmed in the Code. They values and the vision and purpose of the Group. There are five include labor law issues such as freedom of association, effective in total: Excellence, Collaboration, People-conscious, Agility & recognition of the right to collective bargaining, elimination of all Entrepreneurial spirit and Partnering with our customers. forms of forced or compulsory labor, effective abolition of child All employees approved these values in the first half of 2016 labor and elimination of discrimination in respect of employment via exchange of viewpoint workshops at all sites throughout the and occupation. world. A survey was also carried out in the same year to compare (1) Cultural entropy is a measure of the proportion of energy in an organization that is consumed by unnecessary or non-productive work. 96 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Corporate Social Responsibility 4 An ethics awareness campaign was launched in 2017 in the form Mersen has set up a made-to-measure program for them entitled of a training program to present the Code and its core principles “I Become Mersen” that is mandatory for all new hires. The using practical case studies (e-training available in several program begins on the first day on the job, starting with a welcome languages: Arabic, Chinese, Czech, English, French, German, booklet and kit containing all of the documents and information Hindi, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Spanish needed. It is then adapted on a case-by-case basis and may and Turkish). This training is mandatory for all employees. At include appointing a mentor with whom interviews may be held the end of December 2017, close to one third of employees had during the initial months. already completed this training. As part of their integration process, new hires are required to Another “anti-corruption” training module was also introduced complete a certain number of training programs in classroom during the second half of the year which is primarily intended for situations or via e-learning. The training modules on policies and site manager functions and the finance, sales, purchasing and tools related to “safety at Mersen” and on the Group Ethics Code HR teams. Around one hundred people completed this module are mandatory for each new hire. For engineers and management in 2017. staff, the “Project Management at Mersen” module is also Notices are displayed on all sites to inform employees on what mandatory. New engineers and management staff must attend alert action they should take if they become aware of any practices the specific training programs listed in the Group management that do not comply with the Ethics Code. guidelines. All of these measures are coordinated by the Ethics & Compliance Following the Group’s decision to reinforce its integration process, function set up in 2017 to develop and coordinate an effective new engineers and management staff are invited to a two-day and sustainable ethics and compliance policy (see chapter 3 of integration seminar, the “New Comers Event”. The first day is this document). devoted to an introduction to Mersen and its businesses by its executive staff and the second is organized around a visit to an industrial site to highlight and illustrate different issues such as BEST PRACTICE security and operational excellence. At the end of 2017, three integration seminars had been organized in America, Europe and Asia. Awareness campaigns Where a company has been acquired by Mersen, integrating the In India, a specialized committee was set up in response new employees into the Group is also prepared and conducted to the country’s new law on sexual harassment in the in such a way as to instill a sense of belonging to the Group. With workplace. As well as registering any complaints, the this in mind, Mersen has specifically developed an integration committee is also in charge of employee awareness program intended for the employees of acquired companies campaigns to prevent harassment occurring in the first entitled “We are Mersen” that integrates human, social and cultural place. In South Africa, the company show was used as a dimensions. platform to heighten employee awareness of the problem. This type of interactive teaching method helps ensure 1.1.3. Develop a sense of well-being and that audiences understand but also retain the intended cohesion in the workplace message. Health & Safety 1.1.2. Recruitment and induction processes One of the Group’s values is Humanity. At Mersen, this is clearly that are central to Mersen’s policy of evident through its strong commitment to health and safety, as well reinforcing a common culture as to improving working conditions and preventing psycho-social risks and stress. The health and safety of employees was cited as Recruitment being the most important of our employees’ values experienced Adhering to the company’s principles and values is an essential daily in the survey carried out in 2016. This is the result of criterion in the selection of candidates. sustained efforts in these areas exerted over several years. Mersen works unremittingly to protect its employees against the The recruitment process for managers has now been harmonized risks it faces that are inherent to all industrial businesses(1). An across all the Group’s companies to make it as streamlined and occupational health and safety management system has been professional as possible. Thanks to its heightened presence on introduced and implemented globally, irrespective of the location social networks (LinkedIn, Viadeo and Xing) and the “Careers” and culture of individual plants. Mersen’s managers strive for section of its website, Mersen group is improving the visibility of excellence in these areas. its job postings and increasing its appeal. Mercer’s Facebook profile highlights the diversity, energy and collegiality of its teams Prevention in this area involves ongoing efforts to raise employee worldwide. awareness of safety issues. This begins as soon as the employee enters the company. All new hires must watch a Group safety Integration within the Group presentation (available via e-learning in Chinese, English, French It is also essential to share the culture of the Group during the and Spanish). The Group’s Health & Safety commitment is integration phase of new hires in order to assist them in rapidly described in detail later in this chapter. finding their way in the company. (1) The health and safety policy is presented at the end of this section. MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 97 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Corporate Social Responsibility Clear and understandable rules to all Group employees. These Multi-disciplinary working groups composed of operators, golden rules of safety are the backbone of the system. They managers, technical departments, occupational medicine, safety concern the primary risks that are encountered in all production officers, and the workplace health and safety committee are being facilities, such as traffic flows, postures, protective equipment, formed at sites to identify risks and improve workstation design energy powered systems, lifting operations, working at heights, in production, administrative and technical departments. These confined spaces, risk situations, co-activity, forklift operations and processes are intended to reduce incapacity at work, occupational high storage, and are displayed at all sites in local language. illnesses, and absenteeism. Their objective is to take action as A mapping of potentially fatal risks has been carried out in all early as possible to prevent risks. of Mersen’s subsidiaries and each Group facility held a training course in 2015 on fatal risks linked to their site. Additional and more targeted training was also provided to employees who work BEST PRACTICE on highly specific equipment or environments. This training is repeated every year. Firmly committed to occupational health issues for In building a culture of safety, we also publish a monthly report of several years now, in 2017 the St. Marys (United States) safety results, together with an analysis, and share best practices. facility brought in two specialists in well-being to talk with Over the years, the Group has recorded a certain number of good interested staff about heart disease and the immune safety practices observed in its production facilities, some of which system. Information and different blood tests (cholesterol, have become mandatory: they are the minimum requirements that glucose, blood pressure, etc.) were also provided free of each facility must put in place and maintain. charge on-site. The Newburyport (United States) facility Most Group managers also have at least one safety objective in also organized two seminars on health in the workplace their annual targets. in 2017. Since 2016, Mersen group has carried out Fatal Risks Safety Inspections in addition to the Managers’ Safety Inspections FOCUS already in place for several years now. The aim of these inspections is to specifically identify any activities or operations Mersen’s site in Tunisia was presented with the 2017 that present the risk of a serious, even fatal accident as defined in National Tunisian Health and Safety Award by the the golden rules of safety. The purpose is to regularly check that President of the Republic of Tunisia. This prize which the prevention mechanisms in place are correctly applied and that these operations are carried out in compliance with established rewards efforts made to improve health and safety rules in order to reduce the risk of a fatal accident to a minimum. was awarded following a visit from a committee of representatives from various institutions: the Tunisian To strengthen collaboration between the Group’s safety Labor Inspection Body, the National Institute for Safety managers, a series of meetings were organized locally in China, Research, the UTICA (Union of Independent Contractors), North America and Europe in 2017. These meetings provided the the UGTT (General National Labor Union), and the opportunity to discuss best practices and the Group’s standard Agency for Occupational Health. safety tools and resources. In occupational health, Mersen embarked on a program several Facilities such as St. Marys and Rochester (United States), years ago to develop well-being in the workplace, which paved Cabreuva (Brazil), and others in Korea, Colombia and India, the way for the signing of an agreement by all labor partners in evaluated the ergonomics of certain workstations. Investments France. As in the area of safety, the company emphasizes great were also made at French and United States facilities (respectively, emphasis on prevention while also providing remedial measures Bazet-Lannemesan, Amiens, Angers, Saint Bonnet de Mure and where necessary. Risk analysis, prevention and control measures Pagny-sur-Moselle and Bay City and Newburyport) to modify can be launched at a department or site level, in cooperation with certain handling equipment, thereby improving operators’ safety the workplace health and safety committees and occupational and preventing occupational stress. health services. Osteopathy and massage treatments were also offered during working hours at certain plants. 98 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Absenteeism BEST PRACTICE As a percentage 2017(1) 2016(2) Osteopathy and sophrology to improve well-being at work Absenteeism rate 3.3% 3.6% (1) Scope included in HRIS excluding the site of El Paso (United States). Committed to offering its employees the means to (2) Scope included in HRIS excluding the following sites: Bazet (France), improve their quality of life, Mersen’s plant in La Mure Gonzales, Rochester, Oxnard and Salem (United States). (France) has provided osteopathy treatments since 2014 and, since 2016, sessions in sophrology, a personal 1.1.4. Diversity development technique. Mersen’s international presence makes diversity a natural part of the company. There is diversity in our teams’ origins, training, In line with current legal developments, the Group is also cultures and ways of thinking; all qualities which stimulate creativity continuing its initiatives to prevent occupational stress. in the Group, that give us a better grasp of what customers want In 2017, the charter for a better work-life balance was updated to around the world. integrate the Group’s commitment to the reasoned and balanced Mersen promotes a corporate culture that inspires mutual respect use of digital tools in line with the minimum rest times applicable and recognition of the intrinsic value of each individual, whatever in each local legislation. The charter addresses five issues: their background or origin. It is solidly embedded in our values, scheduling of meetings, maternity/paternity leave, flexible working and perfectly reflected at our U.S. Boonton site, where people hours and work-at-home, digital tools and managing rest periods. from 25 different countries work side by side every day to help It is to be implemented in all Group entities under the responsibility our company prosper. of each entity manager. In France, as in the United States, structured work-at-home arrangements have been established for The human resources staff strives to ensure equal opportunities several dozen employees and are becoming practice elsewhere. at every level, while maintaining and strengthening the multidisciplinary capabilities of teams. Furthermore, in France, an agreement linked to employees’ “right to disconnect” (to not have to check and reply to work e-mails The Group undertakes to combat all forms of discrimination outside of normal hours) has been signed with trade unions. The through respect and diversity. Mersen shares and contributes agreement formally defines the rules for the use of digital tools best practices with other companies through various associations. in order to respect rest times, and is being rolled out through In parallel, by subscribing to the principles of the UN Global communication and awareness campaigns for managers and Compact, the Group is committed to contributing to the fight employees. against all forms of discrimination in employment and occupation (Principle 6) around the world. These various measures, which are long-term measures, place the emphasis on prevention. They contribute to maintaining a While Mersen’s corporate culture is strong, it is also adapted in relatively low absenteeism rate within the Group. each country to fit in with local cultures and customs. The best way to achieve this integration is to give the management reins to local managers, which is the practice at nearly all of the Group’s BEST PRACTICE facilities. The Group’s human dimension takes on its full meaning in this drive for a subtle balance between respecting its principles and values and embracing local customs and practices. Lastly, Flexibility and e-working Mersen wants its management structures to reflect the diversity The development of greater flexibility at work (flexible of its teams. hours, reduction in the working week, e-working, etc.) is a measure taken by many Group sites to help improve the As a percentage 2017 2016 quality of life for employees and, in doing so, encourage greater implication and appeal. In France and the United Plant managers/local nationality 90% 90% States, a pilot e-working program has led to a new charter. Gender balance Gender balance has been clearly identified and stated by In New Zealand, Mersen’s plant has changed to a four Mersen as a priority area for progress. We have made a serious and a half day week for production operators to allow for commitment to integrate more women in all our business a better work/life balance. The plant also offers greater lines, including production. Many initiatives in this area have flexibility for senior staff in order to encourage them to been introduced in recent years, including hiring, career stay with the company for longer. tracking, communication, awareness-raising among managers, compensation, greater flexibility for parents in their professional At the Dorion site in Canada, a trial program was set in lives, organizational changes and workstation adjustments to place to allow employees to alternate and work a 10-hour minimize physical constraints for female operators. day for four days in the week. In countries with a very low unemployment, measures like these can be a means of attracting candidates. MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 99 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Corporate Social Responsibility In 2015, management and all union organizations renewed their three-year commitment to promote gender equality in the BEST PRACTICE workplace, by signing a new agreement, which also sets the objectives of promoting more flexibility between professional Training employees in integrating disabled life and family responsibilities and improving gender balance in coworkers representative bodies. If local legislation requires hiring disabled employees, The proportion of women managers is approaching the Group’s some of our sites go above and beyond these objective of at least 20%. This proportion is 27% in the Board of requirements to encourage their integration and facilitate Directors and Executive Committee governance bodies. collaboration. In India and New Zealand, for example, training is organized to help our teams understand how December 31, December 31, best to include and work alongside people with disabilities. As a percentage 2017 2016 Women on corporate 1.1.5. Labor Dialogue governance bodies 27% 24% The Group Works Committee in France and the European Works Committee provide a forum for dialogue with employee A women’s network, created in 2010, known as WiN: Women representative bodies concerning the Group’s position and in MerseN, brings together male and female Group employees strategic objectives in France and in Europe as a whole. who want to work on a joint project to promote cooperation and They provide an extra dimension to relations with employee mutual assistance, encouraging growth through greater diversity. representatives through the employee consultation and discussion The aim of the WiN network is to pool the potential capabilities bodies that exist within the Group’s companies. of its members and to provide opportunities for meetings and analysis outside the scope of any hierarchical system. WiN also In view of the changes seen in certain markets and their short aims to become an international network within the Group that and medium-term outlook, Mersen group faced a number of can take part in inter-company events and share experiences. In challenges in early 2016, particularly with regard to its French 2017, a team from Mersen took part in the finals of the Innovatech sites. Today, the Group must adapt to an increasingly restrictive 2017 Challenge in Paris, honoring a team of young, dynamic environment and safeguard its competitiveness. As a result, and entrepreneurial women. because it is also committed to its human values, all steps were taken to ensure measures were carried out in keeping with quality Employment and integration of disabled workers labor relations and to find solutions that minimized their social Going beyond its legal obligations, Mersen has strengthened its impact through the signing of majority agreements. disability policy in connection with its policy to foster diversity. These measures resulted in the elimination of 130 jobs in France Accordingly, it set up a partnership in France with ARPEJEH, a at the Pagny-sur-Moselle and Saint-Bonnet-de-Mure sites. The non-profit organization supporting educational projects for disabled voluntary departure option set down in the agreements, however, school-age and university students. It offers an opportunity to made it possible to reduce the number of forced layoffs by half at accommodate disabled people and introduce them to the business one of the sites and entirely at the second site, bar one exception. world. It helps to change the attitudes of Mersen’s employees to By late December 2017, the repositioning rate had reached 97%. disabilities, while encouraging creativity and open-mindedness. In addition, the Group continued to implement the plans The Group has undertaken other initiatives. In France, for example, established in 2014, designed to prepare for possible psychoMersen Amiens works with the Sign Language Institute to facilitate social risks and support employees interested in initiating their communication with one of its hearing-impaired employees. own career planning process. Apart from this, Management drew Internationally, Mersen India is working with EnAble India to train on all participants in the area of occupational health and generally Group employees in accommodating and working with disabled the executive staff so as to remain attentive to requirements. colleagues and five severely disabled operators now work in our Indian plants. Mersen Canada prepared a facilities access charter for its disabled employees and customers and Mersen Gebze in Turkey specially re-fitted its work areas to facilitate circulation in the factory. The Group also regularly subcontracts with sheltered work agencies in France (ESAT) and equivalent entities in other countries. 100 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Corporate Social Responsibility 4 1.2. Rally collective intelligence through In addition, to accelerate the roll-out of the new project culture, each business line has designated one or more advisors to provide an organization that promotes methodological support to the project teams. These advisors’ main collaboration duties will be to assist the project managers and their teams and help train them. They will ensure that the GPS culture is 1.2.1. New structural organization that seeks applied and respected across the Group. In 2017, advisors were to pool resources and synergies designated for the main regions in which Mersen operates. In early 2016, a new organization was implemented to accelerate the Group’s development and assist in arbitrate the numerous Reinforcing Communities projects underway. First, two areas of expertise and five Communities also promote cross-sector approaches as well businesses were reconfigured in order to improve efficiency and as information sharing and best practices. HR and Safety reactivity on the markets, while simultaneously pooling certain communities have already existed for several years within the resources and reinforcing synergies. Next, an Innovation and Group. In 2016, the first multi-cultural technical community for Business Support Department was created to accelerate the roll machining experts of the Group was formed. This new community, out of an innovation mentality in Mersen. Its responsibility will be to which meets at least once a year, has set itself several objectives: anticipate market challenges and to make the company stand out improve productivity by reducing costs, improve equipment safety, better in relation to competitors through the advanced technology and capitalize on and consolidate the extensive expertise in the mastered by the Group. Lastly, in order to support business field. development in high-potential areas, an Asia and South America department was set up. These two new functions, in addition to 1.2.3. Internal communications the Operational Excellence function, are now associated with the Sharing information is a key aspect of employee motivation. Group’s Executive Committee. Mersen endeavors to communicate internally about the In 2017, faced with the need to improve agility and efficiency in performance of its businesses, including both its results and future its information systems and in its markets, Mersen created an IS projects. This emphasis on transparency enables each individual department that reports directly to the Group’s Chief Executive to gain a full sense of what it means to be part of the Group. Since Officer. A new five-year roadmap for the IS department was 2016, Mersen has been improving its internal communications developed and approved by the Executive Committee and a process by setting up quarterly conference calls between General transformation project will be launched in 2018 to give Mersen Management, the Finance Department and all executives and a sustainable information system that is adapted to its activities managers of the sites. During these meetings, quarterly results and a robust IT structure. are presented and remarked upon, as are upcoming priorities. Every participant has the opportunity to ask questions and the 1.2.2. Promote cross-business methods responsibility to report information from their respective areas. Inside Mersen, the Group’s in-house magazine, is available in Project management and cross-business an interactive electronic format on the intranet. Information is coordination also passed on using complementary theme-based publications The Group carries out various major, strategic projects, such with the latest news and plant magazines, which focus on local as acquisitions, industrial adjustments, and major investments information. In addition, discussions between management and on an ongoing basis. Given their complexity, we use a common employees take place on a monthly basis at most facilities. project management method, the Global Project Standard (GPS), which was reviewed in 2015. A project group composed The Group’s intranet, accessible in real time right around the of operational employees from the various business lines and world, provides a forum for sharing information and tools. Its project management experts revised the methodology, training content is constantly enriched by contributions from many section and deployment systems in the Group. managers. Today, an e-learning program is used to familiarize employees with the broad guidelines and methods and has been mandatory for all 1.3. Pursue the strengthening new managers and engineers since 2016. More comprehensive of the new managerial culture live classroom modules, taught by in-house experts, were also set up for the project teams on the basis of this shared methodology. 1.3.1. Strengthen the quality of management In 2017, nearly 200 people were trained. In 2018, this training will Faced with a changing, fast-moving world, Mersen is adapting and be complemented by role playing exercises, so the teams can changing its management culture. “Open Manager”, Mersen’s new learn from these methods in a more practical way. management guidebook, describes what managerial qualities and behavior are expected. It addresses five major topics: Working with Everyone, Communicating and Making Sense, Motivating and Developing Employees, Building the Future, and Achieving and Raising Standards. The entire Group’s chain of command is concerned; corporate executives, middle managers and supervisors are all essential players in the Group’s transformation process. MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 101 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Corporate Social Responsibility Going forward, the decision to assign an individual to a The Group Human Resources Information System (HRIS) has management position will be based on the new managerial been in operation since 2012. It is set up in some 30 countries. skills identified. The Group has decided to combine the internal Its primary objectives are the following: promotion approach further with external hires in key jobs such ■ Support managers in managing their team. as expertise area executives, business managers and product line managers. ■ Strengthen workforce monitoring with reliable, relevant indicators. In 2017, the Group continued to pursue its support policy for management teams by implementing a training program for new ■ Manage compensation systems. managers. Called “First Steps as a Manager”, the program is a ■ Streamline information processes and flows from the countries. blend of e-learning, classroom teaching and coaching, and met with success in its first roll-out at one of Mersen’s French sites ■ Deploy the HR strategy throughout all Group subsidiaries. in 2017. It will be deployed on a wider scale across the Group ■ Promote Group culture and develop a strong Group identity. in 2018. The system is constantly improved year after year so as to better Senior management will receive personal development training, assist the Human Resources teams and the Group’s managerial starting with 360-degree feedback and Hogan assessments. The community with their daily tasks. The improvements are made to assessments will be used to work on development plans with a both systems and processes: coach. The two divisions rounded out their individual programs ■ In the three main zones, rationalization of the payroll software with coaching for the management teams, which took place all is continuing. China and France recently underwent a complete year long in 2017. overhaul of their pay systems, and in 2017 the United States followed suit. A modernization project is also underway in the 1.3.2. HR tools available to managers DACH zone (Germany, Austria and Switzerland) to set up a new The annual review is still one of the key elements of the skills international platform directed from the shared services center development process implemented within the Group. Annual in Frankfurt. This will provide for significant improvements in reviews, a key opportunity for dialogue and discussion between payroll and HR reporting procedures. an employee and the direct superior, help to assess individual ■ In France, the various sites are currently restructuring their performance over the previous year and set objectives for the payroll departments. Two specialized payroll centers will be year to come. They also provide a chance to assess competency implemented in early 2018, in order to make payroll safer and development initiatives carried out during the past year and to more efficient across the entire zone. determine what action needs to be taken or continued to make progress in the employee’s current position or to gain promotion in ■ At the same time, digital transformation is continuing, especially the future. An application developed on the Group’s new Human in France: digital pay slips are now stored in an electronic Resources Information System can be used to manage online strongbox, absence requests and approvals are now part of forms and facilitates annual reviews. An application migration was a recently launched mobility program, and employee files are implemented in 2017, making the interface more user-friendly for currently being digitalized. the managers and the HR teams. ■ Finally, HR data quality and reliability remain a major issue and a In July, managers are asked to conduct a mid-year review, during constant concern. For this reason, the first RH audit campaigns which they may revise the objectives set at the start of the year, have been launched. Several sites have been methodically where necessary, i.e., a change in environment or other reasons. audited for the quality of their data and their compliance with Group specifications: M’Ghira, Tunisia; Wenzhou and Shanghai Training in conducting annual reviews was held in several Nanhui, China; and San Feliu, Spain. countries, from Asia to the Americas and including Europe. It is systematized every year with a training program implemented via the Mersen Academy’s remote training platform. 1.3.3. Training To help employees progress and prepare them for future positions Career reviews are another tool which provides a full analysis of responsibility, employees at all levels of the Group regularly of employees’ professional accomplishments, helping them to attend training sessions or perform training assignments or formulate their expectations and goals for the medium term. They projects that deliberately focus on topics outside their usual field also provide an opportunity for managers two tiers up to have of expertise. direct contact with employees and to listen to their aspirations. Career reviews can also be offered during Career Committees or at the mid-point of an employee’s career to see how the land lies. 102 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Corporate Social Responsibility 4 By expanding access to e-learning to its employees around the In 2016 and 2017, new programs were added to the Mersen world since 2013, the Group underscores its investment in skills Academy curriculum, including self-service English lessons for development and support as jobs change. The Mersen Academy, managers and executives in the Group’s international business the new e-learning portal, allows employees to obtain both highlines. These managers and executives now also have access quality general training and tailored job-specific training. This also to a multitude of English training programs specially adapted to offers the Group an opportunity to focus on priority and strategic their careers. Training programs for using information systems topics and to instill the Group’s culture. and software such as MS Office, emails, etc. are also available. The objectives of the Mersen Academy are the following: Every employee can find what they need to become an active ■ Streamline training through e-learning. participant in their own development. ■ Support staff in their personal development and employability The Group also promotes qualifying training programs via joint efforts. qualification certificates in its business areas, such as metallurgy and chemistry, as well as training leading to a degree. Several ■ Integrate new hires into the core of Group training processes dozen employees from all regions participate in e-learning training more easily. programs certified by Essec Executive Education or the Institute ■ Systematically offer training programs on basic themes, such of Leadership and Management (ILM). as safety, quality, ethics and management. In all, the Group devoted 1.2% of its total payroll budget to training ■ Reduce training costs. in 2017, i.e. 72,209 hours (or an average of 11.9 hours of training per employee). ■ Promote interactivity and collaborative work within the Group. The figures below do not include training via the Group’s e-learning Mersen Academy is accessible by individual or group licenses. platform, Mersen Academy, which accounts for 1,548 training hours for 1,813 active employees around the world. Training 2017(1) 2016(2) Spending on training as a % of total payroll costs Group total 1.2% 1.0% • Of which France 1.9% 1.4% Average number of hours per employee Group total 11.9 12.3 • Of which France 14.5 10.1 (1) Scope included in HRIS excluding the following sites: Moscow (Russia), Taipei (Taïwan) and Vienna (Austria). (2) Scope included in HRIS excluding the site in Yantai (Chine). BEST PRACTICE FOCUS Training as a driving force for employability A tighter focus on training needs and mobility In 2017, particular effort was undertaken in Brazil to As part of an in-house mobility plan for the site at Saintbetter address the special training needs there. A study Bonnet-de-Mure, France, career gateways have been to identify the particular needs was carried out, which set up in order to train workers in new skills and help consisted of observing workers and then talking to their them remain in employment. A training program with manager. This made it possible to practically double the special qualifying and/or certifying curricula has also been number of hours of training compared to 2016. implemented. MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 103 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Corporate Social Responsibility 1.3.4. Career paths resources/safety/general services, finance and legal affairs), the Career committees provide the opportunity to assess the 93 Group reference jobs that are common to all divisions. The career outlooks of key managers in each of the businesses and framework is reviewed every year and, if necessary, rounded out to prepare an individual skills development plan. These reviews to take into account the organizational changes and new positions. are conducted at plant and divisional level and help to identify key This mapping, which describes the jobs, their challenges, and/or high-potential employees for review by the Management specificities and associated skills, enables the Group to increase Board’s Talents Committee. These committees contribute to the effectiveness of its HR policies (including hiring, mobility and improving succession planning in the same way as experience training): interviews. In 2017, the sales, R&D and site manager functions ■ In terms of training, Mersen relies on the job skills guide to underwent a more specific review. offer training programs by support function and continue to Mersen’s global dimension provides employees with genuine develop expertise and professionalism within the Group. career development opportunities. The Group has demonstrated its Within the sales function, an analysis was carried out for desire to encourage exchanges between its various divisions and the DACH (Germany, Austria and Switzerland) operations in geographical regions by prioritizing mobility and the international collaboration with Mercuri International, in order to take stock diversity of managers. Mersen’s success is predicated on both a of the organization’s structure and skills in place. A number balanced international mobility policy and the development of of recommendations resulted from the analysis, mainly are local talent. The human dimension requires respect for and the regards training. recognition of local cultures and skills, wherever they may be. It ■ In terms of annual performance evaluations, employees with facilitates a rapid response for customers and will help to power the same position are evaluated on the same skills, thereby innovation and growth. strengthening the objectivity and reliability of the Group’s evaluation process. 1.3.5 Evaluations This guide is also a valuable hiring tool as it allows us to narrow Two types of evaluation are carried out at Mersen Group. The in on the type of profile sought. first are individual evaluations for senior managers or other experienced managers who are expected to be promoted to a key 1.4.2. Identifying Group experts management position in the short term. The aim of the evaluations is to verify the suitability of the potential promotion and draw up a To ensure the Group’s sustainable development, in particular the personalized development plan, which will also help employees strengthening of its technological excellence, Mersen decided succeed in their new role. The second type, which are intended to implement an expertise function called “Open Expert”, in for emerging talent, are under development and should be rolled parallel with its management functions. This function includes out in 2018. experts selected for their key expertise in the Group’s strategic business lines, as well as for certain behavioral skills. An Expert Management Committee approves their integration into the 1.4. Pursue the development of the function, based on both technical and behavioral criteria. At the Group’s human capital by relying on end of 2017, a dozen of Open Experts were appointed, forming our technical expertise in particular the foundation of a community intended to promote the Group’s culture of expertise. 1.4.1 Forward human resources planning 1.4.3. Stimulating innovation The Group must plan ahead and prepare for the future by identifying the competencies that it will need in the future to Innovation is used to build a distinctive range of products and to sustain its development. At the same time, employees must be drive growth. The Group’s primary partners in terms of innovation aware of likely changes in their jobs so that they can improve are its customers, for which it develops tailored products. their own skills set. Mersen has two objectives: bolster the culture, resources and Based on the Group’s forward human resources planning process oversight of innovation and of Research & Development (R&D); and in line with its strategic planning, each division prepares and structure and promote the sharing and synergies of R&D an annual forecast of the skills and expertise it will need in the resources among the Group’s various units. medium term, in keeping with its priorities and those of the Group. The decisions made and initiatives implemented over the past This analysis is consolidated at the Group level, based on Mersen’s five years have led to: reference job framework. This framework, which is updated ■ The development of an internal online database to include a list annually, identifies and describes, for each of the 10 support of experts (by materials, by physical and chemical phenomena functions (sales and marketing, business, R&D, production, and by industrial processes) and special equipment at all of production support, sourcing, information systems, human the Group facilities. 104 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Corporate Social Responsibility 4 ■ The formal fixing of research, development and technology 1.4.4. Knowledge transfer watch priorities for divisions and the Group, while ensuring Planning ahead for departures linked to demographic trends in that they remain consistent with its growth objectives in certain the Group’s workforce is a key aspect of the Group’s policy of key markets. human resource planning. ■ The three ideas creating the most value being rewarded each In France, despite the expiry of the Contrat de Génération year through the Innovation challenge. legislation, Mersen has upheld its commitment to hiring young Innovation also lies at the heart of our corporate culture and our people on fixed-term contracts while maintaining the jobs of HR policy, which promotes autonomy, creativity, initiative-taking senior employees. In 2017, the Group also took on 27 paid and idea sharing by restricting the number of management tiers interns on degree courses and offered 58 work-study contracts and providing easy access to managers. The Group’s Research for apprentices or interns. A report is submitted annually to the and Development policy is described in the Management Report Group committee. of this document. Many facilities hire people on an internship or work-study basis Exchanges with outside experts are also encouraged. In France, for to order to integrate young people and identify the strongest example, the Group formed partnerships with French laboratories, candidates. Mersen South Africa has joined forces with SAJ productivity clusters, universities and engineering schools under Competency Training Institute to hire apprentices and, in the a Unique Interministerial Fund (FUI) project. This collaborative United States, the St. Marys facility has developed partnerships project, FE²E (economically and environmentally efficient fuses), with local colleges to promote the industry among young people integrates these partners in areas of advanced research (including and raise awareness about career prospects. The facility also materials, electrical engineering and modelling). In the field of plays a consulting role for training providers in order to develop materials, the Group is collaborating on the FORCE(1) project programs adapted to specific needs. The Rochester facility also launched in 2014 to develop a low cost carbon fiber sector in offers an apprenticeship program, developed in partnership with France. Working within a consortium comprised of French the New York State Department of Labor, and the Hittisau site manufacturers and laboratories, Mersen is involved as a technical works with a university of applied sciences in Austria, where it expert in this strategic project for the industry of the future, offers work-study programs. providing our knowledge of high temperature processes and Simultaneously, given the challenges associated with training carbon materials used in the carbon fiber production chain. These young people, the Group provides tailored guidance for young collaborative projects reflect the Group’s interest in and ability recruits. A new mentor/advisor dynamic has been introduced to to meet significant technological and manufacturing challenges. welcome new hires into the company and provide guidance. To better prepare for the large-scale changes affecting both With regard to senior employees, in France the company is our markets and our customers, and to help guide the Group’s continuing the mentoring program introduced several years ago. R&D strategy and efforts, in 2016 the Group created a Division of Technology, Research, Innovation and Business Support that An “experience interview” may be held with each employee whose reports directly to the CEO of the Group. This function aims to skills are judged to be essential and for all employees who may better anticipate product and solution issues of the future, and retire within two to five years. The objective is to review the will allow for the more efficient arbitrage and monitoring of R & individual’s knowledge and key skills to ensure and prepare for D projects. It will also contribute to better identifying key experts their transfer. This interview also reviews the employee’s position in the Group. ahead of his/her retirement and/or the final part of his/her career to make sure it is as interesting and useful as possible. Managers In place for just over one year now, the Department of Technology, are offered training to prepare for this interview. Research, Innovation and Business Support of the Group is focusing on a certain number of priority areas: The results of these experience interviews will be used to enhance succession planning. ■ Improving the time to market of new products, an essential factor for organic growth. Lastly, highly motivated employees with expertise in a key area for the Group may be asked to become mentors. This kind of ■ Intensifying the selection process of priority projects, in order to mentoring ensures the proper transmission of professional better concentrate the bulk of resources on strategic projects. knowledge, which concerns everyone, whether experienced ■ Resorting more to simulation tools to save time and react better managers, engineers, technicians or operators. to customer requirements. (1) Optimized and Realistic Economic Carbon Fiber. MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 105 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Corporate Social Responsibility 1.5. A motivating compensation policy 1.5.2. Changes in direct compensation in 2017 At Mersen, an employee’s basic salary, which is a core component 1.5.1. Compensation policy outline of their compensation, is reviewed yearly. The budgets allocated The compensation policy implemented by the Group includes a for this purpose take into account the needs expressed by each multitude of measures for employee motivation and satisfaction. entity and make it possible to at least offset the annual inflation Distinction is made between direct compensation, which is money of living costs. In 2017, the average rise was 2.8% compared paid to employees, and non-monetary compensation, which with the previous year. comprises welfare benefits. The yearly bonus, which is a major component of variable The components of compensation set out below may not all compensation, was broken down into three schemes in 2017 (two be in place in all countries and Group subsidiaries. However, previously), each of which corresponds to a specific employee efforts have been underway for several years now to gradually category. During the year, Mersen set up a bonus scheme for harmonize these components when applicable legislation and the Group’s senior managers, who were previously eligible for financial resources allow. one of the two existing schemes. They can now benefit from a modified scheme that bolsters collective and financial targets. Direct compensation is composed of the following: Senior managers play a major role in the achievement of the ■ Basic salary: the fixed amount of compensation that Group’s financial targets, which warrants that 60% of their bonus corresponds to the position occupied. A basic salary must be is made up of these targets. competitive and fair, both within the Group and in relation to Managers remain eligible for one scheme, half of which is made up market practices. Mersen ensures that salaries attract and of collective and financial targets, and the other of their individual retain as many employees as possible. Competitiveness targets, set yearly. surveys make it possible to analyze, on an annual basis, salary competitiveness in a particular market. Lastly, the sales force benefits from a bonus that emphasizes the achievement of individual objectives: 70% of the total bonus ■ Annual bonus: paid to eligible employees for group and corresponds to sales. If annual sales targets are exceeded, this individual performance and based on annual targets, whose maximum rate may be increased. The ratio for exceeding the composition and achievement criteria are reviewed annually. maximum rate for individual objectives can reach 2.15, i.e. more ■ Profit-sharing: mandatory in France under profit-sharing than 150% of the total bonus. legislation and supplemented by incentive agreements in each As of 2017, Mersen has added a collective objective that is of Mersen’s French subsidiaries. Profit-sharing is also offered common to all bonus schemes. This objective is the Group’s to employees in a large number of Mersen’s host countries. operating margin before non-recurring items. Its weighting is The welfare benefits offered by the Group, aside from legal and identical, irrespective of the type of bonus, i.e. 30% of the total obligatory benefits, are as follows: bonus. The objective to be achieved with regard to the operating ■ Health care: the Group covers, either directly or by means margin before non-recurring items is set yearly. If this objective is of contributions paid to an insurer, all or part of the health exceeded, an additional amount is paid to all employees who are care costs incurred by employees. As a rule, employees also eligible for a bonus scheme. This supplementary amount ranges contribute to the costs. from 1 to 1.4 times the maximum rate allocated to the operating margin before non-recurring items, i.e. at most 12% of the total ■ Benefits plan: ensures the continued payment of the employee’s bonus. salary in the event of a long-term illness. In the case of disability, the benefits plan provides employees with an income or lump In addition to Mersen’s bonus schemes, some countries implement sum to compensate their loss of income. In addition, some variable compensation schemes that are open to some or all plans provide for the payment of a lump sum to beneficiaries employees. These schemes correspond either to local bonus or in the event of an employee’s death. The employer funds all or profit-sharing schemes. In China, Mersen is studying the feasibility part of the plan; in the latter case the employee also contributes of gradually implementing a profit-sharing system from 2018. It to the costs. should be noted that local bonuses for employees who do not benefit from Mersen’s bonus schemes are in place in some of ■ Retirement: Mersen, with the participation of employees in Mersen’s Chinese and Indian facilities. Apart from France, profitsome cases, contributes to retirement plans which complement sharing is implemented in certain countries, such as the United compulsory schemes. These additional retirement plans are States, Canada, Mexico, the United Kingdom, Spain and Turkey, increasingly defined contribution plans. through profit-sharing schemes, which benefit either all employees or those who do not benefit from the Mersen bonus schemes. 106 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Corporate Social Responsibility 4 1.5.3. Diversity of the welfare benefits offered contributions so that the total amount paid by employees does The welfare benefits offered to Mersen employees cover various not increase in 2018 compared with the previous year. areas, such as health care, benefits and pension plans. In China, a supplementary retirement plan was introduced in 2017, In France, Mersen has offered employees a standard which is offered to the senior managers of Mersen’s Chinese supplementary coverage for health costs, irrespective of their subsidiaries. The aim of the scheme is to enhance retirement subsidiary, since 2012. In 2017, Mersen negotiated with union pensions by increasing the replacement rate (total amount of organizations to implement the “responsible contract”, a legal the pension versus the compensation received at retirement). provision capping the maximum benefit reimbursement when the The amount of the retirement pensions offered by the Social employer is responsible for all or part of the contributions. From Security, which is the only retirement plan offered to Mersen’s January 1, 2018, this change has resulted in the decrease of some Chinese employees, translates into a replacement rate that is reimbursements and Mersen has decided to offer employees weakest when retiring employees’ compensation is high. The additional coverage in order to maintain the same levels – joining plan is funded by employer contributions, while employees can this scheme is optional. Since this supplementary coverage is fully also make voluntary contributions and, in this case, the employer charged to employees, Mersen has also decided to increase its matches the contribution. 2. Workforce and facilities Mersen had 6,384 employees at December 31, 2017, in 35 countries. 2.1. Geographical analysis of the workforce (at December 31) Country 2017 2017 (%) 2016 Difference Europe 2,062 32.3% 2,172 -5.1% • Of which France 1,303 20.4% 1,418 -8.1% North America 2,012 31.5% 1,855 +8.5% Asia-Pacific 1,723 27.0% 1,584 +8.8% Africa and South America 587 9.2% 499 +17.6% TOTAL 6,384 100.0% 6,110 +4.5% The workforce increased by 274 people. Electric Carbon, the Group also created a joint venture company which is majority owned by Mersen. This company employed In 2017, 1,657 people were hired around the world, including on 106 people at December 31, 2017. fixed-term contracts, and 1,459 people left the Company, among which 365 not voluntarily (scope included in HRIS). Based on the reporting scope, women accounted for 37% and senior employees for 16% of the workforce, a slight increase on Mersen sold two sites in 2017 – Mersen France Saint-Loup-de2016. Naud and Mersen France Gorcy – which accounted for 46 and 29 employees respectively at December 31, 2016. With Harbin 2017* 2016* Group headcount • o/w women (as a %) 37% 36% • o/w seniors 55 and older (as a %) 16% 15% * Scope included in HRIS MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 107 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Corporate Social Responsibility 2.2. Age pyramid (at December 31)* \HDUV 4.0% 1.3% 58 59 years 2.5% 1.4% 55 57 years 4.2% 2.1% 50 54 years 8.1% 4.2% 45 49 years 8.2% 4.1% 40 44 years 8.4% 4.3% 35 39 years 9.2% 5.1% 30 34 years 9.0% 5.7% 25 29 years 6.7% 5.2% < 25 years 3.1% 3.1% Male Female * Scope included in HRIS. The average age of Group employees is 41. 2.3. Headcount broken down by category Categories Dec. 31, 2017 % Dec. 31, 2016 % Engineers and managers 1,183 18% 1,168 19% Technicians and supervisors 1,004 16% 1,010 16% Employees 582 9% 585 10% Blue-collar workers 3,635 57% 3,347 55% TOTAL 6,384 100% 6,110 100% 2.4. Geographical analysis of facilities The Group’s various manufacturing facilities include both large plants (>125 staff) dedicated to producing intermediate products (at December 31) or large runs, and local workshops, which meet the highly specific The Group has a presence on five continents. This presence needs of their local customers. They break down by geographical reflects part of Mersen’s strategy of forging close relationships in area as follows: its markets and represents a strategic advantage. o/w facilities with more Country 2017 than 125 employees 2016 Europe 19 5 21 • Of which France 7 4 9 North America 13 4 13 Asia-Pacific 13 3 13 Africa and South America 5 2 5 TOTAL 50 14 52 In France, the Group sold the St-Loup-de-Naud and Gorcy sites. In Asia-Pacific, Mersen integrated the Harbin site (China) and closed down a site in Chennai (India). 108 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Corporate Social Responsibility 4 3. Social information concerning the Group’s companies in France In accordance with the provisions of Decree no. 2002-221 of February 20, 2002 in application of Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (operations in France): 3.1. Headcount at December 31 3.5. Absenteeism 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Workforce 1,303 1,418 1,469 Absenteeism rate 5.0% 5.6% 4.9% • o/w fixed-term contracts 15 15 24 • o/w illness 3.4% 4.6% 4.1% 3.2. Recruitment 3.6. Part-time work 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Recruitment 107 69 119 Employees working • o/w fixed-term contracts 13 11 19 part-time (as a %) 5.4% 5.3% 5.4% 3.3. Temporary workers 3.7. Disabled employees 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Average headcount 211 139 157 Workers with a disability % of the headcount 16% 10% 11% (as a %) 5.5% 5.9% 5.2% 3.4. Overtime 3.8. Organization of working hours In France, an amendment to the agreement on executives’ 2017 2016 2015 working hours was signed in 2017 to integrate the most recent legal changes for an indefinite period. Overtime 23,893 20,948 15,765 The working hours of engineers and managers are calculated % of hours worked 1.2% 1.0% 0.7% based on an annual total of 216 work days, which gives them an average of 12 days of additional leave per year. The 2017 amendment reiterates the need for managers and their teams to review the organization of their work, work load, and fluctuations in daily activities, at least once a year. MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 109 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Health and Safety Commitment HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITMENT Mersen is committed to developing and consolidating a health and safety culture within the Group by relying on three main tools: 2. 2017 Achievements Accountability, Risk Analysis and Continuous Improvement. The goal is to achieve Excellence in health and safety. In 2015, the Health & Safety, Environment and Industrial Risks Department assessed the Group’s strengths and weaknesses in safety in collaboration with a specialized external firm. Following this assessment, an action plan was drawn up and its implementation began in 2016. As a reminder, the primary actions 1. Organization of the were as follows: function ■ Revising our Golden Rules to improve the clarity of definitions for improved understanding. The Group’s Health & Safety, Environment and Industrial Risks function has been part of the Operational Excellence Department ■ Creating a Safety Visit tool focused on fatal risks. since February 2017. Through this new organization, the Group ■ Strengthening procedures for sensitive equipment. aims to effectively integrate health and safety in its Operational ■ Defining a standard Group tool to detect risks at each Excellence policy and make it its primary goal. workstation. Health and safety measures and their results are reviewed The Fatal Risks Safety Inspections and Job Hazard Analyses that each month by the Executive Committee as part of its unstinting began in 2016 were carried out at all Mersen sites in 2017. By commitment to ensuring they are a success. The prevention of the end of the year, Job Hazard Analyses had been completed accidents, particularly serious accidents, is a core priority for the for the majority of sites and the regular update of job hazards has Executive Committee. Each year, a program of Corporate audits is started to become standard practice. defined for the Group’s different sites which are carried out by the Health & Safety, Environment and Industrial Risks function. The function also draws on a network of regional correspondents. Their FOCUS role is to perform cross-audits in the region, conduct more detailed audits at underperforming units and implement the Group safety policy formulated by the Executive Committee. Correspondents Job Hazard Analysis are also responsible for reporting to the Group on changes in local Deployed for the first time in 2017, the Job Hazard health and safety regulations. Analysis (JHA) process aims to reinforce prevention by Most of the plants also have a dedicated health and safety officer involving each employee in analyzing the specific risks who helps to implement the policy defined by the Executive they are exposed to at their workstation. The aim is to Committee. identify all of the risks linked to a given workstation with their operators, to assess the risks, to set in place and display the necessary preventative measures, and to train 2017 2016 operators accordingly. These risks are then updated on a Companies with a dedicated regular basis. Health & Safety officer 92% 90% The tools developed in recent years are now well-established: Every month, the Health & Safety, Environment and Industrial ■ E-learning in different languages, thus reaching potentially 85% Risks Department circulates a publication dedicated to safety of the Group’s population. Intended, on a priority basis, for new reviewing the latest trends in Mersen’s safety indicators and employees, many plants use the tool to reinforce the training highlighting best practices. The publication is intended for site, of employees already on the job. health and safety and human resources managers and is also posted on the Group’s intranet. 110 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Health and Safety Commitment 4 Reporting on potentially dangerous situations: the objective is ■ to report potentially serious and dangerous events that have 3. Evaluation of safety risks occurred in all of the Group’s facilities but that have not caused at industrial sites an accident. ■ “Near accident” reporting tool: this tool, which was launched Mersen safety risk assessments are updated annually for each in 2013, has helped to improve awareness of the working Group unit to incorporate possible new risks resulting from environment and avoid events that could have become changes to equipment and in local regulations. Risk assessments accidents. In 2017, Group units reported approximately are also reviewed systematically after each accident or near 820 potentially dangerous situations, proving that the Group accident to verify that the cause of the accident has been listed. has adopted this working and early detection culture. Risk assessments are also reviewed during Corporate safety audits. To verify that the various tools are set up and that the plants comply with the Group’s safety policy, the Health & Safety, Environment and Industrial Risks Department carried out 9 Corporate safety and environment site audits in 2017. 4. Safety training and audit At the end of 2017, Group-wide measures were set in place to improve protection when operating rotating machinery to bring An e-learning safety program was developed in 2013 and has been sites in line with the European Machinery Directive. implemented since 2014. It is now part of the integration process. Over the course of 2017, three regional meetings with health The objective is to enable all new hires to benefit from this training and safety and environment managers from sites in China, North when they arrive at Mersen. It encourages dissemination of the America and Europe were organized by the Health & Safety, safety message and serves as a reminder of its importance to the Environment and Industrial Risks Department. These meetings Group from the moment the employee first enters the company. provided the opportunity to discuss best practices and the Group’s The Corporate safety audit program continued in 2017. Nine standard safety tools and resources. audits were conducted, including cross-audits organized by In addition, the number of safety visits rose by 4% compared geographic area. The cross-audits are conducted by specially to 2016, reaching 3,954, or 72 visits per site and per year. The trained individuals. They help to promote experience-sharing and objectives were achieved overall and this method has helped to are instrumental in fostering a Group safety culture. The program’s strengthen the safety culture on a daily basis. organization by geographic area also helps to strengthen exchanges among facilities of the same culture, promoting understanding and implementation of the solutions proposed. 2017 2016 Change Many sites hold a safety week every year. In addition to topics Number of safety visits 3,954 3,807 4% related to workplace safety, these events offer an opportunity to address issues such as food safety and the risk of household accidents. They are an opportunity to create awareness among employees, and instill the safety culture. FOCUS Safety visits FOCUS Safety visits provide an opportunity to conduct a rapid Fatal Risks Safety Inspection safety audit of part of a production workshop or process. They are conducted by a supervisor in charge of a As part of the health and safety risk assessment carried different sector, usually accompanied by a member of the out each year, all Mersen sites must catalog the aspects management team or the health and safety committee. of their particular activity that present the risk of a serious, The visits help to detect anomalies or deficiencies and even fatal accident. Preventative measures are then generate action plans, whose implementation is verified at defined and the appropriate procedures set in place. the next audit. Procedures must be strictly applied by authorized staff that have received prior training. The Fatal Risks Safety Inspection consists of an inspection-audit of operations with an inherent risk of a fatal accident and of regularly checking that prevention mechanisms in place are correctly applied. MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 111 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Health and Safety Commitment 5. Safety indicators 5.2. Number of occupational accidents with or without lost time per million In 2017, Mersen group achieved a TF1 rate of 1.4 and a TF2 rate man-hours (TF2) of 4.1 and there were no fatal accidents. The percentage of sites In 2017, the frequency rate of occupational accidents with and with no lost-time accidents dropped from 83% in 2016 to 74%. without lost time (TF2) amounted to 4.1 accidents per million The Group has defined a health and safety policy that aims to hours worked, i.e., 54 accidents with and without lost time per eliminate all risks and prevent all accidents. The emphasis is on 13.1 million hours worked. This performance is identical to last prevention, first through the identification and then the elimination year. of risks, and finally through the protection of staff. The organization In the five years between 2013 and 2017, the TF2 rate improved of safety visits that involve all employees and of job hazard training by 36%. for employees in particular for new recruits, the strengthening of equipment protection systems, the adaptation of individual The Group also pays particular attention to temporary staffing protection systems to new risks and lifting aids have all helped agency employees who are naturally less well-informed as to to progressively develop and build on a culture of health and equipment and health and safety risks than Group employees. All safety within the Group. employees are required to complete general and specific safety training before starting a job. A follow-up of accidents and training In order to enhance its efforts and progress in safety at each of and preventative measures for this specific category of employee its sites, Mersen has introduced a safety award system whereby is also in place. units are awarded a trophy when they exceed a given number of days without an accident. Presented by the Executive Committee, the awards are a means of recognizing the performance of each TF2 2017 2016 2015 site and reminding the Group’s partners of the importance that it assigns to safety. At the end of 2017, the Group achieved the Number per million following benchmarks over 60 sites for numbers of days without hours worked 4.1 4.1 4.3 a lost-time accident: ■ Four sites with more than 3,000 days. Number 2017 2016 2015 ■ Eight sites with more than 2,000 days and less than 3,000 days. Number of occupational accidents ■ Eleven sites with more than 1,000 days and less than with lost time concerning 2,000 days. temporary staffing agency ■ Thirteen sites with more than 500 days and less than employees* 5 3 4 1,000 days. (*) For a total of 1,151,000 hours worked in 2017, 964,000 in 2016 and 1,165,000 in 2015. In all, 36 sites, representing around two thirds of all sites, had over 500 days without a lost-time accident. 5.3. Number of working days lost to occupational accidents per 5.1. Number of lost-time occupational thousand man-hours (TG) accidents per million man-hours In 2017, the severity rate of occupational accidents (TG) amounted (TF1) to 65 days lost per million hours worked, i.e., 858 days lost per In 2017, the frequency rate of occupational accidents with lost 13.1 million hours worked. This performance is slightly better time (TF1) amounted to 1.4 accidents per million hours worked, than the previous year. i.e., 18 lost-time accidents per 13.1 million hours worked. This In the five years between 2013 and 2017, the TG rate improved performance is slightly lower than the previous year. by 59%. In the five years between 2013 and 2017, the TF1 rate improved by 54%. TG 2017 2016 2015 Each accident is systematically followed by an analysis of probable causes and the implementation of solutions to eliminate Number per million hours worked 65 80 47 the source of the risk or to better protect employees or raise awareness. TF1 2017 2016 2015 Number per million hours worked 1.37 0.91 1.24 112 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Health and Safety Commitment 4 6. Health risk prevention 7. Indicators/operations The Group continues its employee training in best practices in France in PAH (Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons) protection at the Monitoring of occupational diseases is done only in France. Group’s main production facilities that face these risks. Some Because the concept of occupational disease varies significantly production sites now use materials with a lower PAH content. from country to country, any information emanating from the In addition, working groups were set up several years ago to various countries where the Group is present would be irrelevant. ensure continuous improvement of the working environment and the protection of individuals. In France, musculoskeletal disorders account for the majority of occupational illnesses. The Group is pursuing its efforts to reduce The Group continues to make improvements to workstations to this risk, particularly by working on the ergonomics of workstations prevent musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs). It follows ergonomics and getting employees involved. guidelines on the manual handling of loads, posture at workstations and repetitive motion. Number 2017 2016 BEST PRACTICE Number of employees suffering from an occupational disease* 8 7 Health and Safety week (*) Out of a workforce of 1,303 in 2017 and 1,418 employees in 2016 A large number of Mersen sites organize a Health and Safety week each year. Structured around various themebased workshops linked to the different characteristics of each site and often hosted by external speakers, these awareness weeks help to develop a culture of health and safety within the Group. MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 113 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Environmental Responsibility ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY In environmental terms, Mersen is involved on two levels: firstly, 1.3. Non-polluting transportation through its positioning in markets related to sustainable Mersen is helping to develop non-polluting urban and rail development, and secondly through its commitment to mass transit in response to the growing demand for mobility of environmentally friendly practices. The Group pursues a people and goods. We provide equipment for rolling stock and collective and pragmatic approach involving all its employees, who infrastructure to enhance the reliability and performance of their are educated and receive training at every level of responsibility. electrical systems. 1. Helping to develop 2. Environmentally-sound sustainable development practices A significant share of Mersen’s business is related to the Mersen undertakes to: sustainable development sector, such as renewable energies, energy efficiency, and clean mass transit. In 2017, that sector 1. Comply with the regulations in force, via legal and other represented approximately 40% of Mersen’s sales. requirements, for existing products and installations. 2. Identify the potential risks of installations and products, 1.1. Renewable energies determine whether the preventive measures in place are The solutions developed by the Group stimulate the growth of sufficient to prevent any accidents that could be harmful for renewable energies. persons and for neighboring locations (especially clients, the company’s personnel and persons living in the vicinity of the Mersen supports the entire solar cell production process, from production sites). polysilicon to ingot pulling, and provides electrical protection for the panels. Our solutions optimize performance in terms of 3. Make regular visits to installations to detect anomalies. photovoltaic yield and energy efficiency. We are also the leading 4. Make use of best practices and previous experience to supplier for the wind energy sector, both in generator power continuously improve our performance, specifically through distribution systems and yaw motors. The Group is also a key the implementation of an ISO 14001-certified environmental partner to the hydro-power segment, from turbine manufacturers management system at certain sites. to power plant operators. 5. Reduce consumption of water, energy, raw materials and The Group’s solutions improve energy yield and optimize the packaging and encourage the recycling and reuse of waste. service life of consumables. They also contribute to transporting 6. Encourage the development of eco-design, in particular the energy produced to the places where it is consumed. through more extensive use of the dedicated EIME application. In 2017, Mersen continued its review of the implications of France’s 1.2. Energy efficiency and energy saving Grenelle II legislation (law no. 2010-788 of July 12, 2010) on the Mersen is positioned on markets whose growth is related to national commitment to the environment. Audits and verifications energy efficiency and energy transition. Thanks to solutions such performed in connection with this reporting gradually improve the as furnace insulation and heat recovery systems, the Group helps reliability of the data reported. to reduce production and consumption costs linked to customer In addition to the regulatory obligation, staff awareness-raising manufacturing processes. It also supplies components that are initiatives and the sharing of best practices should encourage central to speed variation systems and thus optimize the yield of lower consumption and energy saving at all the Group’s key sites. industrial facilities. Its graphite-based solutions and high-performance materials are also critical to the manufacture of LEDs. Their widespread use for domestic lighting and their growing use for public lighting dramatically reduce energy consumption, while offering a particularly long service life. 114 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Environmental Responsibility 4 In accordance with local legislation, each industrial site belonging 3. Minimizing environmental to the Group is required to obtain a government license or impact authorization and to monitor air, water and soil pollution. Each site is responsible for monitoring the relevant legislation and any In the field, Mersen’s environmental approach translates into a discrepancies are to be reported by way of exception. They will quest to identify best practices and an extremely high level of be addressed by the Group’s management line ending with the vigilance. It is intended to help the Group achieve a virtuous circle. Executive Committee. In particular, investment decisions to bring equipment into compliance is a priority for the Group. The Group To meet European environmental requirements and plan ahead is particularly vigilant regarding its factories where graphite is for potential regulatory changes, Mersen stepped up its work in manufactured or machined, and constant efforts are made to several areas. improve graphite dust aspiration systems and the treatment of gaseous effluents before they are released into the atmosphere. 3.1. Complying with regulatory All of the Group’s French manufacturing sites (Amiens, Angers, provisions Bazet, Gennevilliers, La Mure, Pagny-sur-Moselle and SaintBonnet de Mure) are classified as environmentally friendly The Group monitors changes in regulations so that it can take the installations (Installations Classées pour la Protection de relevant measures and plan ahead to find alternatives for certain l’Environnement “ICPE”). Each site complies with the relevant products. To be able to ensure an uninterrupted supply chain, the requirements from declaration and registration through to Group must confirm that the supplier of a substance subject to authorization. approval meets all requirements. Since 2016, environmental correspondents have been responsible for drawing up a biannual summary for the Executive Committee 3.2. The pursuit of best practices in the Company’s principal operating regions (Europe, North 3.2.1. Circular economy America and China), in order to ensure more effective monitoring Mersen is seeking to reduce its environmental footprint by drawing of regulatory developments around the world. inspiration from the virtuous circular economy model. Its approach The European REACH regulation (Registration, Evaluation, is based on several areas at all stages of the product life cycle: Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals) reminds industrial eco-design and use of the best techniques available, lower companies of their responsibility to assess and manage the risks consumption of energy and raw materials, optimized product posed by the chemicals they use. To comply with this obligation, in manufacturing and lifespan, recycling, etc. 2010 the Group registered certain products that make up graphite (mainly resins) and, in 2013, those that make up flexible graphite. Product design In 2017, the Group set up an inter-factory working group which has Mersen strives to offer products with a limited impact on the begun to identify chemical substances used in small qualities, in environment. To this end, it endeavors to acquire the best order to prepare for the registration campaign required by REACH available technologies and techniques that most effectively and scheduled for 2018. meet sustainable development criteria when designing its new manufacturing lines and products. Mersen actively monitors changes in European regulations and directives that could take effect in the coming years, including the To this end, the Group has stepped up the implementation of Industrial Emissions Directive (IED), introduced in 2010 with the methods and skills to develop products based on an eco-design aim of preventing and reducing air, water and soil pollution from approach. The environmental impacts of new products are taken industrial installations by relying on the best available technology into account, from the design stage through to the end of their (BAT). The Executive Committee receives regular reports on these life cycle. matters. The Group is also working with the European Carbon Research and Development teams are trained in eco-design and, and Graphite Association (ECGA) to contribute to the dialogue most of the time, specifications take into account the objective of with European institutions in areas affecting the graphite industry. reducing environmental impact. MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 115 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Environmental Responsibility For example, the Electrical Power segment uses an EIME Waste management (Évaluation de l’Impact et Management de l’Éco-conception) Based on their specialty, the Group’s facilities follow approaches application to perform environmental impact analyses on the at multiple levels intended to reduce the environmental impact of products (water contamination, air pollution, depletion of natural their industrial activities: resources, etc.) throughout their life cycle. ■ Recovery of waste related to industrial production: Mersen’s All the stages in the product’s life cycle are taken into account, production activities produce manufacturing residues that may such as: be reused to produce other Group products or resold to third ■ The choice of raw materials, with easily recyclable materials parties to be incorporated in other production processes. This being prioritized. is the case, for example, of graphite powder from graphite block drilling, which can be reused to manufacture graphite tubes or ■ The weight of packaging. resold for reuse in steel production. ■ Reductions in the number of assembly stages. ■ Recycling of used products: the Group has participated ■ Reductions in the volume of waste. actively for several years now in efforts to recycle fuse waste ■ The most effective logistics. by reusing large amounts of the metal content of used fuses. Similar initiatives are underway in brush manufacturing, with ■ The product’s end of life. a recovery program introduced to collect used brushes from This type of tool also helps to maintain traceability of products customers to recycle the reusable metal content. from existing lines for comparison purposes when future product ■ Emissions recovery: certain facilities have set up systems to lines are developed. recover the heat generated by industrial activities. For example, this heat may be reinjected into the heating system or used as Procurement procedures an energy source. With regard to procurement and outsourcing, Mersen’s policy takes environmental issues into account. For several years, the 3.2.2. Land use and noise pollution Group has been developing an “eco-sustainable-redesign to Since the beginning of 2017, the Group’s acquisitions have cost” approach. Based on a functional analysis of a product, this strengthened its environmental audit procedure. It systematically method is intended to replace or reduce the proportion of certain performs an audit on soil pollution to protect itself against any components or raw materials, substituting others that are more possible prosecution. environmentally sound without affecting product functionality. After working, on a priority basis, on products for which the proportion The Group continues to closely monitor the risks associated with of procurement represented a majority share of the price, the soil pollution at its sites. All the products used by Mersen are process is now being expanded to new products. subject to constant monitoring, not only by local authorities, but also by Mersen’s employees, who are trained in these areas. The Group also promotes the application of environmental criteria in the purchasing process, including giving priority to the use of The Group’s industrial activities do not generate specific noise recyclable materials, the widespread use of more eco-friendly pollution that exceeds standards. Controls may be performed packaging, and collaboration with local suppliers to reduce pursuant to applicable local regulatory requirements. transportation costs and greenhouse gas emissions. 3.2.3. Measures to adapt to climate change We also encourage the adoption of pragmatic initiatives to reduce our environmental footprint, such as improving vehicle occupancy The risks associated with weather-related hazards associated rates, efforts to reduce packaging weight, and the purchase of with climate change were analyzed in connection with a specific eco-friendly vehicles. mapping of the risks of natural disasters to which the Group may be exposed. This mapping did not reveal any specific risk. Lastly, certain Group facilities have integrated environmental criteria, such as the ISO 14001 certification, in their supplier selection process. Facilities with purchases of more than €4 million/year are starting to more systematically monitor the share of purchasing from ISO 14001-certified suppliers. Energy consumption To optimize its resource consumption, each production facility monitors consumption and sets objectives and related action plans. Several examples are presented below. The decision to use renewables as an energy source is left to the initiative of the facilities. 116 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Environmental Responsibility 4 This amount relates to: 4. Environmental indicators ■ A minor pollution risk detected at a site in France in 2010 dating The scope of environmental reporting has been extended back over 20 years (before it joined the Group), caused by the compared to that of 2016, and now covers 23 sites (Rochester use of certain processes and products that are no longer used. and Hittisau have been added to the list). Furthermore, business ■ Minor pollution or abestos risks at French sites. grew globally in 2017 at all of these sites. 4.3. Water and energy consumption 4.1. Environmental certifications and CO2 emissions and training In 2017, gas consumption increased by 9% (+8% on a like-for48% of the manufacturing sites included in the reporting scope like basis), electricity consumption by 7% (+4% on a like-for-like are currently ISO 14001-certified, the recognized global standard basis) and water consumption by 2% (0% on a like-for-like basis). for environmental management systems. Gas and electricity are two resources used in the manufacturing In 2017, employee training on protecting the environment processes at the sites in the environmental reporting scope for the decreased slightly to 2,663 hours, versus 2,903 in 2016. furnaces and machining tools, used in particular in the Advanced Material segment. This increase corresponds to a growth in ISO 14001 certifications 2017 2016 production combined with process improvement. However, water is not a particular issue for the Group as its ISO 14001 certification rate 48% 52% manufacturing operations do not require large amounts at any of Training in environmental protection its sites. Some processes, particularly cooling-related, use water (number of hours) 2,663 2,903 in closed systems. Major efforts were made in 2017. Consumption was reduced by 50% in Amiens due to improved monitoring, thus 4.2. Environmental provisions limiting the volume used despite the growth in production in 2017. In 2017, CO2 emissions increased by 8% (+7% on a like-for-like In millions of euros 2017 2016 basis) which reflects the increase in production. Amount of significant provisions In general, efforts to cut energy consumption are ongoing. for environmental risks 1.3 1.2 These involve initiatives to increase employee awareness, as well as concrete measures. Almost all of the sites have begun the implementation of LED (Light-Emitting Diode) lighting, which uses less energy. 2016 Unit 2017 corrected(2) 2016 Electricity MWh 179,035 167,683 166,239 Gas MWh 161,595 147,569 CO2 emissions(1) Tons 111,244 102,405 Water m3 512,702 501,945 497,551 (1) Tons of CO2 equivalent relate to reported energy consumption as well as GPL and domestic and diesel fuel. (2) Certain figures from 2016 have been corrected, after measurement errors were recognized. MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 117 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Environmental Responsibility FOCUS 4.4. Consumption of raw materials and metals Reducing water consumption Consumption of raw materials increased greatly in 2017 as at the Amiens site compared to 2016, (even excluding the two new sites from the environmental reporting scope), due to the increased level of The site continued with inspection work and the repair production (wood: +12%, coke: +33%, copper: +31%). of the water supply network. It also detected a high The reductions for some raw materials such as cardboard (down level of consumption generated by the cooling group 4%) were the result of internal recycling. On a like-for-like basis for the impregnation process. By replacing this group in the increase is 9% for wood and 18% for copper. particular, the total consumption of water was halved. Unit 2017 2016 Timber Tons 1,861 1,651 Cardboard Tons 1,116 1,168 Coke Tons 8,277 6,225 Copper Tons 2,245 1,715 4.5. Waste In 2017, the volume of waste generated by the business increased Thermal revalorization is used for almost 2% of all waste. by 6% (+3% on a like-for-like basis), significantrly lower than the The introduction of internal recycling is also helping to reduce the growth in production. consumption of other raw materials, such as at the Gennevilliers The proportion of waste recycled increased to 42% in 2017 from site. 37% the previous year. Most sites are making greater efforts as regards recycling, and some are launching initiatives to find ways of recovering certain types of waste such as graphite and copper powder. Unit 2017 2016* Hazardous industrial waste* Tons 1,564 1,465 Non-hazardous industrial waste Tons 10,849 10,219 Including recycling: Recycled timber Tons 573 484 Recycled cardboard Tons 322 306 Recycled ferrous metal Tons 1,159 598 Recycled artificial graphite Tons 1,657 1,684 Percentage of waste recycled 42% 37% * Figures including exceptional waste (construction, decommissioning, etc.) for certain sites that had not implemented procedures for identifying waste generated by exceptional work of this kind. 118 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Environmental Responsibility 4 5. Local initiatives Pagny-sur-Moselle, France ■ Gradual implementation of LED lighting In line with the Group’s environmental approach, the sites ■ Investments to replace equipment with higher-yield, more continued their efforts to reduce their consumption of water, energy-efficient systems (including transformers, compressors energy and materials, including raw materials. This year, the and lighting) presentation of the local initiatives shows the general actions ■ Overhaul of the plant’s aspiration system to improve and those specific to greenhouse gases. environmental protection The training and awareness-raising of employees in responsible behaviors with regard to the environment are always led locally Saint-Bonnet-de-Mure, France by the sites and they unanimously receive positive feedback. ■ Gradual implementation of LED lighting The examples referred to below were identified at major facilities ■ Gradual improvement of plastic film sorting to improve recycling over the last two years (listed geographically). and reduce ordinary industrial waste (OIW) ■ Change of expansion module in the boiler room Environmental initiatives Holytown, United Kingdom Amiens, France ■ Gradual implementation of LED lighting ■ Launch of the “Do more with less” program for water and electricity consumption in several sectors ■ Replacement of furnace cooling pumps with more energyefficient systems ■ Educational program on eco-friendly behavior for employees ■ Streamlining workloads to reduce working times and electricity ■ Shutdown of cooling equipment to avoid a salmonella risk consumption ■ Award received for efforts to eliminate toxic waste ■ Maintenance of dust aspiration systems to ensure good air ■ Repair work on leaks in the water network quality ■ Reduction of high purification furnace temperatures Angers, France ■ Implementation of a software to manage the vacuum pumps ■ Implementation of systems to reduce domestic water and reduce electricity consumption consumption ■ Gradual implementation of LED lighting Bay City, United States ■ Gradual implementation of LED lighting Gennevilliers, France ■ Continued research into recycling possibilities for graphite■ Strengthening of the monitoring plan for gas and liquid based goods emissions ■ Collection and recycling of nitrile gloves ■ Modernization plan for SiC operations to reduce the quantity of hydrogen chloride gas emissions ■ Collection and recycling of cloths ■ More frequent verifications and reviews of site equipment Boonton, United States La Mure, France ■ Implementation of new furnace-cooling devices to save electricity ■ Implementation of a washer for production tools to reduce water consumption and used water emissions Greenville, United States ■ Partial replacement of a cutting oil to increase efficiency ■ Gradual implementation of LED lighting ■ Gradual implementation of LED lighting ■ Implementation of a weather station to regulate water consumption outside of the buildings ■ Continued research into recycling possibilities for graphitebased goods ■ Rochester, United States ■ Conversion of copper deposit equipment using a cyanide-free product and cost reduction of waste destruction ■ Gradual implementation of LED lighting MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 119 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Environmental Responsibility St Mary’s, United States Yuequing, China ■ Transfer of dust collectors outside buildings to improve ■ Separation of rainwater and used water aspiration ■ Gradual implementation of LED lighting ■ Improved preventive maintenance of all of the dust collectors ■ Improved preventive maintenance of all of the SO2 scrubbers Greenhouse gas initiatives to reduce emissions ■ Install action(1) a new SO2 scrubber Amiens, France ■ Writing of a best practices guide to reduce CO2 emissions Juarez, Mexico ■ Improved sorting of waste to increase recycling and reduce the Gennevilliers, France amount of hazardous waste ■ Use of HFCs(2) instead of CFCs(3) for certain air conditioners ■ Implementation of non-hazardous waste incineration to reduce ■ Monitoring of high-tension electric fusegears that use SF6 gas the amount of landfill (electric stability) ■ Implementation of ink toner and label recycling ■ Monitoring of methane gas (CH4) consumption for certain furnaces ■ Implementation of solder paste recycling Pagny-sur-Moselle, France Sao Paulo, Brazil ■ Installation of a plan to reduce volatile organic compounds ■ Implementation of a new recycling system (Renova) to create (VOCs) for the mixture and the mixing furnaces fuel for cement furnaces ■ Study on SO2(1) emissions Toronto, Canada ■ Elimination of Naphtha-based products for cleaning operations Bay City, United States ■ Furnace optimization for use at full capacity and reduced CO2 ■ Re-use of cardboard from supplier packaging to package emissions products to be sent to clients Boonton, United States Chongqing, China ■ Reduced frequency of product transportation from Monterrey ■ Reduced electricity consumption through furnace fan (Mexico) to Boonton thanks to optimized logistics modifications ■ Replacement of certain filter elements in the dust aspiration Juarez, Mexico systems ■ Replacement of two heating units with more energy-efficient ■ Reduced water consumption in baking furnaces by modifying equipment the cooling pipes Chongqing, China ■ Gradual implementation of LED lighting ■ Reduced gas consumption in the baking furnaces by modifying Songjiang, China their opening and closing, and accelerating the cooling procedure ■ Gradual implementation of LED lighting ■ New washer that uses recycled washing water Songjiang, China ■ Improved preventive maintenance of electro-intensive ■ Replacement of a washer with a combustion engine fueled by equipment an electric machine Xianda, China Xianda, China ■ Repair work on leaks in the water network ■ Improved preventive maintenance of the cooling pipes in the air conditioning systems ■ Construction of a temporary storage room for hazardous waste before evacuation by a certified provider ■ Replacement of certain small pieces of equipment with more energy-efficient facilities (1) Sulphur dioxyde. (2) Hydrofluorocarbons. (3) Chlorofluorocarbons. 120 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Societal Responsibility 4 SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY The Group takes great care to act as a good corporate citizen wherever it does business. Through its activities, it naturally has 1. Local initiatives an impact on local and regional development. As a general interest action, it also endeavors to engage in respectful dialogue with the Mersen selects in priority local plan managers. This is the case communities in which it is established. for 90% of them, allowing to pursue numbers of initiatives as closely as possible to the field all around the world. Numerous Mersen has been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact local initiatives were taken by plant managers, who are closest to since 2009, reflecting our commitment to make progress on local concerns in regions around the world. These may take the 10 universal principles in order to build societies that are more form of financial contributions or concrete measures, including, stable and respectful of human rights and international standards for instance: in the areas of labor, the environment and the fight against corruption. Each year Mersen puts up a “Communication on ■ Participation in competitiveness clusters. Progress” (COP) on the Global Compact website, which provides ■ The development of partnerships with apprenticeship programs, an update on the actions taken. schools and universities (internships to help people learn about The Group’s Ethics Code, which is circulated internally and the workplace, student programs, participation in job forums, published on Mersen’s web site, restates the collective and open days). individual commitment of the Group and its employees. It was ■ Student bursaries. updated in July 2017 and has been translated into more than ■ Support for professional training campaigns through workplace 10 languages. It particularly addresses the Group’s relationships induction or work-study programs. with its employees, customers, suppliers, competitors, shareholders, and surrounding ecosystem. ■ Sponsorship of humanitarian operations and contributions to charity organizations. The audits carried out by the Group’s internal audit function provide regular insight into whether these rules are applied properly. Over the last three years, 93% of Group sites were 1.1. Local economic action covered by an internal audit (the others not being material in In France, competitiveness clusters bring together groups of size). In addition, the Group implemented an Ethics & Compliance companies and institutions in a clearly-identified regional area function in 2017, which ensures the proper application of these and on a targeted topic. rules (see chapter 3 of this document). For example, Mersen Boostec, which is located in the MidiThe Purchasing Department is improving its selection process for Pyrénées region, belongs to the European ceramics cluster and audits and supplier development in compliance with the Ethics the Aerospace Valley cluster. It works with the local PRIMES Code and the ILO’s fundamental principles and rights at work. (power mechatronics and energy management innovation At the same time, concrete measures have been implemented to platform) platform and is a member of the MEPI (European Center raise team awareness about a number of risks associated with for Innovative Procedures). Mersen Angers belongs to the S2E2 unlawful practices. (Smart Electricity Cluster). A training module focused on fraud-related risks (swindling, In addition, purchasing by the facilities also helps integrate them counterfeiting, etc.) that was developed for Group managers into their local community. By working with local suppliers as was also implemented. Nearly 40 managers in various Group a priority, in accordance with the Group’s purchasing policy functions, including purchasing, sales and logistics were trained recommendations, they contribute to the economic and social worldwide in 2016 and approximately 50 in 2017. Since 2016, a development of the regions where they operate, while meeting press review in French and English relating to fraud has been sent economic and environmental goals (lower costs and lower monthly to Group managers around the world in order to illustrate greenhouse gas emissions by limiting transportation). through specific cases how other companies have been subject to fraud schemes. This awareness effort has also been useful in strengthening the messages linked to the Group’s internal control policy. MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 121 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Societal Responsibility 1.2. Actions promoting employment, 1.3. Charitable contributions training and apprenticeship and volunteerism With operations in approximately 35 countries, the Group works to Through the Group’s entities, Mersen seeks to help organizations develop relationships with local schools and universities. Thanks supporting projects that reflect our values and are consistent with to these local connections, young people can learn more about our corporate mission or our challenges. our industry. In France, the Pagny-sur-Moselle site associates with Louis The Group is particularly involved in developing apprenticeships. Vincent High School in Metz, to send computer equipment to A certain number of examples are described in the first part of Burkina Faso to equip the new IT facilities in a school in Yako. this chapter. In Spain, the Cirprotec facility contributed to the charitable work of In France, the Pagny-sur-Moselle facility collaborates regularly the Fondation Vincente Ferrer (FVF), by encouraging its clients to with local schools and universities (including EEIGM, Ensic, participate in a financing program for housing for disadvantaged ENIM, and Université Paul Verlaine). This may involve employees people in the Narpala region of India. attending courses and participating in job forums, symposia and In Germany, Mersen continues to support a recycling organization. conferences. It also includes regular apprenticeship offers within This non-profit group organizes the collection and recycling of the company. fuses throughout the country. Profits generated are invested in In terms of training, for several years the Group has been involved activities that support training, teaching and research in electrical in WindLab, a regional wind energy jobs training initiative in the engineering and in charitable activities. Picardy region. This training offers jobseekers an opportunity to In India, Mersen continues to support government initiatives obtain a certificate that is essential for working in the booming to provide training (in embroidery, sewing, hairdressing) for wind energy sector. The Gennevilliers site in France implemented employees’ wives, with the added benefit of getting jobs that will a personalized training program to suit its production requirements provide the families with additional income. The site also plays in collaboration with an industrial and technological training a consulting role with the children of employees to help them center, AFORP, in the form of professional training contracts. prepare for the future. This program has led to the hiring of 12 people since 2015. In the United States, the subsidiary in St. Mary’s, Pennsylvania, got At the same time, most of the sites make contributions to local involved with the local education committee to play a consulting associations and sponsor sports activities in which company role for training initiatives. In Greenville, Michigan, Mersen works employees participate, according to the rules defined in the with teachers at a local school to inform them of jobs and about Donation and Patronage policy. how they can develop the employability of their students. Strong relationships were formed with engineering schools and universities, such as Newburyport in the United States, where the R&D Department associates with Northeastern University. 122 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Reporting program and methodology 4 REPORTING PROGRAM AND METHODOLOGY Following publication of the Grenelle 2 legislation in France (law no. 2010-788 of July 12, 2010) instituting a nationwide 2. Organization commitment to the environment, Mersen stepped up its reporting of the reporting program. As part of this drive, the Group consolidated its unique internal reporting framework formally defining and describing the and methodology processes and methods to be used to gather and report data in line with Article 225 of this law. A number of indicators(1) have been added to those traditionally monitored, while the scope of 2.1. Indicator sheets reporting has been extended to include a larger number of Group Data is reported using the indicators described in technical companies. sheets which notably specify the reporting frequency, the indicator’s objectives, its scope of application, the definitions needed to understand the indicator and its scope, the calculation methodology and the consistency checks. 1. Reporting scope 2.2. Reporting year The scope of social, environmental and societal reporting encompasses the companies included in the scope of consolidation The data reported cover the period from January 1 to based on the following principles: December 31, 2017. ■ Corporate and societal reporting; all companies other than companies acquired within the last year.(2) 2.3. Reporting process participants ■ Environmental reporting: all companies whose on-site industrial and their responsibilities production generated sales in excess of €15 million during the There are three levels of responsibility: previous year N-1, excluding companies acquired within the last year. Every company that was included in the scope of 2.3.1. Corporate responsibility reporting and whose production exceeded the threshold of €15 In conjunction with the Human Resources Department (for social million remains within the scope of the environmental reporting, information) and the Financial Communication Department provided that its sales do not fall below €7.5 million. These (for societal information), the Risk, Internal Audit and Safety thresholds thus restrict environmental reporting to companies’ Department organizes the reporting with the directors of the representative of the Group’s business activities. In 2017, the companies within the scope. To this end, it: Hittisau (Austria) and Rochester (United States) sites were ■ Defines the framework’s indicators. included in the scope. In 2017, the companies included in the scope accounted for over 77% of total sales. ■ Deploys the framework and its indicators to the companies and ensures that they are clearly understood by providing adequate In the coming years, Mersen intends to gradually increase the information and training. representativeness of the environmental reporting scope. ■ Coordinates data collection. Possible exclusions from the scope of reporting may be defined for certain indicators, such as where local legislation does not permit ■ Ensures that the reporting schedule is adhered to. the reporting of relevant data or where sufficient arrangements ■ Checks the completeness and consistency of the data collected. for the collection of certain types of data have not yet been made. The summary table at the end of this section sets out the scope ■ Consolidates the data. covered by each of the indicators. The “Indicators and specific ■ Uses and analyzes the data. definitions” paragraph below also provides additional information linked to the definitions and/or the method of calculating certain indicators. (1) A table summarizing all the indicators is shown at the end of the chapter. (2) Only the payroll figure includes all companies in the financial consolidation scope. MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 123 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Reporting program and methodology 2.3.2. Group companies’ responsibility 4. Information regarding Data reporting is the responsibility of the general manager of each company within the scope. Their role is to: certain indicators and ■ Organize data collection at company level by defining specific definitions responsibilities and ensuring that the framework and its indicators are clearly understood. ■ Safeguard data traceability. Absenteeism Number of days of absence from work for any reason that ■ Ensure that the reporting schedule is adhered to. the employer cannot anticipate: illness, workplace accidents, ■ Control the exhaustiveness and consistency of the data maternity/paternity leave, strikes and any other unforeseeable reported and implement the requisite checks and verifications absence. by persons not involved in the collection process. 2.3.3. External organization Work-related Accident with lost time The audit and verification were performed in 2017 and 2018, An accident resulting in time off work. An accident affecting based on 2017 data, by an independent third-party organization, several people is recognized as a single accident. Only the in accordance with the implementing decree of April 24, 2012. causative event is taken into account. The accidents taken into account are those considered to be directly work-related following investigation by the health and safety managers and for which the Group may be able to take preventive action. Certain events, such as non-work related conditions or commuting accidents, are 3. Information regarding the excluded, even if the relevant authorities have declared them to collection of social data be workplace accidents. TF1, TF2 and TG indicators only include Mersen employees. Social information is collected through an HR information system (HRIS) used in all the Group’s consolidated companies, with Agreement the exception of a few entities that recently entered the scope of consolidation and are being incorporated gradually, based All arrangements made and accepted by the management of on an implementation schedule defined by the Group’s senior an operating company, division or the Group and one or more management. Only the workforce indicator is available for the employee representatives. latter companies (scope not included in the human resources information system), which represented 2% of the workforce in Biodiversity 2017. The Group has not identified any specific concerns linked to the Once collected and prior to final consolidation, the data submitted preservation of biodiversity and its operations. Accordingly, no by the subsidiaries is verified for consistency on various criteria, specific measures are taken to monitor this indicator. especially absenteeism. Any value or change in value considered non-conform is verified with the relevant site, which will be asked to correct or explain the data. If the value cannot be corrected Workforce and distribution by gender, or if the explanation provided is deemed inconclusive, the scope age and geographic area concerned by that value will then be disregarded from the scope Employees included in the workforce at the end of the fiscal year, of consolidation. under open-ended or fixed-term contracts, excluding temporary In addition, with a view to the ongoing improvement of the workers, interns, student-apprentice and sub-contractors. quality of data transmitted each month by the subsidiaries and to encouraging local contributors to improve their knowledge of Employees suffering from an the Group’s HR standards, internal audits on HR data rolled out occupational illness (operations in in 2017 has become a recurring program under which annual internal audits will be carried out at various Group sites worldwide France, ie 20.4% of the workforce) starting in 2018. As the concept of occupational illness varies significantly from country to country, this information is provided only for France. An illness is recognized as “occupational” if it appears on one of the tables appended to the French Social Security Code or Rural Code. Under certain conditions, illnesses that do not appear on the tables may also be included: ■ Illnesses designated in a table of occupational illnesses, but for which one or more conditions have not been met (with regard to the time limit on claims, the length of exposure or the exhaustive list of jobs), when it has been established that the victim’s regular work is the direct cause of the disease. 124 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Reporting program and methodology 4 ■ Illnesses not designated in a table of occupational illnesses Managers when it has been established that they are caused, mainly An employee is considered to be a manager when he or she holds and directly, by the victim’s regular work and that they lead to a functional management (including engineer, project manager or permanent disability at a rate at least equal to 25% or are the technical expert) or team management position, with the exception cause of a victim’s death. of first-level management (supervisor). Hiring Local nationality Total number of people hired during the fiscal year who meet the Local nationality is defined as the nationality of the country in definition of “Workforce” described below. which the company is located. Training Corporate governance bodies Training activities recognized as such are those organized and The corporate governance bodies are the Executive Committee paid for by the Group and that are designed to: and the Board of Directors. ■ Improve performance and help the employee adapt to changes in his/her job. Organization of working time and social ■ Develop the employee’s talents and help him/her acquire new skills. dialogue As these concepts vary significantly by country, this information Trainings related to the requirements for the position like is provided only for France. information points, prescribed training, internship of apprenticeship are not included. The HRIS model used is based on monthly data collection. As Policy training is not provided systematically on a monthly basis, it is A policy is an organized general framework, disseminated and subject to manual reprocessing at the end of the fiscal year. deployed by the Group’s top management throughout all the companies or targeted groups of companies. This framework is They do not include training provided through the Group’s formalized as an official, signed document. e-learning platform, Mersen Academy. Environmental, health and safety (EHS) Environmental protection training manager This indicator recognizes the total number of training hours provided whose title and/or main topic is linked directly to An EHS manager is an employee who is responsible for managing environmental protection issues. environmental, health and safety matters. Food wastage Disabled employees The Group has not identified any material issues relating to As the Group has a presence in a large number of countries, it is food wastage from its business. We have no indicator in place subject to the various local laws. Accordingly, this information is to monitor this issue, that type of service being sub-contracted provided only for France (ie 20.4% of the workforce). It extends most of the time. to employees whose disability has been recognized by an organization or institution and under the conditions set by current French regulations. Greenhouse gases In the near future, the Group plans to analyze the sources of Consumer safety scope 3 emissions contributing to scope 1 and 2 emissions data, for which the Group has leverage. Mersen produces and sells components and equipment to its industrial customers in compliance with safety and quality requirements. In this regard, the Group’s activity has no direct Impact of collective agreements impact on the safety of the end consumer. The Group is currently considering how to implement the recent regulations concerning the impact of collective agreements on Senior employees economic performance and employee working conditions. Employees from the age of 55. MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 125 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Overview of indicators OVERVIEW OF INDICATORS To facilitate the monitoring of the social, environmental and qualitative or quantitative) and a reference to the page on which societal data in Mersen’s reporting framework, the following table the indicator is presented. It also presents the relationship with summarizes the list of indicators, their scope, their nature (i.e. the specific Global Reporting Initiative indicators (version 3.1). Qualitative and Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code quantitative Grenelle 2 topics information Scope/Comments GRI 3.1 Page SCOPE Scope Reporting program 3.5 to 3.11 123 and methodology SOCIAL INFORMATION EMPLOYMENT Total workforce broken down by gender Quantitative Restricted LA1 107 Total workforce broken down by age Quantitative Restricted 107 Total workforce broken down by geographical area Quantitative Restricted LA1 107 Headcount broken down by category Quantitative Restricted 107 Number of new hires Quantitative Restricted LA2 107 Number of dismissals Quantitative Restricted LA2 107 Compensation policy and their development Qualitative Standard 106 ORGANIZATION OF WORK Policy on the organization of working time Qualitative Restricted/France 109 Percentage of the workforce working part-time Quantitative Restricted/France(1) 109 Absenteeism rate Quantitative Restricted LA7 99 (93% of the Group’s workforce) LABOR RELATIONS Structure of the labor dialog Qualitative Restricted/Europe LA4 100 Collective bargaining agreements Qualitative Restricted/France LA5 99, 100, 109, 124 HEALTH & SAFETY Safety policy Qualitative Standard LA6 & LA8 110 List of occupational health and safety agreements Qualitative Restricted/France(1) LA9 99 Number of safety visits Quantitative Standard 111 Frequency rate of occupational accidents Quantitative Standard LA7 112 with lost time (TF1) Frequency rate of occupational accidents Quantitative Standard LA7 112 with and without lost time (TF2) Severity rate (TFG) of occupational accidents Quantitative Standard LA7 112 Number of occupational accidents with lost time Quantitative Restricted/France(1) LA7 112 concerning temporary staffing agency employees* Number of employees suffering Quantitative Restricted/France(1) LA7 113 from an occupational illness (1) For the next fiscal years, Mersen will endeavor to gradually extend this scope to certain other Group entities if the indicator is relevant in the country concerned and local legislation so permits. * The concept of the “Standard” scope refers to the definition given in the section “Scope of reporting” at the end of this chapter. Where the scope is “Restricted”, the restrictions are stipulated either in each reporting table or in the “Comments” column above. 126 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Overview of indicators 4 Qualitative and Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code quantitative Grenelle 2 topics information Scope/Comments GRI 3.1 Page TRAINING POLICY Training policies implemented Qualitative Standard LA11 102 Number of hours of training Quantitative Standard LA10 103 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Diversity policy Qualitative Standard LA13 & EC7 99 Percentage of women managers Quantitative Standard LA13 100 Percentage of women on corporate governance bodies Quantitative Standard LA13 100 Percentage of disabled employees in the workforce Quantitative Restricted/France LA13 109 Percentage of senior employees in the workforce Quantitative Standard LA13 107 Percentage of site managers of Quantitative Standard EC7 99 local nationality PROMOTION OF AND COMPLIANCE WITH ILO CONVENTIONS (human rights) Conformity with the provisions of the ILO’s key Qualitative Standard HR 121 conventions ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Organization of the company to take environmental Qualitative Standard/Group policy Managerial 114 concerns into account approach ISO 14001 certification rate Quantitative Standard 117 Percentage of companies with a dedicated EHS manager Quantitative Standard 110 Number of hours of environmental protection training Quantitative Restricted 117 (64% of the Group’s workforce) Resources dedicated to environmental risk prevention Qualitative Standard EN30 115 Amount of significant provisions for environmental risks Quantitative Standard EN28 & EC2 117 Circular economy Qualitative Standard 115 POLLUTION AND WASTE MANAGEMENT Recycled ferrous metal Quantitative Standard 118 Recycled artificial graphite Quantitative Standard 118 Non-hazardous industrial waste Quantitative Standard EN22 118 Hazardous industrial waste Quantitative Standard EN22 118 Measures to mitigate noise pollution and all other types Qualitative Standard 116 of pollution specific to an activity * The concept of the “Standard” scope refers to the definition given in the “Scope of reporting” section at the end of this chapter. Where the scope is “Restricted”, the restrictions are stipulated either in each reporting table or in the “Comments” column above. MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 127 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Overview of indicators Qualitative and Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code quantitative Grenelle 2 topics information Scope/Comments GRI 3.1 Page SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES Volume of water consumed Quantitative Standard EN8 117 Electricity consumption Quantitative Standard EN3 & 4 117 Gas consumption Quantitative Standard EN3 & 4 117 Wood consumption Quantitative Standard EN1 118 Cardboard consumption Quantitative Standard EN1 118 Copper consumption Quantitative Standard EN1 118 Coke consumption Quantitative Standard EN1 118 Recycled timber Quantitative Standard EN2 118 Measures to improve energy efficiency and use Qualitative Standard EN6 116 of renewable energy sources Land use Qualitative Standard 118 CLIMATE CHANGE CO2 emissions Quantitative Standard EN16 117 Greenhouse gases Qualitative Standard 117 Measures to adapt to climate change Qualitative Standard 116 BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION Measures taken to preserve or restore biodiversity Standard EN11 to 15, 124 EN25 SOCIAL COMMITMENTS TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REGIONAL, ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF THE ACTIVITIES Local and regional impact of activities on employment and Qualitative Standard EC8 & EC9 121 development RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS Dialogue with stakeholders Qualitative Standard 4.14 to 4.17 121 Support, partnership and sponsorship initiatives Qualitative Standard EC1 & 4.11 121 to 4.13 OUTSOURCING AND SUPPLIERS Inclusion of social and environmental concerns in Qualitative Standard /Group policy EC6 & HR2 121 purchasing policy FAIR OPERATING PRACTICES Measures implemented to prevent corruption Qualitative Standard/Group policy SO2 to 4, 121 SO7 & SO8 Percentage of companies covered by an internal audit Quantitative Standard 121 in the past 3 years Managers who have attended the anti-fraud training Quantitative Standard SO3 121 Measures to protect consumer health and safety Qualitative Standard PR1 & PR2 121 Actions taken in support of human rights Qualitative Compliance brought about by HR 121 the implementation of the ethics charter Promotion of and conformity with the provisions Qualitative Compliance brought about by HR 121 of the ILO’s key conventions the implementation of the ethics charter * The concept of the “Standard” scope refers to the definition given in the “Scope of reporting” section at the end of this chapter. Where the scope is “Restricted”, the restrictions are stipulated either in each reporting table or in the “Comments” column above. 128 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Report Report by independent third by independent party third party, 4 REPORT BY INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY, ON THE CONSOLIDATED HUMAN RESOURCES, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31TH OF DECEMBER 2017 This is a free English translation of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of Englishspeaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, Independent Third Party’s In our capacity as independent third party and certified by COFRAC under number 3-1049(1), and member of the KPMG responsibility International network of the company’s Statutory Auditor, we hereby report to you on the consolidated human resources, On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to: environmental and social information for the year ended the 31th of ■ attest that the required CSR Information is included in the December 2017, included in the management report (hereinafter management report or, in the event of non-disclosure of a part named “CSR Information”), pursuant to article L.225-102-1 of the or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation is provided French Commercial Code. in accordance with the third paragraph of article R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information); express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Company’s responsibility ■ Information taken as a whole is, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines (Conclusion on The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a company’s the fairness of CSR Information); management report including the CSR Information required by article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code in However, it is not our responsibility to pronounce on the compliance accordance with the guidelines used by the Company (hereinafter with the relevant legal provisions applicable if necessary, in the “Guidelines”), summarised in the management report and particular those envisaged by article L. 225-102-4 of the French available on request from the company’s head office. Commercial Code (Duty of care) and by the law n ° 2016-1691 of December 9, 2016 known as Sapin II (fight against corruption). Our work involved seven persons and was conducted between July 2017 and March 2018 during a five weeks period. We were Independence and quality assisted in our work by our CSR experts. control We performed our work in accordance with the order dated 13 May 2013 defining the conditions under which the independent Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the French third party performs its engagement and with the professional Code of ethics of our profession and the requirements of article guidance issued by the French Institute of statutory auditors L.822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes) relating to implemented a system of quality control including documented this engagement and with ISAE 3000(2) concerning our conclusion policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical on the fairness of CSR Information. requirements and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. (1) “whose scope is available at www.cofrac.fr” (1) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 129 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Report by independent third party party, 1. Attestation regarding the responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, in order to: completeness of CSR Information ■ assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, Nature and scope of our work completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, and On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of the taking into account industry best practices where appropriate; relevant departments, we obtained an understanding of the ■ verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, Company’s sustainability strategy regarding human resources and processing and control process to reach completeness environmental impacts of its activities and its social commitments and consistency of the CSR Information and obtain an and, where applicable, any actions or programmes arising from understanding of the internal control and risk management them. procedures used to prepare the CSR Information. We compared the CSR Information presented in the management We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures report with the list provided in article R.225-105-1 of the French based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information Commercial Code. with respect to the characteristics of the Company, the human For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we verified resources and environmental challenges of its activities, its sustainability strategy and industry best practices. that explanations were provided in accordance with article R.225-105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important(1): We verified that the CSR Information covers the scope of consolidation, i.e., the Company, its subsidiaries as defined by ■ at parent entity level, we referred to documentary sources and article L.233-1 and the controlled entities as defined by article conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code within the limitations (organisation, policies, actions), performed analytical set out in the methodological note, presented in chapter 4 of the procedures on the quantitative information and verified, using registration document including the management report. sampling techniques, the calculations and the consolidation of the data. We also verified that the information was consistent and in agreement with the other information in the management report; Conclusion ■ at the level of a representative sample of sites selected by Based on the work performed and given the limitations mentioned us(2) on the basis of their activity, their contribution to the above, we attest that the required CSR Information has been consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we disclosed in the management report. conducted interviews to verify that procedures are properly applied and to identify potential undisclosed data, and we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in 2. Conclusion on the fairness order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data with the of CSR Information supporting documents. The selected sample represents 29% of headcount considered as material data of social issues and between 13% and 26% of environmental data considered as Nature and scope of our work material data(3) of environmental issues. We conducted twelve interviews with persons responsible For the remaining consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its for preparing the CSR Information and, where appropriate, consistency based on our understanding of the company. (1) Human resources quantitative information: Active headcount as at December 31, 2016 broken down by gender ; Number of recruitments ; Number of dismissals ; Percentage of female managers ; Absenteeism rate ; Frequency rate of work accidents with lost days ; Severity rate of work accidents ; Number of training hours. Environmental quantitative information: Water consumption ; Electricity consumption ; Gas consumption ; Copper consumption ; Amount of hazardous and non-hazardous industrial waste ; Part of recycled waste ; Part of waste thermally recovered ; Emissions of CO2 related to energy consumptions. Qualitative information: Remuneration and their evolution; Occupational health and safety conditions; The organization of the company to integrate environmental issues and, if appropriate, the assessments and certification process regarding environmental issues ; Amount of provisions and guarantees for environmental risks ; Action implemented against corruption. (2) Hittisau (Austria), Amiens (France), Juarez (Mexico), Yueqing (China), Shanghai Songjiang (China), Bay City (United States of America). (3) Electricity consumption ; Copper consumption ; Amount of hazardous and non-hazardous industrial waste ; Part of recycled waste ; Part of waste thermally recovered ; Emissions of CO2 related to energy consumptions. 130 MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Report Report by independent third by independent party third party, 4 We also assessed the relevance of explanations provided for systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the any information that was not disclosed, either in whole or in part. CSR information cannot be totally eliminated. We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we Conclusion have used, based on our professional judgement, are sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has come level of assurance would have required us to carry out more to our attention that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, extensive procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the and other limitations inherent to information and internal control Guidelines. Paris-La Défense, March, 6th 2018 KPMG S.A. Philippe Arnaud Philippe Cherqui Partner Partner Sustainability Services MERSEN | 2017 REFERENCE DOCUMENT 131 CODE OF ETHICS JULY 2017 CONTENT 03 • INTRODUCTION 04 • WHO IS COVERED BY THIS CODE OF ETHICS? 05 • RELATIONS WITHIN THE GROUP 06 • R  ELATIONS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS, OUR SUPPLIERS AND OUR COMPETITORS 07 • RELATIONS WITH OUR SHAREHOLDERS 08 • ASSET PROTECTION 09 • UNDERTAKINGS AS A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 10 • THE GLOBAL COMPACT 11 • WHO SHOULD I CONTACT ABOUT THE CODE? 02 INTRODUCTION We owe our development to a great extent to the trust and confidence that Mersen inspires in all its stakeholders -mainly our employees, customers, suppliers, banks and shareholders. The code of ethics restates our commitment as a group and as individuals to instilling and building on this confidence. It is crucial for this code of ethics to be shared as widely as possible, so that everybody embraces our fundamental values. These values are critical to our development as a group. The code of ethics applies to every Mersen employee, irrespective of his/ her position, as well as to the members of the Board of Directors. I am counting on every one of you to abide by these rules and to bring them to the attention of our commercial partners, particularly our suppliers, so that they also undertake to implement them. Luc Themelin Chief Executive Officer And the Executive Committee Thomas Baumgartner Jean-Philippe Fournier Chief Financial Officer Group Vice President, Operational Excellence Gilles Boisseau Group Vice President, Electrical Power Eric Guajioty Group Vice President, Christophe Bommier Advanced Materials Group Vice President, Technology, Research, Innovation Estelle Legrand and Business Support Group Vice President, Human Resources Thomas Farkas Didier Muller Group Vice President, Strategy and M&A Group Vice President, Asia & Latin America 03 CODE OF ETHICS Who is covered by this code of ethics? The code of ethics applies to all Mersen employees, officers and directors and those of its subsidiaries around the world. The code of ethics is available in 10 languages (Arabic, Chinese, English, French, German, Korean, Italian, Japanese, Portuguese, Spanish) so that as many employees as possible can read it in their mother tongue. The French version should be regarded as the authority in France, and the English version elsewhere. The code of ethics is available on the Mersen corporate website and on the intranet. Any breach of the code of ethics will be duly investigated and could lead to disciplinary proceedings in accordance with the laws and regulations in place within the company and country concerned. Online training on appropriate behavior As well as this document, Mersen offers its employees an e-learning program devoted to ethics which includes the Group’s expectations and standards on a certain number of issues. Compliance with the law and human rights We attach great importance to abiding by the international, national and local laws and regulations in force in the countries in which we do business. Special attention is paid to labor, competition, anti-corruption and money-laundering legislation. In the event of a conflict between legislation or local customs and the code of ethics, the more stringent rules shall prevail. Furthermore, Mersen signed the United Nations Global Compact in 2009. Its principles are described at the end of this document. We are present in many countries and have a zero tolerance policy on child labor and forced labor. 04 RELATIONS WITHIN THE GROUP Our corporate project relies first and foremost on the men and women who work for Mersen. They are the ones who possess expertise and develop innovative solutions. Their knowledge and their savoir-faire represent our most precious asset – our human capital. Driven by this core belief, we actively seek to develop our teams while relentlessly striving to guarantee their safety and security and their personal growth. We expect all employees to maintain a responsible attitude, regardless of their level within the organization. To this end, the Group and its employees, officers and directors are committed to the following principles: Health & Safety •T he Group undertakes to implement the necessary measures to protect and keep individuals safe. The employees, officers and directors undertake to abide by all of the Group’s health and safety guidelines and procedures. •T he Group undertakes to ensure that its health and safety policy is well known and understood by everyone and is applied irrespective of commercial, business and financial obligations. The employees, officers and directors undertake to immediately alert their line manager or the Group’s health and safety officer of any potential health and safety problems of which they become aware. Harassment •T he Group undertakes to protect employees from all forms of harassment, intimidation and violence – be they physical, psychological or sexual in nature. The employees, officers and directors undertake to support and promote the Group’s commitment to a harassment-free workplace and to respect others. Equal opportunities •T he Group undertakes to not discriminate against anyone on any grounds whatsoever and to provide equal opportunities for all in terms of recruitment, pay, assignments and promotions according to individual skills and aptitude. The employees, officers and directors undertake to support and promote the Group’s commitment to diversity and equal opportunities and to refrain from engaging in any form of discriminatory behavior. Mutual respect •T he Group undertakes to safeguard the privacy of all employees and in particular to keep all personal information confidential. The employees, officers and directors undertake to support and promote the Group’s commitment to privacy and to respect the privacy of others themselves. 05 RELATIONS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS, OUR SUPPLIERS AND OUR COMPETITORS Our business activities are built around two areas of expertise in which we hold leadership positions or are the joint world leader. By drawing on these areas of expertise, we design innovative solutions geared to the needs of our customers in order to optimize their industrial performance. Mersen group is thus committed to instill confidence in its customers. To this end, the Group and its employees, officers and directors undertake: Competition • t o comply with all aspects of competition law and in particular not to share information about pricing or business proposals with our competitors. Active corruption •n  ot to authorize any direct or indirect payment of money to third parties or any other benefit in kind (such as services, holidays, entertainment or goods) for the purpose of securing or maintaining a business transaction. The employees, officers and directors shall ensure that our commercial partners and intermediaries are informed of these standards and undertake to uphold them. Passive corruption •n  ot to directly or indirectly solicit or accept any money or benefits (such as a gift or invitation), except where such gifts or invitations are of nominal value. In any event, any acceptance of invitations or gifts (excluding business lunches) must be authorized by management. Data confidentiality •n  ot to disclose any information that may cause harm to a stakeholder. Conflicts of interest •n  ot to enter into any transactions with businesses in which the employees, officers or directors or their families or friends have interests and not to conceal information about any conflict of interest. The employees, officers and directors shall refrain from offering or accepting any gifts or invitations that are inconsistent with applicable practices and laws. They shall also refrain from investing or acquiring interests in businesses that are Mersen customers, competitors or suppliers without the prior written consent of management or the Chief Executive Officer. Choice of suppliers •n  ot to continue working with a supplier that repeatedly fails to abide by this code of ethics, particularly the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and/or the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from ConflictAffected and High-Risk Areas. If a supplier’s compliance is in doubt, an audit shall be carried out. An internal or external auditor shall be sent to the supplier in order to review its social, environmental and labor practices. 06 RELATIONS WITH OUR SHAREHOLDERS Mersen’s share capital is held by institutional and individual investors. Information released externally by the Group may be of great value for these investors. Every employee must take individual responsibility for ensuring the integrity and fair presentation of this information. To this end, the Group and its employees, officers and directors undertake: Fair presentation • t o deliver to the general public accurate, precise and fairly presented information and to make sure that shareholders have equal access to information. Insider trading • t o inform employees on a regular basis and particularly those with “insider” status about the ban on trading in Mersen shares until inside information about the Group to which they are privy has been released to the public, in accordance with the European Union’s Market Abuse Regulation. To this end, insiders shall be informed by letter of the sanctions applicable to insider trading and unlawful disclosure of inside information. Any person privy to inside information, regardless of its nature, on a permanent or occasional basis is deemed to be an insider. Inside information is information that has not been made public and that a reasonable investor would be likely to use when making investment decisions. 07 ASSET PROTECTION The purpose of Mersen’s assets is to enable each of our employees to work towards our common objectives. The employees, officers and directors have a duty to help preserve and protect the asset portfolio against any damage, theft or misappropriation. To this end, the Group and its employees, officers and directors undertake to comply with the following principles: Confidentiality •A ll intellectual property, expertise or information about projects, production, labor related or commercial data must be kept confidential insofar as its disclosure could be prejudicial to the Group’s interests. •A ny information and/or professional documents relating to day-to-day operations or internal Group projects that have not been authorized for publication or disclosed by management are intended for internal use only and must not be shared outside the Group. Use of corporate assets •M ersen’s assets must be used in accordance with the Group’s safety guidelines and policies and must not be used for any unlawful purposes or for any purpose bearing no relation to its business activities. Group’s reputation •T he employees, officers and directors undertake to act with the Group’s interests in mind and to ensure that there is no confusion between their own opinions and interests and those of Mersen. 08 UNDERTAKINGS AS A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS We strive to act as a good corporate citizen, factoring social, environmental and economic concerns into our activities and our dealings with third parties. All our employees undertake to act accordingly, while heeding the interests of all stakeholders. To this end, the Group and its employees, officers and directors undertake: Accuracy of financial statements • t o record all of the assets, liabilities, expenses and other transactions of Group companies on their books and in their financial statements and to manage them in accordance with the applicable accounting legislation. This financial information must accurately reflect the accounts and assets of the Group companies and no secret fund or unrecorded asset may be created or held. Environment • t o abide by the applicable environmental laws and regulations everywhere we do business. Sustainable development • t o minimize the environmental impact of our activities. To this end, we undertake to identify best practices, particularly through sustainable use of resources, energy consumption and waste management. Donation and patronage policy • t o play a part in the social and cultural life of regions where we do business, through financial and/or material contributions to various organizations that aim to promote such activities, and to provide assistance to organizations supporting projects in keeping with our values and related to our corporate purpose and objectives – within the limitations laid down in our “Donation and patronage” charter. 09 HUMAN RIGHTS •P  rinciple 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and •P  rinciple 2 : make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR •P  rinciple 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; •P  rinciple 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; •P  rinciple 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; and •P  rinciple 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT •P  rinciple 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; •P  rinciple 8 : undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and •P  rinciple 9 : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION •P  rinciple 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 10 WHO SHOULD I CONTACT ABOUT THE CODE? If you have any questions about how to apply the principles laid down in this code of ethics, you can contact your line manager or your Human Resources department. Should you have concerns about certain practices, you should contact your operational or dotted-line manager, your facility’s management team or the Human Resources department (at facility, region, business or Group level) as soon as possible. A special procedure has been established in some countries, namely the United States and Canada. You can find it on the Mersen intranet, under the “Employee Relations” heading in the Human Resources section. You can also contact an Executive Committee member who has signed the code of ethics or the Group Compliance Officer. Additional resources, such as employee representatives, are available in some countries. Any person outside of the Group who has concerns about certain Mersen practices can also contact our Group VP, Human Resources in their capacity as Ethics Officer or the Group Compliance Officer. Any person reporting concerns in good faith shall not be subject to reprisals. We undertake to ensure that the action of any such persons is kept confidential and that all inappropriate behavior is reviewed as quickly as possible. GLOBAL EXPERT IN ELECTRICAL POWER & ADVANCED MATERIALS
