KESKO'S YEAR 2017 STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME 2 RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT 72 GRI REPORT PROFILE 78 2017 Highlights and Challenges 3 Management model 73 Reporting principles 79 Good corporate governance and finance 4 Materiality assessment 75 GRI, UNGC and SDG Index 80 Customers 15 UN Sustainable Development Goals Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report 89 FINANCIAL Society 22 and Kesko 76 Contact persons 91 Working community 28 Responsibility path 77 Responsible purchasing and sustainable selections 40 STATEMENTS Environment 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 1 FINANCIAL CORPORATE STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2017 RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Kesko’s responsibility programme contains STRATEGY both short-term and long-term objectives The programme has six themes: • Good corporate governance and finance • Customers • Society • Working community • Responsible purchasing and sustainable selections • Environment SUSTAINABILITY 2017 Highlights and Challenges Highlights Science Based Targets for emissions Challenges We were the first Finnish company to set science based targets for reducing emissions from our properties, transportation, and supply chains. To achieve these ambitious Supply chains targets, we will increase the use of renewable energy and improve our energy efficiency. We purchase and sell responsibly and support our customers in making sustainable Find out more. choices. Our goal is to know the supply chains of all of our products and to ensure they FINANCIAL are sustainable. This is challenging, as our selections comprise tens of thousands of Renewable electricity 100% products purchased from around the world. Moreover, food products, for example, often Since the beginning of 2017, all electricity purchased by Kesko in Finland has been contain a multitude of different ingredients. We pay special attention to human rights STATEMENTS produced with renewable energy. The electricity has a Guarantee of Origin and, in 2017, issues and working conditions within the supply chain. Suppliers are monitored especially was produced with Finnish bioenergy. Find out more. in countries where the risk of violations of these rights is the greatest. Find out more. K Fishpaths In August 2017, we began a multi-year collaboration with the environmental organisation Professional and committed personnel WWF Finland to save endangered migratory fish. We will map out areas in Finland to K Group, i.e. Kesko and the K-retailers, employs approximately 42,000 people. Roles find obstacles in migratory fish spawning grounds, and in a spirit of cooperation with range from jobs at stores to retailer entrepreneurship and expert and manager positions CORPORATE landowners, local K-retailers and volunteers, make the spawning grounds once again in various fields. Professional, committed personnel forms the basis for all our operaaccessible to fish. Find out more. tions. Tightening competition for skilled labour requires active development of employer image, performance and competence management, and maintaining employee wellbeing and working ability. GOVERNANCE Find out more. 3 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Good corporate governance and finance STRATEGY We are committed to our operating principles. Together, we generate economic value added. • The K Code of Conduct steers all our operations. • We follow good corporate governance principles. • Together, we improve financial profitability. SUSTAINABILITY Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 K Code of Conduct All of our personnel act in As of 2017, we oblige the entire personnel to annually We updated Our Responsible Working Principles From the beginning of 2015, all of Kesko's Russian compliance with the K Code of confirm their compliance with the K Code of Conduct guidelines in 2016. The new guidelines were named business companies have had their own antiConduct. guidelines. By the end of 2017, 65% of personnel had the K Code of Conduct and were published in the corruption policies. We decided to update Our made the annual confirmation. languages of all our operating countries in October Responsible Working Principles guidelines in 2016. GRI 205-1, 205-2, 205-3 2016. We named 20 K Code of Conduct ambassadors as the messengers and contact persons. We will update all new and renewed employment contracts to include a clause about the requirement for personnel to familiarise themselves and comply with the K FINANCIAL Code of Conduct. We will add a K Code of Conduct contract clause to all agreements signed by Kesko Group companies. As of 2017, we oblige the entire STATEMENTS personnel to annually acknowledge their compliance with the K Code of Conduct guidelines. We organise regular training on the We continued to communicate and implement As part of the ongoing responsibility training, The online training on responsibility, which K Code of Conduct. the K Code of Conduct in practice according to a training event on the K Code of Conduct was was published in 2015 and directed at all Kesko the annual plan. Some 20 K Code of Conduct organised in Suomen Lähikauppa and two Russian employees, describes Our Responsible Working ambassadors in different operating countries have subsidiaries in 2016. The events focused largely on Principles. As part of the ongoing responsibility been appointed to act as messengers and contact corruption and fraud-related issues. The eLearning training, a training event on Our Responsible Working GRI 205-1, 205-2, 205-3 persons. Kesko’s Legal Affairs, Risk Management training targeted at all personnel had been attended Principles was organised for the key employees of and Internal Audit organised K Code of Conduct by 3,159 people at the end of 2016. We drew an Kesko’s company in Belarus in 2015. CORPORATE training in the subsidiaries in Norway, Poland and annual plan for 2017 which includes procedures to Sweden in 2017. The events focused especially on increase the personnel's awareness of the K Code of corruption and fraud-related issues. The K Code of Conduct such as communication and training events Conduct eLearning programme targeted at the entire for every quarter. GOVERNANCE personnel had been completed by 8,867 people by the end of 2017. 4 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 STRATEGY Return on capital Kesko's objective is to achieve a In 2017, the comparable return on capital employed The comparable return on capital employed was The comparable return on capital employed was 14% comparable return on capital was 12.2% and the comparabe return on equity was 11.9%, and the comparable return on equity was 9.8%. 11.7%, and the comparable return on equity was 8.2%. employed and a 12% return on 10.9%. equity. Human rights We respect human rights and We followed up our human rights assessment by We published our human rights assessment and We continued to assess human rights related impacts take them into account in all our conducting a review of working conditions in the human rights commitment on our website. We will in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on operations. supply chain of grapes in collaboration with the Trade review and update it every three years. We will Business and Human Rights. During the extensive Union Solidarity Centre of Finland (SASK). The human construct our operating models so that respect for report work, we heard the thoughts of customers and GRI 412-1, 412-2 rights assessment will be reviewed every three years, human rights is observed in all our operations. personnel as well as employees in high-risk countries' with the next review taking place in 2019. factories on human rights and how well they are SUSTAINABILITY realised in K Group's operations. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 5 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Economic performance ECONOMIC BENEFITS FROM KESKO'S OPERATIONS TO STRATEGY STAKEHOLDERS 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Kesko's operations generate economic benefits for the different stakeholder groups in Kesko’s operatValue added Distribution of value added generated ing countries and market areas. Key stakeholder groups include shareholders, customers, personnel, retailers, suppliers of goods and providers of services, and society. Kesko promotes the growth of Customers¹ Suppliers Employees Payments to welfare throughout its supply chain, including developing countries. Revenues Goods, materials and Salaries, fees and social providers of capital €11,467 million services purchased security expenses Net finance income / €-10,221 million €-759 million costs €1 million The following tables show cash flows between Kesko and its stakeholders, as well as the distribution of economic value added between stakeholder groups. The most important cash flows comprise revenue SUSTAINABILITY from customers and retailers, purchases from suppliers of goods and providers of services, dividends Public sector Community Shareholders Taxes³ investments Dividends² to shareholders, salaries and wages paid to personnel, taxes and capital expenditure. €-63 million Donations €-219 million €-2 million In June 2017, Kesko sold Indoor Group, which is responsible for the Asko and Sotka furniture trade chains, and the K-maatalous agricultural business. K-maatalous is consolidated into Kesko Group up Development of until 31 May 2017 and Indoor Group up until 30 June 2017. business activities €205 million In April 2016 Kesko acquired Suomen Lähikauppa Oy, in June 2016 Onninen Oy and in December 2016 Oy Autocarrera Ab. Suomen Lähikauppa Oy (currently K-Market Oy) has been consolidated into Kesko Group as of 12 April 2016, Onninen Group as of 1 June 2016 and Oy Autocarrera Ab as of ¹ Incl. net sales and other operating income ² Proposal to the General Meeting 1 December 2016. In 2016, Kesko disposed of the Russian grocery trade and the Russian Intersport ³ Incl. income taxes, real estate taxes and net worth taxes business. The Russian grocery trade business is included in the figures until 30 November 2016. In February 2018, Kesko announced it will discontinue its building and home improvement trade FINANCIAL operations in Russia. The Russian building and home improvement trade operations are included in the STATEMENTS 2017 figures. Further information on the structural changes is available in note 3.2 to the financial statements. The consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of financial position and the consolidated statement of cash flows can be read in full in the Report by the Board of Directors and financial statements section. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 6 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 ECONOMIC BENEFITS FROM KESKO'S OPERATIONS TO ECONOMIC BENEFITS FROM KESKO’S OPERATIONS BY MARKET STRATEGY STAKEHOLDER GROUPS AREA IN 2017 € million 2017 2016 2015 Salaries and Social Customers1 Revenues 11,467 10,879 9,479 Capital exshare-based security € million Purchases penditure payments expenses Taxes1 Total Value added generated 11,467 10,879 9,479 Finland 5,821 299 440 98 814 7,472 Other Nordic 1,008 3 65 22 61 1,159 Distribution of value added: countries Suppliers Goods, materials and -10,221 -9,839 -8,593 Baltic 534 22 87 9 103 756 services purchased countries and SUSTAINABILITY Employees Salaries, fees and social -759 -723 -545 Poland security expenses Russia and 210 25 29 9 17 289 Payments to providers of capital Net finance income/costs 1 -1 -7 Belarus Owners Dividend -2192 -199 -248 Other 1,388 1,388 countries Public sector Taxes3 -63 -50 -92 Total 8,961 350 621 138 995 11,065 Community investments Donations -2 -2 -1 Development of business 205 67 -7 1 Taxes include income taxes, real estate taxes, value-added taxes, excise duties, car taxes, customs duties, netoperations worth taxes and withholding taxes The data is based on audited figures. 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the 1 Incl. net sales and other operating income organisation’s activities related to climate change 2 Proposal to the General Meeting One of the themes of Kesko’s responsibility programme is mitigating the progress of climate change. FINANCIAL 3 Incl. income taxes, real estate taxes and net worth taxes In June 2017, the Science Based Targets initiative approved the emission targets set by Kesko through The division of the economic benefit generated by Kesko and K-retailers to Finnish regions is prewhich Kesko shows its commitment to the target of below 2°C global warming, as set by the Paris sented under Society in the Responsibility programme. Climate Agreement. Additional information on employee benefit expenses can be found in note 2.4 of the financial Kesko’s operations are surveyed regularly by risk assessments, which also cover changes that may be STATEMENTS statements. necessitated by climate change. The Group’s risk map, the most significant risks and uncertainties, as well as changes in and management responses to them are discussed by the Kesko Board’s Audit Dividend policy Committee when the interim reports and financial statements are handled. According to its dividend policy, Kesko Corporation distributes at least 50% of its comparable earnings per share as dividends, taking into account, however, the company’s financial position and operating Read more about our risk management and control practices. CORPORATE strategy. Kesko’s Board of Directors proposes to the General Meeting to be held in April 2018 that a total dividend of €219 million be paid for the year 2017, which would represent 84.9% of earnings per share and 96.6% of comparable earnings per share. In 2017, Kesko distributed a total of €199 million as dividends for the 2016 profit, which represented 201.3% of earnings per share and 99.5% of comparaGOVERNANCE ble earnings per share. Further information on the financial statements’ indicators and Kesko shares and shareholders can be found in the Report by the Board of Directors and financial statements section. 7 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Climate change presents physical and regulatory risks and opportunities as 201-3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations STRATEGY well as risks and opportunities affecting reputational factors The Group operates several pension plans in its different operating countries. In Finland, statutory pension provision for personnel is organised through pension insurance companies and voluntary Physical impacts supplementary pension provision is mainly organised through Kesko Pension Fund’s department A. At • Extreme weather phenomena, such as storms and heavy rains, have consequences for the built the end of the year, the number of employees eligible to receive supplementary retirement benefits environment. Physical risks are related to both the physical store network and logistics. Unusual from department A was 2,651. weather patterns can cause interruptions in operations or problems in the availability of products and changes in sales, particularly in the building and technical trade. The statutory pension provision organised through a pension insurance company is a defined contribu• Climate change can affect the procurement sources and availability of products both within and tion plan. The supplementary pension provision organised by Kesko Pension Fund is a defined benefit outside Europe. Due to drought and desertification, water has become less available in many plan. As at 31 December 2017, the defined benefit plan obligation was €266.6 million (€302.3 million SUSTAINABILITY countries, reducing the productive potential of local economies. Agricultural production will suffer in 2016), which is fully covered. Calculated under IFRS, the surplus amount was €207.5 million as at 31 if desertification and rising sea levels reduce arable land area. Drought or floods may destroy December 2017 (€164.7 million in 2016). Calculated under IFRS, the Group’s total pension expenses agricultural harvests. Intensifying competition for raw materials may lead to higher prices. represent 13.9% of the amount of salaries (13.6% in 2016). Read more in the financial statements • The availability of energy sources and emission limits may affect energy prices. section, note 3.8. • Accidents and epidemics resulting from natural phenomena can cause damage or business In the other countries, pensions are arranged in compliance with local legislation. The former pension interruptions that cannot be prevented. plan operated in Norway was classified as a defined benefit plan, but the related liability expired during the financial year 2017. Regulation • Climate change may have an impact in terms of risks involved in regulation, such as various permit 201-4 Financial assistance received from government procedures, or costs arising from emission pricing and taxation. In 2017, the Group received financial assistance of €1.4 million from the public sector. This amount • mainly consists of assistance received from Finland (€1.1 million) and from Sweden (€0.3 million). The The implementation of the EU and Finnish Government climate and energy policy will affect energy FINANCIAL solutions and may increase energy prices, adding to pressures for energy savings and energy majority of public sector assistance in Finland is related to investments in the utilisation of solar power. self-sufficiency. STATEMENTS Customers • Customers are paying increasing attention to issues related to sustainability. Environmentally friendly products, corporate responsibility communications, retail stores’ K-responsibility concept and package labelling can help customers make purchasing decisions that mitigate climate change. Any failures to implement responsible practices in this area may weaken Kesko’s reputation. • Kesko takes part in the development of circular economy by offering recycling services at its stores and by taking part in innovative initiatives such as the Ham Trick campaign or the manufacture of Pirkka products using biogas made from inedible biowaste collected from K-food stores. Opportunities and risks related to climate change are also described in the report’s CORPORATE Operating environment / Opportunities and Risks section. GOVERNANCE 8 real estate taxes and net worth taxes to Finland and Kesko’s measurable indirect impact on society, such as €2.8 million to its other operating countries in 2017. its employment impact, increased municipal tax income, or income in the producer and supply chain, is evaluated Kesko collects, reports and remits also indirect taxes, case-by-case, in connection with the establishment of a KESKO'S YEAR 2017 such as value-added taxes and excise duties. Kesko new store, for example. Indirect economic impacts payable 2017 Taxespayable Taxes 2017 Taxes remitted inin2017 Taxes remitted 2017 STRATEGY 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Kesko is a service sector company which has significant indirect impacts related to the production, use and recyclability of products. Purchases by Kesko and the retailers have economic impacts on the suppliers and service providers, such as an increase in the number of jobs. Furthermore, purchases from local producers affect regional business activities. The salaries, taxes, social security expenses and capital expenditure paid by Kesko SUSTAINABILITY and retailers have impacts on regional economic welfare. Income taxes, Finland €47 million (€32 million) 74% Value-added taxes, Finland €410 million (€380 Income taxes, other countries €10 million (€ (€10 10 million) 44% million) 15% Value-added taxes, other countries €129 million In 2017, Kesko operated in nine countries in which it is engaged in both retail and wholesale. On (€ (€110 110 million) 14% Real estate taxes, Finland €4 million (€4 million) 6% 16 February 2018, we announced we would discontinue our building and home improvement trade Real estate and net-worth taxes, other countries €3 Withholding taxes, Finland €115 million (€ (€111 111 million (€4 million) 5% million) 12% operations in Russia. Withholding taxes, other countries €35 million (€3 (€311 million) 4% It is one of Kesko’s principles that taxes on operating income and assets are always paid to the respecCar taxes, Finland €17 1700 million (€ (€178 178 million) 18% tive operating country in compliance with local laws and regulations. Customs duties, Finland €7 million (€7 million) 1% Customs duties, other countries €4 million (€7 million) 0% Kesko is a significant tax payer. In 2017, the income taxes paid by Kesko to Finland totalled €46.5 Excise duties, Finland €61 million (€67 million) 7% million and to other countries €9.7 million. The Group’s effective tax rate was 17.9%. Kesko paid €3.7 million in real estate taxes and net worth taxes to Finland and €2.8 million to its other operating FINANCIAL countries in 2017. Kesko collects, reports and remits also indirect taxes, such as value-added taxes and excise duties. STATEMENTS Kesko remits value-added taxes to tax recipients in its capacity as a company selling goods and services. In 2017, Kesko’s value-added taxes payable in Finland amounted to €410.3 million, and €129.2 12 million in other countries. Kesko remits car taxes and excise duties on, for instance, confectionery, alcohol and soft drinks. In 2017, Kesko remitted excise duties in Finland to a total amount of €61.1 million. Kesko’s measurable indirect impact on society, such as its employment impact, increased municipal tax CORPORATE income, or income in the producer and supply chain, is evaluated case-by-case, in connection with the establishment of a new store, for example. GOVERNANCE 9 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Taxes by country in 2017 Anti-corruption STRATEGY Verot maittain vuonna 2017 Taxes by country in 2017 205-1 Operations assessed for risks %% % related to corruption, 100 100 100 205-2 Communication and training 80 80 80 about anti-corruption policies and procedures, 60 60 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 60 Risks related to corruption are discussed as part of Kesko Group's risk management. Key risks, includSUSTAINABILITY ing risks related to corruption, are identified, assessed, managed, monitored and reported regularly as 40 40 40 part of business operations in all operating countries. 20 20 20 Kesko’s anti-corruption principles are included in the K Code of Conduct guidelines published in 2016. The guidelines and website have been published in the languages of all our operating countries. Kesko 00 0 Tulo ulovver eroo Kiinteistö Kiinteistövver eroo Omaisuusv ero Omaisuusver o Auto Autovver erot ot Tullit Valmistev almistever erot ot employees and business partners have their own versions of the K Code of Conduct. Income Inc taxes ome tax Income es taxes RealReal estate taxes estate tax taxes es Net-worth Net-w Net-worth taxes orth tax es taxes CarCartaxes tax es taxes Customs duties Customs duties Excise Ex duties Excise cise duties Suomi Ruotsi Norja Vir Viroo Finland Sweden Norw Norwaay Estonia Latvia Liettua Puola Venäjä Kesko has prepared a mandatory eLearning package for its employees to smoothly internalise the K Latvia Valk o-Venäjä alko Lithuania Poland Russia Belarus Code of Conduct. 13 13 Kesko arranges K Code of Conduct sessions in its companies: in 2017, such events were organised in the Norwegian, Polish and Swedish subsidiaries. The events focused largely on corruption and FINANCIAL fraud-related issues. In 2017, the prevention of malpractice was one of the focus areas for Kesko’s corporate security STATEMENTS function. During the year, individual cases of suspected malpractice came to our knowledge and the corporate security unit assisted in investigating them. Towards the end of 2016, Kesko introduced the Group-wide SpeakUp channel through which employees and business partners can report any violations of the K Code of Conduct. During 2017, 38 notices were submitted through the SpeakUp channel, related to e.g. managerial work, store staff and customer service, and Kesko’s partnerships with its suppliers. CORPORATE In 2017, no corruption related lawsuits against any Kesko Group company came to our knowledge. GOVERNANCE 10 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Anti-competitive behaviour Freedom of association and collective bargaining STRATEGY 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of monopoly practices association and collective bargaining may be at risk In August 2017, Kesko Senukai Latvia received a €920,618 fine for breach of competition law regulaThe freedom of association or the right to collective bargaining is not seen to be at risk in Kesko’s tions. operating countries within the EU (Finland, Sweden, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland) or Norway. Labour/management relations Out of the total personnel, 44% are covered by collective agreements. 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes So far, no binding industry-wide collective agreements have been drawn up in the Baltic countries and SUSTAINABILITY Kesko complies with local legislation in all of its operating countries. In Finland, the key statutes Poland. governing restructuring situations are included in the Act on Co-operation within Undertakings, which stipulates that the employer must provide reasonable notice of decisions for consideration on the basis The control of the association of suppliers’ employees in high-risk countries and corrective actions are of negotiations. The collective agreement for the trading sector does not specify any minimum notice included in social responsibility audits. periods applying to restructuring situations. Human rights assessments In Sweden, the statutory minimum notice period in the event of organisational changes is 8–24 weeks depending on the nature of the change. The collective agreement applying to operations in Sweden 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights also does not specify minimum notice periods for restructuring situations. No specific minimum notice reviews or impact assessments period for organisational changes is defined in Norway, but both legislation and the collective agreeIn September 2016, Kesko published its statement of commitment on human rights and impact assessment stipulate that personnel shall be informed of organisational changes at the earliest opportunity. ment in compliance with the UN's Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. FINANCIAL Russian legislation states that personnel must be informed of restructuring 8.5 weeks before the new The extensive survey involved listening to the views of customers, personnel and high-risk country structure takes effect. For major organisational changes concerning more than 20% of the personnel, factory workers on human rights and on the implementation of human rights in K Group's operations. the authorities must also be informed 8–12 weeks prior to the change. In Estonia and Latvia, the The survey covered the customers of all of Kesko’s lines of business, and personnel in Finland. Surveys STATEMENTS minimum notice period in restructuring situations is four weeks. The corresponding notice period in in high-risk countries were carried out in China, India, Bangladesh and the Philippines. Read more Belarus is eight weeks. There are no collective agreements in these operating countries. about Kesko’s commitment and impact assessment. In all its operating countries, Kesko applies the notice periods specified in local labour legislation. In In November 2017, Kesko followed up the assessment by publishing a study on working conditions in Finland, the notice period is from two weeks to six months depending on the duration of employment. the supply chain of grapes in Brazil, South Africa and India. The study showed that the human rights of workers involved in the picking, packaging and transport of grapes are vulnerable to violations. Kesko Non-discrimination has proposed expanding amfori BSCI audits to cover also logistics in high-risk countries. Read more CORPORATE about the study. 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken There were no pending incidents of discrimination in 2017. GOVERNANCE 11 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 In 2017, there were no advertisements by Kesko or its subsidiaries submitted for consideration by STRATEGY 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures the Council of Ethics in Advertising or any incidents of non-compliance with legislation or voluntary The K Code of Conduct guidelines include a section on human rights. The K Code of Conduct principles. eLearning programme targeted at the entire personnel had been completed by 8,867 people by the end of 2017. Awareness of the K Code of Conduct is regularly promoted through communications and In June 2017, the Consumer Ombudsman imposed a prohibition order with a notice of a conditional training arranged by K Code of Conduct ambassadors. An article related to the #metoo campaign was fine in a matter concerning Intersport Finland Oy’s offer marketing in 8/2016-1/2017. published in December 2017 on intranets in Kesko’s operating countries, noting the K Code of Conduct guideline “We treat one another equally” and giving instructions on what to do if people notice Kesko Senukai Lithuania received a caution from authorities in 2017 for sending direct marketing to inappropriate behaviour at the workplace. one customer who had prohibited it. SUSTAINABILITY Trainings in responsible purchasing continued in 2017. The trainings focused on the implementation Customer privacy of human rights in global purchasing chains. A total of three trainings were organised in Finland for people engaged in purchasing in Kesko’s grocery trade and building and technical trade. One training 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer was held for the personnel of the Kesko Onninen Purchasing Office in Shanghai, China. The training privacy and losses of customer data sessions discussed the amfori BSCI Code of Conduct principles, the assurance process in purchasing In 2017, no information leaks or other personal data breaches were detected. from high-risk countries, and the social responsibility assessment systems approved by Kesko. The trainings will continue in 2018. Compliance Public policy 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 415-1 Political contributions There were no non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area in 2017. In election years, political parties and candidates are given equal opportunities to arrange campaign FINANCIAL events in the yards and entrance halls of K Group stores. In addition, Kesko may participate in GRI management approach economic and tax policy seminars arranged by political parties, on content basis at its discretion and without indicating partiality. Material aspects STATEMENTS • Economic performance Kesko does not make monetary donations to political parties. In 2017, Kesko did not participate in • Indirect economic impacts political parties’ seminars subject to a charge and did not publish commercial advertisements in party newspapers. • Anti-corruption • Anti-competitive behaviour Non-compliance concerning marketing communications • Compliance 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing CORPORATE • communications Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society Kesko constantly monitors the amendments to legislation and authorities’ recommendations related to • Customer privacy marketing communications and provides information about them to the staff responsible for marketing GOVERNANCE in each unit. 12 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 We generate economic value added Risk management principles STRATEGY At Kesko, economic responsibility refers to the good management of finances, the efficient use of • The risk management policy confirmed by the Board of Directors guides risk management in resources, as well as generating stable, long-term economic benefits for the various stakeholders. Kesko. Kesko's operations generate economic benefits for shareholders, personnel, retailers, suppliers of goods and services and their employees and customers, as well as municipalities and states. Good trading practices • Kesko's grocery trade and Kespro are committed to good trading practices. The K Code of Conduct and reputation management Different aspects of responsibility, such as the ethicality of production and sourcing, the fair and K Code of Conduct equal treatment of employees and environmental protection are increasingly important for customers. • The K Code of Conduct is used to ensure that everyone at Kesko has the same understanding Kesko's attitude to bribery and other malpractice is absolutely uncompromising. Responsible working of the values and principles that guide our daily work. The principles are the same for every SUSTAINABILITY Kesko employee in all our operating countries. We also expect our business partners to operate principles are essential for building trust between Kesko, K-stores, our customers and our business responsibly. partners. Public policy Data protection policy Kesko plays an active role in trade and industry organisations in Finland and in the European Union, • The data protection policy defines how Kesko Group strives for compliance with the law in the contributing its expertise to social development and legislative work. Kesko does not donate funds to processing of personal data and a high level of data protection in all of its operations and operating countries. political parties. Customer privacy Monitoring and control systems Customers' personal data is, for instance, processed in various personal data registers and online stores' customer registers that are collected for the implementation of marketing activities. FurtherFinancial reporting and planning more, Kesko manages and maintains the K-Plussa customer loyalty system, operated by K-chains and • Kesko's financial reporting and planning are based on the Kesko Group's management system. The FINANCIAL K-Plussa partners. Using the information received from the K-Plussa customer loyalty system, we can Group's financial development and achievement of financial objectives are monitored by financial reporting covering the entire Group. develop and tailor our operations to better suit our customers' needs. Taking care of our customers' privacy is of utmost importance to us. STATEMENTS Compliance Policies, principles and commitments • Kesko runs compliance programmes to ensure that Kesko employees are familiar with the key laws relating to operations and act in compliance with them. For Kesko, knowledge of and compliance with competition laws is of primary importance. Accounting policies • Kesko Group complies with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) approved for adoption by the European Union. Prevention of malpractice • The Kesko Group's Internal Audit monitors and secures the functioning and efficiency of Corporate Governance principles management, supervision, risk management and corporate governance in the Kesko Group. Kesko's CORPORATE • Kesko's decision-making and corporate governance are guided by Kesko's values and the K Code Internal Audit pays special attention to the efficiency of controls that prevent malpractice and of Conduct guidelines. Decision-making and corporate governance comply with the Finnish Limited financial losses. Kesko organises K Code of Conduct training in its various companies. The events Liability Companies Act, regulations concerning publicly quoted companies, Kesko's Articles of focus especially on corruption and fraud-related issues. GOVERNANCE Association, the charters of Kesko's Board and its Committees and the rules and guidelines of Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. The company complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies that entered into force on 1 January 2016. 13 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Grievance mechanisms STRATEGY Risk management Through Kesko's intranet, employees can give feedback and ask questions concerning operations • Kesko has a uniform risk assessment and reporting system. Risk identification is based on business not only in their own units but also directly to top management. Feedback can be given openly or objectives and opportunities and the defined risk appetite. Risks are prioritised on the basis of anonymously. their significance by evaluating their impact in financial terms and probability. When assessing the impact of materialisation, the impacts on reputation, people's wellbeing and the environment are SpeakUp is a confidential reporting channel meant for reporting crime and malpractice suspicions considered in addition to the impact in euros. Risk management measures are assigned persons in charge who are responsible for planning, implementing and monitoring the measures. The when, for one reason or another, the information cannot be passed directly to Kesko's persons in measures defined are added in action plans and monitoring systems. Kesko's Internal Audit has charge. annually assessed the functioning and efficiency of Kesko's risk management system. Boundaries SUSTAINABILITY Privacy protection • Personal data collected for various purposes on the grounds defined in the Finnish Personal Data Corporate governance Kesko Act form separate person registers. For example, the customer information of K-Plussa cardholders Finance Kesko forms a customer database that is used, with the customer's permission, for managing customer relationships, for customer contacts and the marketing purposes of the companies that have joined the K-Plussa system. K-Plussa customers can prohibit the connection of product or product group level information to their identified customer relationship. In compliance with the Personal Data Act, the file description is available in Finnish at www.plussa.com. • Data controllers ensure that customer information is only used for the purposes specified in the file description. Information on individual customers is secured by issuing instructions to personnel and by using technical systems. Customer data is only disclosed to third parties if required by law. FINANCIAL Responsibilities and resources • Kesko's Corporate Governance structure is presented at Kesko's Corporate Governance principles STATEMENTS • Group Legal Affairs Unit • Internal Audit Unit • Risk Management and Corporate Security Unit • K Digital Unit CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 14 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Customers STRATEGY We offer sustainable products and multi-channel services • We make people's lives more convenient and easier. • We offer healthy products and services that promote wellbeing. • We develop the multi-channel aspect of our store network based on our customers' expectations. • We encourage our customers to make sustainable choices. SUSTAINABILITY Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 Dialogue with We constantly engage in dialogue Listening to our customers and utilising feedback The human rights assessment generated invaluable As part of Kesko's human rights assessment, we customers with customers in stores and social are key factors in Kesko’s strategy when it comes information for developing customer services. We heard the stakeholders' views on how well they medial channels. We conduct to improving customer experience. We offer our will investigate the possibility of implementing the thought human rights were realised, for example, in surveys on customer satisfaction customers an easy-to-use digital feedback channel suggestions we received. customer service situations. The online questionnaire and brand and utilise customer Hymy. Some one million customer contacts happen was directed at both majority representatives as views in the development of our through Hymy each year. We carried out an extensive study among grocery well as special groups. Kesko was assessed as responsibility work. trade experts, retailers, suppliers and K-Plussa slightly higher than the average Finnish company We are testing Kylä, a new type of customer customers on the expected food trends and in the materialisation of a variety of human rights community, to get our customers proactively involved phenomena of 2017. issues. However, the assessment given by special in the development of our operations and services. groups was, with regards to certain aspects (e.g. FINANCIAL Read more: Stakeholder perspective. The significance of social media channels in customer unrestricted access, accessibility, personnel diversity), interaction has grown. In 2017, we will more actively considerably poorer when compared to the answers In the spring of 2017, we conducted a qualitative listen to our customers' opinions and carry out more given by majority representatives. STATEMENTS study concerning K Group’s competitive advantage systematic and focused communication within social and strong corporate responsibility to find out what media communities. responsible and reliable operations of a trading sector company mean to Finnish consumers. We used the findings to further develop our operations. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 15 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 STRATEGY Consultation We offer our customers multiIn September, K-Rauta launched in Finland the Customer feedback received through the new The K Consumer service was contacted 19,770 times. services to channel information on our products Remonttineuvonta renovation consultation service, customer feedback system, launched in summer Information about good products and responsible customers and services. an example of a multichannel advice service for 2016, increased significantly. The K Group's customer actions was given in stores and marketing with the customers. magazine Pirkka was revamped. The K Consumer help of the K-responsibility concept and its slogan Service was contacted 19,619 times. ‘Let’s do good. Together.’ K Consumer Service responds to consumer feedback concerning the own brand products (Pirkka, K-Menu, Euro Shopper) and own imports of the grocery trade division. In 2017, K Consumer Service gave 22,218 responses. SUSTAINABILITY Our key customer communication channels are K Group’s social media channels and Pirkka Media, which comprises Pirkka magazine and the digital channels Pirkka.fi and Pirkka’s Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Pirkka magazine has a readership of 1.7 million (Kansallinen Mediatutkimus, a national media survey, autumn 2016 / spring 2017). Welfare We offer products and services that In 2017, we began work to build a new health and In addition to the recipe search function, the K-food In 2015, K-ruoka.fi produced the Keveämpi arki promote health and wellbeing. wellbeing store chain Hehku together with the mobile app gives the user suggestions about the customer programme consisting of recipes and ideas pharmaceutical distributor Oriola. Our goal is to most popular recipes made with seasonal ingredients. that promote a healthier lifestyle and well-being. establish a chain of 100 Hehku stores and an online K-stores launched veggie shelves. The product Intersport's sports training offered expert tips, store. If legislation changes, we will expand the reformulation policy (less salt, sugar and fat) is to be inspiring content and exercise programmes for business to also include the sale of pharmaceuticals. updated in 2017. people of different fitness levels. The first Hehku stores opened in January-February FINANCIAL 2018. Cello indoor and outdoor paints received the Swan label. Onninen Norway provides welfare technologyWe joined the National Nutrition Council of Finland’s related solutions. Intersport organised sports training nutrition commitment by making a vegetable during different seasons. STATEMENTS commitment, which encourages K-food store customers to increase their use of vegetables through the following actions, which extend to year 2020: • By 2020, at least 400 K-food stores will have a “veggie shelf” for vegetable protein products. In 2017, 250 K-food stores had dedicated veggie shelves. • We organise at least 250 vegetable-related campaigns at K-food stores each year (2018-2020). In 2017, K-food store chains organised 240 vegetable CORPORATE campaigns. • We will add at least 50 new fruit or vegetable products to our selections by 2020. In 2017, we added 55 new fruit and vegetable products to our selections. GOVERNANCE 16 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 STRATEGY Sustainable We help our customers make In accordance with our plastics policy, we create K Group has the most comprehensive neighbourhood The K-responsibility concept theme Let's do consumption sustainable choices. operating models that prevent plastics from store network in Finland. We provide an extensive good. Together was an essential part of the ending up in water bodies and elsewhere in the and free charging network for electric cars. We communication and marketing of the grocery trade, environment. We strive to increase awareness of participated in the Kinkkutemppu campaign which as well as our building and home improvement stores the environmental impacts of plastic waste through used the roasted ham fat to produce renewable and agricultural stores. Our building and home active communications in customer channels and at diesel. K-food stores participated in the Food Waste improvement stores offered their customers energy our stores. In 2017, we removed environmentally Week campaign organised by the Consumers Union efficient and environmentally friendly products and harmful microbeads from all our own brand cosmetic Of Finland. At the start of 2017, Pirkka ESSI circular services. K-food stores participated in the Food products. During 2018, microplastics will also be economy bags were introduced in K-food stores. Waste Week campaign organised by the Consumers removed from all our own brand detergents. The K-food stores introduced shared vege shelves for all Union Of Finland. Pirkka ESSI circular economy bags were introduced vegetable protein products. SUSTAINABILITY to K-food stores' shopping bag selections at the start VV-Auto participated in the Finnish Transport of 2017. The bags are made of over 90% recycled We published our soy policy and committed to it; by Agency's car scrapping reward trial. The range of materials, around half of which is plastic packaging 2020, all soy used in the production chain of ownelectric and hybrid cars available in car dealers separately collected from households. brand products will be sustainably produced RTRS widened. or ProTerra certified soy. We published our plastics In 2017, we took part in the second Ham Trick policy and committed to introducing measures to As a new service, we started building new charging campaign, where roasted ham fat is used to produce reduce the consumption of plastic bags. points for electric and hybrid cars in the most renewable diesel. K-Citymarkets collected fat from significant store locations. 117,000 households, i.e. 81% of the total fat collected in the campaign. We introduced two products in 2017 that reduce the environmental load on the Baltic Sea: the Pirkka fish patty, which is made from Baltic bream, and the Pirkka Parhaat Benella Rainbow Trout, which is FINANCIAL farmed in Finland with feed made from Baltic herring and sprat from the Baltic Sea. STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 17 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 STRATEGY Digital services We offer the best digital services to We utilise artificial intelligence for product and Almost 100 K-food stores nationwide offer locally Stores' click and collect services became more K Group customers in all divisions. content recommendations in our services, and are operating online grocery stores and click and collect common. We published a K-food mobile app, which improving the customer experience in our digital services. All K-Rauta stores have an online store offers personalised benefits and shop-specific offers services. New features in the K-Ruoka mobile which also provides a delivery and click and collect and a smart shopping list. Sotka's online store was application include product information and food service. We developed the K-food mobile app opened. purchases via online store. We opened an entirely further. redesigned online food store and new online stores for Onninen and K-Rauta in Finland. In the car trade, We developed a joint online store solution for the Caara.fi service was complemented with a new the business customers of building and home Caara Go service, where you can obtain a car for improvement stores and Onninen. We launched a new temporary use, be it a month or a year, for a monthly concept online: a used car store, Caara.fi. SUSTAINABILITY fee agreed upon beforehand. We opened a new K Digital unit and recruited We launched Student K-Plussa, a loyalty programme dozens of new digital experts. The five trainees that for higher education and university level students that completed the K Digital Trainee programme found offers e.g. a 5% rebate on purchases at K-food stores. employment in various digital positions within the K Some 20,000 students joined the programme over the Group. first few months. In the autumn of 2017, we began a collaboration with the global online store operator Alibaba to sell Finnish food brands in China. We export Finnish food brands and our own Pirkka products to the growing Chinese market. Management by Each K-store is customised to We created three new applications for all K-food The retailers received a new application based on Dozens of new ideas and operational models were FINANCIAL information meet its local customer demand by stores, which support store management by customer data, among other things, that supports tested in K-Myllypuro over a year. The test store's utilising customer data. information. New tools combined with our existing store management and offers a tool for targeted customers and customer jury were asked for feedback customer data-based application that supports storeproduct ranges and marketing. on a regular basis. Based on customer wishes, the specific business ideas clearly improve the ability test store became a K-Supermarket in August 2016. STATEMENTS to run stores based on customer insight and data. We will revamp the K-food store chains. We will The experiences gathered from the K-Myllypuro test The number of users for new tools aimed at store revamp our entire hypermarket concept and all store were used in the planning of the renewal of the management by information has tripled within a year. K-Citymarkets by the end of 2018. We will revamp K-Market chain. the K-Rauta brand in all its countries of operation in stages. Using marketing based on customer We continued the systematic development We expanded the K Group's targeted marketing using Personalised marketing based on purchase history data, we offer our customers the of K Group’s marketing through marketing customer data and began carrying out programmatic means that customers receive benefits better suited best customer experience in the process automation and increased investments marketing relying on our own team of experts. Using to them. After purchasing, customers receive service trading sector. in the development and utilisation of marketing our customer data, we offer our customers more messages, customer questionnaires or personalised CORPORATE technologies. Our objective is to utilise customer data personalised, interactive and multi-channel services. offers using their chosen channel. better in our marketing so we can offer our customers The revamped K-Plussa loyal customer card ensures a better, more personalised customer experience. In personalised, targeted benefits for customers. We 2016, our own team of experts initiated programmatic developed the K-food mobile app further. GOVERNANCE targeted marketing using customer data, and nearly half of all digital marketing is now programmatic marketing. 18 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 STRATEGY Additional services We want to offer our customers a We offer our customers the chance to recycle In connection to K-food stores, there were 396 There were 255 consumer packaging recycling eco in connection to convenient shopping experience. packaging plastics in 173 RINKI eco take-back points consumer packaging recycling Rinki eco points, of points at K-food stores. 38 eco points collected stores located at K-store premises. To increase shopping which 160 also collected plastic. Many eco points also plastic. Many eco points also accepted paper and GRI 203-1 convenience, self-service checkouts are available for accepted paper and used clothing. All K-food stores used clothing. All K-food stores have reverse vending customers at hundreds of K-food stores. have reverse vending machines for returning beverage machines for returning beverage containers. Posti and containers. DHL expanded their operations into K-food stores. DHL Express and the K Group started cooperation Core additional services in K-food stores were: Post which will bring 250-300 DHL service points Office service points in 327 stores, Matkahuolto nationwide in food stores and building and home parcel points in 568 stores, DHL service points in 27 improvements stores. There were 137 SmartPost selfstores, Post Office parcel lockers in 144 stores and service parcel lockers at K-stores. SUSTAINABILITY Osta & Nosta cash points in 1,011 stores. We provide an extensive and free charging network for electric cars. The Liiteri service tested the rental service for K-Rauta's tools. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 19 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Store network Store network Especially outside growth centres, retail stores can offer community services which may otherwise be STRATEGY scarcely available. In 2017, the following services were located in connection with K-food stores: 203-1 Development and impact of infrastructure investments accounted forand 203-1 Development services supported and impact of operations sales in services at more than 1,200 stores 43% of Kesko’s• netCashback 2017. At the end of 2017, Kesko had over 1,100 Kesko operates in the grocery investments infrastructure trade, the building and and technical trade,independent and the car K-retailer entrepreneurs Kesko as •partners. trade. In 2017, Parcel and postal services at over 800 stores services supported Kesko and K-retailers form K Group, whose retail sales had approximately 1,800 stores engaged in chain operations in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, (pro forma) totalled around €13 billion (VAT 0%) in Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Belarus and Russia. On 16 February 2018, we announced 2017. K Group we wouldaround employs discon-42,000 people. The store site network is a strategic competitive factor for K Group. In 2017, Kesko’s total capital tinue ourKesko operates building in theimprovement and home the building grocery trade,trade operationsandin Russia. expenditure in store sites amounted to €256 million (2016: €217 million). Kesko’s most significant technical trade, and the car trade. In 2017, Kesko had Outside Finland, Kesko mainly engages in own retailing approximately 1,800 stores engaged in chain operations and B2B trade. B2B trade accounted for 35% recent of store Kesko’ssite project is the new shopping centre, Easton Helsinki, in Itäkeskus, Eastern Helsinki. Kesko’s in Finland,business principal Norway, Sweden,model Estonia, in the FinnishLatvia, marketLithuania, net salesmodel, in 2017. is the chain business in Kesko’s own retailing accounted which indepen­ The capitalforexpenditure is valued at €100 million, with an employment impact of approximately 250 SUSTAINABILITY Poland, Belarus dent K-retailers and run retail Russia. stores On 16 February in Kesko's 2018, weoperations chains. Retailer 22% of net sales. accounted for 43% of Kesko’s person-years for a period of two years. Easton Helsinki was opened in October 2017 and it offers peoannounced we would discontinue our building and home in 2017. At the net salesimprovement endoperations trade of 2017, Kesko had over 1,100 independent in Russia. KeskoK-retailer hosts a entrepreneurs comprehensiveasK-food storeplenetwork in the region in the best and most versatile food selections both in the physical store as well as online. partners. Kesko and K-retailers form K Group, whose retail sales (proFinland, forma) and therearound totalled €13 stores in most are K-food Finnish Easton is a forerunner in combining digital and physical channels and services. The new shopping Kesko’s principal business model in the Finnish market is municipalities. K-food stores are visited by around 1.2 billion (VAT 0%) in 2017. K Group employs around 42,000 people. centre and its occupants provide employment to some 300 people. the chain business model, in which independent Kmillion customers every day. retailers run retail stores in Kesko's chains. Retailer Outside Finland, Kesko mainly engages in own retailing and B2B trade. B2B trade accounted for 35% of In addition to statutory waste recycling obligations, K-stores provide the following recycling services: Kesko’s net sales in 2017. Kesko’s own retailing accounted for 22% of net sales. • Collection of impregnated wood. K-food stores in Finnish municipalities at 31 Dec. Kesko hosts a comprehensive K-food store network in Finland, and2017 there are K-food stores in most • Collection of clothing. Finnish municipalities. K-food stores are visited by around 1.2 million customers every day. Waste statistics are presented under 306-2 Waste. FINANCIAL Kesko’s community investments are presented under Society in the Responsibility programme. GRI management approach STATEMENTS K-food stores in Finnish municipalities at 31 Dec. 2017 K-ruokakauppojen sijoittuminen kunnittain Material aspects 31.12.2017 • Customer health • Product safety 10 stores or more 23 pcs 7.4% 7–9 stores 17 pcs 5.5% 5–6 stores 23 pcs 7.4% CORPORATE 3–4 stores 39 pcs 12.5% 2 stores 58 pcs 18. 18.6% 6% 1 store 112 pcs 36. 36.0% 0% GOVERNANCE No K-food store 39 pcs 12.5% 10 kauppaa tai enemmän 23 kpl 7,4 % 7–9 kauppaa 17 kpl 5,5 % 5–6 kauppaa 23 kpl 7,4 % Especially outside growth centres, retail stores can offer community services which may otherwise be scarcely 3–4 kauppaa 39 kpl 12,5 % 20 2 kauppaa 58 kpl 18, 18,66% KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Policies and commitments loyalty programme and the grocery trade's own-brand products. Store-level customer satisfaction STRATEGY The K-responsibility concept is used to tell customers about the store's good deeds and to help them is measured by customer satisfaction surveys and the mystery shopping method in food stores and make healthy and sustainable choices easily. The K-responsibility concept is in use in K-food stores building and home improvement stores. and K-Rauta stores. Grievance mechanisms Customers' needs and consumption behaviour change greatly as new electronic services and, par• Plussa.com ticularly, mobile services become increasingly widespread. Kesko's key strategic objective is to serve • K-Consumer Service customers in all of its divisions by using the opportunities provided by mobile services, online services and digital marketing. • Chain's customer feedback systems SUSTAINABILITY Monitoring and control systems Boundaries Kesko Product Research Unit's laboratory monitors the safety and quality of groceries and home and speciality goods sold by K-food stores and K-Citymarket hypermarkets. Customer health and safety Kesko Group – Own-brand products and own imports Product and service information Kesko Group – Own-brand products and own imports In addition to the laboratory, the Product Research Unit includes a test kitchen and K-Consumer Marketing communications Kesko Group Service. The test kitchen's duties include sensory evaluations of products and the testing of their Compliance Kesko Group cooking properties. The consumer service provides information on Pirkka products: customers can give feedback on products and ask about various aspects of our products, such as product origins, ingredients, their suitability for different kinds of users and instructions for use and preparation. Responsibilities and resources • Kesko's divisions FINANCIAL • Kesko's Product Research Unit • K-stores Programmes, projects and initiatives STATEMENTS The home economics teachers in Kesko's grocery trade's marketing unit develop and test hundreds of new food recipes annually. The recipes in the K-ruoka.fi service include the nutritional content of each dish to make it easier for people to make choices. In the building and home improvement store operations, the assessment of a store's operational CORPORATE responsibility comprises the store's annual self-assessment, the criteria defined in the store's quality system and a responsibility audit performed by an external party on a specified sample. The auditor reports the results to the store and to Kesko. Food store operations utilise the Hymy quality review system. The service level, recognition level and images of Kesko's chains are regularly monitored in brand surGOVERNANCE veys targeted at consumers in all product lines. The same practice is applied to the K-Plussa customer 21 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Society STRATEGY We contribute to creating a better society • We create partnerships and participate in developing local communities. • We develop our business in interaction with our customers. SUSTAINABILITY Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 Local production We support local producers. We organised six local food dates around Finland, K-food stores, K-Rauta stores and Rautia stores K-food stores, K-Citymarket Oy (home goods), giving K-retailers and local food producers a chance participated in the Blue and White Footprint K-Rauta stores and Rautia stores participated in the GRI 204-1 to meet and establish a collaboration. K-food campaign. We organised Local Food Dates in six Blue and White Footprint campaign. We organised stores had 10 'Thank the Producer' products in different locations. K-food stores sold 12 different Local Food Dates in six different locations. We their selections. Overall, some six million 'Thank Pirkka 'Thank the Producer' products for which we created the ‘Thank the Producer’ operating model to the Producer' products were sold during the year, paid extra directly to the producer. In 2017, we will highlight the position of producers and increase the for which we pay more than €350,000 extra to be the main cooperation partner in the 'MTK 100' appreciation of Finnish production. Finnish food producers. K-food stores’ ‘Even better celebrations. from Finland’ campaign encouraged buying Finnish FINANCIAL products. K Group was the main cooperation partner in the 'MTK 100' celebrations (the Central Union of Agricultural Producers and Forest Owners, STATEMENTS MTK) nationwide. In our social media channels, we published ‘Shared growth stories’ on growthgenerating collaborations between producers, local entrepreneurs and K-retailers. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 22 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 STRATEGY Donations, We participate in projects, which In August 2017, we began an extensive multi-year We participated in Red Nose Day, the Good We participated in Red Nose Day, the Good sponsoring and are connected to improving collaboration, K Fishpaths, with the environmental Christmas Spirit collection and the Salvation Army's Christmas Spirit collection, the Salvation Army's charity campaigns families' daily life and sustainable organisation WWF Finland to save and restore Christmas Kettle collection. Finland's K-Rauta Christmas Kettle collection and the Pink Ribbon development. endangered migratory fish populations in Finland. and the Women's Bank launched cooperation campaign. K-food stores participated in the UNICEF's Read more in 304-3. to help Ugandan women in the early phases of and Pamper's international vaccination campaign. GRI 201-1 entrepreneurships. K-food stores participated in K-food stores' bottle return raffle's proceeds were We continued our co-operation with the children’s UNICEF's and Pamper's international vaccination donated to the Eväitä Elämälle aid programme rights organisation Plan International Finland to campaign and raised funds for almost 900,000 by Save the Children. Together with the Finnish improve the responsibility of the fishing industry tetanus vaccinations. We participated in the Basketball Association we organised basketball events and the position of migrant workers in Thailand. A Pink Ribbon campaign with a more significant and Pikkusudet basketball schools for primary school cooperation agreement has been made for the period contribution than before. K-food stores' bottle children across Finland. We started a research project SUSTAINABILITY from 2015 to 2018. return raffle's proceeds were donated to the Eväitä with Plan to investigate the status of Cambodian Elämälle aid programme by Save the Children. The migrant workers in Thailand. The Little Big Deeds model established by K-Retailers' Finnish Basketball Association and K-food stores Association and Kesko brings to public attention cooperated to organise basketball events for over responsible deeds relevant to our customers. Watch 10,000 children across Finland. We continued our Aino's Room video and Tomi's story video. cooperation with Plan to improve the sustainability of Thailand's fishing industry and to improve the status We took part in the Hyvä Joulumieli Christmas of migrant workers; cooperation has been agreed fundraising campaign and the Salvation Army's for the period of 2015-2018. K-Plussa customers can Christmas Kettle collection. Intersport Finland took choose to donate their Plussa money to charity. part in the Red Nose Day campaign. K-food stores have taken part in the international Pampers-UNICEF vaccine campaign for ten years, and during that time, the funds collected via K-food stores have led to the donation of nearly 10 million tetanus vaccines. FINANCIAL K-food stores collected nearly 450,000 euros for the Finnish Cancer Foundation’s Pink Ribbon campaign. The cooperation between Pirkka and the Finnish STATEMENTS Basketball Association continued, and more than 40,000 children have taken part in Pirkka Little Wolves sports events between 2015 and 2017. K-Plussa customers can choose to donate their Plussa money to charity. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 23 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Indirect economic impacts In 2017, Kesko had around 26,300 suppliers and service providers from whom purchases were valued STRATEGY at a minimum of €1,000 during the year. Of these, around 12,600 operated in Finland, around 10,900 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed – Community in Kesko’s other operating countries, and around 2,800 elsewhere. investments The 10 largest suppliers accounted for 26.4% (24.3% in 2016) of the Group’s purchases of goods, and the 100 largest suppliers for 59.8% (54.4% in 2016). Of the 10 largest suppliers, seven were Finnish KESKO'S COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS food industry companies, one an import company operating in Finland, and two German car manufac€ 1,000 2017 2016 2015 turers. Non-governmental, environmental and other 231 412 555 organisations The purchases of goods by Kesko Group’s Finnish companies totalled €7,175 million. Of these purSUSTAINABILITY Sports (adults) 1,145 891 721 chases, 80.5% were from suppliers operating in Finland and 19.5% from other countries. It should be Youth sports and other youth work 144 56 64 noted that because some of the suppliers operating in Finland are import companies, reliable statistics cannot be compiled on the origin of goods supplied by them. Science, research and education 50 67 61 Culture 32 14 32 Health 459 270 12 KESKO'S PURCHASES BY OPERATING COUNTRY IN 2017 Veteran organisations and national defence 113 3 5 Suppliers of Suppliers of Political parties and organisations 8 goods and goods and Total 2,174 1,713 1,457 services in services in operating Purchases from other Purchases from country suppliers of goods countries suppliers of goods In addition, Veikkaus Oy contributed an estimated combined revenue of €105-110 million to the Minisnumber € million % number € million % try of Education and Culture, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and the Ministry of Agriculture FINANCIAL Finland 12,330 5,773 80.5% 2,525 1,402 19.5% and Forestry, generated from the sales of games by Veikkaus points of sale located at K-stores. The estimate is based on the average breakdown of each euro spent on games in 2017. Due to the merger Sweden 2,251 248 85.2% 246 43 14.8% of Finnish gaming companies on 1 January 2017, the figure is not comparable to the figures of previous Norway 1,739 574 97.6% 198 14 2.4% STATEMENTS years. The estimate has been calculated by Veikkaus Oy. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Estonia 1,094 67 53.4% 488 59 46.6% Ministry of Education and Culture, and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health distribute the revenue Latvia 815 26 35.1% 431 48 64.9% in its entirety to beneficiaries in Finland. Lithuania 433 115 33.9% 221 225 66.1% Poland 1,066 136 95.1% 64 7 4.9% 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Russia 1,330 133 95.5% 40 6 4.5% Kesko assesses the economic benefit it generates by reporting its purchases by operating country Belarus 702 49 58.5% 368 35 41.5% and the company’s country of domicile. Kesko also reports both its own as well as K-retailers’ direct Total 21,760 7,122 79.5% 4,581 1,839 20.5% CORPORATE purchases of goods in Finland. Most of the economic benefit generated by Kesko’s operations – approximately 84% of Kesko’s net sales – flows to suppliers of goods, from which purchases were valued at €9.0 billion in 2017. The GOVERNANCE purchases of all Kesko companies from suppliers operating in Finland totalled €5,821 million, accounting for 65.0% (65.9% in 2016) of the Group’s total purchases. 24 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 KESKO'S PURCHASES BY COMPANY'S AND SUPPLIER'S COUNTRY OF DOMICILE IN 2017 STRATEGY Company's country of domicile Supplier's country of domicile € million Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Poland Russia Belarus Other countries Total Finland 5,773 157 10 45 5 7 20 1 6 1,152 7,175 Sweden 14 248 5 1 0 4 18 291 Norway 0 9 574 0 0 4 588 Estonia 15 2 1 67 5 2 6 28 126 SUSTAINABILITY Latvia 7 0 4 26 1 2 0 0 33 73 Lithuania 9 1 0 11 30 115 40 2 4 130 341 Poland 1 0 0 136 6 143 Russia 3 1 0 133 3 140 Belarus 0 0 0 1 4 15 49 14 84 Total 5,821 418 590 129 65 128 213 151 59 1,388 8,961 Kesko is actively increasing the amount of local purchases and encourages K-retailers to include products from near-by producers in their selections. In 2017, K-retailers’ direct purchases from Finnish regions totalled €748.4 million. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 25 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 ECONOMIC BENEFIT GENERATED BY KESKO AND K-RETAILERS TO FINNISH REGIONS IN STRATEGY 2017 Region Kesko's purchases K-retailers' direct purKesko's and K-retailers' Salaries paid by € million of goods chases of goods capital expenditure1 Salaries paid by Kesko K-retailers Taxes paid by K-retailers Åland 38.7 0.0 0.2 39.0 Southern Karelia 8.6 12.7 6.9 6.8 12.1 0.5 47.6 Southern Ostrobothnia 237.1 41.6 7.3 6.0 12.9 0.9 305.9 Southern Savo 47.5 16.5 7.0 5.1 11.6 1.3 88.9 SUSTAINABILITY Kainuu 9.3 9.1 2.4 1.8 6.3 0.5 29.4 Kanta-Häme 58.3 35.9 7.4 7.0 12.0 0.9 121.5 Central Ostrobothnia 54.4 18.0 2.0 2.3 4.7 0.5 82.0 Central Finland 61.9 28.2 9.4 10.9 19.3 1.7 131.3 Kymenlaakso 41.0 17.1 9.8 7.9 10.9 1.1 87.8 Lapland 20.7 31.2 11.5 8.6 20.6 1.8 94.4 Pirkanmaa 258.5 41.5 34.4 37.2 36.8 2.7 411.2 Ostrobothnia 159.3 11.8 3.3 7.3 10.0 0.7 192.3 Northern Karelia 31.8 26.9 3.0 5.5 11.4 1.2 79.6 Northern Ostrobothnia 158.9 60.3 17.7 20.4 28.2 2.2 287.8 Northern Savo 192.9 49.0 10.2 12.1 22.3 1.4 287.8 FINANCIAL Päijät-Häme 161.0 33.4 7.2 10.9 13.1 1.1 226.9 Satakunta 203.8 41.8 5.0 8.5 16.5 1.0 276.5 STATEMENTS Uusimaa 3,301.9 191.2 219.4 307.6 130.2 13.8 4,164.1 Varsinais-Suomi 727.2 82.1 59.5 30.6 38.5 4.4 942.2 Total 5,772.8 748.4 423.4 496.7 417.5 37.6 7,896.4 1 Incl. increase in lease liabilities of K-retailers' equipment The figures are for those K-retailers whose accounts and payroll are managed by Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy, representing around 95% of K-retailers’ total business volume. In 2014–2017, Kesko and Ruokatieto ry, an association that promotes Finnish food culture, organised The 'Thank the Producer' operating model provides customers with an easy way to support Finnish CORPORATE Local Food Date (Lähiruokatreffit) events that bring together local food producers and K-retailers. The food producers. K-food stores had 10 'Thank the Producer' products in their selections, for which GOVERNANCE purpose is networking as well as improving the supply of local products in the K-food stores in the area K Group paid more than €350,000 extra directly to the food producers in 2017. and thereby supporting Finnish work. 26 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Capital expenditure Monitoring and control systems STRATEGY Kesko’s capital expenditure has a positive financial impact on the operations of building firms, building Changes in the operating environment and in K Group are taken into account by adjusting objectives, sector service companies, and suppliers of fixtures, equipment and information systems, for example. operating principles, monitoring systems and/or resources. In 2017, Kesko’s capital expenditure totalled €350 million (€743 million in 2016), or 3.3% of net sales Responsibilities and resources (7.3% in 2016). Capital expenditure in store sites was €256 million (€217 million in 2016). Capital • K-retailers and K-Retailers' Association expenditure in foreign operations accounted for 14.5% (15.2% in 2016) of the total capital expenditure. • Kesko's district organisations In 2016, Kesko Group acquired Onninen Oy, Suomen Lähikauppa Oy and Oy Autocarrera Ab. The total capital expenditure on the acquisitions was €445.5 million. • Steering group for responsible purchasing and Kesko's buyers SUSTAINABILITY • Division Management Boards In addition to Kesko, K-retailers make capital expenditures in the fixtures of stores. These figures included, K Group’s total capital expenditure in Finland was around €423 million in 2017. Programmes, projects and initiatives GRI management approach In September 2017, K Group began to offer a new nationwide student benefit, in which higher education and university level students receive 10 times the normal Plussa benefit on purchases. Material aspects This means a 5% rebate on groceries bought in the previous month. The rebate is paid as Plussa • Purchase practices money. K Group wants to enable students to also make high-quality, sustainable consumer choices. Local presence has an impact on the whole of society In the renewal of the K-Rauta chain, discarded work clothes, flags and other textiles were collected The retail trade plays a significant role in local communities. It serves and employs local people. In from 140 stores and recycled. Discarded work clothes from rebranded stores were processed into addition to the direct employment impact, the retail trade also employs a significant number of people material that can be utilised, for example, by the car industry. indirectly through suppliers and business partners. FINANCIAL Grievance mechanisms Retailers, supported by Kesko's district organisations, represent local activities. A K-retailer entre• SpeakUp reporting channel preneur is responsible for his or her store's staff and customer satisfaction. Listening to the wishes of STATEMENTS local customers and making use of customer data, K-retailers put together a selection of products and Boundaries services that meet customer needs. We develop our business through interaction with our customers. Economic performance Kesko Kesko purchases the majority of the products it sells from Finland and encourages K-retailers to Indirect economic impacts K Group include locally produced products in their selections. The impact of Finnish products on employment is Purchase practices K Group significant; for example, Pirkka products are produced in 175 companies all over Finland. Policies and commitments CORPORATE Kesko's grocery trade and Kespro are committed to the grocery store chain's good trading practices. Kesko requires that its business partners act in compliance with the K Code of Conduct. We add a K Code of Conduct contract clause to agreements signed by Kesko Group companies under which the GOVERNANCE Group companies purchase products or services from parties outside the Group. 27 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Working community STRATEGY We carry out and offer high-quality work • We have satisfied employees and competent managers. • We offer interesting and diverse work as well as development opportunities. • We are the most attractive workplace in the trading sector. • We offer a safe and healthy working environment. • Our personnel act responsibly. SUSTAINABILITY Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 Employer image We are the best employer in the According to our personnel survey, 79% of K Group The employee engagement index was 61%. The We launched the K-job programme, the purpose of trading sector in terms of job employees would recommend the group as an percentage of employees who would recommend which is to provide those aged under 30 with channels satisfaction. employer. In the Universum Professionals survey, the K Group as an employer has gone up to to find a job in the K Group. We particularly focused Kesko's ranking was 25. 68%, according to the personnel survey (56% in on guiding ‘Learn and Earn’ trainees, young people in GRI 404-3, 405-1, 405-2 the previous survey in 2014). In the Universum short-term work orientation, and summer employees. We continued to employ young people by offering Professionals survey, Kesko's ranking was 38. In the Universum Professionals survey, Kesko's summer jobs to approximately 5,000. As part of the ranking was 31. Finland's Mentors project, we carried out a K Trainee We continued to employ young people by offering Programme. summer jobs to approximately 5,500 young people. We organised a K Digital Trainee programme, and, FINANCIAL We surveyed views and opinions from current and through that, employed five graduates in business potential employees, as well as expectations towards development jobs. K Group as an employer and general expectations STATEMENTS of working life. Based on the findings, we redefined Together with FIBS we conducted a diversity our plans for improving employee experience and our management starting point analysis in Finland and we recruitment process. We initiated pilots to increase will utilise its outcomes to develop our operations. agility in our work practices. We adopted a common operating practice for mapping out employees’ career We determined our employer promise and, in aspirations, skills and competencies and willingness to accordance with it, we will develop, for example, our evolve and take on more challenging positions within cooperation with educational establishments and the company. reinforce our recruitment and induction processes. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 28 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 STRATEGY Performance We know the targets set for our We introduced a new performance management In 2017, we launch, in stages, the new performance management work and receive feedback on our model and K SuccessFactors, a system supporting management model and the K Success Factors performance. the model, for support functions in Finland, Sweden, systems that support it. Norway and Russia. The model comprises target GRI 404-3 setting linked to strategy and follow up, personal development reviews and development plan, and performance evaluation tied to performance bonus. We will use the model to systematically guide the performance of employees and the organisation to implement our strategy, reward good performance, develop employee competencies, support target SUSTAINABILITY achievement, and prepare for future challenges. Wellbeing at work We improve work motivation and The key focus area was to develop our Occupational The focal point of the wellbeing at work programme The focal point of the wellbeing at work programme and occupational satisfaction. Health and Safety (OHS) operations through was the comprehensive and business-oriented was to support employees' health and reduce ability management by information supporting business. development of OHS (Occupational Health and sickness absences, developing safety at work and GRI 403-1, 403-2 We systematically monitored key OHS indicators Safety) operations. We enforced the monitoring of strengthening the role of labour protection as well as and developed different areas from a business key figures to improve proactive work and to support promoting employee engagement and implementing perspective. We launched international OHS and management by information. Furthermore, we the people principles. wellbeing principles in K Group. implemented other proactive measures, such as new health training. We improved stress management skills among personnel through mindfulness training. We We also launched an occupational safety project continued health training and introduced wellbeing whose aim is to further develop our occupational programmes directed at managers. safety culture and shared operating models. We also made labour protection more systematic and FINANCIAL We launched common occupational safety principles developed the ways in which it is organised. and operating models in Finland, and carried out pilots to improve occupational safety. We streamlined We support our employees' leisure time fitness the labour protection organisation to reflect our activities in all our operating countries. The Finnish STATEMENTS current operating premises and organisation companies, for example, provide vouchers for physical structure. exercise and cultural benefits. We reduce sick leave, accidents at We continued to focus on decreasing sick leaves, We focused on reducing sick leave, accidents at work We focused on reducing the number of sick leave and work and premature retirement due accidents at work and premature retirement due and premature retirement due to disability. The Let's premature retirements due to disability by means of to disability. to disability. Although the numbers for premature Talk About Work training for managers continued and occupational health service activities, the Let's Talk retirement due to disability are well under control over the last five years, more than 1,000 managers About Work training for managers, work revision, GRI 403-2 considering the size of the company, we are paying have been trained. occupational rehabilitation and the work done by more attention to the management of risks for the Work Ability Manager working in the OHS occupational ability and the related costs. We piloted work induction services. We will reduce team. The Work Ability Manager’s activities support CORPORATE sick leave in the long term with a project which has the employee’s return to work, while considering Training for the Let's Talk About Work operating a systematic take on labour protection and safety various options for continuing at work. Sick leave has model is part of the occupational ability management at work. We developed a unified accident insurance continued to decrease. training for managers. management model, which we will launch in 2017. GOVERNANCE 29 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 STRATEGY Skills management We conduct an annual performance The performance and development reviews The performance and development reviews were Performance and development reviews apply to all and development review with every continued and are part of the new performance used in all Kesko Group companies and operating employees, and in 2015, they were carried out twice: employee. management model adopted for support functions in countries. The performance and development reviews in the spring and in the autumn. The realisation of the Finland, Sweden, Norway and Russia. Read more in were carried out at least twice, in the spring and/or discussions was requested in the personnel survey GRI 404-3 Performance management and 404-3. in the autumn. In 2017, we launch, in stages, the new that was conducted in the beginning of 2016. The performance management model and the K Success response rate to the survey was 85%. A total of 80% Factors systems that support it. In the future, we will of employees that responded to the survey had had record the development reviews in the K Success their reviews carried out during 2015. Factors systems. We will regularly train our managers. The consistent development of managerial work We continued the K-Way new managers training The emphasis was on the implementation of the K SUSTAINABILITY continued in support of our strategy. Manager programmes, K-Way experienced managers training Group’s operating principles, challenging situations GRI 404-1, 404-2 training included the K Way training programme for programmes and Let's Talk About Work training faced by managers, leading a new team, effective new and experienced managers, the international K programmes. In total, 363 managers participated in management and how to use the personnel survey Way Middle Management Leader programme, and these training programmes. results to develop the team. training related to the performance management model. A total of 727 managers took part in manager The topic for the new Mindfulness training was The first training programme promoting the K Group’s training. We will continue to systematically develop understanding and training your own mind as well as new management culture was entitled ‘K-Way new our training portfolio to meet future needs. In 2018, efficiency. 17 managers from Finland participated in managers’ and was piloted towards the end of the we will update our manager training and expand the the training. The objective of the new K-Way Middle year. Managerial training for Kesko's personnel was concept to Poland and Norway. Management Leader training programme was to taken a total of nearly 700 times. Online training strengthen the skills for strategy implementation and modules for managers were completed approximately business competence. The training programme had a 3,700 times. total of 22 participants from all operating countries. In Russia, we started a new K-Way Leader training programme that aims to strengthen management FINANCIAL competence and managerial skills in the K Group. The training programme was attended by 12 managers. In 2017, we will continue to organise the K-Way STATEMENTS managerial trainings and start a new development programme for top management. We will continue spreading the coaching and mentoring processes that support managerial work. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 30 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Distribution of Kesko personnel by division at 31 Dec. 2017, % Employment FIXED-TERM AND PART-TIME EMPLOYMENTS AT KESKO STRATEGY 2017 2016 2015 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Fixed-term employees of total personnel at 31 Dec., % In 2017, Kesko had an average of approximately 22,077 (2016: 22,476) full-time equivalent employees in nine countries: Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia and Belarus. 48% Finland 14.2 12 11.5 of the personnel were based in Finland and 52% in the other operating countries. Other operating countries 4.8 6.1 6.1 Keskon henkilökunnan jakautuminen Whole Group, total 9.4 9.2 8.6 Distribution toimialoittain of Kesko personnel 31.12.2017, % by division at 31 Dec. 2017, % Part-time employees of total personnel at 31 Dec., % Finland 40.8 43.9 39.4 Other operating countries 7.8 6.7 8.1 SUSTAINABILITY Whole Group, total 24.1 26.7 22.5 Grocery trade 34.4% Building and technical trade 58.9% Car trade 3.3% KESKO’S PERSONNEL STATISTICS FOR 2017 ANALYSED BY Common operations 3.5% OPERATING COUNTRY Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Poland Russia Belarus Päivittäistavarakauppa 34,4 % Total number of 12,327 1,058 399 694 702 4,028 786 1,978 3,011 RakentamisenChanges in kauppa ja talotekniikan the number 58,9 % of Kesko employees personnel CHANGES Autokauppa 3,3 % IN THE NUMBER OF KESKO EMPLOYEES at 31 Dec. Yhteiset toiminnot 3,5 % 2017 Average2015 2016 number 10,691 1,077 383 690 636 3,467 761 1,738 2,633 2017 2016 2015 of personnel in Finland at 31 Dec. 12,327 14,845 10,081 Finland at 31 Dec. 12,327 14,845 10,081 2017 FINANCIAL OtherOther määrän kehitys operatingcountries operating countries atat Dec. 31 31 Dec. 12,656 12,811 12,656 11,854 Number11,854 12,811 of new at 31atDec. Total Total 31 Dec. 24,983 27,656 21,935 24,983 employments 27,656 21,935 1 2017 2016 2015 STATEMENTS Finland, average 10,691 10,714 8,300 women 2,656 120 19 171 109 866 16 241 384 Finland, average 12 327 14 845 10 081 10,691 10,714 8,300 OtherOther operating countries, average 12 656 11,386 11,762 10,655 men 1,968 245 53 201 313 1,442 77 247 525 operating countries, average 12 811 11 854 11,386 11,762 10,655 Total, average 24 983 27 656 22,077 21 935 22,476 18,955 Number of new Total, aavver erag agee 22, 22,0077 22,47 22,4766 18,955 1 employments 10 691 10 714 8 300 women 4,328 124 32 128 88 870 32 374 363 11 386 11 762 10 655 men 1,887 257 61 185 264 1,507 111 564 648 22 077 22 47 4766 18 955 Terminated by 8.0 16.0 6.0 2.0 10.0 11.0 26.0 0.0 0.0 employer, % CORPORATE Total turnover 38.0 35.0 23.0 32.0 44.0 57.0 18.0 47.0 33.0 rate, %2 Including summer employees GOVERNANCE 1 2 Excluding summer employees When calculating the number of terminated employments, each employee is included only once, whereas one person may have several new employments included in the total number. 31 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Recruits, age distribution 2017, % Terminated employments, age distribution Recruits, Alkaneet ageage distribution 2017, % Recruits, työsuhteet, ikärakenne 2017, % Terminated Terminated 2017, % työsuhteet, Päättyneet employments, employments, age distribution ikärakenne 2017, % Performance bonuses and share compensation plan STRATEGY distribution 2017, % age2017, distribution % 2017, % The performance bonus schemes cover the entire personnel, with the exception of sales assistant jobs and jobs covered by other types of bonus or commission systems. The indicators of the performance bonus scheme include, for example, the Group’s and the division’s operating profit, the sales and profit of the employee’s own unit and customer satisfaction or market share. Depending on role, personal performance bonus targets may also be set. In spring 2017, around €11.4 million (€11.5 million in 2016) was paid in Finland in bonuses under the 2016 performance bonus schemes, accounting for approximately 3.0% (3.7% in 2016) of the total payroll. In 2017, the total remuneration paid in the form of performance bonuses, sales commissions and other Under 26 years 59 59.7% .7% SUSTAINABILITY Under 26 years corresponding monetary remuneration was as follows: 26-35 Alle 26 years vuotta ,7 %59 21.8% 59,7 59 .7% 59.7% Under Alle 26 26 years vuotta 45,6 45, 45.6% 6 %45.6% 26-35 36-45 years 21.8% 10 10.9% 26-35 vuotta 21,8 % .9% Under 26-35 26 years years 26-35 vuotta 25, 45.6% 45. 25.1% 25.1% 25,11 % 6% • In Finland, €18.1 million (€14.5 million in 2016) 36-45 46-55 36-45 years vuotta 10 10,9 ,910 10.9% 5. 5.6% % .9% 6% 26-35 36-45 36-45 years vuotta %1% 13,925. 25.1% 13.9% 46-55 Over 46-55 years 55 vuotta 5, 5.6% 6 5. years 5,6 %6%1.9% 36-45 46-55 46-55 vuotta 9,5 13.9% years 9%.5% • In the other operating countries, €5.2 million (€8.3 million in 2016) Yli 55Over 55 1,9 vuotta years % 1.9% 46-55 Yli 55Over years 55 vuotta 5,9 9.5% years % 5.9% Over 55 years 5.9% The maximum performance bonus amounts vary depending on the profit impact of the person’s role and are equivalent to 10-67% of the person’s annual salary. 401-2 Benefits 401-2 Benefitsprovided provided to to full-time employees full-timetaloudellisesti that also give Lithuania työntekijöitään are financial nottoprovided support their employees 401-2 Kokoaikaisille työntekijöille erilaisissa to temporary employees or part-time thatprovided 401-2 Benefits employees to full-time are not provided to through Lithuaniadifferent also elämäntilanteissa situations give financial esimerkiksi in life, support lapsen such to syntymän when as ja their a child employees Kesko operates a share-based compensation scheme for some 140 members of management and tarjotut työetuudet, joita ei ole is born, during a child's first year at school, in the event through different ensimmäisen kouluvuoden situations in life,kuoleman such as when a child ja läheisen Kesko tarjottu määrä-that employees Group offersor temporary benefits part-time tai are tonot its personnel osa-aikaisilleprovided employees toof the in all countries of the death is born, yhteydessä during sekä inmuissa ofwhich aa child's close operates. itrelative first yearandat in erityistilanteissa. InLisäksi Finland, other school, special in the event other specified key personnel. Kesko’s share-based compensation scheme comprises three sharesituations. Employees temporary employees or on permanent,part-time fixed-term employees and part-time contracts of theare death työntekijöille of a close offered tarjotaan theare also provided relative monipuolisia and following: with in other K-special ostoetuja a diverse based incentive plans, which were communicated in a stock exchange release on 2 February 2017. The työntekijöille Kesko Group offers benefits to its personnel in all of the ryhmään of shopping rangekuuluvissa situations. Employees benefits liikkeissäaresekäthatprovided apply in with also K Group stores a diverse and staff range shops. A company of shopping henkilökuntamyymälöissä. Myösthat benefits phone applyandincar työsuhdepuhelin arejaalso K Group stores Performance Share Plan (PSP) consists of individual annually commencing share plans, each with a • Occupational FINANCIAL countries in which health care toInitsFinland, it benefits operates. employees on Kesko Group Kesko-konserni offers tarjoaa henkilöstölleen personnel kaikissa in all of the -autoprovided and staff ovat if required shops. tarjolla forniin A company tehtävän job. the edellyttäessä. phone and car are also two-year performance period and a two-year commitment period following the payment of the potencountries in fixed-term permanent, and part-time which it operates. contracts In Finland, are on employees provided if required for the job. •toimintamaissa offered Insurance permanent, thehenkilöstöetuuksia. following: against fixed-term occupational Suomessa and part-timeinjuries contractsandareoccupational diseases tial share award. The Bridge Plan is a one-off, four-year plan aimed at covering the transitional phase vakituiselle sekä määräettä osa-aikaiselle henkilöstölle offered the following: Performance Tulospalkkiot bonuses and share ja osakepalkkio-ohjelma tarjotaan • esimerkiksi: from Kesko's previous long-term incentive scheme to the new incentive scheme adopted in 2017, with STATEMENTS Occupational health care • Parental leave Performance compensation bonuses plan and share • Occupational Insurance against health care occupational injuries and compensation Tulospalkkiojärjestelmien planpiiriin kuuluu koko henkilöstö a two-year performance period. The PSP and the Bridge Plan are complemented by a Restricted Share • Työterveyshuolto Theottamatta lukuun performance myyjätehtäviä bonus schemes ja muunlaisiin cover the bonusentire • occupational • • Retirement Insurance diseases against benefits occupational injuries and Pool (RSP), a plan that consists of annually commencing share plans. Each RSP includes a three-year Vakuutus työtapaturman ja ammattitaudin varalta tai provisiojärjestelmiin personnel, The with the performance kuuluvia exception bonus tehtäviä. schemes of sales coverassistant the entirejobs and occupational • Parental leavediseases commitment period, after which the potentially granted share awards of the individual plan will be • Vanhempainvapaa Tulospalkkiojärjestelmän jobs covered personnel, by the other with mittareita types ofof exception ovat bonus esimerkiksi sales or commission assistant jobs and • Versatile• Parental Retirement leave shopping benefits benefits in K Group stores andkonsernin staff stores systems. jobs ja toimialan The coveredforby both liikevoitto, indicators other employees of the types andorKesko työntekijän of performance bonus oman bonus commission paid to the participants in Kesko’s B shares, provided that the participant’s employment or service • Eläke-etuudet Retirement • Versatile pensioners benefitsbenefits in K Group stores and yksikön shopping myynti scheme systems. ja tulos include, The forsekä indicators asiakastyytyväisyys example, of thethe Group’s and performance tai the bonus • Monipuoliset staff storesostoedut for bothK-ryhmään employees kuuluvissa markkinaosuus. division’s Lisäksi operating forroolista profit, riippuen the sales voidaan and profitasettaa of thethe relationship with Kesko Group continues until the payment of the awards. • Versatile shopping benefits in Kand Kesko Group stores and scheme include, example, the Group’s and liikkeissä ja henkilökuntamyymälöissä sekä pensioners. myösemployee’s henkilökohtaisia division’s own unit operating tulospalkkiotavoitteita. and customer the salessatisfaction profit, Vuoden and profit oforthe staff stores for both employees and Kesko työntekijöille että Keskon eläkeläisille 2016market tulospalkkiojärjestelmiin share. employee’s ownDepending perustuvia tulospalkkioita on role, personal unit and customer performance satisfaction or pensioners. In allInoperating countries, In February 2017, the Board decided to grant a total of 192,822 Company B shares to 130 members of all operating countries, Kesko supports Kesko supports itsits employees’ employees’ leisure maksettiin bonus market activities keväällä share. may targets in 2017also Depending different Suomessa beonset. ways. noin In role, spring The Finnish miljoonaa 11,4 2017, personal around performance Kesko kaikissa tukeeactivities toimintamaissa henkilöstön physicaleuroa vapaa(2016: €11.4 11,5 miljoonaa million (€11.5 euroa) million be in eli In 3,0 2016) % (2016: was paid 2017,inaround 3,7 Finland CORPORATE companies, leisure for example, In all operating in provide different countries, ways. Kesko benefits itsfor The Finnish supports employees’ exercise, bonus cultural targets may activities also and set. work spring commute. Kesko’s management and other key personnel based on the fulfilment of the performance criteria for ajan companies, liikuntaa erilaisin tavoin. Esimerkiksi for example, provide Suomen %) palkkasummasta. millionunder in bonuses the 2016 in performance bonus Some leisure of activities the companiesin different ways.benefits operating The in for physical Finnish Russia, Estonia, Latvia €11.4 and (€11.5 Lithuania million also give 2016) was paid financial in Finland support to the 2016 performance period of the share plan. yhtiöissä käytössä exercise, ovatactivities cultural liikunta-,and kulttuuriwork commute. Some of schemes, in bonusesaccounting under the 2016 performance3.0% for approximately bonus(3.7% in companies, for example, provide benefits for physical Vuonna 2017 maksettiin erilaisia palkkioita ja työsuhdematkaetu. their employees the companies Osa Venäjällä, through operating different in Virossa, Russia, Latviassa situations Estonia, in Latvia life, and such 2016) as when schemes,of the a total payroll. child accounting is born, for during approximately a child's 3.0% first (3.7% in exercise, cultural activities and work commute. Some of tulospalkkiot, myyntipalkkiot ja muut vastaavat ja Liettuassa toimivista yhtiöistä myös tukee the companies operating in Russia, Estonia, Latvia and 2016) of the total payroll. year at school, in the event of the death of a close relative and in other special situations. Employees rahalliset palkitsemistavat yhteen laskien: Pensions GOVERNANCE are also provided with a diverse range of shopping benefits that apply in K Group stores and staff New pensions were granted to 291 people (271 in 2016) in Kesko Group in Finland. The figure includes 46 shops. A company phone and car are also provided if required for the job. employees retiring on part-time pensions, partial disability pensions and rehabilitation benefits in addi47 46 tion to those who retired on old-age pensions and disability pensions. Rehabilitation benefit is a form 32 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 of fixed-term disability pension granted with the aim that the employee is rehabilitated and returns KESKO’S CONTRIBUTION TO OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH CARE, STRATEGY to working life. Rehabilitation benefits were granted for the purpose of retraining or work trials to 111 FINLAND people (87 in 2016) who were at a clear risk of losing their working capacity within a few years. The 2017 2016 2015 average retirement age of employees in 2017 was 56 (60 in 2016). Notably, the average retirement age €/person 494 499 359 for old-age and disability pensions was 62. In the other operating countries 29 (28 in 2016) employees retired. INJURIES AND OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES IN FINLAND Occupational health and safety 2017 2016 2015 403-1 Workers' representation in formal joint management-worker Fatal injuries 0 0 0 SUSTAINABILITY health and safety committees Occupational injuries, excl. commuting injuries 226 227 93 Labour protection activities are arranged separately for each company, region or place of business in Commuting injuries 79 81 35 compliance with local legislation. Labour protection activity in Finland has been made more effective Injury rate¹ /million working hours 11 10 6 by testing regional committees and by combining worker health and safety committees in the Greater Average degree of injury severity, days 20.9 15.8 16.9 Helsinki region in preparation for the move to common operating premises. Outside the Nordic counSuspected occupational diseases 2 1 4 tries, labour protection matters are handled by OHS (Occupational Health and Safety) committees. Kesko's HR functions arrange occupational safety training for Kesko employees and K-retailers. Group Occupational diseases 1 2 0 companies also arranged training sessions tailored to their specific needs. Sick days due to occupational injuries, commuting 6,473 5,744 2,166 injuries and occupational diseases 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Per employee 0.6 0.5 0.3 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities The calculation method: small injuries, i.e. those leading to absence of less than three days, are not included in Within Kesko Group, the occupational health service's normal operations include providing advice the figures. Statistics do not include contractors. FINANCIAL and counselling related to employees’ health and wellbeing at work, analysing health risks related to ¹ Excl. small injuries and commuting injuries, calculated with actual working hours work and preventing illnesses, and providing treatment – even in the event of serious illnesses – in collaboration with primary health care practitioners and specialist health care providers. In Finland, SICKNESS ABSENCES BY COUNTRY IN 2017 STATEMENTS 12,600 (15,000 in 2016) Kesko Group employees were covered by Kesko’s own occupational health Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Poland Russia Belarus services. Kesko's occupational health service purchases occupational healthcare from one provider for Total number 132,608 11,709 4,450 6,557 6,013 35,377 9,199 19,225 42,969 employees in Finland outside the Greater Helsinki area. Centralised and target-oriented management of sick days enables consistent content and operating methods in occupational health service. In other countries, Per 12.4 10.9 11.6 9.5 9.5 10.2 12.1 11.1 16.3 occupational health care is arranged in compliance with local legislation and practice. employee Per million 6,577 6,177 6,606 4,682 4,684 5,051 5,808 5,586 8,030 A total of €6.2 million (€7.5 million in 2016) was spent on occupational health care in Finland in 2017. working hours CORPORATE Kela (the Social Insurance Institution) reimbursed Kesko for approximately €3.5 million (€3.7 million in 2016) of this sum. In 2017, Kesko’s occupational health service spent €494 (€499 in 2016) per The calculation method: sick days per employee have been calculated on the average number of employees employee on maintaining employees’ working capacity and providing medical care. during the year GOVERNANCE 33 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Trend in number of sick days Training and education STRATEGY r ofTrend sick days in number of sick days ion w working orking hours Trend days/ ys/million Sick da in number million w working orking of sick days hours 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 7000Sick da days/ ys/million working million w 7000 orking hours TRAINING DAYS AND COSTS IN 2017 6,592Sick 76,59 days 000 2Sick da ys 6,592Sick 6,59 6,577Sick 6,57 2Sick 7Sick ys da days da days ys 6,577Sick 6,57 7Sick da ys days 2017 2016 2015 /million w working orking hours/million /million w workingw orking orking working hours hours/million w working orking hours 6000 6000 Training days1 5,9 ys days 5,9774Sick da 5,9 5,9774Sick da ys days 2Sick 6,592Sick 6,59 5,987Sick 5,98 7Sickdays da ys ys days da 6,577Sick 6,57 7Sick 5,987Sick 5,98 7Sick da ysys days da days /million w orking hours/million w working /million working w /million orking w workinghours orking /million hours/million w working orking hours Finland 7,474 7,421 6,891 6000 working orking hours w working orking hours 5,9774Sick da 5,9 daysys 5,987Sick 5,98 7Sick da ys days Other countries 9,496 11,033 14,614 SUSTAINABILITY 5000 5000 /million wworking orking hours /million w working orking hours 5, 016Sick da 5,016Sick days ys 5, 5,016Sick 016Sick da days 4,963Sickys da ys days 4,963Sick da ys days Training days per employee1 working /million w orking hours/million w orking working /million w hours hours/million w working orking 5000 working orking hours Finland 0.7 0.7 0.8 5, 5,016Sick 016Sick da ys days 4,963Sick da days ys /million wworking orking hours 4000 4000 /million wworking orking hours Other countries 0.8 0.9 1.4 4000 Training costs, € million Finland 3.3 2.9 2.5 3000 3000 Other countries 0.5 0.9 0.9 3000 Training costs per employee, € 2000 2000 Finland 310 268 299 2000 Other countries 45 79 87 1000 1000 1 2015: Excluding Konsoma JLLC, Belarus and OOO Kesko Real Estate, Russia 2016: excluding Kesko Foor Rus, Russia, OOO OMA Belarus, 2017: Excluding Byggmakker Handel AS and Onninen AS Norway, Onninen AB and FINANCIAL 1000 K-Rauta AB Sweden and OOO Onninen Rus Russia 0 0 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 Average hours of training per employee totalled 5.2 in Finland in 2017, and 6.3 hours in the other STATEMENTS 0 2017 2015 2016 2017 countries. Finland Finland Other oper ating Other oper operating operating ating Finland countries Other oper operating ating countries countries 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes Systematic, business-driven development of personnel is a critical factor for future success. The Statistics on injuries in Finland and breakdowns of sickness absences by country are presented in the transformation of the trading sector and the increase in electronic transactions have created needs for ries in Finland Statistics on and tables breakdowns injuries above. in Finland In the ofand other breakdowns countries, of a(4.4% worked in 2016). totalofof worked 154 Approximately (4.4% injuries in 2016). occurred 75.1% (74.7%in resulting in sickness Approximately 75.1% (74.7% in absences new competencies. Key areas of competence building were: es sickness by country Statistics oncountry are presented absences by injuries in Finland in the are presented breakdowns and2016) in theof sickness 2016) ofworked absences (4.4% were short-term sickness in 2016). absences Approximately absences, were 75.1% (74.7% in short-term absences, CORPORATE the of otherabove. countries, tables more sickness In the than three absences days otherofcountries, a total by 154 country in 2017. are a total i.e.The presented of 154 corresponding in the paid sick days (the figure i.e. paid 2016) figuresick in of does daysFinland sickness not was absences include figurethe (the 226. In were 2017, the short-term does not include the sickness absences, tables above. In the of other countries, a total of 154 i.e. paid sick • Leadership and management d resulting inabsence sickness injuries occurred absences rate resulting in inthe more Group sickness sickness companies absences absences in of more Onninen ofwas Finlandsickness 4.6% Oy absences andofdays of hours (the figure In workedOy). K-Market Onninen Oy does not include the and in (4.4% Approx2016). Oy). K-Market In in than 2017.three injuries occurred The corresponding resulting figure in in sickness the absences other of more sickness absences of Onninen Oy and K-Market Oy). In days in 2017. The corresponding figure in countries, thethe sickness other absence countries, therate was 4.7% sickness absence rate was 4.7% 2017, the . InFinland imately than sickness 75.1% three days absence(74.7% in 2017. in 2016) The of sickness corresponding absences figure in were the short-term other absences, countries, the i.e. sickness paid sick absence days rate was 4.7% • Digitalisation was 226. In 2017, therate in absence sickness (4.2% Finland was 226. In 2017, the sickness absence rate in inin rate 2016). (4.2% in 2016). (4.2% in 2016). panies in (the Finland figure does was 4.6% of not include hours of sickness the absences of Onninen Oy and K-Market Oy). In the other GOVERNANCE the Group companies the in Finland Group companies inwas 4.6% Finland was hours 4.6% of hours • Customer experience; sales and service competences countries, the sickness absence rate was 4.7% (4.2% in 2016). 34 50 50 50 mahdollisuutta ammattitutkintojen suorittamiseen. -ohjelma ja kauppiasvalmennusohjelmat. Seitsemäs K Toteutuneet yrityskaupat näkyivät myös osaamisen Trainee -ohjelma alkoi toukokuussa 2017, ja ohjelmaan kehittämisessä. Vuoden 2017 loppuun mennessä 407 osallistui 12 harjoittelijaa, jotka ohjelman myötä ovat Siwaa ja Valintataloa muutettiin K-Marketeiksi. Kukin saaneet vakituisen työsuhteen. muutos sisälsi runsaasti koulutusta niin kauppiaille kuin KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Koulutusjakauma 31.12.2017, % Focus on digital competencies continued. We piloted trainings on LEAN and Agile development methDistribution by education at 31 Dec. 2017, % STRATEGY ods for management and managers, organised morning sessions for the whole personnel discussing the latest trends in digital development, and set up a digital agent network for the K-Rauta chain to support the implementation of digital services and tools at the stores. Comprehensive school 22.3% Upper secondary vocational education 44.9% We developed a new training portal for store staff: all training available can now be easily found in Lower university degree 10 10.3% .3% K-Academy. We developed customer service in the building and technical trade through a Rautaliiga Higher university degree 22.4% Byggmakker and Onninen AS, Norway, K-Rauta AB and Onninen AB Sweden not programme for retailers and staff. For B2B sales, we developed an ABC programme for sales staff in Byggmakker and Onninenincluded. AS, Norway, K-Rauta AB and Onninen Onninen Express. AB Sweden not included. SUSTAINABILITY Peruskoulu 22,3 % The Master Sales Assistant customer service and sales training for all chains was organised for Keskiasteen ammatillinen koulutus 44,9 % the 57th time. Store personnel were also offered vocational training and the opportunity to obtain 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Alempi korkeakoulututkinto 10 10,3 ,3 % 52 vocational qualifications. career development reviews Ylempi korkeakoulututkinto 22,4 % Ei sisällä Byggmakker ja Onninen AS, Norja eikä K-Rauta AB ja Onninen AB, Ruotsi. Performance and career development reviews and performance assessment of key personnel are Our acquisitions were also reflected in competence building. By the end of 2017, 407 Siwas and carried out at all Kesko Group companies and operating countries. In the performance and career Valintatalos had been converted into K-Markets. Each transfer entailed plenty of training for both the development reviews, the performance of the past period is evaluated and targets are set for the retailers and the staff. upcoming period, including a discussion on the development of the employee, managerial work and the working community. The implementation of performance and career development reviews was Future K-food retailers are trained in our K-food retailer training. In 2017, 66 new retailers completed surveyed in conjunction with the personnel survey conducted at 52the end of 2017. The response rate to the K-food retailer training. As the number of K-Markets grew, there was also an increasing number the personnel survey was 71%. Of the respondents, 80% had discussed their objectives and developof retailers who were in charge of multiple stores, and we designed and launched a specific Luotsi ment with their manager during the past year. leadership training programme to support them. 40 retailers took part in the training during the latter FINANCIAL part of the year. The programme will continue on 2018. The objective of performance evaluation is to give feedback on performance in the previous year, support the person's development and encourage enhanced performance. Uniform evaluation criteria We promoted the continuous development of existing retailers' competences by offering supplemenenable equitable evaluation of performance and competence for all employees. Systematic and STATEMENTS tary training. effective performance reviews provide important information and form a strong basis for other HR processes. Internal job rotation opens up possibilities for various careers options. In Finland, approximately 1,992 (4,837 in 2016) internal transfers took place in 2017, while the combined figure for the other operating countries was 2,637 (2,923 in 2016) (figures excluding internal transfers within K-Market Oy). In Finland, K Group's recruitment is supported by the K Trainee and retailer coaching programmes. CORPORATE The seventh K Trainee programme began in May 2017 with 12 trainees, who have obtained permanent positions via the programme. GOVERNANCE 35 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Job satisfaction • Two of the seven members of Kesko’s Board of Directors were women. STRATEGY The personnel survey is one of the key tools for developing internal operating practices and developing • Two of the nine members of the Group Management Board were women. the quality of managerial work. The whole personnel is given the chance to take part in the survey: the Group’s common personnel survey is conducted simultaneously within the Kesko Group and some of • In the subsidiaries engaged in retailing in Finland, the proportion of women in managerial duties the K-stores in Finland and other operating countries. A separate survey has been created for stores was significant: 89% of the department managers at K-Citymarket hypermarkets were women. that do not take part in the Group’s common survey, covering the same issues but comprising less • At the end of 2017, 46% of all managers in Finland were women (46% in 2016) and 54% were men questions. (54% in 2016). The corresponding figures for other countries were 47% and 53%, respectively. The survey seeks to identify the commitment of personnel to the organisation, the operating methods In recent years, K Group has initiated projects to employ members of special groups: that enable good work performance, the implementation of our shared operating principles, the SUSTAINABILITY • In 2012, the K-Retailers' Association started a project named ‘Many kinds of performers’ in occupational wellbeing of personnel, and satisfaction with the work of immediate managers and collaboration with the Finnish Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (FAIDD). management. The survey results are used as the basis for agreeing upon development measures, A permanent operating model was created for employing people with developmental disabilities. which are integrated into the annual operational and personnel plan and the implementation of which Many of the people with developmental disabilities who were employed as part of the project are is monitored. still working at K Group. • In 2013, Kesko and the K-Retailers’ Association launched the ‘Youth Guarantee in K Group’ We made changes to our personnel survey in 2017, adopting a new system that enables result programme, which aimed to provide a job, a work trial or an apprenticeship in K Group by the end monitoring both at group level and flexibly based on unit needs. In 2017, 13,400 employees from all our of 2014 for 1,000 young people under 30, who were at high risk of social exclusion. The target operating countries took part in the personnel survey (71% of target group). Results showed positive group also included young immigrants and young people with disabilities. The employment of development in all eight question categories. young people and special groups continues as a permanent operating model. The support for Kesko’s managers and retailers in issues related to employing young people and special groups was Diversity and equal opportunity moved to Kesko’s centralised service centre in 2017. By the end of 2017, more than 3,800 young people from the target group had received a position in K Group with the help of a work trial, pay FINANCIAL 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees subsidy or apprenticeship training. Equal opportunities, justice, non-discrimination and equality are important principles that are observed at Kesko. Kesko Corporation and its subsidiaries in Finland draw up statutory company-specific STATEMENTS HR, training, equality and non-discrimination plans and define objectives for improvement. At the beginning of 2017, Kesko established the TASY gender equality working group in accordance with the non-discrimination plan, tasked with handling matters related to non-discrimination and equality within the Group. The working group includes representatives of the employer, personnel and labour protection functions. The working group analyses recruitment, career development and training, remuneration and the reconciliation of work and family life. CORPORATE Of Kesko employees in Finland, 55.5% were women and 44.5% were men. In the other operating countries, the figures were 46.7% and 53.3%, respectively. In Finland, the average age of employees was 37 in 2017. In the other countries, the average age of employees varied from 35 to 46 years. GOVERNANCE • Lengths of employee careers: under 10 years 66% and over 10 years 34% in Finland and 83% and 17% respectively in the other countries. Long careers are not rare: 1,173 employees have worked at Kesko for over 25 years. 36 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Age Age distribution distribution Keskon of henkilökunnan Kesko ofKesko personnel in ikärakenne Age distribution Age distribution Keskon ofofKesko henkilökunnan Kesko personnel personnel ikärakenne in in the muissa Equal opportunity for men and women STRATEGY personnel in Finland Finland in 2017, Suomessa % in 2017, % the other other operating operating toimintamaissa countries 2017, countries % in%2017, % in 2017, 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men The average annual salary of Kesko employees was €40,275 in Finland, €44,385 in the other Nordic countries, and €11,680 in the Baltic countries, Russia, Poland and Belarus. As the Kesko Group operates in many lines of business, the average salary is not a good indicator of salary level or structure. The wage groups and tables specified in the collective agreement are applied to jobs covered by the agreement, such as sales assistants and warehouse workers. Salaries are also influenced by role-based responsibility bonuses, years of experience and the cost-of-living category of the locality. Besides the role and its requirements, the salary of a senior clerical employee is determined by SUSTAINABILITY competence, experience, performance and results. Equality in remuneration is considered as part of under alle 26 26 years vuotta 23.4% 23,4 % under alle 26 26 1919% years vuotta % annual company-specific equality plans. Gender is not a factor which influences remuneration, and no 26–35vuotta 26–35 years 26. 26.1% 26, 26,1 1% 1% 26–35vuotta 26–35 years 35.5% 35,5 % significant differences between comparable jobs have been detected. Equality plans strive to promote 36–45vuotta 36–45 years 22.8% 22,8 % 36–45vuotta years 25. 36–45 25.1% 25, 25,1 1% 1% pay equality in jobs where comparisons can be made. 46–55vuotta 46–55 years 18.8% 18,8 % 46–55vuotta 46–55 years 14% 14 % over yli 55 55 years8,9 vuotta 8.9% % over yli 55 55 vuotta 6.5% years6,5 % PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY, FINLAND Years of service Years of ininFinland 2017, serviceSuomessa Palvelusvuodet %% in 2017, Years of service Years of ininthe servicemuissa Palvelusvuodet theother operating 2017, other toimintamaissa 2017 2016 2015 Years of in Finland 2017,Suomessa service Palvelusvuodet in%Finland 2017, in 2017, %% operating countries % incountries 2017, Years of service Palvelusvuodet in% thein muissa 2017, other % operating toimintamaissa 2017, Top management 28.3 24.1 20.0 countries in 2017, % % Middle management 22.6 20.0 21.1 Managers and specialists 45.2 41.9 46.4 FINANCIAL Workers and white-collar employees 58.4 64.4 57.8 Total 55.5 60.1 55.4 STATEMENTS The figures also include those called to work on demand PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY, OTHER under alle 2 years2828% 2 vuotta % COUNTRIES 2–5 under alle years 2vuotta18. 18.1% 18, 2 years vuotta 1% 128% 18,1 % 28 % under alle 2 years43,3 43.3% 2 vuotta % 2017 2016 2015 6–10 years18. vuotta years 2–5 vuotta 19. 1919 19, 18, .16% 1% 18.1% 18,1 ,6%% 2–5 under alle years vuotta 25. 25.1% 2 years43,3 2 vuotta 1% 1 25,1 25, %% 43.3% 10.7% years 19 10 Top management 0.0 0.0 0.0 11–15 vuotta vuotta 6–10 years 10 19. 19..7% 10,7 19, ,,7 6% 6% % 2–5 years25. 15% 6–10vuotta vuotta years 15 25.1% 1% 25, 25,11%% 11–15 years10 16–20vuotta vuotta years 8.4% 8,4 10.7% 10.7% 10,7 % ,7 % 6–10 years 15% vuotta 11–15 vuotta years .7% 10.7% 1010,7 ,7 %% 10 15 Middle management 56.2 49.1 47.7 CORPORATE 21–25 vuotta 16–20 years 5.8% years vuotta 8,4 % 5,8 8.4% % 16–20vuotta 11–15 years10 vuotta years 4.2% 4,2 10.7% .7% 10 10,7 ,7 % Managers and specialists 49.1 48.4 54.4 over yli 2525 21–25 years5.8% vuotta years vuotta ,5.5% 9 95,8 %% years 1.2% 16–20 vuotta 21–25 years vuotta 4,2%% 1,2 4.2% Workers and white-collar employees 41.6 47.2 47.8 over yli 2525 vuotta 9.5% years9,5 % over yli 2525 21–25 years ,4.4% 0 years1.2% vuotta vuotta 01,2 % Total 46.7 47.8 50.5 over yli 2525 vuotta ,4.4% years00 % GOVERNANCE 2015: Excluding Senukai, Lithuania ja miesten for Equal opportunity Naisten men and tasa-arvoisuus and tables kohdalla käytetään applied topalkkaryhmiä in the collective agreement specifiedtyöehtosopimusten jobs coveredjaby-taulukoita. luokittelun the agreement, are 55 such as sales 55 mukaisia Palkkaukseen Equal opportunity women Naisten ja miesten for men and tasa-arvoisuus and tables kohdalla specifiedtyöehtosopimusten käytetään assistants and vaikuttavat jobs warehouse myös tehtävään covered applied topalkkaryhmiä in the collective agreement workers. perustuvat luokittelun Salaries are are also vastuulisät, mukaisia jaby-taulukoita. the agreement, such as sales Palkkaukseen womenNaisten ja miesten 405-2 influenced by role-based kokemusvuodet assistants and sekä paikkakuntakohtaiset warehouse responsibility bonuses, years workers. Salaries vaikuttavat myös tehtävään perustuvat vastuulisät, are also 37 and the cost-of-living of experience Ylempien kalleusluokat. category toimihenkilöiden of the palkka 405-2 Ratio of basic Naisten peruspalkkojen ja salary and miesten suhde influenced by role-based kokemusvuodet locality. Besides määräytyy sekä paikkakuntakohtaiset the ja tehtävän role työn responsibility bonuses, andvaativuuden its requirements, ohellaofthe years muunsalary of experience kalleusluokat. and the Ylempien cost-of-living category toimihenkilöiden palkka the KESKO'S YEAR 2017 GRI management approach Diversity and equal opportunities STRATEGY A pluralist organisation that promotes diversity guarantees equal opportunities, rights and treatment • Employment to all. Equality, justice and non-discrimination are important principles which are observed at Kesko • Labour/management relations throughout the employment relationship. The most suitable person with the most development potential is selected for the job, and applicants are judged according to their competence, skills and • Occupational health and safety accomplishments. • Training Remuneration • Diversity and equal opportunity The objective of remuneration in Kesko is to encourage employees to exceed the objectives given and • to motivate them to do long-term work in order to meet the goals of K Group. Remuneration is fair and Equal remuneration SUSTAINABILITY is based on principles that are commonly known. • Labour practices grievance mechanisms Policies, principles and commitments Employment and labour and management relations HR management is based on Kesko's values and operating practices and the K Code of Conduct We want to be the most attractive workplace in the trading sector, with satisfied employees and guidelines. Kesko's HR policy defines key operating principles in the various areas of HR management. competent managers. K Group offers varied career and personal development opportunities in a The HR strategy defines HR management objectives, critical success factors and key development variety of jobs in the trading sector. In restructuring situations, Kesko complies with local legislation in initiatives. all of the countries. Kesko is a member of Diversity Charter Finland. The operations of Diversity Charter Finland are based Health and safety at work on a charter that is signed by all members. Kesko and K-stores are responsible for providing employees with a safe working environment and appropriate training and guidance for their work. Monitoring and control systems FINANCIAL The personnel's ability to work is protected by creating a safe and supportive working environment. Development of personnel The goal of labour protection is to secure and maintain employees' ability to work and to prevent and Systematic, business-driven development of personnel is a critical factor for future success. The avoid occupational injuries, occupational diseases and other physical and mental health hazards arising STATEMENTS transformation of the trading sector and the increase in electronic transactions have created needs for from work or the working environment. new competencies. Responsibilities and resources Key areas of competence building are: • HR Management Board • Leadership and management • Kesko HR • Digitalisation • HR Service Centres CORPORATE • Customer experience; sales and service competences. • Every manager GOVERNANCE 38 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Programmes, projects and initiatives STRATEGY Wellbeing at work programme In the development of wellbeing at work, the objective is to increase job satisfaction and motivation, reduce sick leave, increase the retirement age and decrease premature pensions, and enhance the employer image. From 2016–2018, the wellbeing at work programme focuses on: • Comprehensive development of OHS operations (Occupational Health and Safety) management by information • Supporting personnel's ability to work and reducing sick leave SUSTAINABILITY • Developing occupational safety models and strengthening the role of labour protection • Promoting Employee Engagement particularly through managers' work development and ensuring good management in times of change Employment of disabled people and people with partial work capacity In 2012, the K-Retailers' Association launched a project called 'Many kinds of performers' in cooperation with the Finnish Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (FAIDD). Read more in 405-1. Employment of young people The employment of young people continues as a permanent model in accordance with the ‘Youth FINANCIAL Guarantee in K Group’ programme. Grievance mechanisms STATEMENTS • Discussion with manager • Direct Line feedback channel • SpeakUp reporting channel Boundaries Working community Kesko CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 39 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Responsible purchasing and STRATEGY sustainable selections We purchase and sell responsibly and support our customers in making sustainable choices • We develop our product selections while listening to customers. SUSTAINABILITY • We ensure responsibility in the supply chain. • We are accountable for the safety and quality of products. Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 Supply chain The social responsibility of the A total of 157 of Kesko’s suppliers' factories or 210 BSCI full audits and 60 BSCI re-audits were Kesko's suppliers in high-risk countries had 200 production of own direct imports plantations underwent full amfori BSCI audits. In conducted in the factories and farms of Kesko’s factories or farms within the scope of the BSCI from high-risk countries has been addition, 146 suppliers’ factories or plantations suppliers in high-risk countries. At the beginning of process. 107 BSCI full audits and 80 BSCI re-audits assured. underwent amfori BSCI follow-up audits. At the 2017, Kesko’s suppliers in high-risk countries had a were conducted in the factories and farms of suppliers beginning of 2018, Kesko’s suppliers in high-risk total of 386 valid social responsibility audits. The in high-risk countries. The social responsibility of GRI 414-1, 414-2 countries had a total of 423 valid social responsibility social responsibility of the production of Kesko’s the production of Kesko's grocery trade's own direct audits. grocery trade's own direct imports from high-risk imports from high-risk countries was 100% assured. countries was 100% assured. Two responsibility trainings were arranged for the We continued our work related to the human rights FINANCIAL ICA Global Sourcing (IGS) suppliers: 24 suppliers Kesko Onninen Purchasing Office (KOPO) started impact assessment. We published the manufacturing took part in the Hangzhou training in China and 23 operations in Shanghai, China. Kesko’s grocery plants of private label and own import clothes, suppliers in the Delhi training in India. As part of our trade and ICA Global Sourcing launched a sourcing accessories, shoes and bags operating in high-risk STATEMENTS cooperation with Plan International Finland, three cooperation in the home and speciality trade. countries on our website. amfori BSCI supplier trainings were arranged in Bangkok, Thailand. A total of 25 suppliers from the As part of the human rights assessment, we Thai fishing industry took part in the trainings. conducted a human rights survey at factories in high-risk countries in cooperation with the Trade Continuing our human rights assessment we Union Solidarity Centre of Finland (SASK). The conducted a review of working conditions in the country-specific reports by SASK provided valuable supply chain of grapes in collaboration with the Trade information for the development of our operations. Union Solidarity Centre of Finland (SASK). We forwarded the information received to BSCI in order to develop the audit procedure. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 40 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 STRATEGY We assure the responsibility of the The responsibility of ingredients used in 150 new We continued work in order to assure the Using the risk assessment tool, we started the process ingredients (Tier 2) of private label Pirkka and K-Menu food products was assessed responsibility of ingredients in the own-brand grocery of assuring the responsibility of the ingredients of Pirkka and K-Menu food products. using our own risk analysis tool. Based on the risk products. We conducted ingredient risk assessments Pirkka and K-Menu products. We established the analysis, 20 products contained ingredients which on 160 new Pirkka or K-Menu food products. Among origin of the ingredients of 1,923 own-brand grocery GRI 414-1, 414-2 require further investigation in terms of the social these, 29 products contained ingredients which products. Among these, 233 contained ingredients responsibility of the producer. require further investigation in terms of responsibility. which require further investigation concerning the responsibility of the ingredient manufacturer based on Our analysis of ingredients in our own brand products the risk assessment. received recognition at the annual meeting of amfori (previously Foreign Trade Association, FTA). Thanks to the risk analysis, Kesko was elected among the top SUSTAINABILITY three finalists of the FTA member of the year award. We identify and take account of Our water risk assessment work continued and we aim The water risk assessment is in progress and the aim We initiated a water risk assessment for our own water risks in our supply chain. to use the results to plan actions. is to use the results to plan actions. brand products in order to identify the water basins most affected by water scarcity and contamination issues in our supply chain. The target is to conclude the water risk assessment in 2016. Statements and Fish and shellfish: The selections The retail selection of Kesko’s grocery trade included The retail selection of Kesko’s grocery trade included The Pirkka range included 41 MSC-certified fish policies of Kesko’s grocery trade and K-food 196 MSC-certified fish products, of which 41 were 178 MSC-certified fish products, of which 37 were products. stores do not include species on the Pirkka products and 1 K-Menu product. Our selections Pirkka products. Kespro was granted MSC and ASC red list of the WWF’s fish guide. had 7 ASC-certified products, of which 4 were Pirkka traceability certificates. All stages of Kespro’s fish Kesko’s grocery trade and K-food products. and shellfish supply chain have been audited, and stores promote green list species Kespro and its certified customer restaurants can use in their selections. When making Kespro’s HoReCa selection had a total of 304 MSCthe MSC and ASC ecolabelling in their marketing. decisions concerning selections, we certified products, of which 30 were Menu products. Kespro’s HoReCa selections included nearly 300 FINANCIAL favour sustainable stocks of fish and Kespro's selection had 10 ASC-certified products, of MSCand ASC-certified products, and the number MSCand ASC-certified suppliers. which 2 were Menu products. continues to grow. Kespro's Menu range had more K Group's fish and shellfish policy than 25 MSC-certified products and 2 ASC-certified STATEMENTS has been in effect since 2008. ones. Palm oil: By 2020, all palm oil in Some 82% of the palm oil in Kespro’s Menu food Approximately 34% of the palm oil in our own brand Approximately 20% of the palm oil in the Pirkka food our own brand groceries will be products sold in 2017 was sustainably produced groceries (Pirkka, K-Menu and Kespro’s Menu) was products was certified sustainable palm oil (CSPO). responsibly produced (CSPO). (CSPO), of which 0.2% was Identity Preserved, 74.3% certified sustainable palm oil (CSPO). Segregated, 20.7% Mass Balance, and 4.9% RSPO credits. Some 43% of the palm oil in Pirkka and K-Menu food products sold in 2017 was sustainably produced (CSPO), of which 19% was Segregated, 79% Mass CORPORATE Balance, and 2% RSPO credits. GOVERNANCE 41 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 STRATEGY Soy: By 2020, all soy used in We reviewed the share of responsibly produced soy in We were a founding member in the Finnish soy The objective was added in 2016. the production chain of our own our own brand food products and their supply chain. commitment group, which started operations in brand products will be responsibly The soy used in our own brand food products (Pirkka, February 2016. The members of the Finnish soy produced, and be either RTRS K-Menu and Kespro’s Menu) sold in 2017 and their commitment group pledge to ensure that by 2020 all or ProTerra certified. The policy supply chain was not yet responsibly produced. the soy used in the production chain of their private concerns ingredients of soy origin label products will be responsibly produced, and be in grocery trade’s own brand food either RTRS or ProTerra certified. The commitment products and soy fodder used in the covers both the Finnish production chain and sourcing production of products of animal from other countries. We joined the Round Table on origin. Responsible Soy (RTRS) and thereby committed to promote responsibility in the production chain of soy SUSTAINABILITY on a long-term and target-oriented basis. Timber and paper: By 2025, there In 2013, Kesko’s building and technical trade was The average PEFC certification percentage was 91.2% The PEFC certification percentage is announced will be only sustainable origin awarded the PEFC certificate, which covers sawn pine for pine and 84.6% for spruce. We are investigating monthly at Kesko's web pages. timber and paper products in and spruce timber and processed timber as well as the opportunities to expand the timber policy to cover Kesko's product range. Timber the wholesale distribution of MDF boards in Finland the entire Group. and paper products will be FSC or (percentage-based method). The average PEFC PEFC certified or made of recycled certification percentage in 2017 was 89.7% for pine materials. In the grocery trade, the and 85.5% for spruce. policy applies to our own brand products. Of the timber and paper products in the grocery trade’s Pirkka and K-Menu ranges, 54% contained sustainable raw material. In Kespro’s Menu range, 14% of timber and paper products contained sustainable raw material. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 42 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 STRATEGY Plastic: We promote the recycling We removed environmentally harmful microbeads We published our plastics policy in October 2016 and More reusable bag alternatives were added to the and reuse of plastics. We create from all our own brand cosmetic products. During pledged to implement measures aiming at reducing grocery store selections: a new Vallila design, a operating models that prevent 2018, microplastics will be removed from all our own the use of plastic bags. Plastic bags have been subject Summer Day bag, and a Red Nose Day bag. plastics from ending up in the brand detergents. The Pirkka ESSI circular economy to a charge in the K Group's grocery stores as well as environment. We seek alternatives bags were introduced to K-food stores' shopping building and home improvement stores, and, at the to plastic as a packaging material. By bag selections at the start of 2017. The bags are beginning of 207, they became subject to a charge means of consumer communications, made of over 90% recycled materials, around half of in the agricultural and machinery stores as well as in we will increase the sales share of which is plastic packaging separately collected from furniture stores. By the end of 2017, thin small plastic alternative shopping bags (cotton households. By the end of 2017, small thin plastic bags bags will no longer be available at the checkout. Our bags, reusable bags and jute bags) were only available at checkouts by request for e.g. selections offer alternatives to plastic bags; reusable and cardboard boxes to 10% by flowers. We reduced the consumption of small plastic bags, cotton bags, jute bags as well as paper bags SUSTAINABILITY 2025. We look for solutions to bags by 20% in 2017. and bags made of recycled plastic. The share of paper replace PVC as a material. bags in the sales of all different shopping bags was We successfully piloted the new wood fibre-based approximately 1.5% and that of reusable bags was EcoFishBox produced by Stora Enso in K-food stores. approximately 1.5%. In spring 2017, we included the Since 2017, K Group gift cards have been made Pirkka ESSI circular economy bags made by Amerplast from PVC-free materials. In Onninen Express stores Oy in our selections. They are manufactured from in Finland, regular customers have been handed plastic packaging waste recycled by households shopping baskets that the customers can use to carry through the Rinki eco-points. We will discontinue the products to their construction site and bring back the use of microplastics in our private label cosmetics next time the visit the store. brand products in 2017. The packaging of our private label cosmetics does not contain PVC. We will discontinue using PVC as the material for Kesko’s gift cards in 2017. We will work to eliminate PVC from the material of the K-Plussa card in 2017. FINANCIAL Own brands with We offer an extensive selection The Pirkka range had 37 Pirkka Fairtrade products, 116 The Pirkka range included 36 Pirkka Fairtrade The Pirkka range included 40 Pirkka Fairtrade responsibility of own brand products with Pirkka Organic products, 41 Pirkka MSC-certified fish products, 118 Pirkka Organic products, 37 Pirkka products, 134 Pirkka Organic products, 41 Pirkka labelling responsibility labelling. products, 35 UTZ-certified products, 76 Nordic Swan MSC-certified fish products, 32 Pirkka UTZ-certified MSC-certified fish products, and 17 Pirkka UTZlabel products, 137 products with the Key Flag symbol, products and 65 Nordic Swan label products. All certified products. STATEMENTS 88 Seed leaf label products, 220 Hyvää Suomesta Pirkka and K-Menu coffees are Fairtrade or UTZ(Produce of Finland) products, and 5 products with certified. The Pirkka range includes 15 Fairtrade the Finnish allergy label (Allergiatunnus). or UTZ-certified chocolate and baking chocolate products. In 2017, all Pirkka range chocolates will be Kespro’s Menu range had 4 Fairtrade products, 5 Fairtrade or UTZ-certified. organic products, 30 MSC-certified products, 2 ASCcertified products, 15 products with the Nordic Swan Kespro’s Menu range included 7 Fairtrade products, 5 ecolabel, 10 UTZ-certified products, 21 products with organic products, 25 MSC-certified products, 2 ASCthe Key Flag symbol, 4 Hyvää Suomesta (Produce of certified products, 13 products with the Nordic Swan CORPORATE Finland) products and 23 Seed leaf label products. ecolabel, and 5 UTZ-certified products. In the building and technical trade, the Cello range All interior and exterior paints in the K-Rauta's Cello had 411 Key Flag products, 30 Nordic Swan label range carry the Nordic Swan ecolabel. 62 Cello GOVERNANCE products, 35 M1 label products, and 116 products with products carried the M1 label and 105 Cello products the Finnish allergy label (Allergiatunnus). had the Allergy Label. 15 products in the PROF range carried the M1 label. 43 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 STRATEGY Product safety The product safety of K Group’s The Product Research laboratory analysed 7,350 The Product Research laboratory analysed 7,770 The Product Research laboratory analysed 8,037 selections has been verified. The product samples and conducted 15,076 analyses. In product samples and conducted 17,176 analyses. The product samples and conducted 20,396 analyses. Product Research Unit's laboratory total, 522 suppliers of Kesko’s own brands of food product safety of 503 suppliers was verified by means Seven audits were performed. monitors the product safety and products have international audit certifications that of a certified auditing procedure. The number of own quality of the own brand products assure product safety. The number of own audits was audits was 58. and own imports in the grocery 59. trade. All of our food product operations have a self-control plan in place. GRI 416-1, 416-2, 417-1 SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 44 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Supplier social assessment At the beginning of 2018, the factories and farms of Kesko’s suppliers in high-risk countries had: STRATEGY • 291 (start of 2017: 274) valid amfori BSCI audits 414-1 Suppliers that were screened using social criteria, • 15 (start of 2017: 13) valid SA8000 certifications 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken • 30 (start of 2017: 24) valid SMETA audits Purchasing from high-risk countries • 45 (start of 2017: 24) valid ICA Social Audits In 2017, direct purchases by Kesko's Finnish companies from suppliers in high-risk areas totalled €106 million (2016: €85 million) and accounted for 1.2% (2016: 1%) of Kesko's total purchases. Direct • 22 (start of 2017: 22) valid SIZA audits imports from high-risk countries accounted for approximately 13.9% (2016: 11.9%) of Kesko's total • 11 (start of 2017: 11) valid Fairtrade certifications SUSTAINABILITY imports into Finland. The most significant high-risk countries of import for Kesko’s Finnish companies are presented in the map below. No statistics are available on direct imports from high-risk countries • 2 (start of 2017: 5) valid ICS audits in Kesko's other operating countries. • 5 (start of 2017: 11) valid ICTI CARE certifications High-risk countries typically produce clothing and home textiles, shoes and other leather goods, fur• 1 (start of 2017: 2) valid WRAP certification niture, interior decoration items, tools, sports equipment, toys, agricultural products (such as coffee, • 1 valid WIETA certification tea, cocoa, fruit, vegetables, wines) and canned fish, fruit and vegetables. Kesko annually publishes on its website a list of factories that operate in high-risk countries manufacKesko’s principle in high-risk countries is to collaborate only with suppliers that are already included in turing Kesko’s own-brand clothing and shoes to be directly imported by Kesko. The list is updated once the scope of social responsibility audits or that start the process when the cooperation begins. Kesko’s a year, most recently on 31 August 2017. grocery trade requires all of its suppliers in high-risk countries to have been audited. It will not enter into collaboration with new suppliers unless they have passed an acceptable audit. FINANCIAL Social responsibility audits of suppliers in high-risk countries Kesko is a member of amfori, a leading global association dedicated to promoting open and sustainable trade. Kesko takes part in amfori BSCI and recommends the use of amfori BSCI audits in STATEMENTS the assessment of social responsibility of suppliers in high-risk countries. Kesko also accepts other assessment systems of social responsibility if their criteria correspond to those of amfori BSCI auditing and if the audit is conducted by an independent party. As part of the sourcing cooperation between Kesko’s grocery trade and ICA Global Sourcing, Kesko also accepts the ICA Social Audit. In that case, however, suppliers are required to adopt a third-party auditing approved by Kesko after a maximum of two ICA audits. CORPORATE The social responsibility auditing systems accepted by Kesko are listed in the section Monitoring and control systems. Some of Kesko’s suppliers are themselves amfori members and thus promote amfori BSCI audits in their own supply chains. GOVERNANCE 45 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 SUPPLIERS' SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AUDITS IN KESKO'S 10 LARGEST HIGH-RISK COUNTRIES OF IMPORT1 STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 46 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Results of amfori BSCI audits STRATEGY In 2017, a total of 157 (2016: 210) of Kesko’s suppliers' factories or plantations underwent full amfori BSCI audits. In addition, 146 (2016: 60) suppliers’ factories or plantations underwent amfori BSCI follow-up audits. The results of the 2017 amfori BSCI audits of Kesko’s suppliers’ factories and farms are shown below. The majority of the deficiencies occurred in management practices, observance of working time regulations, and matters related to occupational health and safety. Corrective actions and monitoring are included in the audit process. In accordance with the amfori BSCI operating model, a full audit is conducted at factories every two years to assess every sub-area of the auditing protocol. If a factory SUSTAINABILITY receives an audit result of C, D or E, a follow-up audit within 12 months must be arranged to assess the deficiencies identified in the full audit and the corrective measures implemented to address them. Kesko does not terminate cooperation with a supplier that undertakes to resolve the grievances specified in the audit report. In 2017, Kesko decided to terminate cooperation with six factories due to ambiguities related to social responsibility. A consensus could not be reached with the factories regarding cooperationnecessary with six factories due toactions. corrective ambiguities related reached with the factories regarding necessary to social responsibility. A consensus could not be corrective actions. Kesko's amforiBSCI Kesko's amfori BSCIaudit audit results in 2017, Kesko's amforiBSCI Kesko's amfori audit BSCIaudit results results in 2017, results in 2017, full audits full audits in 2017, follow-up audits audits follow-up FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Outstanding (A) 3% Outstanding (A) 3% Good (B) 5% Good (B) 6% CORPORATE Acceptable (C) 80% Acceptable (C) 87% Insufficient (D) 12% Insufficient (D) 4% Unacceptable (E) 0% Unacceptable (E) 0% GOVERNANCE 47 Kesko's amfori BSCI audit results, distribution in different areas in 2017, full au Kesko'samfori Kesko's amforiBSCI BSCIaudit auditresults, results,distribution in different distribution in different areas areas in in 2017, 2017, full follow-up audits audits KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Kesko's amfori BSCI audit results, distribution in different areas in 2017, full audits STRATEGY Management Social Manag ement S ystem and Cascade E System Eff ffect ect Social Management Manag SocialManag Management ement ementS System System System andCascade CascadeE ystemand Eff E ffect Eff ect ect ffect Work ement and Pr olvement Invvolv ers In orkers otection Protection The rights of FFrreedom of Association and C Collectiv ollectivee W ork orkers Work ersIn ers orkers In Inv Inv vvolv olvement olv ementand ement olvement Pr andPr Protection otection Protection otection Bargainin Therights rightsof The ofFFr FFr rreedom eedomof ofAssociation andC Associationand Collectiv C ollective Collectiv ollectiveee Bargaining Bargainin No Discrimination NoDiscrimination No Discrimination Remuner Fair R emuneration ation airR FFair R emuneration ation Remuner Remuner ation emuneration Working ent W Decent Dec orking Hours Decent Dec ent W Decent Dec ent Working W orking Hours orking Hours Working Safety cupational Health and Saf Occupational Oc ety Oc Occupational Oc cupationalHealth cupational Occupational Healthand Saf andSaf Safety ety ety Safety No Child Labour ChildLabour NoChild No Labour Special Pr Protection orkers Work oung W Young otection of Y ers SpecialPr Special Pr Protection otectionof Protection otection ofYY Young oungW oung Young W Work ers orkers Work ers orkers Employment ecarious Emplo Precarious No Pr yment SUSTAINABILITY NoPr No Pr Precarious ecariousEmplo ecarious Precarious Emplo yment Employment yment Employment No Bonded Labour No Bonded Labour No Bonded Labour Pr Protection onment vironment Envir otection of the En Pr Protection otectionof Protection otection Pr ofthe theEn En Envir vironment Envir onment onment vironment Behaviour Ethical Business Beha viour Ethical Business Behaviour Beha viour Ethical Business Beha Behaviour viour 0 10 20 00 10 10 20 20 30 30 40 40 50 50 60 60 0 770 80 80 90 90 100 100 Outstanding (A) Good (B(B)) Kesko's amfori BSCI audit results, distribution in different areas in 2017, full au Outstanding (A) Outstanding (A) Good (B Good (B))) (B (B) Acccceptable A eptable ((C) C) Insufficient (D (D)) Unac Unaccceptable (E) Kesko's amfori BSCI audit results, distribution in different areas in 2017, follow-up audits Unacc Unac Unac ceptable (E) Unaccceptable (E) Kesko's amfori BSCI audit results, distribution in different areas in 2017, follow-up audits Management Social Manag ement S ystem and Cascade E System Eff ffect ect FINANCIAL Social Manag Eff ystem and Cascade E System ement S Management ect ffect Work ement and Pr olvement Invvolv ers In orkers otection Protection The rights of FFrreedom of Association and C Collectiv ollectivee orkers Work ers In olvement Invvolv ement and Pr Protection otection Bargainin The rights of FFrreedom of Association and C Collectiv ollectivee No Discrimination Bargaining STATEMENTS No Discrimination Fair R Remuner emuneration ation Remuner Fair R ation emuneration Dec Decent orking Hours Working ent W Dec ent W Decent orking Hours Working Safety cupational Health and Saf Occupational Oc ety Oc Occupational cupational Health and Saf Safety ety No Child Labour No Child Labour Protection Special Pr Young otection of Young W Work orkers ers Protection Special Pr Work oung W Young otection of Y ers orkers Employment ecarious Emplo Precarious No Pr yment No Pr Precarious ecarious Emplo Employment yment No Bonded Labour No Bonded Labour Pr Protection Envir otection of the En vironment onment 70 CORPORATE Pr Envir otection of the En Protection onment vironment 69Beha Ethical Business Behaviour viour Ethical Business Beha Behaviour viour 0 10 20 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 GOVERNANCE Outstanding (A) Good (B (B)) Outstanding (A) Good (B (B)) C) Acceptable ((C) Insufficient (D (D)) Unac Unaccceptable (E) Unac Unaccceptable (E) 48 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Fairtrade products Supplier training in China and India STRATEGY Kesko's grocery trade has an extensive collaboration agreement with Fairtrade Finland. The K-food Kesko and the Swedish ICA have worked together on sourcing via ICA Global Sourcing (IGS) in Asia trade chain concepts and K-retailers determine the selections of Fairtrade products at store level. since 2016. The cooperation concentrates on the sourcing of home and speciality goods sold at K-food stores. Assuring the social responsibility of suppliers’ factories and securing product quality form a • In 2017, Kesko's grocery trade selections included 300 (2016: 367) Fairtrade products, of which 37 central part of the purchasing process. IGS has offices in China, Hong Kong, Vietnam, Bangladesh and (2016: 36) were Pirkka products and 4 (2016: 7) were Kespro's Menu products. India. The local IGS corporate responsibility team is, together with Kesko, in charge of assuring the • In 2017, the products sold by Kesko's grocery trade generated Fairtrade premiums for social social responsibility of factories. development projects amounting to €719,225 (2016: €649,459). In 2017, responsibility training was arranged for IGS suppliers in Hangzhou, China and Delhi, India. The In 2017, the products generating the largest Fairtrade premiums were Fairtrade flowers (€271,672), training covered Kesko’s social responsibility requirements for suppliers, the factory auditing process, SUSTAINABILITY coffee (€224,537) and fruit (€142,975). According to Faitrade statistics, the Fairtrade coffees sold by and requirements related to product quality and safety. Questions from the suppliers concerning Kesko grocery trade in 2017 employed approximately 800 small-scale coffee farmers on Fairtrade's responsibility were also addressed. terms. 24 suppliers took part in the Hangzhou training and 23 suppliers in the Delhi training. Representatives Kesko and Plan’s collaboration in Thailand of IGS and Kesko’s responsibility unit were also present. Kesko and Plan International Finland, an organisation promoting children’s rights, cooperate to improve the responsibility of the Thai fishing industry and the position of migrant workers. The Read more about our cooperation with IGS. collaboration has been agreed for the period of 2015-2018, and it is part of a larger project funded by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) and the American Richard and Risk assessment of ingredients in Pirkka and K-Menu food products Helen DeVos Foundation in Thailand and Cambodia. Kesko’s objective is to identify the entire supply chain of products and to assure the social responsibility of their ingredients. The work to analyse the origins of the ingredients of Pirkka and K-Menu food The project aims to improve the working conditions of Cambodian migrant workers, as well as products and related risk analysis began in 2015 and continued in 2017. FINANCIAL education and protection for their children in Thailand. The collaboration with Plan also improves the transparency of the supply chain of Kesko’s fish products. The responsibility of ingredients used in 150 new Pirkka and K-Menu food products was assessed in 2017 using our own risk analysis tool. Based on the risk analysis, 20 products contained ingredients STATEMENTS As part of the project, two learning centres were established for children of migrant workers in the which require further investigation in terms of the social responsibility of the producer. Between 2015 Rayong and Trat provinces in 2015. The learning centres provide the children with the skills they need and 2017, a risk analysis has been conducted on the ingredients of 2,233 own brand food products. to attend public schools in Thailand and support them in continuing their studies. In 2017, 50 girls and 38 boys aged between 4 and 17 were registered at the learning centres. The project helped 40 girls and In summer 2017, Kesko’s risk analysis of ingredients in its own brand products received recognition at 60 boys move onto public schools in Thailand. Between 2015 and 2017, a total of 944 children have the annual meeting of amfori (previously Foreign Trade Association, FTA). Thanks to the risk analysis, registered at the learning centres and 212 children have moved onto public schools. Kesko was elected among the top three finalists of the FTA member of the year award. CORPORATE Amfori BSCI training for suppliers continued in 2017: there were two general training sessions and one The study of the ingredients of own brand food products will continue in 2018. Based on the results, advanced-level training in Bangkok. A total of 25 suppliers from the Thai fishing industry took part we intend to decide upon ingredient-specific follow-up measures to promote the sustainability of the in the trainings. The general training covered the amfori BSCI Code of Conduct, UN and ILO human supply chains of Pirkka and K-Menu products. rights and labour conventions, and the Thailand national labour protection legislation. The advanced GOVERNANCE training gave the suppliers tools for their own promotion and supervision of social issues. Supplier training will continue in 2018. Read more about our collaboration with Plan. 49 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Customer health and safety In 2016 and 2017, a study on the likelihood of food fraud was conducted and a fraud control plan was STRATEGY prepared (Vulnerability Assessment and Critical Control Points, VACCP). 77 threats of fraud were 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and identified. Six of them were assessed to be critical control points, which are analytically monitored by service categories, fraud control on a regular basis, in addition to normal product and supplier assurances. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety In 2017, there were 140 product recalls in Kesko’s grocery trade (99 in 2016). Of these, 33 were Kesko’s impacts of products and services grocery trade’s own brand products (26 in 2016). In the other cases, Product Research assisted the The activities of the Product Research Unit of Kesko’s grocery trade include assessing the impacts manufacturers in recalls. There were 4 public recalls involving a potential health hazard resulting from of products on health and safety. Manufacturers of Kesko’s own brand food products must have product flaws or defects in Kesko’s grocery trade’s own brand products in 2017 (2 in 2016). international certifications that assure product safety. The standards approved by Kesko’s grocery SUSTAINABILITY trade include: BRC, IFS, FSSC 22000 and GlobalGAP. In 2017, the total number of certified suppliers K-Rauta had two (1 in 2016) and Onninen three (4 in 2016) recalls in 2017. Konekesko had one public was 581 (561 in 2016). This number also includes old audits conducted according to Kesko’s grocery recall in 2017 (0 in 2016), which constituted the only public recall for the building and technical trade trade’s own audit guidelines. division that year. A total of 7,350 product samples were analysed (7,770 in 2016). Most of them were related to the In 2017, there were no legal proceedings or fines related to product health or safety. product development of own brands. A total of 2,395 own control samples were analysed (2016: 2,387). Marketing communications and product information When developing own brand products, Kesko’s grocery trade pays special attention, in line with its 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling strategy, to the health aspects of the products. On the product labelling of its own brand products and imports, Kesko complies with all related legislation. Key regulations include: As proposed in The EC White Paper on Nutrition, Overweight and Obesity-related Health Issues, • FINANCIAL Food product labelling: EU food information regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 and complementary acts sugar, saturated fat and salt were reduced in more than 150 Pirkka products during the period 2007–2013. The health aspects of new Pirkka products are taken into account at the product develop• Product labelling related to safe use of consumer goods: Directive 2001/95/EC on general product ment stage. safety (and related corresponding national legislation in Kesko’s operating countries) The National Nutrition Council of Finland published its nutrition commitment operating model in June • Warning labelling for chemicals: CLP regulation EC 1272/2008 on the classification, labelling and STATEMENTS packaging of chemicals 2017. The nutrition commitment is the Finnish contribution to the EU Roadmap for Action on Food Product Improvement framework’s reformulation programme. • Labelling for electrical equipment: various product segment specific directives (and related corresponding national legislation in Kesko’s operating countries) K Group joined the nutrition commitment by making a vegetable commitment, which encourages • Toy labelling: Directive 2009/48/EC on toy safety (and related corresponding national legislation K-food store customers to increase their use of vegetables through the following actions, which extend in Kesko’s operating countries) CORPORATE to year 2020: • Package labelling for cosmetics: Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009 on cosmetic products • By 2020, at least 400 K-food stores will have dedicated ‘veggie shelves’ for vegetable protein products. In 2017, some 250 K-food stores had a veggie shelf. The name and location of the manufacturer are indicated on all Finnish Pirkka products and on all GOVERNANCE • We will organise at least 250 vegetable-related campaigns at K-food stores each year (2018–2020). K-Menu products. Foreign Pirkka products carry the name of the country of manufacture. Country of In 2017, K-food store chains organised 240 vegetable campaigns. origin is indicated on all own brand products of K-Citymarket and Kesko’s building and technical trade. • We will add at least 50 new fruit or vegetable products to our selections by 2020. In 2017, we added 55 new fruit and vegetable products to our selections. 50 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 The country of origin of meat is disclosed in accordance with regulation (EU) No 1337/2013. As 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service STRATEGY ingredients, meat and dairy are labelled in accordance with the national decree MMM 218/2017. information and labelling In addition to statutory package labelling, voluntary labelling can be added to inform the consumer of Engine software adjusting nitrogen oxides matters related to corporate responsibility. Such labelling may include organic labels and ecolabelling, In September 2015, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) and the Environmental Protection as well as labelling indicating social responsibility. Agency (EPA) uncovered engine software that adjusted nitrogen oxides in Volkswagen Group’s type EA 189 cars with 1.2 litre, 1.6 litre and 2.0 litre diesel engines. The own brand products of Kesko’s grocery trade bear material symbols on their packaging. These symbols help and guide consumers to recycle packaging materials. Chemicals that are hazardous to As far as the brands represented by VV-Auto are concerned, the number of such cars in Finland was the environment have warning labelling in accordance with the CLP regulation. identified at 53,000. The case applies to all of the brands imported by VV-Auto: Volkswagen, Audi, SUSTAINABILITY SEAT and Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles. The recalls and repairs of Volkswagen, Audi and SEAT 2.0, 1.6 and 1.2 litre EA 189 diesel cars (SEAT service campaign) proceeded at the planned schedule in Finland in 2017. By the end of the year, a software update was available for all of the approximately 53,000 cars, and some 47,000 cars (88.4%) had been fully updated. After the corrective measures, the cars meet the requirements of the EU5 emissions standard. The corrective measures do not affect the car's fuel consumption, engine power, CO2 emissions, driving behaviour or acoustics. FINANCIAL Product recalls resulting from defective product labelling On the product labelling of its own brand products and imports, Kesko complies with EU and Finnish legislation. In 2017, there were 39 product recalls resulting from defective product labelling (24 in 2016), of which STATEMENTS 9 (7 in 2016) were Kesko’s own brand products. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 51 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 GRI management approach Kesko's policy on chemicals applies to home textiles, clothing, leather goods, shoes and upholstered STRATEGY furniture. Based on EU and Finnish legislation, it lists the chemicals which are prohibited or the Material aspects quantity of which is restricted in the products supplied to Kesko. In addition, for substances of very • Compliance of products and services high concern, Kesko sets restrictions that are stricter than those set in legislation. • Customer health and safety Kesko’s plastics policy promotes recycling and the reuse of plastics. The objective of the operating • Assessment of suppliers’ working conditions model is to prevent plastics from ending up in bodies of water and elsewhere in the natural environment. • Human rights • Marketing communications Various product group-specific responsibility policies and statements, such as the palm oil policy, SUSTAINABILITY the fish and shellfish statement, the timber and paper policy, and the stand on the sandblasting of Policies, principles and commitments jeans, have been prepared to support purchasing operations. Responsible purchasing is guided by Kesko's purchasing principles. Programmes, projects and initiatives The principles are based on national labour protection legislation and corresponding conventions of • 'Principles and Practice of Socially Responsible Trading' guide the International Labour Organization (ILO), which are applied when national legislation does not correspond to the same level. In its operations, Kesko pays special attention to human rights issues Responsible choices are communicated to customers in stores according to the K-responsibility and working conditions in its supply chain and, in monitoring these, primarily focuses on suppliers concept within-store communications, such as shelf labelling and product labelling. The selection and in high-risk countries. In accordance with the amfori BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative), marketing policies of organic, eco-labelled and Fairtrade certified products are included in K-food high-risk countries are countries and areas where there is a risk of human rights and workers' rights stores' chain concepts. The K responsibility concept is in use in K-food stores and K-Rauta stores. violations. The classification is based on the World Bank's Worldwide Governance Indicators. In 2016, Kesko joined the amfori BSCI Sustainable Wine Programme programme. The programme FINANCIAL Kesko and K Group stores are responsible to the products' end-users for ensuring that the products focuses on improving the social responsibility and environmental responsibility of wine production and comply with all the requirements of Finnish and EU legislation, are safe for users and meet quality its goal is to increase transparency and traceability in wine production. and other promises. Kesko's product labelling and marketing communications comply with legislative STATEMENTS requirements and the recommendations of authorities. In 2016, Kesko became a member of the Centre for Child Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility (CCR CSR) based in China. The objective of CCR CSR is to prevent and reduce child labour, improve Kesko and K Group stores want to support customers in making sustainable choices and offer a wide the status of young workers at factories, and make the daily life of migrant worker parents easier. selection of products with responsibility criteria. Kesko participates in the Virtual Working Group of the organisation. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 52 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Monitoring and control systems Certification/Audit system Product group Coverage of criteria STRATEGY ICTI CARE Toys Social CERTIFICATION AND AUDIT SYSTEMS RELATED TO PRODUCTION PEFC (Programme for the Endorsement of Wood products and timber Social, environmental Forest Certification) IN HIGH-RISK COUNTRIES APPROVED BY KESKO ICA Social Audit * Consumer goods Social Certification/Audit system Product group Coverage of criteria amfori BSCI (amfori Business Social All product groups Social, limited environmental part * Conditional approval. A maximum of two IGS audits are approved after which the supplier must adopt amfori Compliance Initiative) BSCI audit or some other approved audit conducted by an independent party. SA8000 All product groups Social Supplier agreements require that suppliers and service provides comply with the principles of the SMETA All product groups Social, limited environmental part K Code of Conduct and the BSCI Code of Conduct. SUSTAINABILITY ICS All product groups Social Fairtrade Agricultural products incl. Social, environmental Kesko's grocery trade requires that the manufacturers and producers of its own-brand products cotton have an international food safety certification. Kesko’s grocery trade approves the following audit Rainforest Alliance Agricultural products Social, environmental procedures: BRC, IFS, ISO/FSSC 22000, SQF1000/2000 and GlobalGAP, IP basic certification for Pro Terra Agricultural products Social, environmental vegetables, or IP-Sigill. MPS-Socially Qualified Agricultural products Social The Product Research Unit's laboratory monitors the quality of products sold by K-food stores and Soil Association Ethical Trade Agricultural products Social K-Citymarket hypermarkets. It is a testing laboratory T251 which has been accredited by the FINAS Sustainability Initiative of South Africa Agricultural products Social, environmental SIZA accreditation services and approved to comply with the SFS-EN ISO/IEC 17025 standard. Sustainably Grown Agricultural products Social, environmental The assessment of a store's responsible operations comprises the store's annual self-assessment, the UTZ Certified Coffee, cocoa, tea Social, environmental criteria defined in the store's quality system and a responsibility audit performed by an external party FINANCIAL RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Products containing palm oil Economic, environmental, social on a specified sample. The auditor reports the results to the store and to Kesko. Oil) RTRS (Round Table on Responsible Soy) Soy Economic, environmental, social Grievance mechanisms STATEMENTS WIETA Wines Social • SpeakUp reporting channel Vinos de Chile Wines Social, environmental • K Consumer Service MSC (Marine Stewardship Council) Caught fish and shellfish Environmental (sustainable fishing) ASC (Aquaculture Stewardship Council) Farmed fish and shellfish Social, environmental • Customer feedback systems of the chains Florverde Sustainable Flowers Flowers Social, environmental FLA (Fair Labor Association) Consumer goods Social Boundaries FWF (Fair Wear Foundation) Clothing Social CORPORATE Compliance Kesko GOTS (Global Organic Textile Standard) Textiles, hygiene products Social, environmental (organic) Product safety Kesko –private labels and own imports WRAP (Worldwide Responsible Textiles, shoes Social Social responsibility of procurement (1st tier) Kesko GOVERNANCE Accredited Production) IMO Fair for Life All product groups Social, economic FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) Wood products and timber Social, environmental 53 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Environment STRATEGY We mitigate climate change together and promote the sustainable use of natural resources • We reduce environmental impacts by working together with supply chains. • We promote development towards a low-carbon circular economy. • We help our customers reduce their environmental impact. SUSTAINABILITY Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 Science Based We are committed to reducing our Scope 1 and 2 emission have increased by 14% from The objective was set in 2017. The objective was set in 2017. Targets Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 18% by the 2015 base level due to the acquisition of Suomen 2025, using a 2015 base year. Lähikauppa and Onninen in 2016. GRI 305-5 We are committed to reducing our Of Kesko’s biggest suppliers in 2016, 33% had set The objective was set in 2017. The objective was set in 2017. Scope 3 emissions from the supply their own emission targets. chain so that 90% of Kesko’s key FINANCIAL suppliers will set greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets by 2025. STATEMENTS GRI 305-5 Renewable energy We will purchase 100% renewable All electricity purchased by Kesko in Finland has been We decided to purchase 100% renewable electricity The objective was set in 2016 electricity in Finland. produced with renewable energy since the beginning as from the beginning of 2017. of 2017. We purchase renewable electricity that has the Renewable Energy Guarantee of Origin (REGO) from the Nordic countries. In 2017, the electricity purchased was produced with Finnish bioenergy. We will increase the production of Kesko had 19 solar power plants located on the In June 2016, Finland’s largest property-specific The objective was set in 2016 solar power for our own use. rooftops of its store properties. A total of 3.0 GWh of solar power plant was completed on the roof of CORPORATE electricity was produced with solar power for the use K-Citymarket Tammisto. By the end of 2016, solar of K-food stores. The combined power of the plants is power plants were built in two other K-Citymarket approximately 5.5 MWp. We are the biggest producer stores and nine K-Supermarket stores. and user of solar power in Finland. GOVERNANCE 54 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 STRATEGY Energy efficiency During the agreement period Objective achieved. As a result of our determined The final results of the agreement will be published by Kesko improved its energy consumption by 64 GWh of stores 2008–2016: We will improve our actions, K Group has exceeded the objective and Motiva in summer 2017. and achieved 97% of its objective. annual energy efficiency by 65 GWh improved its energy efficiency by 67 GWh. by 2016. GRI 302-4 During the agreement period 2017– At the time of publication of the Annual Report, Kesko signed a retail sector energy efficiency The objective was set in 2016 2025: We will reduce our energy installed solar energy and the known reported actions agreement for 2017–2025. In the action plan, we consumption by 7.5% by 2025. will allow annual energy savings of 12.4 GWh, which is commit to reducing our energy consumption by 7.5%. 29.6% of the interim target for 2020 and 15.8% of the SUSTAINABILITY GRI 302-4 target for 2025. Logistics emissions We will reduce the emissions of The relative emissions had decreased by 16.2% from The relative emissions had decreased by 1.9% from Relative emissions have decreased by 5.5% from the Kesko Logistics’ transports relative the base level. In 2017, emissions decreased by 11.2% the base level. In 2016, emissions increased by 3.8% starting level due to new solutions in transportation to the net sales index by 10% by compared to 2016. The decrease was impacted by compared to 2015. The increase in emissions can management and fleet organisation. A pilot study on 2020 from the 2011 level. new emission factors, which include diesel’s bio be attributed to the increased number of stores using an extra long Ecotruck on the main logistics component share. Emissions decreased even though caused by the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa. At route between Vantaa and Oulu. The Ecotruck carries GRI 305-5 transport kilometres increased. As in 2016, this can be first, only Kesko’s own brand Pirkka products were twice as many roll containers as an ordinary trailer attributed to the increased number of stores resulting delivered to the new stores and as the conversion of combination. from the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa and the the stores to K-Markets advanced, refill loads were conversion of the stores to K-Markets. delivered to the stores as separate deliveries. Food waste Kesko’s grocery trade aims to K-food stores have reduced food waste by 7.1% from By the end of 2016, K-food stores had reduced We started a cooperation with Gasum, Myllyn Paras minimise the food waste resulting the 2013 base level. identified food waste by 3.5% from the base level. and Wursti to utilise biogas produced from inedible from its operations and utilise organic waste collected from retail stores as energy in inevitably accumulated organic Some 90% of K-food stores donate edible food Approximately 90% of K-food stores work together the manufacture of new Pirkka products. Many K-food waste. By 2020 we will reduce products they no longer can sell to local charities, with local charities. The amount of food products stores donate food to charity. FINANCIAL identified food waste relative to which then distribute the products as food aid to donated increased by 1.8 million kg from the previous sales by 10% from the 2013 level. those in need. The amount of food products donated year. increased by nearly 930,000 kg from the previous STATEMENTS Food waste year. We continued cooperation with Gasum, Myllyn Paras and Wursti to utilise biogas produced from K Group and Gasum cooperate in producing biogas inedible organic waste collected from retail stores as from inedible food waste from K-food stores. Food energy in the manufacture of new Pirkka products. In waste unfit for human consumption is now collected 2016, approximately 3,700 tonnes of organic waste from 200 K-food stores and Kesko Logistics’ central was transformed into 2,800 MWh of biogas. CO2 warehouse and made into biogas, which is then used emissions were reduced by 550 tonnes compared to as energy in the manufacture of new Pirkka products. natural gas and by 740 tonnes compared to fuel oil. Approximately 4,000 tonnes of organic waste was transformed into 3,000 MWh of biogas. CO2 CORPORATE emissions were reduced by 594 tonnes compared to natural gas and by 800 tonnes compared to fuel oil. GOVERNANCE 55 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2017 Progress of objectives 2016 Progress of objectives 2015 STRATEGY Waste recovery Our objective is to minimise According to statistics, the recovery rate for waste In Finland, the recovery rate was 99% and in other The waste recovery rate in the grocery trade was and recover all waste from our management in Finland was nearly 100% and in the operating countries, it was 48%. The waste recovery 99%, in the home improvement and speciality goods operations. other operating countries it was 53%. The waste rate of retail stores in southern Finland covered by the trade 99.4%, and in the car trade 99.9%. In other recovery rate for stores included in the circular waste management agreement was 100%. operating countries, the waste recovery rate was 46%. GRI 306-2 economy agreement in Finland was 100%. The waste recovery rate of retail stores in southern Finland covered by the waste management agreement In the renewal of the K-Rauta chain, discarded work was around 98%. clothes, flags and other textiles were collected from 140 stores and recycled. Discarded work clothes from rebranded stores were processed into material that can be utilised, for example, by the car industry. SUSTAINABILITY Biodiversity K Fishpaths collaboration with The K Fishpaths collaboration between Kesko and The objective was set in 2017. The objective was set in 2017. WWF Finland: We will remove WWF Finland was launched with an extensive media at least 50 barriers preventing and social media campaign in August 2017. We endangered migratory fish from promoted the collaboration with the slogan “Mating swimming upstream and create belongs to all”. On social media, the launch campaign at least 100 spawning grounds in reached 900,000 people, and volunteer events Finland between 2017 and 2021. received good coverage in local media. We will increase awareness of the endangered nature of migratory fish In autumn 2017, we cleared nine barriers in rivers and and arrange volunteer events. streams around Finland and created 40 new spawning grounds for endangered migratory fish. We carried GRI 304-3 out restoration work together with local operators and volunteers at six locations. We opened up a total of 20,000 metres of new spawning grounds and habitat. FINANCIAL The K Fishpaths collaboration will continue and expand in 2018. STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 56 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Energy All operating countries 2017 2016 2015 STRATEGY Total energy consumption (MWh) 973,105 923,892 1,099,932 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Total energy consumption (TJ) 3,503 3,326 3,960 Kesko participates in mitigating climate change by increasing renewable energy purchases and own production and increasing energy efficiency. 1 The reporting boundary has changed in 2016, includes only electricity purchased by Kesko 2 Figure has been adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report Renewable electricity Kesko has purchased electricity produced with 100% renewable energy from the beginning of 2017 Energy consumption in properties in Finland in Finland. Kesko purchased 504 GWh of electricity for use in K-stores and other Kesko properties in At the end of 2017, properties managed by Kesko in Finland (owned and leased) included offices, 2017 with Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin (REGOs) from the Nordic countries. In 2017, the warehouses and approximately 1,246 store sites. The total area of the property portfolio decreased by SUSTAINABILITY purchased electricity was produced with Finnish bioenergy, which utilises by-products from the forest 4% due to the divestment of Indoor Group. industry and wood based fuels, for example. The majority of properties used district heat, but in addition 3.3% of the heat energy was self-proSolar power plants at K-stores duced. In 2017, the heat energy produced with natural gas and oil at properties in Finland totaled 39.52 Since 2016, Kesko has made significant investments in the construction of solar power plants. By the TJ (11 GWh). end of 2017, Kesko had 19 solar power plants on the rooftops of store properties it manages. A total of 3.0 GWh of electricity was produced with solar power for use in its own stores in 2017. The combined The electricity consumption of Kesko in Finland includes only electricity purchased by Kesko. Heat power output of the solar power plants is approximately 5.5 MWp. If three K-retailers' own solar consumption is reported for all properties managed by Kesko. Calculation methods and electricity and power plants are included, K Group is the biggest producer and consumer of solar power in Finland. heating consumption statistics by property type and changes in properties in Finland are available in the Investments in solar power utilisation will continue. Energy consumption tracking and Environmental profile reports. ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF PROPERTIES Energy consumption in properties in other operating countries FINANCIAL Finland 2017 2016 2015 The heat energy was partly self-produced with natural gas and oil. In Belarus, a small amount of timber Electricity (MWh) 1 504,459 458,690 694,544 (1,467 MWh) and peat (102 MWh) were also used for heating. In addition, a total of 4,055 MWh of electricity was produced with oil in Russia. In 2017, the fuels used for self-produced heat and electricity STATEMENTS District heat (MWh) 323,461 308,924 254,214 totaled 130.7 TJ (36.3 GWh). Fuel for self-produced heat (MWh) 10,978 5,169 3,406 Total energy consumption (MWh) 838,898 772,783 952,164 Subsidiaries outside of Finland report their fuel and purchased energy consumptions to Kesko and Total energy consumption (TJ) 3,020 2,782 3,428 statistics per country are compiled from this data. The heat energy data is not reported for some properties (6%, and store sites of Onninen Sweden and Norway) because it is included in the lease or Other operating countries 2017 2016 2015 data is not available. Electricity (MWh) 80,186 100,9282 103,038 Primary energy consumption CORPORATE District heat (MWh) 17,719 19,3502 17,840 Fuel for self-produced electricity (MWh) 4,055 0 The primary energy consumption for purchased energy in all operating countries in 2017: Fuel for self-produced heat (MWh) 32,247 30,8312 26,890 • Renewable: 2,315 TJ (63%) GOVERNANCE Total energy consumption (MWh) 134,207 151,109 147,768 • Nuclear power: 79 TJ (2%) Total energy consumption (TJ) 483 544 532 • Non-renewable: 1,262 TJ (35%) 57 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Fuel consumption of logistics in Finland The calculation methods for the properties in Finland are available in the Energy consumption tracking STRATEGY The energy consumed by Kesko Logistics' own transportation or that under its direct control was 645 report. The specific consumptions of properties in the other operating countries are calculated based TJ in 2017 (503.9 TJ in 2016). The fuel used was diesel. In 2017, the total distance driven by Kesko on the total area of properties (1,160,000 m2 in 2017). Logistics was 34.9 million km (32.3 million km in 2016). 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy consumption was calculated using data on kilometres driven, volumetric efficiencies and the K Group participates in the 2017–2025 action plan of the commerce sector Energy Efficiency Agreetransportation fleet. The calculation was made according to the Lipasto calculation system of the VTT ment. In accordance with the agreement, K Group commits to reducing its energy consumption by Technical Research Centre of Finland. 7.5% through various energy saving measures. All K Group store chains are included in the agreement. At the time of publication of the Annual Report, installed solar energy and the known reported actions Fuel consumption of logistics in other operating countries will allow annual energy savings of 12.4 GWh, which is 29.6% of the interim target for 2020 and 15.8% SUSTAINABILITY Most of Kesko’s subsidiaries have outsourced logistics operations. In 2017, the logistics in Estonia and of the target for 2025. Belarus consumed 25.3 TJ of fuel (diesel and gasoline). During the previous trading sector energy efficiency agreement for the period 2008–2016, K Group Total energy consumption was committed to improving its annual energy consumption by 65 GWh by the end of 2016. Due to In 2017, Kesko’s energy consumption in all operating countries totaled 4,173 TJ. determined actions K Group was able to surpass the target and improve its energy efficiency by 67 GWh. A total of 835.2 TJ of fuels from non-renewable sources were used for transportation as well as self-produced heat and electricity of properties. In addition, 5.3 TJ of renewable fuels were consumed. 302-3 Energy intensity SPECIFIC CONSUMPTIONS OF ENERGY, FINANCIAL PROPERTIES MANAGED BY KESKO kWh/br-m2 2017 2016 2015 STATEMENTS Finland Specific consumption of electricity 214 204 207 Specific consumption of district heat 86 79 76 Other operating countries Specific consumption of electricity 73 88 99 Specific consumption of heat 43 441 43 CORPORATE 1 Figure has been adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report The cold chain and the need for heated premises in food stores and warehouses require greater amounts of energy in comparison with other retail sectors. GOVERNANCE 58 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 ENERGY SOLUTIONS IN K-STORES the management centre as necessary, which also enables rapid response to disturbances. Setting the STRATEGY correct running times and set points is the easiest and most effective way to improve energy efficiency. Remote monitoring enables refrigeration equipment to be adjusted for optimum temperatures and 1 Lighting defrosting cycles. In addition, deviations can be responded to immediately. 2 Lids and doors on refrigeration units 3 Real estate managers 5. Condensation heat recovery 4 Remote monitoring Condensation heat from refrigeration equipment is recovered at nearly all K-food stores, which means 6 5 Condensation heat recovery additional heat energy is needed only during very low sub-zero temperatures. 6 Solar power 4 Increasingly many K-food stores also save energy by using carbon dioxide recovered from industrial 1 SUSTAINABILITY processes as the refrigerant in their refrigeration equipment. Carbon dioxide is an environmentally friendly refrigerant. 5 6. Solar power 3 2 Solar power plants are becoming more widely used on the rooftops of K-stores. The electricity consumption of food stores is greatest during the summer, when the stores and their refrigeration equipment require a lot of electricity for cooling. On a sunny summer day, solar power can cover as much as 60% of the food store's current consumption. 1. Lighting The solar panels installed on K-food store roofs cover around 10–15% of the store’s annual electricity LED lights are used in all lighting solutions of property development projects. Adjustable, correctly consumption. The life cycle of a solar power plant is as long as 35 years. Modern technology enables directed LED-lighting can help save up to 60% of electricity consumed compared to traditional solar power production even in overcast weather and during wintertime. FINANCIAL fluorescent tube and metal halide lighting solutions. 2. Lids and doors on refrigeration units STATEMENTS In food stores, the consumption of refrigeration systems can account for more than half of the total electricity consumption at small store sites. Lids on freezer chests save 40% of the electricity consumed by uncovered equipment. Doors on dairy and juice cabinets also help save electricity. 3. Real estate managers Kesko has around 45 Real Estate Managers to help K-stores find ways in which to make their energy consumption more efficient. Regular monitoring, technical supervision and comparison of reports CORPORATE from different properties are used to maintain an optimal level of energy consumption. Real Estate Managers also help stores with long-term planning. Renovation programmes contain estimates of the refurbishment that should be made within five to six years. GOVERNANCE 4. Remote monitoring In February 2017, the building automation of 214 Kesko facilities was monitored by a remote energy management centre. The set points of properties and equipment running hours can be changed from 59 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Water The consumption of water at Finnish properties increased in 2017 especially in shopping centres, STRATEGY VV-Autotalot and K-Supermarkets. Water consumption statistics by property type and changes in the Finland has abundant water resources. However, due to the large consumption of imported processed property portfolio in Finland are available in the Energy consumption tracking report. goods and the virtual water footprint associated with them, almost half (47%) of the water footprint of Finnish consumption falls outside of Finland. Kesko’s most significant impacts from water consumpThe divestment of the grocery trade business in Russia at the end of 2016 resulted in a significant tion are thus caused by imported products for sale which originate from areas suffering from water decrease in water consumption in Russia in 2017. The water consumption data from other countries scarcity or contamination. is compiled from figures reported by the companies, which are based on water billing or consumption data. At some stores located in leased properties, water consumption is included in the lease and data Kesko has initiated a water risk assessment for its own brand products in order to identify the water is not available for reporting (4% of locations in other operating countries). Consumption data is also basins most affected by water scarcity or contamination issues in its supply chain. The water risk not available for Onninen’s store properties in Sweden and Norway. SUSTAINABILITY assessment is in progress and results will be used to plan actions. Biodiversity 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Properties managed by Kesko use water from municipal water supplies in all operating countries. In Kesko has identified biodiversity impacts and opportunities in its operations. The objective is to reduce addition, a few wells are in use on properties in Estonia, Lithuania and Belarus. However, water from adverse biodiversity impacts in the supply chain and to take part in projects that promote biodiversity these wells accounts for only a minor portion (3%) of total water consumption and is thus reported in cooperation with other operators. Kesko participates in the Business & Biodiversity Finland with the municipal water consumption. Waste water from Kesko's operations goes to municipal sewer programme, organised jointly by the Corporate Responsibility Network FIBS and the Ministry of the systems. Environment Finland. WATER CONSUMPTION BY COUNTRY 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on m3 2017 2016 2015 biodiversity Finland 977,989 933,812 884,081 FINANCIAL Sweden 6,777 7,107 1 6,354 Supply chain Kesko’s greatest impacts on biodiversity occur throughout the lifecycle of the products on sale. Raw Norway 144 1,424 1,445 materials critical to biodiversity in Kesko’s supply chain include fish and shellfish, timber, palm oil, and STATEMENTS Estonia 7,421 5,922 4,954 soy. Their sustainable sourcing is guided by sourcing policies. Read more about the objectives of the Latvia 9,210 9,480 10,128 sourcing policies in our responsibility programme. Lithuania 39,780 40,268 38,472 Poland 4,754 3,100 In April 2017, Kesko added the Pirkka fish patty to the selections of K-food stores. The Pirkka fish Russia 30,015 84,431 79,755 patty is made from bream caught in John Nurminen Foundation’s Local Fishing Project, which aims Belarus 51,047 48,797 43,342 to promote sustainable fishing. Baltic bream has not been used as extensively in consumer products Total 1,127,137 1,134,341 1,068,531 before. The use of bream effectively reduces the environmental burden on the Baltic Sea. CORPORATE Figure has been adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report Plastics 1 In K Group's own operations, water is mainly used for cleaning purposes. Maintaining a high level of K Group’s objective is to reduce plastics ending up in water bodies and elsewhere in the environment. hygiene is particularly important in food stores and legal requirements for hygiene must be fulfilled. K Group is creating operating models to promote the recycling and reuse of plastic. GOVERNANCE Car wash facilities at Neste K service stations in Finland are big individual consumers of water. In its plastics policy K Group commits to measures to reduce the consumption of plastic bags. In 2017, Kesko removed microbeads from its own brand cosmetic products. K-stores offer consumers the pos60 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 sibility to recycle packaging plastics in 173 Rinki eco take-back points. Read more about the progress joki in Luumäki and Juottimenoja in Perniö. As a result, a total of 20,000 metres of new spawning STRATEGY made regarding the targets of our plastics policy in our responsibility programme. grounds and habitat were opened up. Food waste and climate change Read the NGO perspective by WWF Finland. Minimising food waste throughout the whole food chain from agriculture all the way to the end consumer reduces the need for primary production and thereby impacts on biodiversity. When food Store sites ends up in waste, all environmental impacts and emissions from its production, transportation, sales, Kesko builds store sites only in areas planned by municipalities for business properties. Surveys of constorage and preparation have been useless. taminated land are made annually in connection with construction work and real estate transactions. In 2017, two Kesko sites were restored. Climate change also impacts biodiversity, especially as areas of drought expand. Read more about SUSTAINABILITY Kesko’s diverse efforts to reduce food waste and greenhouse gas emissions in the responsibility A soil remediation project was carried out at one of Kesko’s sites in Vantaa, where a total of approxprogramme. imately 4,049 tonnes of contaminated soil was removed from a 16,700 m2 lot. The remediation work was completed when the target concentrations set by the Uusimaa ELY centre were achieved; in other 304-3 Habitats protected or restored words, when soil exceeding the higher reference values had been removed from the site. Concentrations of contaminants which exceeded the lower reference values but remained below the remediation K Fishpaths targets still exist in some areas of the walls and bottoms of excavations. A carwash is being planned for In August 2017, K Group and the environmental organisation WWF Finland began an extensive multhe site, so the contaminant levels that exceed the lower reference values will not require any further ti-year collaboration to save and restore Finland’s endangered migratory fish populations. Of Finnish action based on the current use of the lot. migratory fish, the maraena whitefish, salmon, trout and eel are endangered. Their situation is dire because obstacles in rivers and streams are preventing the fish from swimming to suitable spawning Another Kesko site underwent soil remediation measures in Turku. A total of 2,299 tonnes of soil that grounds. The swimming of fish upstream can be stopped by a single culvert or an old mill dam. contained elevated levels of hydrocarbons were removed from a 6,072 m2 lot. Based on the residual concentration samples taken from the excavation sites, the north edge of the property still had soil in FINANCIAL The objective of the K Fishpaths collaboration is to remove such obstacles in a spirit of cooperation which the higher reference values for hydrocarbons were exceeded. A bentonite mat was installed as with local operators, landowners, K-retailers and volunteers. The removal of a single obstacle may an insulating structure at the pipeline on the wall. The other residual concentration samples did not help open up several kilometres of flowing watercourses suitable for spawning. In addition to obstacle contain hydrocarbons exceeding the reference values. The soil remediation work was carried out in STATEMENTS removal, the collaboration also involves restoring spawning grounds and habitats for migratory fish. It accordance with the principles agreed on with the City of Turku Environmental Protection Department, is estimated there are tens of thousands of such barriers in Finland. and no further environmental engineering measures are necessary in the area. K Group and WWF Finland’s objective is to remove at least 50 barriers and to create at least one hunKesko does not have protected habitats of its own. dred spawning grounds for endangered migratory fish in Finland between 2017 and 2021. K Fishpaths also aims to increase awareness of the endangered status of migratory fish, and to organise events for Emissions volunteer work. CORPORATE Kesko reports direct and indirect (Scope 1 and 2) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from its operations In 2017, nine barriers in rivers and streams around Finland were removed and 40 new spawning according to the GHG Protocol standard. grounds for fish created. Restoration took place together with local operators at the Ingarskilanjoki • Scope 1: GHG emissions caused by fuel consumption for producing heat and electricity at river in Inkoo, Syvänoja in Suomusjärvi, Koirajoki in Tuusniemi, U ­ nterniskanjoki in Imatra, VaalimaanGOVERNANCE properties managed by Kesko and for transportation of goods directly controlled by Kesko • Scope 2: GHG emissions caused by generation of electricity purchased by Kesko and district heating consumed in properties managed by Kesko 61 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 SCOPE 1 AND 2 GHG EMISSIONS STRATEGY 305-1 and 305-2 Direct and energy indirect Tonnes CO2e 2017 2016 2015 GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) Direct (Scope 1) 48,219 43,002 43,302 Finland 38,506 36,478 34,977 logistics (Kesko Logistics) 35,801 35,079 34,117 Scope 1 and 2 emissions, Finland Scope 1 and 2 emissions, Scope 1 and 2 emissions, Finland Scope 1 and 2 emissions, all operating countries all operating countries self-produced heat (natural gas and oil) 2,705 1,399 860 Tonnes CO2e CO O2e CO Tonnes C sales,, € million Net sales Other operating countries 9,713 6,524 8,325 logistics (Belarus and Estonia) 1,870 344 1,115 150 150,,000 160 160,,000 10,800 10,800 self-produced heat and electricity 7,843 6,180 7,210 SUSTAINABILITY 144,266 (natural gas, oil, peat and timber1) 125, 125,000 000 121, 121,115 115 120 120,,000 10 10,200 ,200 Indirect (Scope 2) 82,421 81,963 144,266 100 100,,000 Finland 55,004 56,533 121,115 81,963 82,421 purchased electricity (market-based) 0 0 73,734 80 80,,000 9,600 75, 75,000 000 purchased electricity (location-based)2 91,224 95,866 153,087 56,533 55,004 55, 55,004 004 43,30 43,3022 43, 0022 43,00 48,219 purchased district heat (location-based) 55,004 56,533 47,381 50 50,,000 40 40,,000 9,000 34,9777 34,9 36,478 38,506 Other operating countries 27,417 25,430 23,151 25, 000 25,000 purchased electricity (location-based) 22,803 20,218 18,475 0 8,400 purchased district heat (location-based) 4,614 5,212 4,676 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Total 130,640 124,965 187,568 Scope Sc ope 1 Sc ope 2* Scope Net Finland, Scope 1 and 2 total 93,510 93,011 156,092 FINANCIAL Sc Scope ope 1 Sc Scope ope 2* sales Other operating countries, Scope 1 and 2 total 37,130 31,954 31,476 * The reporting boundary changed in 2016. * The reporting boundary changed in 2016. 1 The biogenous CO2 emission figure of the timber used for heating one facility in Belarus is reported in Scope 1, STATEMENTS because its proportion of the total fuel quantity is insignificant (about 2%). 2 Following the GHG Protocol standard, the location-based emission figure for electricity consumption in Finland has been reported. The market-based figure is used for the emissions totals. Location-based emissions are calculated with national emission factors and market-based emissions with energy supplier emission factors. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 62 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Scope 1 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions STRATEGY In 2017, the Scope 1 emissions of Kesko in Finland increased due to the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa in 2016 and the continued increase in own production of heat. SCOPE 3 GHG EMISSIONS Tonnes CO2e 2017 2016 2015 Emissions from logistics in the other operating countries were reported for Belarus and Estonia in 2017. Most of the logistics in the other operating countries are outsourced. Upstream Purchased goods and services 7,698,000 6,910,000 5,936,000 The transportation of goods for Kesko's grocery trade in Finland is managed by Kesko Logistics and Capital goods (buildings) 33,500 35,200 18,200 includes its own transportation and that under its direct control. Kesko Logistics’ emissions were calIndirect emissions of purchased energy 30,900 49,400 69,300 culated based on data including kilometres driven, volumetric efficiencies, and the transportation fleet (other than Scope 1 and Scope 2) SUSTAINABILITY using the Lipasto calculation system developed by the VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland. The Transport and distribution of goods 14,400 18,400 18,300 emissions for logistics operations in Belarus and Estonia were calculated based on fuel consumption. Waste 10,300 11,400 9,000 Business travel 3,100 3,000 2,700 Scope 2 Employee commuting 20,800 21,000 6,700 Kesko has purchased electricity produced with 100% renewable energy from the beginning of 2017 Downstream in Finland. The renewable electricity purchased with the Renewable Energy G ­ uarantees of Origin Customer commuting (shopping trips) 164,900 157,400 154,400 (REGOs) from the Nordic countries was produced with Finnish bioenergy, which utilises by-products from the forest industry and wood based fuels for example. Use of sold products 1,771,000 1,685,800 852,900 End-of-life treatment of sold products 38,600 36,500 16,300 The emissions from purchased electricity for the other operating countries increased by approximately Franchises (retailer entrepreneurs) 102,700 114,700 22,800 13% due to emission factor updates, although electricity consumption decreased significantly due to the divestment of the grocery trade in Russia in 2016. The greatest other indirect emissions of Kesko are caused in the supply chain of the products for sale FINANCIAL (78%), in the use phase of the products (18%) and by the shopping commutes of customers (2%). The calculation principles and more detailed calculations for Scope 1 and 2 emissions attributed to properties managed by Kesko can be found in the Environmental profile reports for Finland and the The Scope 3 calculation principles can be found in the Kesko Scope 3 Report. STATEMENTS other operating countries. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 63 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 305-4 GHG emissions intensity During the trading sector energy efficiency agreement for the period 2008-2016, K Group’s target was STRATEGY to improve its annual energy consumption by 65 GWh. Due to determined actions K Group was able The Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions intensity is calculated based on net sales (€10,676 million to surpass the target and improve its energy efficiency by 67 GWh. in 2017), the average number of employees (22,077 in 2017) and the area of properties managed by Kesko (4,185,000 m2 in 2017). Logistics The target of Kesko Logistics is to reduce CO2 emissions relative to the net sales index by 10% during SCOPE 1 AND 2 GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY 2012–2020 from the 2011 base year. By the end of 2017, the relative emissions had decreased by 16.2% 2017 2016 2015 from the base level. In 2017, the emissions decreased by 11.2% in comparison to 2016. The decrease in Based on net sales (tonnes CO2e / € million) 12.2 12.3 21.6 emissions was affected by new emission factors, which include the biocomponent of diesel fuel. The Based on average number of employees 5.9 5.6 9.9 emissions decreased while the driven kilometres increased, which was due to the increase in the numSUSTAINABILITY (tonnes CO2e / person) ber of stores resulting from the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa and their conversion to K-Markets Based on area of properties managed by Kesko 31.2 28.5 similar to the previous year. (tonnes CO2e / 1,000 m2) Kesko Logistics works ambitiously to reduce emissions: The Scope 2 reporting boundary for 2016 has changed • Efficiency of logistics: centralised distribution, optimisation of delivery routes and high volumetric efficiency 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions • Efficient reverse logistics: collection of purchase loads, carrier trays, pallets, roll containers and Science Based Targets recycled bottles and cans on the return route Kesko is the first Finnish company to set climate targets approved by the the Science Based Targets • Economical driving courses: all of Kesko Logistics’ more than 500 contract drivers have been initiative. The emissions targets set in line with two degree climate warming were approved in June trained 2017. FINANCIAL • New replacements in the vehicle fleet: eleven two-tier trailers and one extra-long HCT ‘Ecotruck’ Kesko commits to reduce its direct and indirect (Scope 1 and 2) emissions 18% by 2025 from base in use in long-distance transportation between main warehouses; in 2018 two new HCT-trailers will be added year 2015. In addition, Kesko is committed to reduce its supply chain emissions so that 90% of its key STATEMENTS suppliers will set their own GHG emissions reduction targets by 2025. In 2017, the direct and indirect emissions had increased by 14% from base year 2015, due to the acquisitions of Suomen Lähikauppa and Onninen in 2016. Out of Kesko’s key suppliers of 2016, 33% had set their own emission reduction targets by the end of 2017. Renewable energy and energy efficiency CORPORATE Since the beginning of 2017, Kesko has purchased electricity produced with 100% renewable energy in Finland and invested in solar power plants on the rooftops of its stores in the past few years as well. Read more in the Energy section. GOVERNANCE K Group participates in the 2017–2025 action plan of the commerce sector Energy Efficiency Agreement and is committed to reducing its energy consumption by 7.5% through various energy savings measures. 64 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Efficient logistics fleet EFFICIENT LOGISTICS FLEET K-food stores already had a 'Veggie shelf , which gathers plant-based products in one place to make STRATEGY choosing environmentally friendly products easier for the customer. Additionally, the K-Ruoka media offers diverse recipes and tips for cooking vegetarian meals. Traditional full-trailer combination K Group and Gasum cooperate to produce biogas from inedible food waste collected from K-food stores. The inedible organic waste from around 200 K-food stores and the Kesko Logistics central warehouse is utilised as energy in the manufacture of new Pirkka products. In 2017, approximately 4,000 tonnes (3,700 tonnes in 2016) of organic waste was transformed into 3,000 MWh (2,800 MWh 90 roll containers in 2016) of biogas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 594 tonnes compared to natural gas (calculated with emission factor 198 g CO2/kWh) and by 800 tonnes compared to fuel oil (calculated with emisSUSTAINABILITY Two-tier trailer combination sion factor 267 g CO2/kWh). The cooperation is rapidly growing into a nationwide operating model as the network of biogas plants expands. In 2017, K Group participated again in the Ham Trick campaign, in which customers could donate fat from roasting their Christmas hams to collection points at K-food stores. The fat was used to make 120 roll containers renewable diesel. A total of 44 tonnes of ham fat was collected, of which around 81% was collected at K-Citymarket stores. Extra-long Ecotruck Read more about our work to reduce food waste. Building and technical trade The building and technical trade offers consumers and business customers diverse product selections 189 roll containers FINANCIAL and expertise for improving the energy efficiency of building and renovation projects. The K-Rauta stores and Onninen offer environmentally friendly solutions for homes and properties from practical energy saving tips to intelligent energy management systems solutions. These include heating, cooling, STATEMENTS solar and wind energy solutions. Scope 3 emissions reductions Car trade Products for sale In February 2018, the selection of VV-Auto included six plug-in hybrid car models (PHEV) and two By far, the greatest indirect emissions of Kesko are caused in the supply chain and during the use electric cars. In addition, the selection included seven car models using natural gas or biogas as fuel. phase of the products for sale. These emissions can be influenced by offering selections of products In 2017, the registrations of Volkswagen, Audi and Porsche plug-in hybrids in Finland increased 54.1% and services causing less emissions and by customer communications. compared to the previous year. CORPORATE Grocery trade Customers are increasingly aware of the environmental impacts of their consumption choices. By reducing the amount of animal-based products and household food waste consumers can reduce GOVERNANCE the environmental impact of their food consumption. Vegan products increased in popularity in the shopping baskets of Finns in 2017. The number of plant-based Pirkka products increased by 16 new products in 2017 and the selection now numbers over one hundred. By the end of 2017, around 250 65 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Customer shopping commutes In 2017, the air miles of Kesko employees travelling for business totalled 9.8 million (8.2 million in STRATEGY The emissions caused by customer shopping commutes are a significant source of indirect emissions 2016). Encouraging the use of virtual meetings is one of the ways Kesko endeavours to decrease the for Kesko. The majority of shopping commutes are made by car. amount of air travel. The amount of virtual meetings held via the Skype for Business application has increased by approximately 3% since the previous year. In 2017, a total of 69,858 hours of Skype Kesko is building an extensive network of electric vehicle charging points adjacent to K Group stores in meetings were held (67,842 hours in 2016). At the end of 2017, the Kesko Group had 28 Videra video order to progress the electrification of cars. In February 2018, already 23 K Group stores and 13 Neste conferencing facilities in use and the total duration of all video meetings between two or more facilities K service stations offered a total of 121 electric and hybrid charging points for customer use. The aim is was 1,494 hours (1,793 hours in 2016). to build charging stations at all Neste K stations and 10–15 charging stations at K-Citymarket parking lots annually during the next few years. K Group has the largest private network of electric vehicle 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other charging points in Finland. significant air emissions SUSTAINABILITY The electricity and heating energy consumed in properties managed by Kesko in Finland in 2017 K Group offers Finland’s most comprehensive network of neighbourhood stores with the best services. caused: The stores are tailored to each store’s own customer demand. When the nearby neighbourhood store offers a selection suited for its customers, shopping commutes are shortened and they can be travelled 134 tonnes of NOx emissions (130 t in 2016) more often by foot, bicycle or public transportation, especially in cities. The extra services available at K-stores reduce emissions caused by customer commuting, because many errands can be run during 119 tonnes of SO2 emissions (115 t in 2016) the same shopping trip. Increasingly, online shopping also reduces customer commuting. 0 tonnes of radioactive waste (1.2 t in 2016) Employee commuting and business travel In December 2016, a survey on commuting to work was conducted for the Helsinki area office workers The calculation principles and more detailed calculations are available in the Environmental profile by using the Helsinki Region Transport (HSL) commuting calculator. According to the survey, the report. The figures for 2016 have been adjusted for improved accuracy since the last report. Only CO2 average emissions per employee were 8.8 kg CO2/working day. The results of the survey will be used emissions data is collected for transportation of goods. FINANCIAL as a basis for developing the employee commuting for Kesko's new K-kampus main office building. An employee commuting plan will be made in order to encourage commuting to the K-kampus which is Effluents and waste sustainable and improves the wellbeing of employees. STATEMENTS Circular economy At the end of 2017, Kesko had 668 company cars in use in Finland (690 in 2016). Shifting to a circular economy requires increasingly efficient circulation of materials. Kesko provides customers with diversified recycling services for waste and discarded items and develops innovative • 2 ethanol-fueled cars (6 in 2016) circular economy solutions in cooperation with other operators. • 329 petrol-fueled cars (312 in 2016) Recycling services for customers • 336 diesel-fueled cars (370 in 2016) In December 2017, there were 399 Rinki eco take-back points intended for recycling consumer packCORPORATE • 1 natural gas car (2 in 2016) ages (fibre, glass, metal) in connection with K-food stores. Plastic was collected at 173 eco take-back points (160 in 2016). Since January 2017, Pirkka ESSI circular economy bags have been made from According to Kesko's company car policy, Kesko’s company cars have an emission level below 150 g plastic recycled by customers. CO2/km. Since December 2017, the employees’ pay share will be discounted by 10% of the tax value if GOVERNANCE the emission level of the company car is below 105 g CO2/km. In 2017, the average emission level was In connection with K Group stores, customers can also return deposit beverage containers, batteries 122 g CO2/km (122 g CO2/km in 2016) and the emissions from company cars totalled 2,477 CO2 tonnes and accumulators, WEEE, lead accumulators, impregnated timber and discarded clothing for recycling. (2,648 CO2 tonnes in 2016). This calculation also includes private use of company cars. 66 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 PACKAGES AND ITEMS RETURNED BY CUSTOMERS TO RECYCLING PACKAGING COLLECTED BY KESKO LOGISTICS REVERSE STRATEGY POINTS AT K GROUP STORES LOGISTICS FOR REUSE AND RECOVERY 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Deposit aluminium cans 374 378 311 Aluminium cans (1,000 pcs) 87,676 82,169 96,479 (million pcs) Deposit recyclable plastic 120 116 94 Recyclable plastic bottles 60,606 54,648 61,403 bottles (million pcs) (1,000 pcs) SUSTAINABILITY Deposit recyclable glass 30 29 26 Recyclable glass bottles 12,305 11,292 9,462 bottles (million pcs) (1,000 pcs) Batteries and accumulators 303 289 210 Reusable crates (1,000 pcs) 20,241 17,893 17,294 (tonnes) WEEE (tonnes) 68 92 95 Circular Economy Agreement for stores in Finland Since 2016, all K Group stores in Finland have had the opportunity to participate in a national centralLead-acid accumulators, 0.8 3.5 1.6 K-Rauta (tonnes) ised waste management agreement, which was renamed the Circular Economy Agreement in 2017. The target is to increase the efficiency of recycling at K Group stores and advance the circular economy. FINANCIAL Impregnated timber, K-Rauta 859 814 914 (tonnes) At the end of 2017, a total of 426 stores (139 in 2016) participated in the Circular Economy Agreement. The recovery rate of the waste generated in these stores was 100% (100% in 2016) and the recycling rate was around 67% (66% in 2016). STATEMENTS Used clothing, UFF recycling n/a 3,123 2,915 points (tonnes) Kesko Logistics’ centralised collection services Cardboard and plastic bales from 284 K-food stores (236 in 2016) were centrally directed by Kesko's grocery trade for industry reuse in 2017. Around 2,912 tonnes of cardboard (2,806 in 2016) and 54 CORPORATE tonnes of plastic (70 in 2016) were collected. The reverse logistics operations of Kesko Logistics transport beverage containers and boxes from stores for reuse and recovery. GOVERNANCE 67 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method WASTE: ESTONIA, LATVIA AND LITHUANIA STRATEGY Kesko’s objective is to minimise and recover all waste from its operations. Estonia Latvia Lithuania WASTE IN ALL OPERATING COUNTRIES Tonnes 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Non-hazardous 924 733 680 911 640 612 5,973 3,946 2,605 Tonnes 2017 2016 2015 waste Non-hazardous waste 36,401 38,051 27,832 Recycling/recovery 834 689 608 171 163 156 2,657 2,271 1,699 Recycling/recovery 26,917 27,444 18,474 Landfill 90 44 72 740 477 456 3,316 1,675 906 Landfill 9,484 10,607 9,358 Hazardous waste 37 27 20 9 5 3 166 152 36 Hazardous waste 1,404 774 1,261 Recycling/recovery 1 1 0 125 119 8 SUSTAINABILITY Recycling/recovery 983 524 171 Hazardous waste 36 26 20 9 5 3 41 33 28 Hazardous waste treatment 421 250 1,090 treatment Total 37,805 38,825 29,093 Total 961 760 700 920 645 615 6,139 4,098 2,641 Recovery rate % 91 94 90 20 26 26 46 59 66 Waste recovery rates Kesko’s waste statistics in Finland mainly cover warehousing operations, while in the other countries, WASTE: POLAND, RUSSIA AND BELARUS the majority of waste statistics cover store operations. According to statistics, the recovery rate in Poland Russia Belarus Kesko’s waste management in Finland was nearly 100% in 2017 and in the other operating countries Tonnes 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 it was 53%. The recovery rate includes all waste except waste to landfill. The type of waste treatment Non-hazardous 404 218 4,970 8,594 8,303 1,494 1,665 1,570 was determined by the waste management company. waste Recycling/recovery 127 51 1,463 2,382 2,279 293 55 48 WASTE: FINLAND, SWEDEN AND NORWAY FINANCIAL Landfill 277 167 3,507 6,212 6,024 1,201 1,610 1,522 Finland Sweden Norway Hazardous waste 17 15 1 1 1 82 3 1 STATEMENTS Tonnes 2017 20161 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Recycling/recovery 17 15 0 81 2 0 Non-hazardous 17,469 18,366 10,737 3,533 3,479 2,692 723 410 633 Hazardous waste 0 1 1 1 1 0.6 1 waste treatment Recycling/recovery 17,467 18,204 10,621 3,182 3,220 2,470 723 410 593 Total 421 233 4,971 8,595 8,304 1,576 1,668 1,571 Landfill 2 162 116 351 259 222 0 0 40 Recovery rate % 34 28 29 28 27 24 3 3 Hazardous waste 354 273 1,125 227 81 60 511 215 15 Recycling/recovery 258 183 160 7 3 3 494 200 Hazardous waste 96 90 965 220 78 57 17 15 15 CORPORATE treatment Total 17,823 18,639 11,862 3,760 3,560 2,752 1,234 625 648 Recovery rate % 99.99 99 99 91 93 92 100 100 94 GOVERNANCE 1 A small part of the data is based on estimation (0.3% of total waste in Finland) 68 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Food waste sell the product at a discount. The deregulation of store opening hours in Finland in 2016 has had an STRATEGY impact on food waste: as stores are open for longer, sales are steadier and there is less wastage. We are reducing food waste through cooperation throughout the whole food chain, from primary production to the end user. K Group’s goal is to minimise the food waste resulting from its operations Food donations and utilise the inevitably accumulated organic waste. Our objective is to reduce identified food waste Some 90% of K-food stores donate edible food products they no longer can sell to local charities, relative to sales by 10% from the 2013 level by 2020. which then distribute the products as food aid to those in need. In 2017, the amount of food products Ruokahävikin minimointi ja hyötykäyttö donated increased by nearly 930,000 kg. Some food waste is also given to farms for animal feed. K GROUP FOOD WASTE HIERARCHY Energy from organic waste Food waste prevention measures: product selections, K Group and Gasum cooperate in producing biogas from inedible food waste collected from K-food SUSTAINABILITY electronic forecast and order systems, efficient logistics, stores. By the end of 2017, organic waste was being collected from 200 K-food stores and the Kesko employee training, and optimisation of packaging properties Logistics central warehouse. The biogas produced is transmitted to Gasum’s gas network, and then utilised as energy in the production of new Pirkka products. As the biogas transmission network expands, the operating model is quickly becoming nationwide. Price reductions of products approaching their best before dates In 2017, some 4,000 tonnes of organic waste was turned into some 3,000 MWh of biogas, with three manufacturers of Pirkka products included in the operating model. Donations of food removed from sale FOOD WASTE FROM K-FOOD STORES to charity 2017 2016 Identified food waste (tonnes) 19,511 20,591 Identified food waste in proportion to sales 1.6% 1.7% FINANCIAL Utilisation of non-edible organic Development of food waste in proportion to sales (from base year 2013) -7.1% -3.5% waste for Share of food aid donations from identified food waste 46% 39% energy Household food waste STATEMENTS Households can reduce their food waste through better planning of food purchases. The K-Ruoka mobile app helps customers plan their food purchases by offering personalised benefits, store-speFood waste prevention cific offers, a smart shopping list and over 6,000 K-ruoka.fi recipes. At the end of 2017, the app had K Group’s primary means of reducing food waste is selection management. K-food stores maintain 450,000 users. selections that suit their customer base, and complement the selections through forecast-based CORPORATE requirements planning. Efficient transport and store logistics, self-control system and staff training K-food stores took part in Food Waste Week in September 2017 with their “To the last crumb” also help to prevent wastage. The optimisation and continuous development of packaging features campaign, offering food waste related recipes and tips for food shopping and meal planning. play a key role in reducing wastage. GOVERNANCE At the store Stores are instructed to pay special attention to the expiration dates of fresh foods and foods with short expiration times. As a product’s ‘best before’ or ‘use by’ date approaches, K-food stores can 69 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 GRI Management approach Environmental systems at Kesko STRATEGY All of Onninen's operations in all operating countries are ISO 14001 certified. Material aspects • Energy The operations of Kesko Logistics are ISO 14001 certified. • Water In the food stores and the building and home improvement stores, environmental management is • Emissions based on the K-responsibility concept. For K-Citymarkets, K-Supermarkets and K-Markets, the K-responsibility concept is a requirement for inclusion in the chain. A K-responsibility concept inspection is • Wastewater and waste carried out every three years at the K-Rauta stores by an independent external partner. • Biodiversity SUSTAINABILITY VV-Auto Group Oy fulfils the requirements of the ISO 9001 quality system and VV-Autotalot Oy fulfils • Food waste the requirements of the quality and environmental action programme of the Finnish Central Organisation for Motor Trades and Repairs (AKL). Policies, principles and commitments K Group's environmental and energy policy covers the operations of the Group and the stores both Division of responsibilities and resources in Finland and the other operating countries. K Group's key business partners are also expected to • Group's Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board observe corresponding environmental management principles. • Group's Environmental Steering Group Environmental management is part of K Group's management system and is based on the ICC Business • Store Sites and Real Estate Unit Charter for Sustainable Development, environmental management standards, as well as requirements • Logistics Units set by legislation and the authorities. FINANCIAL Kesko is committed to UN's Global Compact initiative and Sustainable Development Goals. Programmes, projects and initiatives In June 2017, Kesko was the first Finnish company to set Science Based Targets for reducing emissions Monitoring and control systems from its properties, transportation, and supply chains. Kesko is committed to reducing its Scope 1 and STATEMENTS Kesko Group's Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board defines the main policies for environmental 2 emissions by 18% by 2025, using a 2015 base year, and reducing the Scope 3 emissions from the work and the target levels. The divisions specify the main policies of their environmental work into supply chain so that 90% of Kesko's key suppliers will set greehouse gas emissions reduction targets environmental action programmes which support their business operations. The action programmes by 2025. are monitored and updated annually as part of the strategy work. Kesko participates in the retail sector energy efficiency agreement for 2017–2025. In accordance with Kesko's maintenance partners monitor the energy consumption of properties with the help of the the agreement, Kesko is committed to reducing its energy consumption by 7.5% by means of various EnerKey.com system supplied by Enegia Oy. Enegia remotely reads energy consumption measurement savings measures. The agreement covers all of K Group’s store chains. Kesko has joined the amfori CORPORATE terminals located in properties and records the data in the database by the hour. The consumption Business Environmental Performance Initiative (BEPI). Amfori BEPI aims to help member companies figures for properties where the data are collected manually are also saved in the EnerKey system. The in the management of global supply chains and, consequently, in increasing the transparency and risk EnerKey programme responds to even minor location-specific changes in consumption and sends an management of their product supply chains. alarm to the person in charge. GOVERNANCE Kesko's timber and paper policy was updated in June 2017. The objective of the policy is that by 2025 Water consumption monitoring is part of consumption monitoring in the properties. Kesko's goal is to all timber and paper products in Kesko's product range will come from material of sustainable origin. maintain a high level of water consumption efficiency in all operations. 70 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 K Group’s fish and shellfish statement directs its sourcing of Kesko's grocery trade and Kespro, as STRATEGY well as K-food retailers' sourcing to safeguard the responsible fishing and management of fish. Kesko’s grocery trade is a member of the RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil). The objective is that by 2020, all palm oil in own brand grocery products will be responsibly produced (CSPO). Kesko is a founding member of the Finnish soy commitment group. Kesko has become a member in the RTRS (Roundtable on Responsible Soy) and made a commitment that by 2020, all of the soy in the production chains of its private label products will be responsibly produced, either RTRS or ProTerra certified soy. The commitment covers both the Finnish production chain and sourcing from SUSTAINABILITY other countries. Grievance mechanisms SpeakUp reporting channel Boundaries Energy and water Kesko Biodiversity Kesko Emissions Scope 1 and 2: Kesko; Scope 3: K-stores and supply chain Waste Finland: Kesko’s warehousing operations; other FINANCIAL operating countries: stores Food waste Kesko's grocery trade and K-stores STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 71 FINANCIAL CORPORATE STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2017 RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Corporate responsibility organisation in Kesko Management model STRATEGY Corporate responsibility at Kesko is integrated into day-to-day activities that help customers make good choices. General operating principles guiding responsibility Kesko’s Board of Directors and Group Management Board discuss the key principles and reporting. Corporate responsibility work is based on Kesko's value, vision and mission. Corporate responsibility work is guided by Kesko’s strategy, the K Code of Conduct, Kesko’s general corporate responsibility The corporate responsibility function is headed by the Executive Vice President for human resources, principles, and Kesko’s purchasing principles. corporate responsibility and regional relations, who is a member of Kesko’s Group Management Board. Corporate responsibility is one of the target indicators of his performance bonus. SUSTAINABILITY Kesko’s responsibility programme contains both short-term and long-term objectives. The programme has six themes: Good corporate governance and finance, Customers, Society, Working The Group’s Corporate Responsibility Unit, assisted by steering groups, is responsible for the developcommunity, Responsible purchasing and sustainable selections, and Environment. ment, coordination and reporting of responsibility work. Kesko has committed to several international declarations and conventions, the most important of The management of each business division is responsible for practical implementation. which are: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STEERING • The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Convention of the Rights of the Child • The ILO convention on the Fundamental Rights and Principles at Work • The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Corporations Kesko's Board of Directors Group Management Board • The ICC Business Charter for Sustainable Development and principles against corruption and FINANCIAL bribery • The UN Global Compact initiative K Code of Conduct STATEMENTS • The UN Sustainable Development Goals • The purchasing principles of the amfori Business Social Compliance Initiative (amfori BSCI) Corporate responsibility advisory board Steering group Division-specific Environmental for responsible responsibility CORPORATE steering group purchasing steering groups GOVERNANCE 73 sisällä erityispiirteiden ja st • seuraa lainsäädännön muutoksia ympäristövastuun osalta KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Corporate responsibility advisory board STRATEGY The Vice President for corporate responsibility (Ch.), division representatives, Group representatives • develops the principles that guide the Group’s corporate responsibility • sets the objectives for corporate responsibility work and monitors their achievement • steers and coordinates practical measures Environmental steering group The Group’s Corporate Responsibility Unit (Ch.), divisions’ specialist representatives SUSTAINABILITY • develops the Group’s environmental management Kesko on mukana YK:n Global Compact -aloitteessa ja on kaikissa toimintamaissaan sitoutunut noudattamaan kymmentä yleisesti hyväksyttyä • promotes the sharing of best practices within the Group ihmisoikeuksia, työelämää, ympäristöä ja korruptionvastaista toimintaa koskevaa periaatetta. ”Kesko participates in the UN Global Mikk Mikko oCompact Helander,, pääjohtaja Helander initiative and is committed to observing ten • keeps up with changes in legislation pertaining to environmental responsibility generally accepted principles concerning human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption in all of its operating countries.” Steering group for responsible purchasing Kesko on mukana YK:n Global Compact -aloitteessa ja on kaikissa toimintamaissaan sitoutunut noudattamaan kymmentä yleisesti hyväksyttyä The Group’s Corporate Responsibility Unit (Ch.), divisions’ specialistihmisoikeuksia, representatives periaatetta. työelämää, ympäristöä ja korruptionvastaista toimintaa koskevaa Mikk Mikkoo Helander Helander,, pääjohtaja Mikko Helander, President and CEO • develops the Group’s responsible purchasing procedures • promotes the sharing of best purchasing practices within the Group FINANCIAL • keeps up with changes in legislation pertaining to purchasing and sourcing Division-specific responsibility steering groups STATEMENTS are, based on the objectives set by the Group-level steering groups, responsible for: • determining their own responsibility objectives 109 • implementing them according to the specific characteristics and strategies of their respective divisions 109 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 74 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Materiality assessment STRATEGY MATERIALITY MATRIX Materiality matrix The materiality assessment of Kesko’s corporate responsibility identifies the key responsibility topics O C A for Kesko and its stakeholders. The materiality assessment guides Kesko’s corporate responsibility I B Level of stakeholder concern work and stakeholder work and defines actions to meet stakeholder expectations. D P H Kesko’s material corporate responsibility topics are presented in the matrix below, where the vertical Q G axis shows the level of concern for stakeholders and the horizontal axis the current or potential N F SUSTAINABILITY economic, environmental or social impact of Kesko's operations. The level of concern for stakeholders R J E has been assessed as a whole, which is why the stakeholder specific weightings are not reflected in the matrix. L M The materiality assessment was last updated in 2012. In 2017, the material topics for reporting were defined in compliance with the requirements of the new GRI standards. The identified topics are K included in Kesko’s current materiality assessment, and no need was seen to update the materiality matrix. Current or potential significance of economic, environmental or social impacts FINANCIAL Good corporate Customers Society governance and finance H Promoting wellbeing Local approach L A Financial profitability STATEMENTS J Guiding customers M Sense of community B Good corporate governance K Servitisation of products and risk management D Accessibility and multi-channel approach N Shopping safety and security Working community Responsible purchasing Environment E Personnel's competence and sustainable selections F Efficient logistics development C Product safety and quality CORPORATE I Energy and resource efficiency G A fair working community O Sustainable product selections R Promoting sustainable agriculture Q Changing expectations P Human rights and the for work-life environmental impacts of production in the purchasing chain GOVERNANCE 75 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 UN Sustainable Development STRATEGY Goals and Kesko We are committed to support the UN Sustainable Development Goals, the SDGs, in our operations. We have recognised three goals as most material for our operations and stakeholders: The UN Sustainable Development Goals are a worldwide action plan – the 2030 UN Agenda – to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. SUSTAINABILITY We promote the UN Sustainable Development Goals in our strategy and sustainability work. Our operations contribute to all of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production at Kesko encompasses sustainability throughout supply chains, selections, customer communications and use of products. SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth includes issues such as compliance with the K Code of Conduct and Kesko as a responsible employer of 25,000 employees in eight countries. Management of human rights in supply chains as well as promoting domestic production in Finland contribute towards SDG 8 also. SDG 13: Climate action includes reducing emissions and increasing energy efficiency in our own operFINANCIAL ations such as store operations and logistics. We also work to reduce emissions in supply chains and selections of products and services as well as to promote more sustainable consumption to customers. STATEMENTS Up to date details of our work towards each of the SDGs can be found at the Kesko.fi website. The GRI, UNGC and SDG index of Kesko’s Annual Report includes SDGs for the relevant disclosures. In addition, the Responsibility Programme connects the appropriate SDGs to each theme. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 76 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Responsibility path STRATEGY We at K Group have always believed in the power of sustainability and we have been open-mindedly working towards it for decades. Responsible environmental actions originated at our stores, and over the years, this has expanded to comprehensive corporate responsibility work. A human rights SUSTAINABILITY assessment and a human rights Responsibility commitment combined with Our Responsible strong identity Working The UN's and attractive Principles guide Sustainable brands is an Development increasingly Kesko's Responsible Assurance of First Goals (SDGs) important energy purchasing: the corporate First integrated prerequisite in guide is Kesko's SA8000 responsibility responsibility annual report The K Code of every business published values certification report begins programme is published Conduct guidelines operation FINANCIAL 1982 1996 1999 2002 2008 2014 2016 2020 STATEMENTS 1990 1998 2000 2005 2013 2015 2017 Environmental K-environmental The first The Global Updated Objectives 100% renewable policy store model corporate Compact responsibility in other electricity in Finland CORPORATE responsibility initiative programme countries are Comprehensive report is included in the Science Based Targets reporting published Responsible K-responsibility responsibility for emissions GOVERNANCE begins purchasing: concept programme BSCI audits adopted by first stores 77 FINANCIAL CORPORATE STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2017 GRI REPORT PROFILE KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Reporting principles STRATEGY Reporting principles in accordance with the GRI standards Global Compact reporting Since 2000, Kesko has annually reported on its corporate responsibility actions in accordance with the The report describes Kesko’s progress on the 10 principles of the Global Compact initiative. The GRI, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines for reporting on sustainable development. The SustainabilUNGC and SDG index shows which General Disclosures and Topic-specific Disclosures have been ity section in Kesko’s integrated Annual Report is prepared in accordance with the GRI standards and it used for evaluating performance in fulfilling human rights, labour rights, environment principles and covers the key areas of economic, social and environmental responsibility. For each reported standard, anti-corruption principles. SUSTAINABILITY the GRI, UNGC and SDG index refers to the year of the version used. Integrated Annual Report In our operations, we apply the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles: stakeholder inclusivity, identification of material aspects and responsiveness to stakeholders. Since 2014, Kesko has taken account of the IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council) <IR> Framework in its annual reporting. Kesko has taken account of the ISO 26000 standard as a source document providing guidelines for corporate responsibility. Report stakeholders The Sustainability section of the Annual Report has been divided into three subsections: Responsibility Various stakeholders use the report as their source of information when assessing Kesko’s results in programme, Responsibility management and Report profile. The report is published only online, in the different areas of responsibility. The most important target groups for the report include investors, Finnish and in English. owners, analysts and rating agencies, as well as society (the media, authorities, NGOs and other organisations, and trade unions). FINANCIAL This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Topic-specific Disclosures are reported with respect to the material topics for Kesko. A comparison of the contents Reporting period and contact information of the report and the GRI standards is given in the GRI, UNGC and SDG index. STATEMENTS This report describes the progress and results of responsibility work in 2017. It includes some informaAssurance of reporting tion from January to March 2018. An independent third party, PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, has provided assurance for the performance The report for 2016 was published in March 2017. indicators on economic, social and environmental responsibility in the Finnish language Sustainability section of the Annual Report. The congruence between responsibility information presented in the The report for 2018 will be published in the spring of 2019. Finnish and English versions has been checked. CORPORATE Further information on the topics covered in the report can be obtained from Kesko’s contact persons. The conclusions, observations and recommendations by PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy are detailed in the assurance report. The assurance is commissioned by the operative management of Kesko Corporation. GOVERNANCE 79 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 GRI, UNGC and SDG Index STRATEGY Code GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact Most material SDG Standard version GRI 102 General Standard Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organisation Kesko in brief and key indicators 102-2 Activities, brands, products and Divisions services 102-3 Location of headquarters Kesko in brief and key indicators SUSTAINABILITY 102-4 Location of operations Kesko in brief and key indicators 102-5 Ownership and legal form Kesko in brief and key indicators 102-6 Markets served Kesko in brief and key indicators 102-7 Scale of the organisation Kesko in brief and key indicators 102-8 Information on employees and Responsibility programme/ There are no independent X other workers Working community entrepreneurs among Kesko employees, nor does suppliers' or hired labour perform a significant part of the work. There are no significant seasonal fluctuations in the number of employees. No distribution by gender. FINANCIAL Information not available. The aim is to report the information in 2018. STATEMENTS 102-9 Supply chain 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers, Responsibility programme/Responsible purchasing and sustainable selections 102-10 Significant changes to the Review by the President and CEO organisation and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or Operating environment approach CORPORATE 102-12 External initiatives Responsibility management/ Management model 102-13 Membership of associations Activities in organisations GOVERNANCE 102-14 Statement from senior decisionReview by the President and CEO maker 80 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Code GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact Most material SDG Standard version STRATEGY 102-15 Key impacts, risks and Operating environment, opportunities Value creation, Stakeholders, Responsibility programme 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and Policies and principles, X norms of behaviour Responsibility programme/ Good corporate governance and finance 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Notification of concerns and nonX concerns about ethics compliances Corporate Governance SUSTAINABILITY 102-18 Governance structure Statement 2017 102-19 Delegating authority Responsibility management/ Management model 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for EVP, CFO; EVP, Human Both are members of the Group economic, environmental and Resources, Corporate Management Board. social topics Responsibility and Regional Reporting model Relations 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on Stakeholders economic, environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest Board of Directors, Corporate governance body and its Governance Statement 2017 committees FINANCIAL 102-23 Chair of the highest govenance Board of Directors body 102-24 Nominating and selecting the Corporate Governance STATEMENTS highest governance body Statement 2017 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Kesko complies with the Finnish Statement 2017, K Code of Corporate Governance Code for Conduct Listed Companies. 102-26 Role of highest governance body Corporate Governance in setting purpose, values, and Statement 2017, Responsibility strategy management/Management model 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance Corporate Governance Only the Board's self-assessment CORPORATE body's performance Statement 2017 has been reported. 102-29 Identifying and managing Corporate Governance economic, environmental, and Statement 2017 social impacts GOVERNANCE 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management Corporate Governance processes Statement 2017 81 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Code GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact Most material SDG Standard version STRATEGY 102-31 Review of economic, Corporate Governance environmental, and social topics Statement 2017 102-32 Highest governance body's role in Corporate Governance Principles sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Stakeholders, Corporate Governance Statement 2017 102-35 Remuneration policies Remuneration Statement 2017 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholders 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Responsibility programme/ X SUSTAINABILITY Good corporate governance and finance/Freedom of association and collective bargaining 102-42 Identifying and selecting Stakeholders stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Stakeholders engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholders 102-45 Entities included in the Note 5.2 to the consolidated consolidated financial statements financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Materiality assessment, Boundaries Reporting principles FINANCIAL 102-47 List of material topics Materiality assessment 102-48 Restatements of information Changes reported in connection with topic-specific information. STATEMENTS 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant changes. 102-50 Reporting period Reporting principles 102-51 Date of most recent report Reporting principles 102-52 Reporting cycle Reporting principles 102-53 Contact point for questions Contact information regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance Reporting principles with the GRI Standards CORPORATE 102-55 GRI content index GRI, UNGC and SDG index 102-56 External assurance Reporting principles GOVERNANCE 82 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Code GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact Most material SDG Standard version STRATEGY GRI 103 Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Boundaries of responsibility and its Boundary programme themes 103-2 The management approach and its Responsibility programme components 103-3 Evaluation of the management Responsibility programme approach Topic-specific content Topic-specific content is reported regarding aspects identified as material. SUSTAINABILITY Economic impacts 201 Economic performance 8 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated Responsibility programme/ and distributed Good corporate governance and finance/Economic performance, Responsibility programme/ Society/Kesko's community investments 201-2 Financial implications and other Responsibility programme/ Monetary evaluations or X risks and opportunities due to Good corporate governance and realisations have not been climate change finance/Economic performance reported for risks and opportunities. Information is not available, as climate change is FINANCIAL difficult to estimate. 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations Responsibility programme/ and other retirement plans Good corporate governance and STATEMENTS finance/Economic performance 201-4 Financial assistance received from Responsibility programme/ government Good corporate governance and finance/Economic performance 203 Indirect economic impacts 9 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and Responsibility programme/ services supported Customers/Store network 203-2 Significant indirect economic Responsibility programme/ CORPORATE impacts Good corporate governance and finance/Indirect economic impacts 204 Procurement practices 16 2016 GOVERNANCE 204-1 Proportion of spending on local Responsibility programme/ suppliers Society/Indirect economic impacts 83 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Code GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact Most material SDG Standard version STRATEGY 205 Anti-corruption 16 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks Responsibility programme/Good The number and percentage of Risks related to corruption are X related to corruption corporate governance/Antibusiness units have not been discussed as part of Kesko's corruption reported. Information is not risk management. Key risks are available as the risks related to identified and assessed regularly corruption are part of a wider throughout the year. assessment of business risks. 205-2 Communication and training Responsibility programme/Good Percentages have not been X about anti-corruption policies and corporate governance/Antireported by personnel group or procedures corruption geographical region. Information SUSTAINABILITY is not available. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption Responsibility programme/Good X and actions taken corporate governance/Anticorruption 206 Anti-competitive behaviour 16 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive Responsibility programme/Good behaviour, anti-trust, and corporate governance/Antimonopoly practices competitive behaviour Environmental impacts 301 Materials 13 2016 301-3 Reclaimed products and their Responsibility programme/ Percentage calculation model in packaging materials Environment/Effluents and waste accordance with the GRI standard is not applicable to Kesko's FINANCIAL operations. 302 Energy 13 2016 STATEMENTS 302-1 Energy consumption within the Responsibility programme/ X organisation Environment/Energy 302-2 Energy consumption outside the Responsibility programme/ Only limited information on X organisation Environment/Emissions energy consumption outside the organisation is compiled for Scope 3 review (305-3). 302-3 Energy intensity Responsibility programme/ X Environment/Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Responsibility programme/ X CORPORATE Environment/Energy 303 Water 6 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Responsibility programme/ X GOVERNANCE Environment/Water 84 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Code GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact Most material SDG Standard version STRATEGY 304 Biodiversity 15 2016 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, Responsibility programme/ X products, and services on Environment/Biodiversity biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Responsibility programme/ X Environment/Biodiversity 305 Emissions 13 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Responsibility programme/ Environment/Emissions SUSTAINABILITY 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Responsibility programme/ Emissions from district heat in X emissions Environment/Emissions Finland and emissions in the other operating countries have not been reported according to the market-based method because the information was not available. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG Responsibility programme/ X emissions Environment/Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Responsibility programme/ X Environment/Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Responsibility programme/ X Environment/Emissions 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur Responsibility programme/ X FINANCIAL oxides (SOx), and other significant Environment/Emissions air emissions 306 Effluents and waste 13 2016 STATEMENTS 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Responsibility programme/ X method Environment/Effluents and waste Food waste 12 Food waste Responsiblity programme/ Material topic without applicable X Environment/Food waste standard. Social impacts 401 Employment 8 2016 CORPORATE 401-1 New employee hires and employee Responsibility programme/ Only exit turnover by country X turnover Working community/ reported. Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time Responsibility programme/ Benefits exceeding the statutory GOVERNANCE employees that are not provided Working community/ level have not been reported in to temporary or part-time Employment detail. employees Practices vary in different operating countries. 85 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Code GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact Most material SDG Standard version STRATEGY 402 Labour/Management relations 8 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding Responsibility programme/Good Arrangements compliant to X operational changes corporate governance/Labour/ legislation. Legislation does not Management relations define minimum notice periods at the precision required by GRI. 403 Occupational health and safety 3 2016 403-1 Workers' representation in formal Responsibility programme/ Percentage of employees has not joint management–worker health Working committee/ been reported. Information not and safety committees Occupational health and safety available. SUSTAINABILITY 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Responsibility programme/ Not reported by gender. occupational diseases, lost days, Working committee/ Information not available. The and absenteeism, and number of Occupational health and safety aim is to report the information in work-related fatalities 2018. Reporting does not cover suppliers and service providers. 404 Training and education 4 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year Responsibility programme/ Not reported by gender and X per employee Working community/Training employee category. Information and education not available. 404-2 Programmes for upgrading Responsibility programme/ employee skills and transition Working community/Training assistance programmes and education 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving Responsibility programme/ Not reported by gender and X regular performance and career Working community/Training employee category. Information FINANCIAL development reviews and education not available. 405 Diversity and equal opportunity 10 2016 STATEMENTS 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Responsibility programme/ Not reported by age category. X and employees Working community/Diversity Information not available. The and equal opportunity, Corporate aim is to report the information Governance Statement 2017 in 2018. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and Responsibility programme/ The ratio of basic salary of men X remuneration of women to men Working community/Diversity and women has not been reported. and equal opportunity Information not available. The aim is to report the information in 2018. CORPORATE 406 Non-discrimination 10 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and Responsibility programme/ X corrective actions taken Good corporate governance and finance/Non-discrimination GOVERNANCE 86 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Code GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact Most material SDG Standard version STRATEGY Freedom of association and 407 collective bargaining 8 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which Responsibility programme/ X the right to freedom of association Good corporate governance and and collective bargaining may be finance/Freedom of association at risk and collective bargaining 412 Human rights assessments 16 2016 412-1 Operations that have been subject Responsibility programme/ X to human rights reviews or impact Good corporate governance SUSTAINABILITY assessments and finance/Human rights assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights Responsibility programme/ X policies or procedures Good corporate governance and finance/Human rights assessments 414 Supplier social assessment 8 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened Responsibility programme/ The percentage of suppliers using social criteria Responsible purchasing and screened has not been separately sustainable selections/Supplier reported out of new suppliers but social assessment out of all suppliers in high-risk countries. 414-2 Negative social impacts in the Responsibility programme/ supply chain and actions taken Responsible purchasing and FINANCIAL sustainable selections/Supplier social assessment 415 Public policy 16 2016 STATEMENTS 415-1 Political contributions Responsibility programme/ X Good corporate governance and finance/Public policy 416 Customer health and safety 3 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and Responsibility programme/ Percentage calculation model in safety impacts of product and Responsible purchasing and accordance with the GRI standard service categories sustainable selections/Customer is not applicable to Kesko's health and safety operations. CORPORATE 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance Responsibility programme/ concerning the health and safety Responsible purchasing and impacts of products and services sustainable selections/Customer health and safety GOVERNANCE 87 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Code GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact Most material SDG Standard version STRATEGY 417 Marketing and labelling 12 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and Responsibility programme/ service information and labelling Responsible purchasing and sustainable selections/Marketing communications and product information 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance Responsibility programme/ concerning product and service Responsible purchasing and information and labelling sustainable selections/Marketing communications and product SUSTAINABILITY information 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance Responsibility programme/Good concerning marketing corporate and finance/Noncommunications compliance concerning marketing communications 418 Customer privacy 16 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints Responsibility programme/ concerning breaches of customer Good corporate goverance and privacy and losses of customer finance/Customer privacy data 419 Socioeconomic compliance 16 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and Responsibility programme/ regulations in the social and Good corporate goverance FINANCIAL economic area and finance/Socioeconomic compliance STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 88 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Independent Practitioner’s In addition, we have conducted our work in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008. STRATEGY For conducting a Type 2 assurance engagement as agreed with the Company, this Standard requires Assurance Report planning and performing of the assurance engagement to obtain moderate (limited) assurance on whether any matters come to our attention that cause us to believe that Kesko Corporation does not (Translation from the Finnish original) adhere, in all material respects, to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and that the CR Information is not reliable, in all material respects, based on the Reporting criteria. TO THE MANAGEMENT OF KESKO CORPORATION In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a We have been engaged by the Management of Kesko Corporation (hereinafter also the Company) to reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable perform a limited assurance engagement on the economic, social and environmental performance indiassurance engagement. An assurance engagement involves performing procedures to obtain evidence SUSTAINABILITY cators for the reporting period 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 disclosed on Kesko Corporation’s about the amounts and other disclosures in the CR Information, and about the Company’s adherence website in the “Sustainability” section of “Kesko’s Annual Report 2017” (hereinafter CR Information). to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement, including an assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the CR Information and In terms of the Company’s GRI Standards reporting and GRI content index, the scope of the assurance an assessment of the risks of the Company’s material nonadherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility has covered economic, social and environmental disclosures listed within the Topic-specific Standards Principles. as well as Disclosures 102-8, 102-41 and 102-54 of the Universal Standards. Our work consisted of, amongst others, the following procedures: Furthermore, the assurance engagement has covered Kesko Corporation’s adherence to the AA1000 • Interviewing senior management of the Company. AccountAbility Principles with moderate (limited) level of assurance. • Interviewing employees from various organisational levels of the Company with regards to Management’s responsibility materiality, stakeholder expectations, meeting of those expectations, as well as stakeholder The Management of Kesko Corporation is responsible for preparing the CR Information in accordance engagement. FINANCIAL with the Reporting criteria as set out in the Company’s reporting instructions and the GRI Standards • Assessing stakeholder inclusivity and responsiveness based on the Company’s documentation and of the Global Reporting Initiative. The Management of Kesko Corporation is also responsible for such internal communication. internal control as the management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the CR STATEMENTS Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. • Assessing the Company’s defined material corporate responsibility aspects as well as assessing the CR Information based on these aspects. The Management of Kesko Corporation is also responsible for the Company’s adherence to the • Analysing references to the Company from the reporting period in online media. AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness as set out in AccountAbility’s AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008. • Visiting the Company’s Head Office as well as one site in Finland. • Interviewing employees responsible for collecting and reporting the CR Information at the Group Practitioner’s responsibility level and at the site where our visit took place. CORPORATE Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the CR Information and on the Company’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles based on the procedures we have • Assessing how Group employees apply the reporting instructions and procedures of the Company. performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our work in accordance with the • Testing the accuracy and completeness of the information from original documents and systems on International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements GOVERNANCE a sample basis. Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. That Standard requires that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the CR Information is free • Testing the consolidation of information and performing recalculations on a sample basis. from material misstatement. 89 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 STRATEGY Limited assurance conclusion Practitioner’s independence, qualifications and quality control Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for to our attention that causes us to believe that Kesko Corporation does not adhere, in all material Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which respects, to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Furthermore nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Kesko Corporation’s CR Information for the reporting period ended 31 December 2017 is not properly prepared, in all material Our multi-disciplinary team of corporate responsibility and assurance specialists possesses the respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria, or that the CR Information is not reliable, in all requisite skills and experience within financial and non-financial assurance, corporate responsibility material respects, based on the Reporting criteria. strategy and management, social and environmental issues, as well as the relevant industry knowledge, SUSTAINABILITY to undertake this assurance engagement. When reading our assurance report, the inherent limitations to the accuracy and completeness of corporate responsibility information should be taken into consideration. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures Our assurance report has been prepared in accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do not regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and accept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, except to Kesko Corporation for our work, for this regulatory requirements. report, or for the conclusions that we have reached. Helsinki, 5 March 2018 Observations and recommendations Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, we provide the PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy following observations and recommendations in relation to Kesko Corporation’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. These observations and recommendations do not affect the Enel Sintonen Sirpa Juutinen FINANCIAL conclusions presented earlier. Partner, Authorised Public Accountant Partner Assurance Services Sustainability & Climate Change • Inclusivity: The Company has processes in place for stakeholder inclusivity, collection of feedback STATEMENTS and stakeholder engagement. During the past reporting period, the Company has developed the collection of feedback and customer engagement in digital channels. We recommend that the Company continues to develop its digital activities related to stakeholder inclusivity. • Materiality: The Company has a process in place to evaluate and determine the materiality of corporate responsibility aspects. We recommend that the Company assesses the need to update its materiality assessment taking into consideration changes in the business environment which might have occurred since the last update. • Responsiveness: The Company takes its stakeholders’ expectations into account in its operations CORPORATE and responds to them through the continuous development of its activities. During 2017, the Company has further increased the coverage and availability of information on the sustainability and origin of its products. We recommend that the Company further widens the offering of GOVERNANCE information to customers and other stakeholders on the measures the Company has undertaken to ensure the sustainability of its products. 90 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Contact persons STRATEGY This list gives contact information of the people who primarily provide additional information on Name Role Business unit different areas of the report. Responsible purchasing: Matti Mettälä Corporate Responsibility Specialist Kesko Corporation, Group Identity This list does not include all Kesko employees who have participated in editing the report. and Communications Kati Matela Sourcing and Export Manager Kesko's grocery trade, commerce Email addresses: firstname.lastname@kesko.fi SUSTAINABILITY Jari Lahti Quality Manager Kesko Corporation, Kespro Katriina Ahtee Project Manager Kesko's grocery trade, commerce Name Role Business unit Mikko Myyryläinen Manager, Sourcing Support and Kesko's building and technical Development, coordination and responsibility for report editing: Sustainability trade, commerce Eva Kaukinen Vice President, Group Controller Kesko Corporation, Group Product safety: Controlling Sohvi Vähämaa Corporate Responsibility Specialist Kesko Corporation, Group Identity Riikka Toivonen Head of K Publicity Kesko Corporation, Group Identity and Communications and Communications Tuuli Luoma Sourcing and Export Manager Kesko's grocery trade, commerce Lena Leeve Manager, Financial Kesko Corporation, Group Identity Communications and Communications Mia Haavisto Quality Manager Kesko Corporation, Kespro Kia Aejmelaeus Vice President, Investor Relations Kesko Corporation, Investor Johanna Teinilä-Kurvinen Project Manager Kesko's grocery trade, commerce Communications Leena Takaveräjä Manager, Sourcing Support and Kesko's building and technical Matti Kalervo Vice President, Corporate Kesko Corporation, Group Sustainability trade, commerce FINANCIAL Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Product safety: Pirjo Nieminen Sustainability Specialist Kesko Corporation, Group Identity Matti Kalervo Vice President, Corporate Kesko Corporation, Group Identity and Communications Responsibility and Product Safety and Communications STATEMENTS Financial responsibility: Heta Rautpalo Product Research Manager Kesko's grocery trade, Product Jukka Erlund Executive Vice President, CFO Kesko Corporation, Finance, Research Accounting and IT Environmental responsibility: Eva Kaukinen Vice President, Group Controller Kesko Corporation, Group Minna Saari Environmental Specialist Kesko Corporation, Group Identity Controlling and Communications Johanna Toivo Corporate Financial Controller Kesko Corporation, Group Timo Jäske Sustainability Manager Kesko's grocery trade, commerce Controlling Jari Suuronen Technical Building Services Kesko's grocery trade, store sites Erika Välkkynen Financial Controller Kesko Corporation, Group CORPORATE Manager and retailer operations Controlling Jesse Mether Sustainability Manager Kesko's building and technical Riikka Toivonen Head of K Publicity Kesko Corporation, Group Identity trade, commerce and Communications GOVERNANCE Lena Leeve Manager, Financial Kesko Corporation, Group Identity Communications and Communications Esko Mansikka Managing Director Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy 91 KESKO'S YEAR 2017 Name Role Business unit STRATEGY Corporate Governance, Risk Management and Corporate Security: Mika Majoinen Executive Vice President, Group Kesko Corporation, Legal Affairs General Counsel Pasi Mäkinen Senior Vice President, Chief Audit Kesko Corporation, Internal Audit and Risk Officer and Risk Management Customer privacy: Outi Nylund Director, K-Plussa and Data-driven Kesko Corporation, K Digital Marketing Kaija Kuusimaa Data Protection Officer Kesko Corporation, Legal Affairs SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 92
