Progress report UN Global Compact Ahlsell is a signatory to the voluntary initiative United Nations Global Compact. By endorsing the UN Global Compact we undertake to follow the ten principles for human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. In this implementation, the Ahlsell’s Code of Conduct is an important tool. It describes how we should act and the requirements we have on ourselves and our suppliers. The Code of Conduct is published on our website, and is based on the UN Global Compact, the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights and related UN conventions, the ILO’s core conventions and the OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. CEO comment Ahlsell has been a distributor within technical installation for more than 140 years. Today, we are proud to be the Nordic market leader within our industry. We did ”We are continuously not achieve this position by being just good enough, we always have focused on striving to improve improvements to offer our customers an even better value proposition. For us, sustainability is to safeguard that we will continue to exist for our customers, ourselves and the employees and owners also in the future. We have a vision to be the industry industry” leader within sustainability and to take a clear economic, social and environmental responsibility. Already in 2008, we took the first steps towards a more environmental approach in our business. Since then, the focus on sustainability has continuously increased. Today it is a central part in our strategy and we see sustainability as an important element for value creation. In 2017, about a year after our listing on the Large-Cap list on the Stockholm Stock Exchange, we took an important step and joined the UN Global Compact. In addition, within our sustainability strategy, we have also defined four focus areas based on the Sustainable development goals. These areas are the ones where we can make the largest possible positive impact. The focus areas are Health and safety, Innovation and collaboration, Responsible sourcing and Tackle climate change. The focus areas cover the entire Group and are broken down into subgoals, internally and externally, as Group-wide and local. I believe that what gets measured, also gets done. I’m proud to represent Ahlsell and our achievements this far. We have come a long way within our industry in regards to sustainability, but an even higher ambition remains. When combining our strong market position with our strong proposition in sustainability, Ahlsell is leading the way and I’m pleased to see that the industry follows. I am pleased to confirm Ahlsell AB:s abiding support of and commitment to the UN Global Compact ten principles with respect to human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption throughout our organization. We are proud to be a member of the UN Global Compact. Johan Nilsson CEO, Ahlsell AB Link to Ahlsell Annual report 2017 Area Principle Definition Management systems Page/Section Principle 1 Businesses should • Code of conduct and sustatainable business p 19, 22, 27 • Sustainability in everything we do support and respect the • Strategy and guidelines p 19 • Responsible purchasing protection of internationally proclaimed human • Responsible supply chain p 22, 23, 28 • Our private labels rights; and... • Safe and sustainable workplace p 24 • Our employees at the centre Human rights Principle 2 ...make sure that they are • Diveristy and equality p 26 • The employee year 2017 not complicit in human • Environmental management p 28 • The environment is always on the agenda rights abuses. • Risk management p 43 • Directors' report • Risk management Principle 3 Businesses should uphold • Code of conduct and values p 19, 22, 25, 27 • Sustainability in everything we do the freedom of associ• Responsible supply chain p 22, 23, 28 • Responsible purchasing ation and the effective recognition of the right to • Employee commitment and engagement p 24, 26 • Our private labels collective bargaining; • Diveristy and equality p 26 • Our employees at the centre Principle 4 ...the elimination of all • Risk management p 43 • The employee year 2017 forms of forced and • Directors' report Labour compulsory labour • Risk management Principle 5 ...the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 ...the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7 Businesses should • Code of conduct and sustatainable business p 19, 22, 27 • Sustainability in everything we do support a precautionary • Strategy and guidelines p 19 • Efficient, sustainable and safe products approach to environmental challenges; • Environmentally-assessed products and services p 20, 21 • Responsible purchasing • Environmental management p 28 • The employee year 2017 Principle 8 ...undertake initiatives to promote greater environ• Envrionmental targets and results for climate protection p 28 • The environment is always on the agenda Environment mental responsibility; and Principle 9 ...encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 Businesses should work • Code of conduct and ethical business p 19, 22, 27 • Sustainability in everything we do against corruption in all its • Risk management p 43 (ej HR) • Responsible purchasing forms, including extortion Anti-corruption and bribery. • The employee year 2017 • Directors' report • Risk management
