1 Sustainability Report Corporate Sustainability Report 2017 2 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 3 Welcome to the inaugural Contents Sustainability I. INTRODUCTION Report About This Report p. 5 A Message from the CEO p. 6 A Message from the VP & p. 8 Head of Corporate Sustainability II. OUR BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY About FAB p. 11 Our Approach to Sustainability p. 15 III. YEAR IN REVIEW: SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Strong Corporate Governance and p. 28 Risk Management Responsible Banking p. 38 Responsible Employment p. 56 Positive Social Impact p. 70 APPENDICES Appendix A: GRI Content Index p. 77 Appendix B: Verification Statement: p. 82 Limited Assurance Welcome to the inaugural Sustainability Report of First Abu Dhabi Bank (FAB). The creation of the UAE’s largest bank has presented us with a significant opportunity to generate greater economic, social and environmental value for our stakeholders, while making a stronger contribution to sustainability aspirations in the UAE and around the world. 4 4 Sustainability SustainabilityReport Report Sustainability Report 5 01 Introduction About This Report This is FAB’s first sustainability report following the merger between National Bank of Abu Dhabi and First Gulf Bank in April 2017. We intend to report on our sustainability and environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance annually. Reporting Scope and Parameters issues (“material topics”) based on The report covers FAB’s sustainability input from external and internal activities, risks and challenges, stakeholders. These topics have primarily within the UAE, which been determined through a formal represents the majority of our materiality assessment (the results of operations. In some cases, which are discussed on pages 20-21) international units are also referenced. and shape the content of this report. Unless stated otherwise, financial This report has been prepared in information is reported in the Emirati accordance with the GRI Standards: dirham (AED) and performance data Core option. This report underscores covers the nine-month period from our commitment to transparency and April to December 2017. international best reporting practices. Our GRI Index can be found on Our reporting goal is to provide a pages 77-81. Throughout this report detailed and balanced account of our we also reference other national and sustainability and ESG performance, international guidelines we support. with a focus on the most significant Feedback We invite your comments and questions about this report through any the following channels: Email: CorporateSustainability@bankfab.com Twitter: https://twitter.com/FABConnects/ Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/FAB/ LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/first-abu-dhabi-bank/ Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/fabconnects/ YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCyXhrKqYwuvsvquPuqgSPrA 6 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 7 CEO Message Dear stakeholders, The alignment of our Group’s corporate policies and risk framework Also in 2017, FAB was ranked among the top 10 companies in the S&P/ Our sustainability agenda at FAB I am very proud to present our bank’s first annual sustainability report. was a very important milestone in achieving our sustainability objectives. Hawkamah ESG Pan Arab Index of 100+ listed organisations from various supports our long-term ambition to be With the growing need for sustainable development – and rising external Through this alignment we were able to implement comprehensive, industries in the Middle East and Africa region. The Index provides a leading bank and a strong business expectations around Environmental and Social Governance (ESG) group-wide sustainability and environmental policies, which sets a measure of total organisational performance by linking stock market partner on issues that have global criteria – strong governance in the modern banking world has never out broad principles for taking a precautionary and responsible success to ESG indicators. significance and local relevance. Thank you to our shareholders, been more important. All aspects of approach to operations and business. customers, employees and the good governance – from the quality Our risk management processes and communities we serve for your loyalty of management to the controls policies are robust and support these and the faith you have shown in us. for ensuring ethical conduct – are principles. We will continue to grow our business essential in ensuring businesses In addition to the governance and risk responsibly, maintaining a solid perform successfully, and maintain controls we introduced throughout balance sheet, while keeping pace the confidence of shareholders, the year, we have taken many other with evolving governance norms and customers, employees and important steps to help build a operating our bank with integrity. community stakeholders. sustainable business and create value The process of combining two FAB is a signatory to the United for our stakeholders and society. These organisations is all-encompassing Nations Global Compact and include enhancing our recruitment and challenging. There is a lot of hard is committed to supporting its and talent management approach to work, planning and attention to detail, principles – on human rights, labour ensure that we continuously appoint and I am proud of our FAB team for rights, environment and antiand retain the best talent to drive the progress we have achieved to corruption – wherever it operates. the organisation forward, creating a date. sustainability framework to ensure we As the UAE’s largest bank, robust operate in a responsible manner and Kind regards, and effective governance and establishing principles for responsible risk management practices are Abdulhamid Saeed decision-making. essential to our company’s long-term Group Chief Executive Officer stability, resilience and corporate A testament to the importance of sustainability. In 2017 we undertook investing in good governance is a number of initiatives to ensure that the fact that global credit agencies our governance and risk framework (namely, Moody’s, S&P and Fitch) meets the requirements of our rapidly affirmed FAB as the highest rated evolving business. bank in the UAE and MENA and one of the world’s safest financial institutions. 8 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 9 VP & Head of Corporate Sustainability Message In the new global economy, businesses of all sizes are facing East region with investor participation from around the globe. It also includes the development of the bank’s employee volunteering FAB is rising to the challenge of sustainability. increasing environmental and social challenges. These challenges coupled Our adoption of the global Equator programme ‘People with Purpose’. We aspire to epitomise the very best in corporate Principles to ensure responsible Demonstrating leadership and with growing public and investor expectations for action on crucial project finance is further proof of our collaboration sustainability performance and be recognised sustainability ambitions. We are also As the UAE’s largest bank, we touch issues such as climate change and global poverty means we all need to working to reduce the bank’s carbon so many financial aspects of society as leaders in the financial industry. footprint and provide transparency and people’s lives, and therefore adapt and do more to help shape a in our performance. we have a particular responsibility truly sustainable economy and world. to environmental stewardship, At FAB, we are focused on what we Cultivating a more inclusive social progress and economic can do to help make progress on workplace and society prosperity. Supporting the country’s these issues. At FAB we are committed to sustainability objectives – included promoting equality and diversity to We see sustainability as integral to in the UAE Vision 2021, UAE Green help build an inclusive future for all our business strategy and long-term Agenda 2015-2030 and Abu Dhabi members of society. All employees development. Our sustainability Economic Vision 2030 – is a priority at FAB are employed based entirely framework consists of four strategic for us, and connects to our core on experience and qualifications, pillars that channel our activities: purpose of creating shared value for regardless of gender or race. Women Strong governance, integrity and our stakeholders. today represent 34% of our global risk management; Responsible workforce and 20.4% of all senior We are also contributing to relevant banking; Responsible employment; management positions. We also have UN Sustainable Development Goals and Positive social impact. In each stringent policies and standards in and supporting the United Nations of these areas we are integrating place to respect human rights. Global Compact (UNGC) principles, progressive practices, policies and which promote human rights, labour programs into our core operations, Our emphasis on inclusiveness standards, the environment and antiand addressing issues relative to the extends to our customers and corruption. banking sector that matter most to communities. Ways in which we do our stakeholders. Some of our key this include ensuring the availability of Belinda Scott, highlights are as follows: financial services, such as branches VP & Head of Corporate Sustainability and ATMS, are located within easy Tackling climate change: the reach of customers and members of greatest test of our generation the community in the more remote Climate change is, arguably, the most and economically disadvantaged significant challenge of our generation. areas of the country. Our corporate To help combat climate change, we community investment strategy, successfully launched a milestone which was developed in 2017 and green bond in 2017 – the first launched earlier this year is built on organisation in the Gulf region to do partnerships with community-based so. This bond is raising USD 587 million not for profit organisations where we to fund companies that are fighting will be help them address a range of climate change and protecting natural issues and causes that are important resources. With this historic listing, we in the communities where we are spearheading the development do business. of a green bond market in the Middle 10 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 11 02 Our business About FAB and sustainability A new bank with financial strength, expertise and an extensive global network. First Abu Dhabi Bank (FAB) is the UAE’s largest bank and one of the largest in MENA as a result of the transformational merger between two of Abu Dhabi’s leading financial institutions – First Gulf Bank (FGB) and National Bank of Abu Dhabi (NBAD). The merger brings together two highly complementary businesses, enabling us to leverage our scale to be an even better bank for our customers, our shareholders and the people of the UAE. Our legacy is discussed further in the FAB 2017 Annual Review. Our Vision Creating value for our customers, employees, shareholders and communities to grow stronger through differentiation, agility and innovation. Customers Employees We empower our customers to We create an environment where our grow stronger through choice, people can leverage their strengths convenience, and customised and excel in their performance. products and services. Shareholders Communities We deliver superior and sustainable We build a legacy of positive change returns to our shareholders. in our communities. 12 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 13 AED 669Bn 603 19 Business lines, products and services We offer an extensive range of products and services to our customers through market-leading Corporate and Investment Banking and Personal Banking Total assets ATMs/CDMs Countries of operation franchises and a complementary offering through subsidiaries. (outside the UAE) Personal Banking Across a multichannel network, Corporate and Investment Our corporate and investment FAB’s network of subsidiaries FAB’s subsidiaries include FAB 17.8% AED 112Bn 5,393 employees we offer an wide range of financial banking products and services Properties, Mismak Properties, Aseel Basel III Capital Adequacy Ratio Market capitalisation products and services in the UAE, include structured finance, project Finance, ADNIF (Abu Dhabi National including retail banking accounts, finance, transaction banking, financial Islamic Finance), Dubai First, First 14.8% credit cards, loans, small business institutions, treasury, investment Gulf Libyan Bank and FAB Securities. solutions, wealth advisory services and growing digital capabilities. banking and advisory services. Offering services ranging from Islamic Finance to Property Management, these operations play an important 103 Branches/Cash offices in UAE Return on tangible equity role in the bank’s strategy to provide comprehensive services for different client groups. Where we operate Shareholding Structure1 Headquartered in Abu Dhabi in Khalifa Business Park, our domestic network includes over 100 branches across the seven Emirates. Our global presence spans 19 countries in addition to the UAE, to support local, regional and international companies seeking to do business 33.5% at home and abroad. Learn more. ADIC 3.7% 52.1% Mubadala Other UAE Companies and Individuals 9.3% Foreign (ex-GCC) Europe and Middle East and Asia Pacific (APAC) 1.4% GCC (ex-UAE) Americas (E&A) Africa (MEA) France UAE Lebanon China/Hong Kong UK Bahrain Libya India Switzerland Egypt Oman Malaysia 1 Based on total outstanding number of shares (Issued less Treasury shares of 42,433,737) USA Jordan Qatar Singapore Foreign ownership is restricted to 25% of the total shares listed on the exchange Brazil Kuwait Sudan South Korea 14 Sustainability Report 15 Our Corporate Strategy Our Approach to Sustainability Our corporate strategy points the way towards a strategic direction to achieving our vision with concrete focus areas and clear long-term targets. FAB Strategy Map 2017 Creating value for our customers, employees, shareholders and communities to grow stronger Vision through differentiation, agility and innovation Our Sustainability Framework The merger has given us an At the outset of our integration Integrating sustainability in our unparalleled opportunity to journey, our senior leadership felt it business strategy and our corporate Financial was important to articulate FAB’s firm culture, and conducting business in a demonstrate sustainability Ensure high levels of Deliver exceptional (top-tier) Maintain a sustainable commitment to sustainability, which responsible way are key components leadership and make a real, is part of our long-term corporate of our approach to ensuring that profitability shareholder value business model lasting difference for positive direction. As the UAE’s largest bank, sustainability is embedded within all change in the UAE and we have a particular responsibility as a areas of our organisation. We aim to corporate citizen toward the economy, create stakeholder value through the wherever we operate. the environment and society. identification of new opportunities, the active management of current and Customer future risks, and through responsible Deliver outstanding Be a dominant bank Offer best in market business operations. customer experience in target markets client propositions Four strategic pillars To that end, during 2017 we modelled the framework for our sustainability activities going forward, anchored on four pillars: Process Deliver smooth integration Ensure safety for all stakeholders People Governance, Integrity Responsible Banking Responsible Positive Social Impact Maintain a high performance Ensure competent leadership and Risk Management Employment work environment 16 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 17 [102-42] [102-43] Corporate Sustainability Listening to Our Strategy and Governance Stakeholders The Corporate Sustainability (CS) The components of our corporate Our Group Sustainability Policy Through various communication In addition to feedback channels we team manages FAB’s corporate sustainability approach are: outlines the FAB’s sustainability channels, we listen to and seek have in place for each stakeholder sustainability activity. The team, which objectives and principles for taking feedback from diverse stakeholders group, we facilitated a dedicated • Identifying business opportunities is part of the bank’s Group Marketing a precautionary and responsible that affect or are affected by our stakeholder engagement exercise and managing risks and Communication department, is approach to its operations and business. Their input guides our in which we brought together responsible for developing the Group • Protecting and enhancing the business to achieve sustainable sustainability strategy and the internal stakeholders in two sessions Corporate Sustainability Strategy and bank’s reputation and meeting growth. Learn More. issues we prioritise for action and (representatives from each major driving FAB’s sustainability agenda investors’ expectations improvement. Our key stakeholder department) and key external forward, and managing the bank’s groups and the ways we engage with stakeholder groups in a third session. • Identifying business costs and community and outreach programmes them are listed on the following page. The goal of these sessions was to benefits and the internal tactical sustainability receive feedback on material issues awareness programmes. The team • Creating value for our society and and to identify emerging sustainability also tracks performance and reports the economy risks and opportunities. on progress through collaboration with the Group’s businesses and serves as a strategic sustainability advisor to ensure Customers that the bank meets its sustainability objectives and commitments. Environment Employees Government Suppliers and regulators Local Stakeholders Community and Investors 18 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 19 [102-40] [102-42] [102-44] [102-40] [102-42] [102-44] Listening to Our Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Channels Stakeholder Needs and Our Response Stakeholder Engagement Channels Stakeholder Needs and Our Response Group Expectations Group Expectations Customers Branches Innovative, accessible and Direct communication with Local CSR activities Economic and social Emeriti Future Leadership Mobile and online banking responsible products and customers in our branches, via Community Local procurement development programs (including Qeyada, Bank website and social media services social media or other digital Social media channels Employment creation Forsati, Nujoom, Al Masar) for channels Information and data security touchpoints Public reports Development of local human UAE nationals Customer Experience Secure, easy-to-use and Instant card printing machines Website resources Community investments Department accessible banking across key branches Partnerships Financial literacy and inclusion Annual customer satisfaction Effective and friendly Instant account opening Environmental stewardship survey customer service option Suppliers Bidding and tendering Timely payments Maintaining fair and Relationship managers Clear communication Customer satisfaction survey Supplier portal Bidding process that is fair and competitive selection Competitive rates and fees Supplier Environmental & transparent Maintaining mutually Employees Training and development Professional development and FAB Business School Social Code of Conduct Open communication beneficial cooperative programmes competitive compensation Health and wellness channels relations Employee engagement and benefits campaigns Recognition programmes Recognition and rewards Employee engagement survey Transparent and accountable An engaging working Recognition programmes management environment Employee Code of Conduct Whistleblower hotline Fair and equal opportunities and Anti-Bullying and Open communication Harassment policy channels with management FAB Club Shareholders Board of Directors meetings Profitability and growth Annual, semi-annual and and Investors Public reports Investment in growth, monthly reports Road shows innovation, diversified Net income growth products and new markets Strong corporate governance and dynamic risk management Transparency and disclosure Positive brand image Consideration of ESG risk factors in investment and lending decisions Government Group Internal Audit, Group Compliance with all legal and Complying with obligations and Compliance and External Audit regulatory requirements Reporting performance for Regulators Code of Ethics Policy Consumer protection relevant disclosures such as Public reporting Alignment to national Basel-III development strategies and visions Environment Sustainability report Limited use of finite resources Water and power Green bond report Incorporation of environmental consumption reduction Engagements with various criteria in lending and Paper consumption reduction environmentally oriented investment projects and and recycling non-governmental supplier assessments Signatory to the United organisations (NGOs) Nations Global Compact External commitments (e.g., (UNGC) principles CDP, Equator Principles, UNGC Developed FAB’s Principles) Environmental Management Policy in alignment with the international standard 14001 20 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 21 [102-46] [102-47] [102-46] [102-47] The Issues That In this report, we have grouped these material topics into the four themes of FAB’s sustainability framework: Governance, Integrity and Risk Management; Responsible Banking; Responsible Employment; and Positive Social Impact Matter Most FAB Sustainability Framework Governance, Integrity and Risk Management The focus of our sustainability • Research and benchmarking to • A final review and validation by • Corporate Governance, Ethics and Compliance strategy and this report is on 16 identify relevant issues FAB’s senior leadership of the • Risk Management material sustainability topics facing material topics to make sure • Interviews and workshops with our business. External and internal these represented the bank’s • Data Security and Priavcy each stakeholder group as well as stakeholders identified these as the sustainability performance. representatives of each division of • Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Corruption issues that matter most in our most our business to assess the issues We have shared the findings of recent materiality assessment. We most important to them. our materiality analysis on the Responsible Banking worked with Sustainability Excellence, matrix below, which reflects our an independent consultancy • Analysing and prioritising the • Financial and Economic Performance understanding of the significance of specialising in the area, to undertake issues based on the importance each topic in terms of stakeholder • Customer Experience* this assessment, which included the of each topic to external interest and potential business impact. following activities: stakeholders and FAB. • Financial Access and Inclusion • Responsible Finance RANK ASPECT 1 • Direct Environmental Impact of Operations 1 Financial and economic performance 2 Systemic risk management Responsible Employment 2 3 Governance, business ethics and 3 compliance • Talent Management 4 4 Customer privacy and data security • Diversity and Inclusion 5 5 Responsible customer relations 7 6 • Employee Wellbeing 8 6 Responsible lending and investing 9 7 Anti-money laundering and antiPositive Social Impact corruption 10 11 8 Financial inclusion and accessibility • Community Investment and Socio-Economic Development 9 Talent attraction, development and • Responsible and Sustainable Procurement 14 retention 12 • Emiratisation 15 10 Workforce wellbeing Importance to Stakeholders 13 11 Digital product and service transformation 12 Diversity and inclusion *This aspect covers two material topics: responsible customer relations and digital product and service transformation. 13 Direct environmental impact of operations 16 14 Emiratisation 15 Community investment and socioeconomic development 16 Responsible and sustainable procurement Significance of Impacts Least Material Somewhat Material Very Material NOTE: In this report, we have addressed topic #5 (“Responsible Customer Relations”) and topic #11 (“Digital Product and Service Transformation”) as one broader topic entitled “Customer Experience”. 22 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 23 [102-46] [102-47] Aligning to National and International Frameworks Our support of national and international sustainability frameworks are what separate FAB from our regional peers, as we lead action to improve the wellbeing of present and future generations. National Emiratis”, among other things. The Engagement, The Ministry of Climate We are committed to supporting Abu Dhabi Economic Vision 2030, Change and Environment’s Technical the growth and prosperity of Abu also a long-term transformation plan, Committee on Green Development Dhabi and the UAE, ensuring that our sets economic priorities to maintain & Climate Change, the Sustainable International FAB was the only UAE bank to become sustainability strategy and objectives a safe and secure society and build a Finance Steering Committee as part We are also working to align our a signatory to the United Nations are aligned with the UAE Vision 2021 sustainable, diversified and globally of the Dubai Declaration and the business practices and sustainability Global Compact (UNGC) principles and Abu Dhabi Economic Vision 2030. open economy. Technical Committee for the World performance with relevant UN during the year. UNGC is the world’s Vision 2021 is a multi-dimensional longFuture Energy Summit 2018. Sustainable Development Goals largest corporate social sustainability FAB is represented on a number of term plan that aims to make the UAE (SDGs) a set of 17 global goals initiative, with over 12,000 signatories national sustainability committees and one of the best countries in the world, developed by the United Nations, across 170 countries. By signing this task forces, such as the UAE Council with “a nurturing and sustainable which define global priorities and Compact, FAB has agreed to align for Climate Change and Environment, environment for quality living” and aspirations for 2030 and aim to end its strategies and operations with the Emirates Foundation Programs’ a “competitive economy driven all forms of poverty. Governments UNGC’s 10 Principles – encompassing Advisory Committee on Civic by knowledgeable and innovative around the world including the UAE, human rights, labour regulations, the have made a commitment to achieve environment and anti-corruption – and these goals before 2030. Through take actions that advance societal goals. our alignment, we will demonstrate Other commitments include the Equator our support of the UAE’s policies and Principles, CDP, ICMA Green Bond commitments towards green growth Principles and the Global Reporting and sustainability. Initiative, all of which are discussed further elsewhere in the report. Voluntary initiatives and public commitments Representatives of signatories to the Dubai Declaration on Sustainable Finance at the initial plenary Meeting in September 2017 [photo credit – MOCCAE] 24 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 25 How We Support and Contribute to the SDGs and UNGC Principles Governance, Integrity and Risk Responsible Banking Responsible Employment Positive Social Impact Management SDG Goal Principle 1: Businesses should Principle 7: Businesses should Principle 1: Businesses should Principle 4: Businesses should Global Compact Principle support and respect the support a precautionary approach support and respect the uphold the elimination of all forms protection of internationally to environmental challenges. protection of internationally of forced and compulsory labour. proclaimed human rights. Principle 8: Businesses should proclaimed human rights. Principle 5: Businesses should Principle 2: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote Principle 3: Businesses uphold the effective abolition of make sure that they are not greater environmental responsibility. should uphold the freedom of child labour. complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 9: Businesses should association and the effective Principle 8: Businesses Principle 3: Businesses encourage the development recognition of the right to should undertake initiatives to should uphold the freedom of and diffusion of environmentally collective bargaining. promote greater environmental association and the effective friendly technologies. Principle 4: Businesses should responsibility. recognition of the right to uphold the elimination of all forms collective bargaining. of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 4: Businesses should Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms uphold the effective abolition of of forced and compulsory labour. child labour. Principle 5: Businesses should Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of uphold the elimination of child labour. discrimination in respect of Principle 6: Businesses should employment and occupation. uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corporate Governance, Ethics Financial and Economic Employee Wellbeing (p. 67-69) Emiratisation (p. 74-75) How FAB is Contributing and Compliance (p. 28-32) Performance (p. 39-40) Diversity and Inclusion (p. 66) Responsible and Sustainable Risk Management (p. 33-34) Direct Environmental Impact of Talent Management (p. 57-65) Procurement (p. 73) Anti-Money Laundering and Operations (p. 52-55) Community Investment and Anti-Corruption (p. 36-37) Responsible Finance (p. 46-51) Socio-Economic Development (p. 71-72) 26 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 27 Governance, integrity 03 and risk management Year in Review: Sustainability Our strong governance framework creates the parameters for responsible Performance management, accountability and decision-making at FAB, while assuring the highest ethical behaviour in everything we do. Key Achievements in 2017 Highest rated bank in UAE According to global credit rating 98% agencies, and one of the safest financial Of employees worldwide completed institutions globally. FAB’s compliance-related training Leading corporate Strong risk management governance practices Created a comprehensive, enterpriseFAB was among the top 10 companies wide Risk & Compliance Management in the re-balanced Hawkamah Framework Pan Arab ESG Index of 100+ listed organisations from various industries in the Middle East and Africa region on its environmental, social and corporate governance practices. Material topics in this chapter: • Corporate governance, ethics and compliance • Risk management • Data security and privacy • Anti-money laundering and anticorruption 28 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 29 Corporate Governance, FAB Corporate Governance Structure The Board has four Ethics and Compliance FAB Board of Directors sub-committees: • Board Management Committee • Board Audit Committee • Board Risk and Compliance FAB Board Sub-Committees* Committee • Board Remuneration and Nomination Committee Our Approach governance, reflecting best practice Related FAB policies and applicable regulatory guidelines, Corporate Governance and guidelines: including those of the Central Bank • Directors Code of Conduct We recognise that a well-considered of the UAE (CBUAE) and its other FAB Board Sub-Committees* Subsidiary Companies • Employee Code of Conduct and established corporate governance regulators. Our overarching corporate • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy structure helps improve decision governance protocols are driven by • Gifts, Giveaways and Hospitality making, plays a key role in shaping the responsibility and leadership of Policy corporate culture, business practices the Board to direct the Group’s affairs • Disclosure of Financials and and regulatory compliance, and fosters and set its objectives. The composition Investor Relations Policy Management Committees and Subsidiary Companies Board and better relations with stakeholders of the Board satisfies the generally • Related Party Transaction Policy Management Committees through improved transparency and acceptable corporate governance better quality disclosures. practice relating to the separation of roles of the Chairman and Group Chief The Board of Directors and the Executive and the majority membership Note: Arrows indicate flow of information not reporting lines management of FAB are committed to of non-executive directors. * The bank also operates a Shariah Supervisory Board which advises all upholding high standards of corporate relevant parts of FAB Businesses on key aspects of its Islamic activities. Our comprehensive Corporate Governance Framework includes the following components: Group Board and • Oversee management of the organisation. Board Committees • Provide leadership and direction on corporate strategy and key risks. • Monitor business performance and the risk and control framework. • Delegate to and challenge the executive management of the Bank. Group Management • Help run and control the Bank, including overseeing financial Committees and performance and the risk and control framework across the Group both sub-committees domestically and internationally. Group Policy • Defines how the bank is organised, run and controlled. Framework Policies and • A set of guiding principles and rules that determine how governance Procedures operates. Group Delegation of • Defines and governs the Group’s delegations of authority across Authority Framework financial and non-financial matters, powers of attorney and the Bank’s authorised signatories. Governance • Monitors whether employees are compliant with internal and external Monitoring rules, regulations, policies and procedures. A robust employee and Board Code of Conduct regulates activity. 30 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 31 Business Ethics and Transparency Regulatory Compliance Whistleblowing 2017 Highlights Other highlights: Managing our business responsibly Globally, the financial services To protect the Bank and promote A top priority last year was achieving a • Approximately 98% of our FAB is the highest rated bank is vital to being a premier bank and sector faces complex and increasing responsible organisational behavior, successful merger, which was legally global workforce completed our in the UAE and MENA and gaining the trust and confidence of regulatory requirements. Adherence we aim to foster an environment completed in April 2017, creating the compliance training courses, one of the safest financial our diverse stakeholders. We strive to such requirements is essential that encourages employees UAE’s largest bank. The integration covering topics such as Anti-Money to demonstrate ethical, compliant to ensure our ongoing operation, and stakeholders to report any processes were complex and Laundering and Sanctions. institutions globally and sustainable business practices safeguard our reputation and protect suspected and known instances challenging, with legal and corporate Aa3 • We managed various compliancewherever we operate, ensuring these customers. of financial crime, as well as other governance teams from the legacy related challenges faced during are anchored in a strong workplace serious issues such as health and banks working together to ensure We work diligently to comply with the integration process to ensure Moody’s culture of integrity and openness. safety risks, environmental damage a smooth transition and develop the applicable laws and regulations regulatory requirements were met. AAand privacy breaches, without the an exemplary governance model. As the foundation for guiding our of the Central Bank of the UAE, our fear of reprimand. We maintain a All projects and matters related to • We ensured regulatory issues daily activities and ensuring our lead regulator, and other government Whistleblowing Policy and regularly corporate governance – including identified by internal audits and S&P people make the right decisions, we authorities both in the UAE and communicate its importance to our integrating governance practices, regulators were properly addressed have developed a Directors Code AAinternationally. As employee education people. Employees are empowered issuing new charters and codes, and and mitigated. of Conduct and an Employee Code is critical to ensure compliance, to report issues through various updating legal licenses – were huge of Conduct. These codes reflect our we deliver ongoing training Fitch channels, including a dedicated projects that were effectively achieved. values and set our expectations for and communication across our whistleblower hotline, online forms, Key Performance Indicators appropriate behaviour, they define organisation to embed the message The affirmation of credit ratings by email and direct interaction with our inappropriate activities and outline that ‘compliance is everyone’s Moody’s, S&P and Fitch is a powerful 2017 Risk team, whichever an employee the process for reporting suspected responsibility’. We follow the principle testament to our efforts to deliver feels most comfortable with. infractions. The codes cover of zero tolerance for any instances sound governance, financial strength topics such as conflicts of interest, of regulatory non-compliance. and sustainable value for shareholders confidentiality, gifts and hospitality, Regulatory and compliance matters over the long term. Further details of 98% anti-bribery and corruption, and are regularly reported to the Executive our corporate governance practices insider trading. Any person who Management, and are reported and achievements are available in our fails to comply with the codes and on a quarterly basis to our Audit 2017 Annual Review (see pages 36-39). all applicable laws are subject to Committee. disciplinary measures, including termination of employment. In line with our approach to employ high standards for transparency and disclosure for the benefit of Percentage of employees who stakeholders, we publish a wide range completed FAB’s complianceof reports containing financial and related training non-financial data. We have a number of teams, including investor relations, corporate sustainability and corporate governance, who are committed to engaging and communicating with our internal and external stakeholders. 32 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 33 Fab’s Board of Directors (as of 1st April 2017) Risk Management 9 Number of members 2 Number of independent1 members At least members met the independency criteria Our Approach 0% of risk and reward. Within this risk appetite and policy guidelines, Executive members of the Board of Directors framework, we have established and monitors adherence to these. Risk management is a key success controls and oversight, including a Assisting the BRCC in carrying out factor in the financial industry, essential 100% “three lines of defence” model (see these functions is The Group Risk Non-executive members of the Board of Directors to ensuring the bank’s financial strength, Figure below), to identify potential risks and Compliance Committee assists preserving its safety and enabling and gauge the effectiveness of related the BRCC in carrying out these, as ongoing creation of shareholder 0% functions and policies. well as several sub-committees such Female members value. Our focus is on embedding as the Operational Risk Committee, an exemplary enterprise-wide and Overall accountability for risk the Compliance Committee and the integrated risk and compliance governance lies with the Board Yes Information Technology/Information Directors Code of Conduct framework, which is aligned with our Risk and Compliance Committee Security Risk Committee that oversee vision to drive consistent value for (BRCC), which develops and specific risk responsibilities. stakeholders through the optimisation oversees the Group risk strategy, Yes Board oversight of sustainability 2018 Priorities Three Lines of Defence We follow a “three lines of defence” model, which is central to our risk management framework. • Aim to fully implement the Corporate Governance Policy Framework across our UAE and international operations. • Aim to align with international best practices as part of our three-year Board corporate governance strategy. Group CEO • In conjunction with the UAE Banks Executive Management Federation, contribute to the development of the Central Bank of the Provides oversight of 3 Lines of Defence UAE’s corporate governance regulation. • Ensure compliance with all regulatory guidelines and requirements. First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence Design & Facilitate Pro-active Execute Processes & Controls Independent Assurance Risk Management Business & Enabling Functions Group Risk & Compliance Group Internal Audit Own, supplement & operate Design & monitor Risk Appetite, Provide independent verification 1 An independent director is one who, apart from receiving director’s remuneration, does not have within the Risk Appetite, Limits and Framework based of adequacy & effectiveness of any other material pecuniary relationship or transactions with the company, its promoters, its Limits and Framework on Group’s Strategy Framework, Processes & Controls management or its subsidiaries, which in the opinion of the board would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment in carrying out the responsibilities of a director. In other words, an independent director has no material relationship with the company, either directly (as an employee) or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organisation that has a relationship with the company. 34 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 35 2017 Highlights Ensuring the continuing effectiveness of our risk regime was a primary As a result of these efforts, significant progress was made to embed the Risk strategy for FAB, including Value of loan portfolio2 by region (AED) in 2017 Data Privacy and Security the creation of a comprehensive Middle East & North Africa 75.66% objective for FAB during the merger in Enterprise-wide Risk and Compliance 2017, and the Group Chief Risk Officer Sub Saharan Africa 0.78% Management Framework. Enterprise played a critical role in the Integration Risk Management policies were created South Asia 1.30% Steering Committee for the new bank. and rolled out and the risk appetite East Asia & the Pacific 5.01% To achieve this during the transition statement for the combined bank period, our Risk team put in place was finalised and distributed with Europe & Central Asia 3.14% sound fundamentals and a strong appropriate metrics. In addition, risk EU 8.86% bearing capacity to withstand all methodologies, models and tools were financial as well as non-financial risks. synchronised. North America 1.87% Our Approach • Sophisticated systems and 2017 Highlights They also worked to form a strategic technologies to continuously We are proud that FAB is rated as the Latin America & 3.38% As a global financial services • During the integration process, our alignment and an enduring partnership monitor suspicious activity and safest bank in the Middle East, with AAthe Caribbean organisation, protecting client privacy key focus in 2017 was to harmonise with business units for the formulation thwart cyber attacks, which have ratings or equivalent from global credit and handling personal information data security and privacy systems, and execution of business strategies, become a growing problem for all rating agencies (namely, Moody’s, S&P entrusted to us with the utmost care programmes and controls that integrating the corporate and risk industries in the digital era and Fitch) that put us firmly alongside is central to everything we do and key existed in the legacy organisations governance framework for the effective 2018 Priorities the best of the world’s banks. To a to consumer confidence. Whether our • Secure access areas and employee and to find opportunities to make oversight of business performance and large extent, this reflects our work in • Maintain strong external credit ratings. customers bank online, via mobile or clearance requirements to minimise enhancements where needed so ensuring a robust risk infrastructure establishing a sound governance • Maintain acceptable level of through a call centre, ATM or branch, the risk of unauthorised access to that we keep pace with the evolving to manage enterprise-wide risks in a structure and a robust risk infrastructure portfolio quality and cost of risk. we have multiple security and privacy personal information external environment. holistic manner. for effective decision-making. Further • Develop and monitor key risk measures in place. These include: • Risk assessments and periodic testing • 100% of our global employees Within this framework the team information is available in the Annual indicators (KRIs) mapped to various • Compulsory training for staff and completed the Bank’s privacy focused on adopting a unified risk Review 2017 in the Risk Management risks to determine elevations in In addition, we run public education ongoing awareness building and security training. culture across the bank, as well as section (pages 34-35). risk and proactively implement risk campaigns to communicate the development risk-based performance mitigation measures. • Policies and procedures for importance of customer vigilance • We experienced no material data management metrics. • Maintain a risk register based on protecting personal information regarding online safety and protection security breaches last year or applicable laws and regulations, of their accounts, financial information substantiated privacy complaints. • Robust data encryption techniques, fraud schemes and AML and devices. network security (e.g., firewalls) and considerations. other tools built into our products, Our Group Security Office (GSO) • Ensure business continuity plans 2018 Priorities services and technologies provides direction and oversight of are implemented to sustain the bank’s data privacy and security • Continue to invest in our data operations in the event of major • Strong authentication methods programme. privacy and security systems, events and crises. to verify customers through any controls and technologies. banking channel they use • Continue to strengthen our privacy culture, educate our people and communicate the importance of Key Performance Indicators 2017 privacy protection and security vigilance. Privacy and security training: • No material data security breaches Percentage of employees who completed FAB’s 100% or substantiated privacy complaints. privacy and security training Percentage of employees who completed AML 100% e-learning programme Data security breaches: Number of data security breaches 0 Number of data security breaches involving customers’ 0 personally identifiable information 2The value of the portfolio as a percentage of the total, or Percentage of data security breaches involving customers’ 0 as a total monetary value based on “on-balance sheet” assets. personally identifiable information 36 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 37 Anti-Money Laundering 2017 Highlights • Through ongoing security monitoring and screening of Key Performance Indicators 2017 Amount of fraudulent transaction activity (total value 984,730.31 and Anti-Corruption documents, services and product of account holder transactions refunded to account usage, we uncovered approximately holders due to fraud) (AED) AED 1 million in fraudulent Percentage of activity from card-not-present fraud 27% transactions in 2017. Percentage of activity from card-present and other fraud 73% • Based on our screening controls, we declined a number of business relationships and rejected a number of transactions in 2017. Our Approach • We train our people on how to • We developed a “Group Vulnerability identify, prevent and deal with The growing sophistication of financial We invest heavily in strong Assessment and Penetration financial crime and provide riskcrime – a trillion-dollar industry – is a financial crime management Testing Policy and Procedures,” and assessment tools and models. Our serious issue for the financial sector performed routine assessments to Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and and maintain robust controls globally. FAB is committed to protect identify possible vulnerabilities on Sanctions e-learning programme is to combat fraud and other our business from financial losses and all bank assets and infrastructure a mandatory course for all staff and other risks, as well as to safeguard our criminal activities. including payment card systems. requires a minimum pass rate of 80%. customers and other stakeholders from harmful impacts. • We continuously update our deterrence and detection A top priority for our bank, we provide 2018 Priorities infrastructure, which includes significant investment in crime sophisticated tools to monitor, • Implement appropriate framework prevention strategies to proactively track and report criminals and any with proper systems and controls combat fraud, corruption, bribery, suspicious transaction activity as per best practices, and align money laundering, terrorist financing, across channels. Customers the framework in terms of any breaching of international sanctions and and counterparties are regularly upcoming financial crime risks. other criminal and civil offences. Our screened against listed terrorist • Proactively embed and enhance our internal control regime is multi-faceted: organisations and sanctioned controls on a regular basis. • Our global financial crime unit names issued by the UN, US, EU, • Oversee financial crime risk to includes dedicated experts who UK and UAE. ensure effectiveness of compliance specialise in crime prevention and systems and to identify emerging • We use advanced analytics that managing threats posed to FAB. regulatory and financial crime risks. give us better insights and real-time These include risks associated • To authenticate and onboard data to uncover and act on with new products and services, customers, we have robust due potential threats. customer types, geographies and diligence policies, procedures Additionally, we work together with channels. and systems in place that reflect law enforcement agencies and international best practice and industry peers to share intelligence comply with relevant laws and and help fight financial crime in the regulations with respect to Know wider community. Your Customer (KYC) and other client identification requirements. 38 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 39 Responsible Financial and Banking Economic Performance To achieve long-term success in today’s financial world, we believe taking a responsible approach to Our Approach • We maintained a strong balance 2018 Priorities banking is paramount. For us that means creating value for our stakeholders – by running a profitable sheet and healthy ratios with loans Our vision is to create value for our and advances at AED 330.5 billion. • Deliver top shareholder returns on business, by managing environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks and opportunities, by being shareholders, customers, employees, and a sustainable basis. an inclusive and accessible bank, and through responsible lending and investing. communities to grow stronger through • In our first year as FAB, we paid differentiation, agility and innovation. the highest total cash dividend of Through solid growth and superior AED 7.6 billion to our shareholders, returns, we can deliver sustainable exceeding the aggregate amount Key Achievements in 2017 benefits to our stakeholders and ensure ever paid by the legacy banks the long-term success of our business. historically on a combined basis. 2017 Highlights FAB’s 2017 results are testament to the First Green Bond 75% sound rationale behind our merger. While laying the foundation to drive sustainable value for shareholders over the long term, we delivered Raising USD 587 million for projects to fight climate change Customer satisfaction score strong financial performance: • Our total revenue was AED 19.5 billion. We delivered a Group Net Profit of AED 10.92 billion, and an Adjusted Group Net Profit for the full year of AED 11.52 billion after excluding integration costs and merger-related AED 7.6 billion 24 amortisation of intangibles. Total cash dividends paid to shareholders – exceeding the Branches, as well as 24 ATMs in remote and economically aggregate amount ever paid out by the legacy banks disadvantaged areas Material topics in this chapter: • Financial and economic performance • Customer experience • Financial inclusion and accessibility • Responsible finance • Direct environmental impact of operations 40 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 41 2017 Financial Highlights Revenue by geography Revenue by business segment Net Profit by business segment UAE 88% Corporate & Investment Banking 48% Corporate & Investment Banking 63% International 12% Personal Banking 35% Personal Banking 21% Subsidiaries 7% Subsidiaries 2% Head office 10% Head office 14% AED 19.5Bn AED 10.9Bn AED 396Bn Total Revenue Reported Net Profit Customer Deposits AED 11.5Bn AED 331Bn AED 102Bn Adjusted Net Profit* Loans and Advances Total Equity * Excluding integration costs and merger-related amortisation of intangibles 2018 Priorities • Deliver top shareholder returns on a sustainable basis. 42 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 43 Customer 2017 Highlights • Putting and keeping customers first during integration processes • Through social media channels including LinkedIn, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube, we strengthened 2018 Priorities • Strengthen our banking leadership Experience customer relationships and position in the UAE and significantly was our top priority. We ensured a awareness with engaging content scale up international presence seamless transition for customers including banking advice, savings with no service disruption in spite of • Establish a compelling and relevant options and tips on how to go ‘green’ the significant changes impacting FAB brand personality via our new in the UAE. Our social media profiles both legacy institutions. To respond ‘Grow Stronger’ positioning, through are managed in English and Arabic, to customer queries regarding all segments and we maintain a 100% response the merger, our frontline staff rate to customer queries. • Enhance customer experience were trained and equipped with through digitally simplified customer frequently asked questions (FAQs), • We implemented a workflow In uniting two legacy banks Digital Product and Service interactions Digital solutions include: scripts and scenarios. system for Liability and Clearance to create our new brand, we Transformation Letter production to monitor and • Build differentiating customer value • Online banking • We launched and rolled out our new have taken the customerTechnology is a pivotal part of track customer requests. We also propositions with competitive • Mobile banking app brand, which has been implemented centric qualities that defined our approach. Digitalisation has harmonised the complaints resolution product and service offers for all • ‘Near By Me’ function within our across a number of key customer fundamentally changed the financial process to ensure consistency in the segments the best of both organisations mobile banking app, which alerts touch points, regionally and industry and transformed the way way complaints are handled, which to fashion the building blocks customers to nearby deals internationally, with the target of • Continue disruption and innovation customers interact with us. resulted in a reduction in complaints • 360-degree gamification-driven completing our rebranding activities in payments to build the payments for providing leading customer as the year progressed. We offer a growing range of digital VR application by the end of 2018. ecosystem, leveraging customer experiences at FAB. banking capabilities and touch points, • Our customer satisfaction score well insights • A series of focus groups with and strive to ensure a seamless exceeded our target of 68%. personal banking customers Our Approach experience across them to optimise provided us with real-time feedback the customer journey. We’ve put a Responsible Customer Relations on our new mobile app and variety of programs, processes and internet banking platforms under Providing excellent customer service solutions in place – such as PayIt development. The feedback has is a top priority at FAB. We are and Mobile Banking applications – to enabled us to fine-tune and enhance committed to provide exceptional ensure we’re delivering convenient the digital customer experience. service, choice and customised and engaging customer experiences products and services. It is not just that truly make a difference in their about what we offer, but how we lives. In addition to delivering services offer it that sets us apart from our in new ways, our considerable competitors. And this is how we are investment in digital innovation is developing strong relationships and helping us to improve efficiency and creating value. collaboration within our workplace. We seek to meet the banking needs of customers across the world via our market-leading corporate and Awards investment and personal banking Global Investor Awards franchises. To gauge our performance, • ‘UAE Asset Manager of the Year’ we regularly survey our customers • ‘Digital Leader’ and closely monitor concerns raised through our branches and customer Euromoney Awards care teams. This feedback allows us • ‘Best Investment Bank in the UAE’ to learn more about our customers’ • ‘Best Bank for Markets in the needs and what FAB can do to Middle East’ enhance their experience. • ‘Best Bank for Financing in the Middle East’ The Banker Awards • ‘Most Innovative Investment Bank from the Middle East’ 44 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 45 Financial Inclusion and Accessibility Our Approach 2017 Highlights Innovating digital payments Around the world, many individuals • At the close of 2017, we had 103 in the UAE and communities lack access to branches/cash offices in the UAE, as Consumers in the UAE don’t have financial services, or are unfamiliar with well as 603 ATMs/CDMs. to carry cash again. In 2017, FAB basic financial products and tools as a • We maintained branches in low developed Payit, the UAE’s first fully result of poor financial literacy. These populated and economically featured digital wallet. The mobile problems present barriers to financial disadvantaged areas, namely in Al application will be available to both inclusion and economic health. Ain (16 branches) and the Western our customers and all UAE residents. At FAB, we are committed to ensuring Region (8 branches) of UAE. Payit is a stored value account in all of our customers – including lowwhich customers can deposit money income and disadvantaged groups – and use it, instead of cash, for various 103 have appropriate products and services, financial activities such as: and can access a broad range of ways • Paying for store and to bank with us, each designed to suit restaurant purchases their needs and preferences. Our digital Branches/Cash offices in UAE • Sending and receiving innovations, such as mobile apps and 603 money instantly gamification, are playing a significant • Tracking spending role in this respect. We recognise that financial information With this innovation, we will lead the ATMs/CDMs can be complex for the average UAE’s journey to a cashless economy. consumer or is often not expressed In 2017, we also established our first in simple terms. Whether its through digital lab to help accelerate our our printed materials or person to digital transformation and build the person interactions, we strive to be future of FAB. clear, concise and transparent in how we communicate financial advice and Key Performance Indicators 2017 2018 Priorities concepts, so that our clients are able Number of branches in low populated and economically 24 • Fully launch the PayIt application by to understand and make the informed disadvantaged areas* 2018 decisions about financial products and services. All communications Number of ATMs in low populated and economically 24 are also delivered in Arabic and disadvantaged areas* English to ensure the widest possible comprehension. * Areas include: Dibba, Ghayathi, Hayer, Hisn, Liwa, Madam, Mirfaa, Ruwais, Qidfaa, Silaa, Sweihan, Wagan, Yahar. Payit mobile app 46 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 47 Responsible Finance An important way we demonstrate Our Approach 2017 Highlights Related FAB policies a balanced, responsible approach Given our deep relationships Responsible and guidelines: Responsible to banking is through our lending with corporates and institutions and investment activities. As a Business Lending • Group Environmental Policy Business Lending across the country, we are able major bank that touches many Our commitment to responsible • Group Enterprise Risk • Our total commercial lending in facets of society and economic financing and prudent risk to advise on how policies Management Policy 2017 was AED 233.5 billion. life, we have an opportunity and management is outlined in FAB’s and initiatives can be turned • Group Sustainability Policy • Four deals were subject to a responsibility to play a leading Group Environmental Policy and into action by the UAE • Project Finance Credit Programme enhanced due diligence. role in facilitating economic, social Sustainability Policy. • Syndications and Underwriting business community. and environmental progress and Credit Policy • In 2017, we conducted four reviews We are signatory to the Equator promoting sustainability practices on projects that qualified under the Principles (EP) – the global best External commitments: among our clients, partners and Equator Principles, and provided practice in environmental and social Our commitment to EP provides investments. • Equator Principles funding for one of the projects risk management for major capital the basis for us to further define our under category “B”. Our efforts in this area are contributing projects. Our legacy organisation, institutional ESG (environmental, social to our home country’s green agenda. National Bank of Abu Dhabi (NBAD), and governance) frameworks when • FAB became a member of the The UAE’s Vision 2021 is committed to was the first UAE bank to make this we engage with clients, and to adopt Sustainable Finance Steering improving the country’s environmental commitment, in 2015. As a signatory, international best practice in social Committee as part of the performance and promoting we have: and environmental risk evaluation. In Dubai Declaration. sustainable initiative to generate addition, it supports our commitment • committed to evaluate and address growth, with a focus on decarbonising as a bank to track and report our social and environmental risks in a the economy and diversifying energy own ESG performance, in alignment consistent way with the international supplies. This focus was developed with the Global Reporting (GRI) banking community. further in the UAE Green Agenda Initiative Standards and the Carbon 2015-2030, which sets a target to • embedded EP in our internal policies, Disclosure Project (CDP). We maintain transform the national economy into a procedures and practices for and continuously update a list of green economy over the next 15 years, financing projects. prohibited transactions; for example, promote sustainable finance practices we do not finance transactions that • pledged to report on our EP activities among UAE financial institutions, and involve liquor business, gambling, each year for applicable projects. increase private-sector participation gaming companies such as casinos, in supporting the transition to a low and lottery operations. carbon economy. 48 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 49 Project Finance Transactions under the Equator Principles (EP) Our Approach With the FAB Green Bond, Green Bond Project Finance Project-related Corporate loans Project Finance Advisory Services we are contributing to the Sustainable investing continues development of the green to flourish as organisations and Category Category Category Category Category Category bond market in the Middle individuals alike are choosing A B C A B C responsible investment strategies. East and helping drive the UAE Total 1 1 toward achieving its national We are proud to have issued the first Green Bond in the region, which sustainability targets and its By Sector was the first ever Green Bond from a long-term global sustainability Middle East issuer. FAB’s Green Bond Mining leadership ambitions. is a continuation of the Green Bond Infrastructure 1 Framework and Green Bond of USD 587 million originally established and Our Green Bond is based on the Oil and gas issued into the market in 2017 by the FAB Green Bond Framework, and National Bank of Abu Dhabi (NBAD), follows the International Capital Power 1 prior to the merger. Market Association (ICMA) Green Overall, the government of the UAE Bond Principles. FAB’s Green Bond Other has clearly stated its intentions to be Framework (see below) sets out a leader in renewable energy, and our governance and approach, By Region continues to set ambitious renewable outlines eligible project categories Americas energy and energy efficiency targets. and highlights our commitment to At FAB, we are committed to these transparency. Projects identified as Europe, 1 1 objectives and the increasing potentially eligible undergo a rigorous Middle East & focus and mandates set out by the ESG due diligence assessment, Africa UAE Government to diversify and including evaluation by the FAB Green transition the UAE economy. The net Bond Secretariat and the FAB Green Asia and proceeds of the Green Bond will be Bond Committee, which comprises Oceania used to finance, in whole or in part, senior management. By Country Designation environmentally sustainable eligible projects including renewable energy, Designated energy efficient real estate and clean transportation projects. Non1 1 designated Independent Review Yes 1 No EP Categories: Category B: projects with potential Category C: projects with minimal or limited adverse environmental and no adverse environmental and social Category A: projects with potential social risks and/ or impacts that are risks and/or Impacts significant adverse environmental and few in number, generally site-specific, social risks and/or impacts that are largely reversible and readily addressed diverse, irreversible or unprecedented through mitigation measures 50 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 51 Pillars of FAB’s Green Bond Framework FAB Green Bond Governance • FAB’s Green Bond Committee is responsible for ensuring compliance with all aspects of FAB’s Green Bond Framework. The Eligible Project Allocated Location Share of total Eligibility for Renewable Annual GHG Other Committee meets on a quarterly basis. categories description amount (USD) portfolio green bonds energy emissions indicators as at May 2018 financing capacity reduced/ • A Green Bond Secretariat provides the necessary support to the Committee. generation avoided • An internal audit is conducted annually to assess adherence to FAB’s Green Bond Framework. • An external audit is conducted annually to assure FAB’s Green Bond Report and the Green Bond Framework. Renewable Solar plant 55,041,352 UAE 9.4% 100% 100MW 175,000 tons of Energy CO2 every year Use of Proceeds • Renewable energy • Terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation Renewable Solar plant 27,575,489 UAE 4.7% 100% 1,177MW 7,000,000 tons Eligible Project Energy of CO2 every • Energy efficiency • Clean transportation Categories year • Pollution prevention and control • Sustainable water management • Sustainable management of living natural resources • Climate change adaptation Energy Green building 226,000,000 USA 38.5% 100% LEED Silver • Eco-efficient products Efficiency Certification Energy Green building 128,242,000 France 21.8% 100% BREEAM Process for Project Efficiency Excellent Rating • Projects are initially screened against the selected categories as defined in both the ICMA Green Bond Principles and Climate Evaluation and Bonds Initiative. Selection Energy Green building 26,162,827 UAE 4.5% 100% LEED Gold • The projects passing the category screen are then assessed for eligibility using FAB’s ESG Due Diligence Assessment Efficiency Certification Methodology. This includes quantification and qualification of the ESG performance of both clients and the selected projects, and generation of ESG Assessment Reports. Energy District cooling 61,352,080 UAE 10.5% 100% 90,000 • The Green Bond Committee reviews the ESG Assessment Reports and approves/rejects projects for eligibility. Efficiency Refrigerant Ton (RT), utilises • The Green Bond Committee allocates some or all of these eligible projects to the bond, up to the full value of the bond. up to 50% less electricity consumption Management of compared to • Monitoring of compliance with the overall Green Bond Framework is ongoing by the Secretariat, including tracking and Proceeds conventional airmanagement of proceeds, with quarterly oversight by Green Bond Committee. cooled chillers. • Monitoring of the environmental and social performance of the allocated projects and the associated clients is ongoing by the Secretariat, with quarterly oversight by Green Bond Committee. Energy District cooling 19,871,132 UAE 3.4% 100% 245,000 Efficiency Refrigerant Ton • Proceeds are tracked through a combination of automated and manual tracking systems. (RT), utilises up to 50% less electricity Reporting • FAB issues a public Green Bond Report annually on the use of proceeds. consumption compared to conventional aircooled chillers. 2017 Highlights • We secured inclusion in the MSCI Emerging Markets ESG Leaders Index, Sustainable Wastewater 42,755,120 UAE 7.3% 100% Treatment Green Bond Water treatment and of 430,000 helping to capture the link between Management recycling plant m3/day of • We raised USD587 million in our FAB’s sustainability performance wastewater green bond debut. and the growing importance of sustainability and ESG performance TOTAL USD • FAB’s Green Bond Framework, along 587,000,000 by investors. FAB was also ranked with the initial projects allocated amongst the amongst the top ten in Bond amount USD to the bond, received an external the S&P/Hawkamah ESG Pan Arab 587,000,000 second party opinion by VideoIndex in 2017, demonstrating FAB’s Eiris prior to issue in 2017, which Remainder to Nil regional leadership. confirmed alignment of the Green Read our first annual Green Bond Report. be allocated Bond Framework with the ICMA Green Bond Principles. Use of Proceeds and expected environmental benefits based on allocated projects 2018 Priorities • Issue a public Green Bond Report on the use of proceeds and environmental benefits annually. 52 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 53 Direct Environmental Impact of Operations Our Approach Among these steps is the UAE Climate change, in particular, is one Energy Plan for 2050, which aims to of the most serious threats facing Our stakeholders expect us to find reduce carbon dioxide emissions by the planet and presents considerable ways to grow our business while 70 percent, increase clean energy risks to the economy. In managing our protecting the environment and taking use by 50 percent and improve the environmental impacts, we are focused action on issues such as climate energy efficiency of individuals and on identifying and addressing climatechange. As greenhouse gas emissions corporates by 40 percent, by 2050. related risks and opportunities so that continue to rise and drive long-term we build a more resilient business and warming trends, environmental FAB is committed to providing a society. We apply the ISO 14064-3 and climate change-related issues real contribution to help addressing standard for greenhouse gas (GHG) will continue to dominate the environmental challenges and 2017 Highlights with the UNGC’s 10 Principles emissions verification, and participate Related FAB policies sustainability agenda of organisations meeting the UAE Government’s – which include environmental worldwide. sustainability goals. We are working in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and guidelines: • In our first year of operation as FAB, our commitments to develop and to measure and disclose our climate total energy consumption was 381,653 to understand, manage and reduce • Group Environmental Management implement initiatives to promote The UAE has always endured harsh risks. We also support the Financial GJ. Our direct GHG emissions were our environmental impacts and risks System Policy greater environmental responsibility, environmental conditions such as Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate463 and our indirect GHG emissions and inspire our employees to make • Group Sustainability Policy support a precautionary approach extreme heat and water supply scarcity. related Financial Disclosures, a group were 48,237 tons of CO2eq. sustainable decisions, protecting the to environmental challenges and The risk of unmitigated impacts of that is creating voluntary, consistent planet for future generations. External commitments: • FAB was the only UAE bank to encourage the development climate change could potentially affect climate-related financial risk disclosures become a signatory to the United and diffusion of environmentallythe UAE’s coping capacity in terms We have declared our commitment to for use by companies. • United Nations Global Compact Nations Global Compact (UNGC) friendly technologies. of economic growth, ecosystems preserving the environment formally (UNGC) Principles FAB is an active participant and principles this year. UNGC is the and biodiversity and social wellbeing. through our Group Sustainability • The UAE Council for Climate • Paper consumption is one of our contributor to a number of national world’s largest corporate social Following the UAE’s participation in COP Policy and Environmental Policy. Our Change and Environment biggest impacts as a bank. During environmental committees and sustainability initiative, with over 21 and COP 22, and the commitments Group Environmental Policy sets • The Ministry of Climate Change 2017, we implemented various taskforces, including the UAE Council 12,000 signatories across 170 made as part of the COP 21 Paris out our commitments in support and Environment’s Technical initiatives to reduce paper use, for Climate Change and Environment, countries. By signing the Compact, Agreement, the UAE Government of environmental stewardship and Committee on Green Development including frequent employee and we follow several international we have agreed to align our has taken significant steps to meet we apply international best practice and Climate Change awareness campaigns and frameworks such as the United strategies and operations the challenges of climate change and recognised standards to ensure • Technical Committee for the World encouraging customers to sign Nations Global Compact that help and encourage the development of proper environmental management Future Energy Summit 2018 up for electronic statements. us achieve global best practices and innovative and green solutions for and impact reduction. We continue to standards (see sidebar on next page). climate change adaptation. apply this comprehensive framework across all FAB locations, enabling us to address environmental issues in a coordinated, measure and track our environmental performance and pinpoint areas for improvement. 54 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 55 Energy Consumption 2017 GHG Emissions 2017 Materials Consumption and Waste 2017 Water Consumption 2017 Total m3 of space across all FAB 268,025 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 463 Total paper consumption (kg) 97,237.50 Total water consumption (liters) 4,504,692 facilities (branches, offices, etc.) (sqm) (tons of CO2eq) Total paper recycled (kg) 79347 Water consumption intensity 835 Total petrol consumption (liters) 201,717 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 48,237 (liters / employee) (tons of CO2eq) Waste (kg) 7,674,421 Total diesel consumption (liters) 661 Total GHG emissions (tons of CO2eq) 48,700 Energy consumption from fuel 6,815,760 consumption (GJ) GHG emissions intensity 9.03 (tons of CO2eq/employee) Total electricity consumption (kWh) 106,014,701 Energy consumption from 381,653 electricity (GJ) Total energy consumption (GJ) 7,197,413 Energy intensity (GJ/employee) 1,335 Energy intensity (GJ/ m3 of space) 27 48,237.15 1.78 39,992.99 Indirect CO2 from Electricity (tonnes) Direct CO2 from Diesel (tonnes) Indirect CO2 from Water (tonnes) 2018 Priorities 7,942.63 1,298.75 77,349.81 • Continue our annual climate and carbon reporting to CDP. Indirect CO2 from Paper Indirect CO2 from Business Indirect CO2 from Paper • Strengthen our sustainability recycled (tonnes) flights (tonnes) purchased (tonnes) performance and manage our climate change risks. • Continue implementation of our Environmental Management System 461.52 166,995.40 • Engage employees in environmental stewardship through communication and awareness Direct CO2 from Gasoline (tonnes) Indirect CO2 from Waste (tonnes) programs. • Reduce our paper consumption across FAB locations. 56 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 57 Responsible Talent Employment Management Our outstanding team of talented and empowered individuals is the foundation for Our Approach Since starting our journey as FAB, our current success and the key to our future. It is with their knowledge, dedication we have endeavoured to gain the Through talent management One of the most valuable assets in unwavering support of our workforce strategies anchored by a strong and drive that we can deliver high quality financial services to customers. any organisation is its people. around the new bank’s strategy, vision By investing in talent, motivating Employee Value Proposition, and values – so that employees can employees and recognising we aim to build the workforce take pride in bringing these to life outstanding performance, a business through the work they do. Combining of the future. can truly put its customers first. diverse talent from both legacy Key Achievements in 2017 Our goal is to be an employer of organisations, we have put in place choice. As a leading bank, we are a strong and experienced leadership dedicated to creating value for our team to execute an ambitious growth more than 5,300 employees worldwide agenda, with a strategic human who embody our brand and culture. resources (HR) focus on talent, productivity and cooperation. 5,393 70% employees from 89 nationalities employee engagement score Talent AED 3bn AED 16.67m Employee salaries and benefits Invested in training and developing our people Material topics in this chapter: • Talent management • Diversity and inclusion • Employee wellbeing tio n ra Pro du ctiv pe ity Coo 58 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 59 Components of our talent management approach: Our people are our most Succession planning We provide our employees through valuable asset. We are To ensure we retain our key every stage of their careers with committed to creating an performers and future leaders, myriad opportunities to learn, grow succession planning is conducted and thrive. Learning solutions include environment where they can annually for our senior leaders. classroom and online learning, jobs leverage their strengths, excel Successors are identified to fill aids and videos, and external training in their performance and be various short, medium and long-term programmes offered by the Emirates ambassadors for the new FAB positions. Institute for Banking and Financial Studies and other organisations. We brand and culture. Talent reviews also operate our own in-house training During a talent review, business facility, the FAB Business School, to leaders consider the performance build both technical and soft skills and and potential of employees and how deliver compliance training. they fit into the future of the business. These reviews provide an opportunity We deliver two customised, flagship to discuss talent at a greater level programmes for high potential of depth, including development leaders: “Discovery”, offered in measures for employee succession. partnership with New York University Abu Dhabi Office of Executive Employee engagement initiatives an d w Education, helps emerging leaders face eb Employee engagement is fundamental across FAB move from being to to our success as a bank. We therefore e in a individual contributors to being Fac aim to create a welcoming culture rs effective team leaders; “Pioneer & in which employees feel connected Expedition”, offered in partnership to our values, passionate about their with Harvard Business Review and rs, flyers, et Sys jobs and motivated to contribute their tem best. We have strong employment The Talent Enterprise, provides senior o ste c leaders with a transformational ) nications engagement practices in place, such learning journey that enables them to sim mu as employee recognition awards, ulation truly live the FAB values and deliver on (P employee engagement surveys and our organisational priorities. We also other communication channels to offer the ‘Manager Essentials Learning share ideas and feedback, and many Path’, a series of web sessions collaboration opportunities. m conducted for first time managers to Training and career development provide continuous learning through Co Learning We place a strong emphasis on finding the year as they progress through people with the right skill-set and various managerial responsibilities. Solutions providing them with comprehensive Taking a holistic, multi-level approach, at FAB training and career development we seek to build the capabilities opportunities. As the UAE’s leading of all employees as individuals, as bank, we want to be a place where team members and as team leaders. successful careers can be built for high Every employee receives an annual performing talented individuals. performance review, through which we consider individual and collective Vid eo performance, career planning and ai ds s specific training needs. J ob e ial E-l ar ut or nin g process t 60 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 61 2017 Highlights • Another measure of engagement is 2018 Priorities voluntary employee turnover. During Programmes for high potential leaders • With the integration taking centre 2017, voluntary employee turnover • Maintain employee engagement • “Discovery” builds leadership capabilities stage last year, our Group Human was 14%. Employees aged between score at 70%. of emerging leaders Resources team – which directs 31-50 years have a higher joining and • “Pioneer & Expedition” enhances skills of and oversees our global workforce • Complete succession leaving rate compared to other age more senior leaders – undertook significant work to planning program. groups. Involuntary turnover was 12%. organise, manage and minimise • Conduct talent reviews. Managers Essentials Path Programme disruptions to our people and help • We rolled out a comprehensive • Enhances the leadership skills of managers through them find common ground. This staff recognition programme to • Deliver leadership programmes and short web-based sessions on topics such as goal work included: acknowledge those who excelled provide courses to staff through our setting and conducting performance appraisals in their performance, contributed FAB Business School. Identifying and retaining key to the creation of the new bank and talent for appropriate roles across • Drive a compelling culture based FAB Business School exemplified our values (refer to the the bank. on FAB values. • Our in-house facility that offers courses catering to Celebrating employees who help Attracting the right talent to both technical and soft skill requirements, including us “Grow Stronger” case study for • Deliver integration training for support ongoing integration compliance training further details). “Customer Day 1” to mark the activities and strengthen our complete unification of both banking business going forward. • We worked to expand FAB’s entities under the FAB banner. Initiating succession planning for presence and activity on social senior roles with emphasis on UAE media platforms to engage national development. employees and potential recruits, Launching guiding principles especially for career opportunities. for the merged entity, In 2017, we reached an estimated harmonising HR policies and 1.2 million followers and fans across procedures and finalising most all FAB’s social media channels, and functional and organisational were the highest representative structures at all levels. bank on LinkedIn in the UAE. Evaluating all roles across the new • We invested AED 16.67 million in organisation to ensure a consistent training and developing our people. approach is followed for job levels, Average training received per titles and compensation. employee equaled 4.1 hours. Training Placing UAE national employees included integration-learning courses across the new organisation to support our people through the and supporting the next merger process and beyond. All generation in taking on upcoming employees (100%) received formal roles (refer to pages 74-75 for performance development and our Emiratisation initiatives). career reviews in 2017. • We conducted our first annual employee engagement survey under the new bank. The goal was to measure how employees feel, what they expect and where we can improve as an employer. Our overall engagement score was 70% – exceeding our target of 63% and key external engagement benchmarks – indicating that most employees feel very connected with FAB. We will use this feedback to develop action plans and strengthen our culture of combined banks. 62 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 63 Case study: Turnover – 2017 Communication in a period of change Voluntary Involuntary Total Employee turnover 741 638 1,379 2017 saw the merger of two leading Recognising the importance of being • We provided regular updates banks, combining the strength, supportive and transparent with our on integration milestones, Turnover by age: expertise and connectivity of two staff to ensure a successful change organisational changes taking place Age 18-30 164 52 216 prominent financial institutions process, we ensure that targeted and next steps, and responded to deliver superior services to our communication was a top priority from openly to feedback Age 31-50 541 437 978 customers and stakeholders. Naturally, the start of the integration. This helped Age 51+ 36 149 185 • We launched our new brand identity employees had many questions about to address uncertainties and make and “Grow Stronger” campaign, Turnover by gender: how the integration would affect them. employees feel valued. For example: with ongoing communication to Male 431 447 878 engage employees. Female 310 91 501 • Through various channels such as town halls, we fostered dialogue and Turnover by job category: clarity around organisational goals Senior management 24 28 52 and expectations. Middle management 496 317 813 Non-management employees 221 293 514 Contract staff 42 101 143 Employee turnover (%) 14% 12% 26% Case study: Celebrating employees who help us “Grow Stronger” Workforce Snapshot – 2017 Total workforce (excluding trainees, students and outsourced staff) 5,393 At FAB, we believe it is important to Stars in a Box Gold Awards celebrate the achievements of those Managers and senior leaders can An annual award ceremony through Full-time employees 5,331 who have made a difference to our recognise individuals and teams “on which individuals and teams Part-time employees 62 Grow Stronger quest. Recognition the spot” with gift vouchers for great are recognised for outstanding is a great tool for building a culture work and achievements. contributions to the best customerTrainees and sponsored students 19 of appreciation and excellence, driven initiatives. Workforce by contract type: Shining Stars Award and inspiring employees to go the A quarterly award that recognises Service Milestones Employees on an indefinite or permanent contract 5,125 extra mile. Here are examples of our employees who have made a These awards honour employees employee recognition programmes: Employees on a fixed term or temporary contract 268 difference to our customers. for 10, 15 and 20 years of service and above. Workforce by age (excluding trainees, students and outsourced staff): Age 18-30 806 Age 31-50 4,156 Age 51+ 431 Workforce by job category: Senior management employees 91 Middle management employees 3,298 Non-management employees 2,004 Total new employee hires 167 Age 18-30 49 Age 31-50 104 Age 51+ 14 Male 111 Female 56 64 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 65 Training – 2017 Employee Engagement Turnover by Job Category Turnover by Age Total training delivered (days*) 6,459 Total training delivered (hours) 45,211 Total training hours delivered by job category: Senior management 590 Middle management 3,192 Non-management 12,698 Total training hours delivered by gender: Male employees 18,672 Female employees 26,538 Engaged 70% Senior management 3% Age 18-30 22% Average training per employee (hours)** 4.1 Middle management 67% Age 31-50 73% Non-management employees 30% Age 51+ 5% Number of attendees who completed at least one e-learning course 4,819 Number of e-learning training hours delivered (hours) 17,896 Percentage of employees who received a performance and career development review*** 100% Turnover by Gender Workforce by Job Category Workforce by Age * One training day = seven training hours ** Average training hours/days are calculated based on number of people trained, not total employee numbers. *** Employees who resigned during the year-end 2017 performance process were removed from the calculations. Employees on full-year incentives not included, as their performance is based on achieving targets. Includes first-party employees only. Male 58% Senior management employees 2% Age 18-30 15% Female 42% Middle management employees 61% Age 31-50 77% Non-management employees 37% Age 51+ 8% New Hires by Gender New Hires by Age Age 18-30 29% Male 66% Age 31-50 62% Female 34% Age 51+ 8% 66 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 67 Diversity and Employee Inclusion Wellbeing Our Approach status. In addition, our commitment to 2017 Highlights Our Approach Mental Wellbeing gender equality includes equal pay for Through our Employee Wellbeing FAB is one of the first Diversity and inclusion is an integral • Our workforce comprised We are committed to improving the equal work. Programme, we offer a personal companies worldwide to part of our corporate sustainability and 5,393 people from 89 different overall health and well-being of our support line that provides employees key to helping FAB flourish in the global Our values of diversity and nationalities. employees. To ensure our people conform to the new ISO with access to professional counselors marketplace. Our commitment to inclusiveness are ingrained in our can perform at their best – especially 45001:2018 standard for • Women constituted 34% (2,039) of 24/7, 365 days of the year. We diversity and inclusion is demonstrated Employee Code of Conduct, Directors during times of organisational change our total workforce, and held 20% promote open communication and occupational health and safety. across FAB, beginning with our Board Code of Conduct and relevant as we experienced in 2017 – we (1,105) of management positions offer various feedback and input of Directors. We embrace diversity and corporate policies such as our Antiinvest in employee wellbeing. Our (middle management and above). channels to encourage dialogue. For inclusion from the top down because Bullying and Harassment Policy. approach focuses on supporting three example, we have a formal Employee we strongly believe that cultivating a We respect fundamental human • There were no reported instances components of wellness: physical, Grievance Mechanism to receive workforce of different backgrounds rights and do not tolerate bullying or of discrimination or harassment in mental and financial. employee complaints and concerns and perspectives improves our ways of harassment within our workplace or our workplace. Physical Wellbeing and ensure these are handled fairly working, delivers better business results, beyond. Employees are encouraged • Through the integration process, The health and safety of our employees and in a timely manner. drives innovation – and demonstrates to immediately report incidents of we maintained a focus on building central to everything we do. FAB is that we value our people. discrimination or harassment, whether Through our parental leave programme, a diverse workforce through one of the first company worldwide to they are a victim or witness to it, and female employees who have been with We work hard to build a workforce that targeted recruitment, promotion conform to the new ISO 45001:2018 we investigate all allegations. the company for one or more years are reflects the fabric of our communities, and other efforts and building standard for occupational health and entitled to fully-paid maternity leave for while creating a safe and inclusive greater understanding of how to safety. Our goal is zero injuries, and up to 60 calendar days; those who have environment based on collaboration, demonstrate inclusive leadership since the completion of our merger we Related FAB policies been with the company under a year respect and fairness where people truly and inclusive behaviours. have implemented policies, procedures value their differences. As an equal and guidelines: and programs to help assure the receive half-pay. Male employees are eligible for five working days of paternity opportunity employer, we consider all • Directors Code of Conduct safety of our offices and facilities, with 2018 Priorities leave at full pay. qualified candidates for employment • Employee Code of Conduct national safety regulations serving as without regard to gender, age, • Anti-Bullying and Harassment Policy • Continue to support an inclusive the minimum standard. In addition, Financial Wellbeing ethnicity, disability, religion or marital and diverse workplace. we deliver health and safety training, The compensation system at FAB is run awareness campaigns, provide based on fair and transparent rewards comfortable working conditions and designed to promote a culture of have safety personnel and committees. motivation and equal pay. We also provide comprehensive benefits – 34% such as pension, medical insurance, life insurance, education assistance, Key Performance Indicators 2017 car loans, mortgage loans and Number of nationalities represented in our workforce 89 personal loans – which help us attract Percentage of women at FAB Male employees 3,354 and retain talent. 89 Female employees 2,039 Female employees in middle management 1,095 Female employees in senior management 10 Nationalities represented at FAB 68 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 69 Case study: 2017 Highlights Key Performance Indicators 2017 • We recorded one work-related injury Employee salaries and benefits (AED mn ) 3,022 The FAB Club promotes in our workplace that resulted in 42 Employee absentee rate 10.39% calendar days off. There were no wellbeing and engagement work-related fatalities. Employee grievances: In 2017, we introduced the FAB Club • Our total compensation in 2017 Number of grievances filed 19 for employees and their families to including salaries, benefits and Number of these grievances addressed or resolved 19 provide fun activities and events allowances was over AED 3 billion. throughout the year. The club has Number of grievances filed prior to the reporting period that 0 hosted sporting activities, health • 114 employees used our personal were resolved during the reporting period and wellness events, movie nights, support line, introduced last year, to Parental leave: family days, charity events and access expert advice on a range of Female employees who took parental leave 158 fitness classes, and has also offered topics such as illness, debt, family colleagues a wide range of employee problems and personal health. Female employees who returned to work after parental 158 offers and discounts. • We hosted wellness days, health leave ended (return to work) check-ups and complimentary Female employees returned from parental leave who were 155 fitness classes, and provided free still employed twelve months after return to work (retention) access to gym and sports facilities Return to work rate (%) 100% at various venues across Abu Dhabi and Dubai. Retention rate (%) 98.1% 2018 Priorities • Continue to improve overall health and wellbeing by organising events ranging from health screenings and diet offers to free sports. • Launch annual employee blood donation campaign in UAE and some international locations. 70 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 71 Positive Social Community Investment and Impact Socio-Economic Development To create shared value and long-term positive impact for society, we focus Our Approach 2017 Highlights As we undertook this strategic review on three core areas: community investments, local procurement and the process last year, we continued to Strong, vibrant communities are With both legacy banks having strong support diverse community needs. Our development of UAE national talent. We strive to be a respected community crucial to socio-economic wellreputations for giving back to the community investments (donations partner that understands local needs and shapes long-term relationships. being, empowering the people and community, we used the occasion and sponsorships) in 2017 exceeded organisations like ours within them of the merger as an opportunity to AED 42.1 million. FAB employees also to thrive. We recognise that our align and expand these activities and contributed to a variety of community community investments impact our to forge a fresh strategic foundation programs. Here are examples of our long-term viability as much as the for our future community investment Key Achievements in 2017 combined support: well-being of our communities. efforts. To that end, much of our work during 2017 was devoted to reviewing • To promote children’s literacy, our Positioned at the forefront of community commitments of the UAE employees contributed to the economic activity in the UAE, we former organisations, identifying ‘Kan Yama Kan’ book donation at FAB have a first-hand view of the areas of overlap and determining campaign. The campaign aims opportunities and challenges facing AED 42.1m 2,500 funding priorities and objectives to provide stationery and mobile the communities in which we operate. going forward for the new bank. Our libraries for children living in areas Progress depends on the active, goal is to understand the needs of with limited or no access to books coordinated efforts of the private, our communities to find win-win due to social or natural crises or Contributed to build Book donations made by public and non-profit sectors working opportunities that maximise our social unrest and wars. The response stronger communities FAB employees across the UAE together toward common goals. To impact while strengthening our brand. exceeded the initial target with over play our part, we seek to enrich our 2,500 book donations made by our communities through donations and Through this important work, we employees across the UAE. sponsorships that enhance quality of began to draw up a new giving life, nurture progress and contribute strategy that will serve as the basis • Through a major sponsorship, we to a better world. We also encourage for FAB’s community investments and earned naming rights to FAB Metro our employees to volunteer their employee engagement in the coming Station. Our funding is helping to 74% 31% time and talents in support of years. Phase one of this strategy cover the station’s operating costs. community causes. rolls out in 2018 and will focus on • In Egypt, we were involved in several employee volunteering. community initiatives including Of global supply chain comprised Of our workforce were national employees, fundraising for an underprivileged of local suppliers in the UAE placing the bank among the top performers Our vision is to build a legacy school and donating winter clothes in the UAE banking sector of positive change in our and provisions to four orphanages during Ramadan. communities. • Other organisations that benefited from FAB funding including Sky Material topics in this chapter: News Arabia, CGS Cycling, • Community investment and Emirates Palace and ADMM. socio-economic development • Responsible and sustainable procurement • Emiratisation 72 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 73 Key Performance Indicators 2017 Donations and sponsorships (AED) 42,135,000 Responsible and Sustainable Procurement % of annual pre-tax profits in UAE donated to community organisations 0.43% Case study: Inspiring healthy, sustainable living Advancing community wellness • A back to school event with families • A Ramadan health campaign at has been an enduring focus of at five locations, featuring fun Baynunah Tower in collaboration Our Approach 2017 Highlights 2,400 FAB Properties (formerly First workshops for kids such as ‘make with Mediclinic Hospital, featuring Gulf Properties), a wholly-owned your own pencil case’ and tips for medical consultations and healthy Our commitment to sustainability • We engaged 2,400 suppliers subsidiary of FAB that specialises parents on how to make healthy eating resources to help people stay extends to our supply chain. As a during 2017, with our purchases in real estate services in the UAE. school lunches. well during the month-long religious signatory to the United Nations Global falling into five categories: IT, engaged during 2017 In 2017, FAB Properties sponsored observance. • “Happiness Day” at Mangrove Village, Compact, we are committed to marketing, market data, premises various educational initiatives for its with fun family activities and experts ensuring that our procurement and and professional services. tenants designed to inspire healthy, from Medicini conducting BMI, skill contracting activities are guided by 74% sustainable living. Examples include: • Local suppliers in the UAE and hair assessments followed by 2018 Priorities ethical, environmental and socially comprised 74% of our global • A health and wellness event in one-on-one consultations. responsible principles, particularly • Roll out new community investment supply chain and approximately partnership with Awazen Medical related to human rights and labour • An Earth Hour event at Fortress platform, starting with formal 86% of the total spend. Centre to celebrate World Health Day issues, anti-corruption and protection of our global supply chain is Compound, a fun-filled night for employee volunteering program 2017 and draw attention to important families that included a candlelight that seeks to support three key of the environment. Our new Supplier • We developed a Supplier made up of local suppliers health issues. The event was packed Environmental and Social Code of Environmental and Social Code buffet dinner and entertainment segments: families in need, children with free activities such as medical Conduct outlines our expectations for of Conduct. The code outlines of determination, and the elderly. tests, screening and personal doing business with FAB. sustainability criteria and other consultations. • Establish alliance with Emirates requirements we expect suppliers 2018 Priorities We expect all suppliers to follow Foundation to identify impactful to follow as a condition for doing FAB’s requirements to conduct their • Provide all new vendors with our community investment business with FAB, including the business in environmentally and Supplier Environmental and Social opportunities. requirement that suppliers conduct socially responsible ways. Code of Conduct. their activities ethically and in full • Launch annual employee blood Local procurement compliance with all applicable donation campaigns in UAE and We want to support economic growth environmental, labour and other some international locations. in the UAE through our procurement related laws and regulations. Starting activities, and recognise that investing in 2018, the code will be distributed to in local suppliers creates jobs, builds all firms participating in the selection local capacity and supports a more process for new procurement stable business environment. We contracts (>USD 100,000). therefore buy goods and services from local suppliers whenever it is feasible. This aligns with our goal to maintain a sustainable business Key Performance Indicators 2017 model, which includes identifying and mitigating the risks and opportunities Number of suppliers 2,440 associated with our supply chain. Number of local suppliers 1,811 Our procurement activities are Total procurement spending AED 2.27 billion centralised through our Group Procurement department, which Total procurement spending on local suppliers AED 1.94 billion sets policies and guidelines, handles major purchases, facilitates contracts with suppliers and develops sourcing strategies. Individual business units manage some purchasing decisions depending on local needs. 74 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 75 Emiratisation “The Nujoom programme helped me shape my career and showed me how to build on my capabilities.” Suhail AlAmeri Our Approach • Career planning, coaching, 2017 Highlights FAB’s Core Development Programs for Emirati Employees mentoring and leadership Inspired by the UAE Vision 2021 that During our integration journey in development. Programme Target Group sets the key themes for the region’s 2017, emiratisation was an important socio-economic development, we • Supporting strong education and focus as we combined the workforce • Emirati succession programme to support individual development within six are firmly committed to nurturing business skills training. talent of both legacy organisations Qeyada Development months to equip for the next role and developing the local Emirati and determined how to optimise Programme • Our recruitment team working community for the long-term benefit human capital to meet the new bank’s closely with branches and of our business and the national strategic aspirations. departments across FAB to identify economy. As the largest bank in the • Market mapping for middle and senior roles and leadership development. business needs and the potential for • There were 1,278 national employees UAE, national talent is vital to our Emirati Future Leader • Attracting Emiratis for senior roles in the Bank harnessing home-grown talent to working across our company last success and strategic plans at home meet these needs. year, representing approximately and abroad. one-third (31%) of our workforce, • Partnerships and networks with We seek to attract, train, develop placing the bank among the top external stakeholders, such as and retain talented Emiratis in the performers in the UAE banking Al Masar • Fast track programme for existing staff, preparing high potential Emirati talent universities and local recruitment financial sector, and encourage sector. for critical roles in 12 months agencies, to help us source the best them to excel in their fields through national talent. • Emiratis held 25% of senior various professional development management positions. • Graduate development programme to support our Emirati Talent Pipeline, programmes. Our Emiratisation efforts Nujoom Management offering new graduates career growth opportunities to take on “middle are multi-faceted and include: • Emiratisation development Trainee Programme management” roles within 18 months and “specialist” roles within six months programmes that existed at the two legacy banks were reviewed and consolidated for the new bank. • Focuses on the redeployment pool by strengthening technical knowledge and Tamkeen skills for Emiratis who are fulfilling new roles across FAB • Entry level development programme and career progression for Emiratis in Forsati specific business functions across the bank • Technical curriculums FAB Business School Key Performance Indicators 2017 2018 Priorities Emiratisation of senior management (%) 25% • Ensure FAB’s core development Emiratisation among total workforce (%) 31% programmes for Emirati employees are successfully implemented. Total number of Emirati employees 1,278 • Identify Emirati successors Number of female Emirati employees 944 are identified for senior management roles. 76 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 77 Appendix A: GRI Content Index 04 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. In addition, this report serves as FAB’s annual UNGC Communication on Progress. The index below provides a guide to where information on FAB’s material issues, Appendices: as they relate to the GRI Standards and UNGC reporting requirements and indicators, can be found throughout the report. This sustainability report was submitted to the GRI to complete the GRI materiality disclosure service. The GRI confirmed the correct positioning of “materiality-related disclosures” (102–40 to 102–49). GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) UNGC Principles GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures GRI 102: Organizational profile General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization First Abu Dhabi Bank 102-2 Activities, brands, products, 12 and services 102-3 Location of headquarters 12 102-4 Location of operations 12 102-5 Ownership and legal form 13 102-6 Markets served 11-13 102-7 Scale of the organization 11-13, 56-65 102-8 Information on employees and 56-65 UNGC 6 other workers 102-9 Supply chain 70, 73 102-10 Significant changes to the There were no significant changes organization and its supply chain during the reporting period 102-11 Precautionary Principle or 28-30, 33 UNGC 7 approach 102-12 External initiatives 22-24, 52 UNGC 1 102-13 Membership of associations 52-53, 47 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior 6-9 UNGC 16 decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and 6-9, 33 opportunities Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, 11, 30 UNGC 10 and norms of behavior Governance 102-18 Governance structure 28-29 UNGC 1-10 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 18-19 102-41 Collective bargaining As per law, collective bargaining UNGC 3 agreements agreements are not permitted in UAE. 102-42 Identifying and selecting 17-19 stakeholders GRI 102: 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 17 General Disclosures 2016 engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns 18-19 raised Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the Financial statements include the consolidated financial statements activities of FAB No other entity is included. 78 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 79 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) UNGC Principles GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) UNGC Principles GRI 102: 102-46 Defining report content and 20-21 Procurement Practices General Disclosures 2016 topic Boundaries GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 73 102-47 List of material topics 20-21 2016 topic and its Boundary 102-48 Restatements of information None 103-2 The management approach 73 GRI 102: 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant changes in reporting and its components General Disclosures 2016 102-50 Reporting period January 1-December 31, 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management 73 approach 102-51 Date of most recent report 2017 Sustainability Report GRI 204: Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on 73 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 2016 local suppliers 102-53 Contact point for questions 5 Anti-corruption regarding the report GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 28-30, 33, 36 102-54 Claims of reporting in 77 2016 topic and its Boundary accordance with the GRI Standards 103-2 The management approach 28-30, 33, 36 102-55 GRI content index 77-81 and its components 102-56 External assurance FAB does not seek external 103-3 Evaluation of the management 28-30, 33, 36 assurance for its sustainability approach report. GHG emissions calculations are externally assured for the GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks 28-30, 33, 36 UNGC 10 entire group separate from the related to corruption sustainability reporting process 205-2 Communication and training 28-30, 33, 36 UNGC 10 Material Topics about anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI 200 Economic Standard Series GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series Economic Performance Materials GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 39 2016 topic and its Boundary GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 52 2016 topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 39 UNGC 1-6, 10 and its components 103-2 The management approach 52 UNGC 8 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 39 approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management 52-53 approach GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value 40 2016 generated and distributed GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or 54-55 volume 201-2 Financial implications and 52, 70, 74 UNGC 7-9 other risks and opportunities due to 301-2 Recycled input materials used 54-55 UNGC 8 climate change Energy 201-4 Financial assistance received No financial assistance is given by GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 52 from government the government 2016 topic and its Boundary Market Presence 103-2 The management approach 52 UNGC 7-9 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 70, 74 and its components 2016 topic and its Boundary 103-3 Evaluation of the management 52-53 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach 70, 74 UNGC 6 approach 2016 and its components GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within 54 UNGC 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management 70, 74 the organization approach 302-2 Energy consumption outside 54 GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 202-2 Proportion of senior 74 UNGC 6 of the organization management hired from the local community 302-3 Energy intensity 54 Indirect Economic Impacts Water GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 44, 46, 70-71 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 52 2016 topic and its Boundary 2016 topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 44, 46, 70-71 103-2 The management approach 52-53 UNGC 7, 8 and its components and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 44, 46, 70-71 103-3 Evaluation of the management 52-53, 55 approach approach GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and 47 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 55 UNGC 7, 8 2016 services supported 203-2 Significant indirect economic 44, 46, 70-71 UNG 9 impacts 80 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 81 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) UNGC Principles GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) UNGC Principles Emissions Training and Education GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 52 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 57 2016 topic and its Boundary 2016 topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 52 UNGC 7,8 103-2 The management approach 57-59 UNGC 6 and its components and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 52-53 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-59 approach approach GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG 54 UNGC 7,8 GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per 64 UNGC 6 emissions 2016 year per employee 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 54 UNGC 7,8 404-2 Programs for upgrading 58-60 UNGC 6 GHG emissions employee skills and transition assistance programs 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 54 UNGC 8 404-3 Percentage of employees 64 UNGC 6 Effluents and Waste receiving regular performance and GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 52 career development reviews 2016 topic and its Boundary Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-2 The management approach 52 UNGC 7,8,9 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 66 and its components 2016 topic and its Boundary 103-3 Evaluation of the management 52-53 103-2 The management approach 66 UNGC 1 6 approach and its components GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal 55 UNGC 7,8,9 103-3 Evaluation of the management 66 method approach Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance 66 UNGC 1 6 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 73 Opportunity 2016 bodies and employees 2016 topic and its Boundary Non-discrimination 103-2 The management approach 73 UNGC 7-9 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 66 and its components 2016 topic and its Boundary 103-3 Evaluation of the management 73 103-2 The management approach 66 UNGC 6 approach and its components GRI 308: Supplier Environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were 73 UNGC 7-9 103-3 Evaluation of the management 66 Assessment 2016 screened using environmental approach criteria GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination 66 UNGC 6 GRI 400 Social Standards Series and corrective actions taken Employment Local Communities GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 57-58, 67 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 70-71 2016 topic and its Boundary 2016 topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach 57-58, 67 UNGC 1-6 103-2 The management approach 70-71 UNGC 1-2 and its components and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 57-58, 67 103-3 Evaluation of the management 70-71 approach approach GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and 57-58, 68 UNGC 6 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local 71-72 UNGC 1-2 employee turnover community engagement, impact 401-3 Parental leave 57-58, 68 UNGC 16 assessments, and development Occupational Health and Safety programs GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 67 Customer Privacy 2016 topic and its Boundary GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 35 103-2 The management approach 67 2016 topic and its Boundary and its components 103-2 The management approach 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management 67 and its components approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management 35 GRI 403: Occupational Health and 403-2 Types of injury and rates of 67-68 UNGC 1-2 approach Safety 2016 injury, occupational diseases, lost GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints 35 UNGC 1-2 days, and absenteeism, and number concerning breaches of customer of work-related fatalities privacy and losses of customer data 82 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 83 Appendix B: GHG Certificate LEVEL OF ASSURANCE AND MATERIALITY The chosen level of assurance must reflect the needs of intended users of the GHG assertion as well as the relative degree of confidence required by Carbon Credentials in order to provide our conclusions. VERIFICATION STATEMENT – LIMITED ASSURANCE Carbon Credentials and FAB agreed that a limited level of assurance will be applied during this verification exercise. For this level of assurance, Carbon Credentials provides a limited assurance statement asserting that there is no evidence that an emissions Carbon Credentials Energy Services Ltd (Carbon Credentials) has been contracted by First Abu Dhabi Bank (FAB) for the report is not materially correct. independent third-party verification of direct and indirect carbon dioxide equivalent emissions (CO 2e) as provided in its 2018 CDP disclosure to a limited level of assurance. This verification exercise has been performed to the ISO 14064-3 standard. Through both qualitative and quantitative consideration, it was agreed that the Carbon Credentials verification team shall establish a materiality threshold of 10% at the gross organisational level for this exercise. DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE CONCLUSION & VERIFICATION OPINION No member of the verification team has a business relationship with FAB, its Directors or Managers beyond that required of this assignment. We conducted this verification independently and to our knowledge there has been no conflict of interest. We planned and performed our work to obtain the information, explanations and evidence that we considered necessary to provide a reasonable level of assurance based on the process and procedures conducted. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES We conducted our verification of FAB’s GHG assertion, which included assessment of the company GHG information system and monitoring and reporting methodology. This assessment included the collection of evidence supporting the reported data and The management of FAB is responsible for the organisation’s GHG information system, the development and maintenance of multiple checks relative to the provisions of the legislation, reporting standard and calculation methodologies referenced in the records and reporting procedures in accordance with that system, including the calculation and determination of GHG emissions verification criteria. This statement shall be interpreted with the GHG assertion of FAB as a whole. information. Carbon Credentials’ approach is risk-based, drawing on an understanding of the risks associated with calculating GHG emission It is Carbon Credentials’ responsibility to express an independent GHG verification opinion on the emissions as provided FAB’s information and the controls in place to mitigate these risks. Our examination included assessment, on a limited sample basis, of evidence relevant to the reporting of emission information. 2018 CDP Disclosure for the period 1st January 2017 – 31st December 2017. Based on the data and information provided by FAB and the processes and procedures conducted, Carbon Credentials concludes DESCRIPTION OF ACTIVITIES with reasonable assurance that the GHG assertion: • is materially correct; The organisational boundary was established following the operational control approach and includes FAB’s global operations. • is a fair representation of the GHG emissions data and information; and The scope of this engagement covered the assessment of 100% emission sources required for disclosure by The Companies Act • is prepared in accordance with the criteria listed above. 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 plus additional sources: It is our opinion that the FAB has established sufficient systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of quantitative data for • Scope 1 (Direct) – Emissions arising from the combustion of fuel and fugitive emissions from refrigerant gases. determination of these GHG emissions for the stated period and boundaries. • Scope 2 (Energy Indirect) – Emissions arising from purchased electricity for own use. • Scope 3 Emissions (Indirect) – Business travel, waste generated in operations, and purchased goods & services including The GHG information for the period 01/01/2017 – 31/12/2017 is verified by Carbon Credentials to a limited level of assurance, the supply and treatment of water and paper purchases. consistent with the agreed verification scope, objectives and criteria. 100% of emissions by scope are verified as follows: OBJECTIVES Reporting Period: 01/01/2017 – 31/12/2017 Scope 1 Scope 2 (location-based) Scope 3 The objectives of this verification exercise were, by review of objective evidence, to confirm whether any evidence existed that Reported Emissions: Reported Emissions: Reported Emissions: the GHG emissions as declared in the organisation’s GHG assertion were: accurate, complete, consistent, transparent and free of 963.5 tonnes of CO2e 53,366.1 tonnes of CO2e 6,369.3 tonnes of CO2e material error or omission in accordance with the criteria outlined below. OBSERVATIONS CRITERIA • Based on our work, Carbon Credentials considers that material GHG sources are appropriately identified and reported on. • All material errors in reported data identified during the verification process have been duly corrected. Criteria against which the verification assessment was undertaken: • Implementation of a structured database system for emissions information would improve reporting efficiency, reduce the risk of misreporting and improve the quality of management information available to decision-makers. Reporting standard: Attestation: i. Scope 1 & 2 emissions – World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition (the GHG Protocol); ii. Scope 3 emissions World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3). Emma Watson Lead Verifier 2 1
