Sida 1 av 2 Dokumentnamn Version COP_2018_2.docx.docx Godkänd: Fastställd av: Magnus Alm Ersätter tidigare version daterad: EXECUTIVE STATEMENT 2018 Idnet is an IT company that creates efficient logistics for retail stores and warehouses. Our goal is to provide clients with modern and future‐proof logistics solutions using improved work practices, with increased profitability and better ergonomics as a result. We deliver WMS solutions and/or integration with existing warehouse / business/ and store data systems that allow the customer to maximize system utilization to significantly increase the efficiency and quality. Customers consist largely of the leading Swedish chain stores as well as e‐commerce, 3pl and production companies. Idnet currently has 50 employees, with headquarters in Gothenburg, Sweden and a local office in Oslo, Norway. During the year, we have focused on our own processes from a workplace and health perspective. This has resulted in several activities during the year, some of the more extensive are:  We have determined new strategies for recruitment, onboarding and performance review  We have conducted risk analysis of our processes from a workplace and health perspective  We have conducted external audits according to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 We have also continued our sponsorship of various CSR projects. For the fifth year in a row, we sponsor Team Rynkeby (The Swedish childhood cancer fund). We also sponsor Jontefonden, (a foundation for children and young people who are waiting for, or has performed, an organ transplant) WWF, Red Cross, Hand‐in‐hand, SOS Barnbyar as well as local football and ice hockey teams. This report describes the steps Idnet has taken in 2018 in our efforts to integrate the principles of the UN Global Compact into corporate strategy, corporate culture and business operations. Gothenburg, November 8, 2018 Magnus Alm CEO, Idnet AB Sida 2 av 2 Dokumentnamn Version COP_2018_2.docx.docx Godkänd: Fastställd av: Magnus Alm Ersätter tidigare version daterad: 1. Human rights We have participated in the Fair Trade Challenge in order to increase employees' knowledge of Fairtrade and Idnet's own commitment to these issues. In connection to his, all employees participated in a workshop aiming to improve our impact on this matter. 2. Labor & Work Environment We have improved and documented many work processes for the convenience of the employees. Risk assessments of employees' physical and mental health as well the workplace in general were conducted through questionnaires. The members of the staff were offered an ergonomic review of their workplace and sseveral desks and chairs have been converted into ergonomic alternatives. Idnet supports its employees with financial compensation related to physical training and has signed an agreement with a gym next to the office, which gives extra convenience for the staff. All employees were offered to participate in a national health competition challenge called “Arbetsplatsklassikern”. It is an initiative that aims to make Swedes exercise and it has the same content as a Swedish classic with the difference that participants complete the race at home ‐ in the nearest bathhouse, ski track or on the way to and from work. 32% of the staff at Idnet accepted the challenge and are active in the competition. 3. Environment New environmental objectives have been determined aiming to reduce our own transports. The emissions from company cars were reduced by 19,5% during the year as some of them have been replace by environmentally classified passenger cars/hybrids. Today 32% of the company cars are environmentally classified passenger cars/hybrids. Charging stations for electric cars has been set up at the parking area. In 3 years we have increased the proportion of e‐invoices of total invoices to customers from 71% to 89%. The increase from last year is 2%. 4. Anti‐Corruption We have conducted background checks on additional suppliers.
