NATURA 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ANNUAL REPORT THE NATURA 2017 ANNUAL REPORT is part of Natura’s results disclosure process. On the same date that it was released, April 20, 2018, we published a report in print format (which is also available online) with Natura &Co’s highlights for the year. This group of companies was formed in September 2017, when The Body Shop was united with Natura and Aesop. Except when otherwise stated, the financial information in this annual report refers to Natura, Aesop and The Body Shop. The scope of the indicators for non-financial information only covers Natura’s activities in Brazil and in its International Operations. In 2018, we initiated the integration of the three companies’ environmental and social impact strategies. Further information in Parameters for the preparation of the Natura 2017 Annual Report HERE. 1 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Our EssenceGRI 102-16 REASON FOR BEING Our Reason for Being is to create and sell products and services that promote well-being/being well. well-being is the harmonious relationship of the individual with himself, with his own body. being well is the empathetic, successful and pleasurable relationship of an individual with other people, with nature, and with the whole. BELIEFS Life is a chain of relationships. Nothing in the universe stands alone. Everything is interdependent. Natura believes that valuing relationships is the foundation of the great human revolution in the pursuit of peace, solidarity, and life in all of its manifestations. Continuously striving for improvement develops individuals, organizations,and society. Commitment to the truth is the route to enhance quality in relationships. The greater the individual diversity, the greater the wealth and vitality of the whole system. The pursuit of beauty, a genuine aspiration of every human being, should be free of preconceived ideas and manipulation. The company, a living organism, is a dynamic set of relationships. Its value and longevity are connected to its ability to contribute towards the evolution of society and its sustainable development. VISION Due to our corporate behavior, the quality of the relations we establish and our products and services,we will be a group of brands with strong local and global expression, identified with the community of people committed to building a better world through a better relationship with themselves, with others, with the nature of which they are a part, with the whole. 2 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Message from the Board of Directors What matters to us is to show that companies should be transformed into forces for positive social change. That they should change from being vehicles for the creation of private wealth to instruments aimed at the public good”. Anita Roddick, 2000 social activist and founder of The Body Shop From left to right: Luiz Seabra, Roberto Marques, Pedro Passos and Guilherme Leal 3 Roberto Setton 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Message from the Board of Directors The beginning of a new era GRI 102-14 Antonio Luiz da Cunha Seabra, Guilherme Peirão Leal, Pedro Luiz Barreiros Passos (Co-Chairmen) and Roberto de Oliveira Marques (Executive Chairman) In the world, we are experiencing intense times. In spite of the apparent resumption of economic vitality, inequality continues potential of a new, more humane and systemic form of to present a systemic threat which will globalisation, of value creation for our companies, for society and for the planet. tend to increase because of the impact of new technologies on employment, In this historical moment filled with so many risks, it is our intensifying social pressures. understanding that companies have both the opportunity and the duty to respond to society’s call to help drive major This uncertain environment creates room for isolationist transformations. This was always one of the ideals that we ways of thinking, such as the setbacks in the Paris shared with Anita Roddick, the founder of The Body Shop Agreement, a global effort to combat climate change. and a pioneering voice in insisting that business should In contrast, countries previously criticized for their assume the responsibility of being a force for good. untrammelled and reckless production, are now emerging as active participants in debates on how to reconcile In the same way that we pay tribute to the legacy left by economic activities with environmental conservation, those who built the companies united in Natura &Co, we even though they still have a long way to go. celebrate the future that we are beginning to build. In 2017, while still in an initial stage of integration, our businesses Amidst these impediments to civilization, that pose a threat produced excellent results. Natura revitalized its presence to the future of mankind, in 2017 we lived through a process in the Brazilian market, gained share in key categories that transformed our history as a company: we created and continued to grow its operations in Latin America. In a group of companies that, for decades, have been parallel, Aesop maintained its accelerated expansion in doing business in a new way. Natura, Aesop and The Body the retail trade in large urban centres on all continents, Shop have joined forces in Natura &Co, a global cosmetics exceeding the milestone of 200 company-owned stores. group which is unique in that it comprises businesses And The Body Shop, whose integration into the group that share a common vision and a strong sense of purpose. began in September, contributed with its best Christmas We believe in the transformation of the global economy performance in recent years. and in the power of sharing, in its many facets. In the sum of strengths, and in the power of differences. This is only the beginning of a long journey. In 2018, we are In connection, in comprehension and in collaboration going to consolidate the basis of our group and in so doing for the co-creation of solutions capable of driving build the environment which will enable the business to gain a positive transformation in the world. momentum. Close to completing 50 years in business, we feel as if we are just starting. Natura &Co takes our dream We are also experiencing intense times in our companies, of internationalization to the next level. Now, we will be able albeit more predictable than those the world has to drive a positive impact in 72 countries on every continent, been experiencing. We believe, however, that in Brazil accelerating the exchange of knowledge and taking our and worldwide, new forces will enable us to overcome brands to new consumers. separation, indifference and alienation, in the pursuit of a common good, of a fairer society aware of its Just as we believe in the power of shared values, such as commitment to future generations. To repeat the truly a passion for cosmetics and a passion for relationships, inspiring phrase of Insead professor of Global Management embodied in our Reason for Being, WellBeingWell, we Joe Santos, “globalisation allows us to use the whole recognize the creative power and the wisdom contained world for the purpose of creating something new”. in differences. With this renewed, diverse and multicultural energy, intensified by collaboration among three businesses, With Natura &Co, we are seeking this something new and we will be more capable of generating even greater and expressing our profound confidence in the transformational better economic, social and environmental results. ✧ 4 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Message from the executive chairman Focus and mobilization GRI 102-14 João Paulo Ferreira 2017 was a landmark in Natura’s almost 50 years of existence. Amidst a complex economic environment, we achieved impressive results based on two important postures: focus and mobilization. We were clear and disciplined in executing priorities and in allocating resources for our strategy, generating a positive spiral that engaged all of our employees in our cultural transformation. This enabled us to understand how we need to work together to build the organization that we want, one that is capable Roberto Setton of responding to our present and future challenges. In the second half of the year our results demonstrated how this movement has begun to take effect. We grew in the last two quarters of the year in Brazil, recovering market share and resuming leadership in key categories, such platform, and almost 600,000 are connected via our as perfumery, body care and gifts. Moreover, Natura has Consulting app. We believe there will be exponential growth maintained its accelerated pace of expansion in the other in the use of technology in all Natura operations, which countries in Latin America. We are the leaders in direct should become our main competitive differential in the selling in Brazil, Argentina and Chile, and we are growing coming years. strongly in Mexico. Our net revenue reached R$ 7.7 billion, up 7.8% over the previous year, while Ebitda totalled R$ 1.5 We are also maturing in our multichannel approach. billion, an increase of 21.3% compared with 2016. Our online businesses practically doubled in size in 2017, and we expect the same to happen in retail, which is at One of the fundamental elements in our strategy was an earlier stage. Currently we have 26 stores, three of the revitalization of our direct selling model, which which in France, two in the United States and one each in we now call Relationship Selling. We made our Argentina and Chile. Thanks to these initiatives, we have consultants the central focus of our decisions, achieving adapted our portfolio for the North American market and our highest loyalty rate since measurement of this now, supported by The Body Shop’s global experience, we indicator was begun, as well as increasing market share. are better prepared to take the Natura brand to more By striving to be more relevant for them, countries. we strengthened our business. It is important to underscore that all these movements We have dedicated a great deal of effort to increasing incorporate sustainability as a core principal that continues our consultants’ satisfaction, whether through to guide our way of innovating and doing business. This is the development of the relationship interfaces, the how we are striving to substantiate our vision of generating constant enhancement of our business models or the a positive economic, social, environmental and cultural implementation of new technologies. The digital expansion impact in the long term. To achieve this, we will remain true in Relationship Selling opens up innumerable possibilities to our course and use 2018 to consolidate and ensure the for strengthening our brand, not just in products, but also continuity of what was done in 2017. This will enable us in the quality of the services and the contents we offer. to further strengthen our fundaments and differentials, We already have more than 160,000 consultants which are key to our ambition to be a positive force in the who have their own webpages on the Rede Natura evolution of society. ✧ 5 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Index 1 PROFILE 7 Who we are 8 2017 performance 11 Strengthened governance 13 Risk management 15 Ethics and compliance 17 2. STRATEGY 18 Business model 20 Multichannel Natura 23 l Relationship Selling growth plan 23 l Expansion of the Rede Natura 27 l Participation in retail 27 Digital technology as a business enabler 28 Sustainability Driving Innovation 29 3. GENERATING POSITIVE IMPACT: THE PATH TO 2050 32 Integrated management 33 l Performance management 34 Reducing environmental impact 37 l Carbon: monitoring, reducing and offsetting 37 l Packaging and waste: making new again 41 l See our water footprint 42 Sustainable social biodiversity businesses 43 l Science, technology and innovation 44 l Social biodiversity production chains 44 l Institutional reinforcement 47 Positive social impact 49 l Greater development for consultants 49 l Local development programme 51 l Suppliers: partnerships for development 52 l Commitment to education 54 l A more diverse and inclusive environment 56 Culture for sustainability 59 l Consumer engagement 59 4 • ABOUT THE REPORT 61 GRI Content Index 64 5. 2050 SUSTAINABILITY VISION AMBITIONS 78 6. ATTACHMENTS 82 7. ASSURANCE REPORT 118 6 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 1. PROFILE 7 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Who we are Natura is the largest Brazilian multinational in the cosmetics industry. The company is committed to generating a positive social and economic impact through all its businesses and brands and in every We work with a network of partners to promote innovation, region in which it operates. and we strive to reduce the impact of our products throughout the chain, investing in the use of recycled We reach millions of consumers through diverse channels, materials and in the vegetalization of our formulas, having the main one being 1.7 million consultants in Brazil, Argenreached a rate of 81% to date. Whenever possible, we tina, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru. In addition to these combine the best in cosmetic science with the traditional countries, we have physical stores and e-commerce opeknowledge of communities engaged in the Brazilian rations in the United States and France, and we commersocial biodiversity ingredient chain, having cialize products in Bolivia through a local distributor. In the progressively increased the number of families who supply retail trade, we operate through company-owned stores, inputs for our products. We have also been carbon franchises run by enterprising consultants and partnerneutral since 2007 – meaning we offset all greenhouse ships with pharmacy chains. The Rede Natura (Natura gas (GHG) emissions not only from Natura, but from Network), is one of the largest beauty product online sales our entire production chain – and we invest continually platforms in Brazil, and we have already implemented digiin measures to reduce our volume of emissions. tal commerce in Chile, Argentina, France and United States. GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-6 Targets have been established for all these areas in our 2050 Sustainability Vision, the first cycle of which will end Natura has more than 6,300 employees and in 2014 in 2020. This Vision is designed to transform Natura into a became the first publicly traded company in the company that generates a positive impact. world to receive B Corp certification. This was renewed in 2017. The B System movement comprises companies A TRANSFORMATIONAL COMBINATION that attribute equal weight to their financial and their In addition to our multinational operation under the socioenvironmental results. Natura shares are traded Natura brand, in September 2017 we took a decisive step on São Paulo’s B3 stock exchange. towards becoming a global multichannel, multi-brand GRI 102-5, 102-8 cosmetics group driven by purposes with the acquisition of The Body Shop. In 2017, for the fifth year running, Natura received the World’s Most Ethical Companies award. This is In February 2018, this group comprising Natura, Aesop granted by the Ethisphere Institute, a global organization (acquired in 2013) and The Body Shop, adopted the name engaged in enhancing ethical business practices. Natura &Co. In addition to being highly complementary in Our structure comprises administrative headquarters their market strengths, channels and product categories, in São Paulo (São Paulo), plants in Cajamar these three businesses show remarkable alignment in (São Paulo) and Benevides (Pará), third-party production the way they do business. They value traceability and in Argentina, Colombia and Mexico, eight distribution sustainability in the supply of ingredients, the conservation centres in Brazil and five in Latin America, a logistics of social biodiversity, the elimination of animal testing, the hub in Itupeva (São Paulo) and research and technology measurement of environmental impacts in the value chain centres in São Paulo and Benevides. (including reducing and offsetting carbon emissions), GRI 102-4 as well as supporting education.✧ 8 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Natura GRI 102-7 Operations in: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, France, Mexico, Peru and the United States. Local distributor in Bolivia. 1.7million Natura Beauty Consultants 6,300 employees Revenue of R$ 7.7billion 9 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Natura &Co l Natura l The Body Shop l Aesop 18,000 Presence in employees 72 countries R$ 9.9 billion in revenue 5 continents 10 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Performance GRI 103-2; 103-3 2017 was an emblematic year in the fourth quarter of 2017 compared with the year ago for Natura, with the acquisition of The Body Shop and, period) and also increased share of wallet. together with Aesop, the formation of Natura &Co. Both Aesop and The Body Shop saw growth in their results, The profit from Crer Para Ver (Believing is Seeing), which while Natura bounced back in comparison with 2016. Total totalled R$ 22.9 million in Brazil and R$ 12.8 million in revenue grew by 7.8% in constant currency, with a 4.5% the other Latin American countries, is channelled into increase in Brazil. This positive result in a still challenging educational improvement projects (in Brazil these funds are economic conjuncture was most certainly due to the managed by the Instituto Natura). Although the proceeds transformation the company promoted in Relationship from this line dropped slightly during the year, due to a Selling, offering consultants a clearer career path and decrease in the average price of the products in Brazil and gaining market. We resumed our leadership position in key softer performance in Latin America, we beat our record for markets, such as perfumery, body care and gifts. penetration among consultants, with 28% of them selling this product line. In the other countries in Latin America, revenue grew by 18% in constant currency, driven by the expansion of the In the Pan-Amazon region we achieved our 2050 online channels and by consultants’ performance. Natura’s Sustainability Vision target of generating R$ 1 billion in Ebitda increased by 23.1% compared with 2016, ending the business volume by 2020 well ahead of plan, reaching the year at R$ 1,524.7 million. mark of R$ 1.22 billion in 2017. Part of this amount goes towards the purchase of social biodiversity ingredients, The changes we promoted in Relationship Selling in Brazil provoking positive economic, social and environmental boosted the consultants’ productivity rate (it grew 15.2% impacts and contributing to keeping the forest standing. Nature net revenue (R$ million) 1 8,200 7,900 7,689.7 7,600 7,332.9 7,300 7,000 2016 2017 1 Taking into account only Natura operations, without Aesop and The Body Shop. Natura net revenue:1 Brazil and the International Operations 0.1% 14.7% United States Chile and France 39.2% Argentina 12.6% Peru 72.8% Net Net Brazil revenue 27.1% revenue R$ 7.7 Latin R$ 2.1 billion America 2 billion 19.3% Mexico 14. 1% Colombia 1 Takes into account only the Natura operation, without Aesop and The Body Shop. 2 Business in Bolivia is conducted through a local distributor. 11 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Income tax due in 2017: Brazil and International Operations 1 2 3 9.5% Chile 7.6% Income Income Peru 48.1% Brazil tax 51.9% tax R$ 184.1 Latin R$ 95.6 million America million 69.3% 3.2% Mexico Argentina 10.3% Colombia 1 Takes into account only the Natura operation, without Aesop and The Body Shop. 2 The businesses in the United States and France do not yet have a basis for levying income tax. 3 The disclosure of tax payments per country is part of Natura’s commitment to the B Team Responsible Tax Principles. Read more on page 17. Our financial statements may be accessed here (in portuguese) Main advances 1 Natura’s net revenue grew 7.8% in the year. In Brazil, our sales increased in the last two quarters of 2017. Additionally, we recovered market share in key categories. Annual growth in net revenue1 in Brazil was 4.5%; in the other countries in Latin America, it was 18% (in constant currency). 2 We transformed our Relationship Selling model in Brazil, with results already apparent, including a 15.2% increase in consultant productivity in the 4th quarter of 2017 compared with the year ago quarter. Moreover, average revenue per consultant grew by 17%. The project includes a career path for our consultants and incentives for their self-development. 3 We took a decisive step towards the internationalization of our businesses with the acquisition of the British cosmetics brand The Body Shop, for 1 billion euros. 4 Ahead of target, we exceeded our Sustainability Vision commitment to generate a business volume of R$ 1 billion in the Amazon between 2010 and 2020 by 22%. 5 We progressed in the traceability of our chain, achieving UEBT (Union for Ethical Bio Trade) certification for 100% of the supplier communities in 65 social biodiversity supply chains. . Our challenges In comparison with 2012, the base year for our commitment to reduce relative greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the reduction in 2017 was 0.5%. The goal set forth in our Sustainability Vision establishes a 33% reduction in the relative indicator (emissions versus products billed) by 2020. In spite of the diverse initiatives aimed at reducing our emissions, there was a 2% increase in Natura’s absolute emissions in 2017, compared with 2016. The annual growth in relative emissions was 0.8%. This result reflects our sales mix during the year, which included items generating higher emissions, as well as sales growth in our International Operations, which intensified product transportation to these countries. 12 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Reinforced governance GRI 102-10; 102-18; 102-19; 102-20; 102-21; 102-23; 102-24; 102-27; 102-29 The formation of the Natura &Co Group included administrative restructuring to ensure the proper integration and management of the company’s three brands The corporate governance board members goes beyond the São Paulo B3 stock structure was adapted to support the exchange’s Novo Mercado Listing Requirements, Natura &Co integration. The Natura Board of which recommend a minimum of 20%. Consequently, Directors was increased to ten members, with its the Board draws on a robust mix of knowledge in international character reinforced by the entry areas such as finance, international markets, direct selling, of Canadian Peter Saunders, the former The Body retail and cosmetics, extremely necessary for the current Shop CEO, who brought with him his knowledge stage of the business. GRI 102-22 of the recently incorporated company and his broad experience in retail and in international markets. Further information on the board members’ curricula HERE. Another important change was the creation of the position of executive chairman of the Board, assumed by Roberto Marques. He has been a board The changes in governance structure were approved at member since April 2016, and has broad international an Extraordinary General Meeting held on November 30, experience (at companies such as Johnson & 2017. The members’ term of office is one year and may be Johnson and Mondelez International). The three renewed upon approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting. Natura co-founders, Luiz Seabra, Guilherme Leal and Pedro Passos, continue as co-chairmen of the Board, Each of the three Natura &Co companies has its with the objective of ensuring a proper balance own CEO and Executive Committee, between business expansion and alignment with the guaranteeing the companies’ autonomy: company’s purposes and Essence. João Paulo Ferreira and Michael O’Keeffe, who continue to head up Natura and Aesop, respectively, In this new configuration, the Board of Directors and David Boynton, who assumed as CEO of has six independent members (who have no direct The Body Shop in December 2017, bringing his robust link with Natura). The rate of 60% independent international and retail experience to the organization. Composition of Board of Directors GRI 102-22 • Antonio Luiz da Cunha Seabra • Guilherme Peirão Leal • Pedro Luiz Barreiros Passos Co-chairmen • Roberto de Oliveira Marques Executive Chairman • Carla Schmitzberger • Fábio Colletti Barbosa • Gilberto Mifano • Marcos de Barros Lisboa • Silvia Freire Dente da Silva Dias Lagnado • Peter Bryce Saunders Board members 13 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Composition of the Board of Directors GRI 102-22 By age group By country of origin 0 9 Up to 45 years 10 Brazilian 1 Over 45 years Foreign By gender By time in position 4 2 Between one and Women 8 three years 5 Men Over three years 1 Up to one year >>> Support for management <<< The Group Operations Committee (GOC) was created brands. The GOC is led by the executive chairman to streamline Natura &Co’s development. It comprises of the Board, Roberto Marques, and is responsible the CEOs of the three companies, representatives for encountering dynamic solutions for Natura &Co. of key areas (Finance, Human Resources, Strategy and For this reason, the option was made for a structure in Business Development, Legal, Operations, Innovation which some members exercise a dual executive function, and Sustainability and Corporate Governance), maintaining their attributions in the business. in addition to the vice president of Transformation, The other four Board support committees are: Strategy, Robert Chatwin, charged with oversight of all People and Organizational Development, Corporate matters involving Natura &Co or one or more of the Governance and Audit, Risk Management and Finance. Further information on the formation and role of the committees here >>> Natura Executive Committee <<< The Natura Executive Committee (Comex) is headed vacant at the moment. Erasmo Toledo, who conducted by the CEO, João Paulo Ferreira, and is focused on the the company’s growth in Latin America over the last nine Natura brand in Brazil and in the other countries in which years, returned to Brazil to assume the function of Vice it is commercialized (Aesop and The Body Shop have their President of Direct Selling, with the mission of furthering own executive structures, with a view to ensuring the the advances made in consultant relations. At the necessary focus and independence of each business). beginning of 2018, the vice president of Finance and In addition to the CEO, the Natura Comex comprises six Investor Relations, José Roberto Lettiere, left the company vice presidents. In December 2017, Flávio Pesiguelo after almost three years in the position, during which assumed as Vice President of People, Culture and time he led important processes for Natura’s growth. Management Systems. After heading up Natura’s The company is currently seeking a successor (at the technology advances, Agenor Leão was appointed Vice moment the CEO, João Paulo Ferreira, is exercising this President for Latin America in January 2018, with the role on an interim basis). In April 2018, Itamar Gaino challenge of accelerating the transfer of technology and Filho assumed the position of vice president of the Legal business evolutions from Brazil to the other operations. area, where his attributions will include supporting The position of Vice President of Digital Technology is the international expansion of the Natura brand. For further information about the Executive Committee and to see each member’s CV, click HERE. 14 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Risk management GRI 102-30; 102-31 and monitoring indicators. This new modelling is part of During the course of 2017 the business the risk management governance inaugurated in 2017. The areas were mapped in accordance with the risks work on risk management in the quality and environmental identified as priorities at the end of 2016 by the Audit, areas contributed to Natura’s recertification in the ISO Risk Management and Finance Committee, based 9001 standard for Quality Management and in the ISO on the risk dictionary that was reviewed that year. 14001 standard for the Environmental Management System in Brazil. Risk management and change management Starting from the identification of processes, we mapped have become indispensible in obtaining recertification. the risks and the controls designed to mitigate them. The entire risk management process is overseen by the Furthermore, we detailed risks related to specific factors, Executive Committee and is monitored by the Board of creating impact and vulnerability measurement criteria Directors through the support committees. Main risks monitored at Natura GRI 102-15; 102-34 risk mitigation measures Brand We monitor the industry constantly, including the preferences and spending patterns of our management consumers. We focus on projects to develop the commercial model in accordance with our value and commercial proposition and in line with strategic planning, which is reviewed annually. This is the case with the new model, sales formats, such as the digital relationship platform (Rede Natura), and the company’s experiences including in the retail trade, including the commercialization of the Sou line in pharmacies and Natura’s own attractiveness stores. Furthermore, the company is investing heavily in revitalizing direct selling to ensure the for consultants maintenance of close, high quality relations with the Natura Beauty Consultants. Implantation of We review our strategic planning and our short, medium and long-term targets on an annual basis. strategy This includes investment decisions in acquisitions and holdings, as well as the entry in new markets. This is an activity that involves all the business units. The strategies and reviews are presented and discussed by the Executive Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. Innovation We invest continuously in innovation on different fronts: commercial strategy, digital platforms, capacity product development, logistics network and distribution etc. We maintain rigorous control over the registration of intellectual property, in particular patents, industrial designs and brands. These measures also help to mitigate the significant competition from Brazilian and multinational manufacturers who offer product lines similar to ours and who at times compete within our direct sale channel. Research, Natura maintains a constant commitment to customer health and safety, with rigorous internal development, processes that range from the conceptual development of the product to its launch. This is manufacture accompanied by a differentiated positioning based on a commitment to truth and transparency. and product The company’s Occupational Health and Safety policy is focused on preventing the risks inherent to quality its operations. Moreover, Natura maintains an open channel of communication and relationship with all unions, recognizing their legitimacy in representing the interests of employees in each specific category, and constantly pursuing understanding and conciliation between the parties. 15 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Main risks monitored at Natura GRI 102-15; 102-34 risk mitigation measures Interruption of Our main IT systems are managed to ensure operational stability. This entails data and server our information redundancy, routine information back up, control of access to the systems and continuous monitoring technology to detect security vulnerabilities in data banks and infrastructure components. Natura manages systems information security in a structured manner, with guidelines set forth in the company’s code of conduct, ongoing work to drive employee awareness, mapping and addressing all risks and ensuring compliance with standard ISO 27.002:2013. Attraction To drive the engagement and development of leaders, we offer an educational programme, Mosaico, and retention which comprises coaching, formal training and self-development measures. To ensure recognition and of executives to retain talent, we offer a remuneration package which is above the market average, the aim being to and leadership share the wealth generated by the company with all employees. Additionally, we review the succession development map annually to ensure the ongoing identification of individuals with the potential to occupy executive positions. Climate We seek to ally economic and socioenvironmental gains in our activities. Strategic mitigation projects change permeate the organization and have been incorporated into our routines. An example of this is GRI 201-2 the Carbon Neutral programme, which prioritizes the reduction of direct and indirect emissions throughout the chain, in addition to offsetting 100% of emissions that cannot be avoided. Social The use of social biodiversity ingredients is aligned with the Natura Policy for the Sustainable Use -biodiversity of Social Biodiversity Products and Services, which ensures the fair sharing of benefits with supplier communities and the sustainable management of the assets, as well as guaranteeing compliance with Brazil’s new legislation regarding access to genetic heritage. With its Amazônia Programme, Natura also strives to promote the generation of sustainable business based on biodiversity and traditional/ cultural knowledge. One of the programme fronts, aimed at institutional reinforcement, was engaged in implanting a project to promote development in the Mid-Juruá region in the Amazon. The initiative includes a pilot scheme dedicated to risk management that may be extended to the other territories in which Natura is active (read more on page 43). Legal, industry We actively monitor any legal alterations in the civil, tax and/or labour spheres, given the major regulation and impact any legal changes may provoke on our finances, business model and operating results. We tax load continuously monitor federal and state tax developments and industry activities through membership of sector associations such as Abihpec and ABEVD. Other external Permanent monitoring of external risks arising from the economic conjuncture by senior management, risks (interest with modifications to strategic planning as necessary. rates, exchange rate variations, inflation etc.) Institutional Permanent monitoring of the political-economic conjuncture in the countries in which Natura situation operates, modifying strategy as necessary. (Brazil and International Operations) >>> Risk control <<< Natura has an internal risk control matrix based on the non-conformance detected is monitored. All the work is COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the documented and presented to the company’s independent Treadway Commission) framework. This matrix is updated auditors, who at their discretion, may undertake additional on an annual basis both for controls related to the Brazilian tests. The results of the tests undertaken by both the operations and to the ones in Latin America. company and the independent auditors are reported to the managers responsible for the controls and to the Audit, Risk Additionally, all controls are submitted to effectiveness Management and Finance Committee, which reports to the tests, and the implementation of plans to remedy any Board of Directors. 16 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Ethics and compliance GRI 102-17 For Natura the construction of an equal evidence, ensuring alignment with the organization’s and fair society by means of integral conduct in all its commitments and culture. The successful experience with businesses is an ethical principle. In 2017, once again the this channel at Natura, will be replicated with the creation company received the Empresa Pró-Ética (Pro-Ethical of similar channels in The Body Shop and Aesop in 2018. Company) seal, an initiative organized by Brazil’s Federal The company has also publicized this channel widely, Comptroller General and the Instituto Ethos to recognize underscoring the full guarantee of confidentiality in all the organizations committed to establishing ethical and countries in which Natura operates. transparent practices throughout their business chains. For the fifth year running, we were recognized as one of the Since 2015, the company has had a statutory Legal and World’s Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisp Institute. Compliance area. In 2017, our Code of Conduct, which is revised annually, was extended to the rest of the world. This This was in recognition of our efforts to promote is the first year in which we have implanted a single version an integral and transparent internal environment, for the entire organization, helping to clarify our positioning while applying the same principles in our relations with in relation to confidentiality, information security, anticustomers and suppliers. Our Ombudsman service competitive behaviour and psychological and sexual has been in place since 2006. In addition to receiving harassment, among others. criticisms, praise and suggestions from employees, suppliers and partners, it is a channel for reporting The Natura Code of Conduct was revised and published in possible violations of our Code of Conduct and our Portuguese, English and Spanish for the countries in Latin compliance policies (the channel is also open to America, for the United States and for France. Similarly, our consultants and consumers). Reports may be made via Anti-Corruption policy has been aligned and is compliant the email ouvidoria@natura.net and via the hotlines with the legislation in all the countries in which we operate. available in all the countries in which we have operations These documents may be accessed through our Investor (with the exception of the United States, where the Relations website. The revisions of the code were supported process is currently being implanted). The Ethics by senior management, which participated actively in Committee, which reports to the Executive Committee, communicating the changes and the associated e-learning assesses and decides on all reports that are backed by programme for employees. RESPONSIBLE TAX PRINCIPLES In February 2018, the B Team established its Responsible Tax Principles, aimed at improving tax practices in companies worldwide. The B Team is non-profit global initiative comprising a group of companies, civil society organizations and government leaders whose aim is to promote improved business practices, prioritizing the well-being of people and the planet. Natura participated in the development and launch of the principles and was one of the first companies to ratify them. Aligned with this commitment is the idea that modern, inclusive economies depend on fair and effective tax systems that enable responsible investment and sustainable growth. The B Team Principles adopted by Natura espouse transparency and responsible tax practices and strategies, including information about effective tax loads. In line with this commitment, on pages 11 e 12 of this annual report we publish Natura’s revenues (not including The Body Shop and Aesop) in each of the countries in which it operates, as well as the income tax due in each of them. Natura intends to extend this commitment to the Principles to its subsidiaries. 17 2. STRATEGY 18 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 represented a landmark produced the company’s robust results in 2017. in the evolution of our strategic planning. We were able to We will continue to enhance the Relationship Selling accelerate the execution of our planning, which has already model, which has already driven greater consultant impacted business performance. We also initiated yet engagement and, consequently, gains in productivity another transformation in the company by uniting three and profitability. We will maintain our focus on the strong, pioneering cosmetics brands: Natura, Aesop and perfumery, body care and gift categories, as well The Body Shop. as on expanding the multi-channel experience. The digitalization and convergence of the online and traditional With the formation of Natura &Co, we have the opportunity direct selling models is growing in importance for the to consolidate a global cosmetics group comprising business (it should be noted that the Rede Natura companies whose purposes have been convergent since practically doubled in size for the second year running). the beginning. 2018 will be dedicated to implementing Among our employees, we will proceed with the company’s the group’s governance and management structure. We cultural transformation, which provided the springboard for intend to foster each operation’s spirit of autonomy and this positive spiral in results. enterprise while simultaneously promoting a culture of interdependence aimed at capturing synergies, best We are integrating our strategic thinking for Brazil practices and gains in the allocation of resources that will and Latin America to ensure that all the operations benefit all the businesses. benefit as rapidly as possible from the advances developed by the company. Specifically regarding Natura, we will intensify the implantation of the strategic directives that Direct Sale Revitalization Repositioning Multichannel of the Natura buying brand experience NATURA Strategic Digitalization STRATEGIC review PRIORITIES of brand architecture Strengthening our position in Latin America Expansion to developed and developing markets 19 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Business model IN PURSUIT OF positive impact At Natura we are seeking to commitment to reducing socioenvironmental impact in implant a cyclical and systemic production system that order to accelerate the achievement of our targets. Some produces and regenerates itself. We are committed to of these targets depend on technological developments generating value and developing technologies inspired or are linked with changes in behaviour, such as water by the regenerative movement in nature until we consumption during the use of cosmetic and personal become a company that provokes a positive impact. hygiene products. The fact is that our greatest impact This means not only offsetting and neutralizing the effects occurs during the usage phase of our products, in of our production chain, but also delivering value for our accordance with the Environmental Profit and Loss study entire relationship network through our products, services that quantified our environmental impacts (read more and commercialization channels. about the EP&L on page 35). This involves ethical and fair trade in sourcing raw On the other hand, we have progressed in generating materials, on the one hand, and the transformation of sustainable businesses in the Pan-Amazon region, socioenvironmental challenges into more inclusive and in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, in inclusion sustainable business opportunities on the other. We build and diversity in the company, and in promoting relationships with communities in the Amazon regions, social development measures for our consultants, incentivizing production chains that keep the forest among other areas. One challenge in closing the standing, while simultaneously generating resources production cycle is recycling waste, which also depends for traditional communities. In our open innovation on cross-sector collaboration to build recycling chains – model, Brazilian and global partners share traditional even so, we evolved in reverse logistics for our knowledge, science and design in the development of new packaging in 2017. product lines. We work together with suppliers to reduce the impact of our production, developing a chain that We connected with the global agenda developed for employs recycled materials such as PET and glass. More the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) to assess than 80% of our formulas are vegetable (and therefore the transformational potential of our activities. renewable) and all the alcohol we use is organic, And to achieve the scale necessary for our activities, produced by methods that conserve the ecosystem. our brands and sub-brands must become platforms that contribute to addressing global issues such Our consultants boost the power and the reach of our as gender equality, biodiversity and climate change. concepts and products. Relationship Selling is our way Portraying this complexity and establishing the targets of conducting direct sales, which is now gaining synergy to be reached during the course of this journey is what through new points of contacts with consumers via the we proposed in our 2050 Sustainability Vision, whose Rede Natura (our digital platform) and the Natura stores. initial cycle of ambitions ends in 2020. This virtuous cycle drives more sustainable values and behaviours, promoting WellBeingWell throughout the chain. All these movements reaffirm our commitment to sustainability as a principle that shapes the way we do We still face challenges before we will be able to generate business and is a differential in our business model. They a positive impact. We need to further strengthen also substantiate our long-term vision of generating the connection between business strategy and our a positive impact in every dimension of our activities. 20 2017 ANNUAL REPORT A POWERFUL CYCLE We strive to structure our activities in a circular manner. Processes are designed to realize the full potential of all the resources involved to maximize productivity and reduce environmental impact. It is a model that is self-renewing. io n c t c oncept du pment Prod develo an 1 le (8 1% l Global open innovation network 2 su pp tab l that includes ege s) and socia ients l V as zon red partnerships ly of m -Ama ity ing ting with international Pan divers al tes organizations l bio o anim 6 tr Res ES l Around 30% of lN 00 h wit r R$ 1 7 th ace po ce 2 ing /o the portfolio inve 2 million ch e fir abi nsib sin ckag e and G s a abl er renewed inno ted in ce ain st lity le s lP so rtifi an link fro up N0 e w nsum rial every year vatio n (2.2% n re t-co te in cia cat d U in t m ply, E L 2 l pa Re c du pos ycled ma reve of net nue) l pu l b io E h t i lo Rev s odiv for T n B e ALO 2 0 an exp t fr ce rec 29 gist ers er d an om en % i c e sit H co y de d c vi lle sel s wi C T s fin re ar ro ct ec th ilie l P e cy bo nm ion tiv m ia ts fa soc pu able U l im p Ex w cl n e at in e n e 00 ng y in in 5,3 plyi rsit usta er g m ta social re pa and l p e s st ch iss l me nt econ om su odiv gh ship uts c la t s ra ai ion on ic bi rou rd np l Ex ne tio for oc vir th ewa of i te n s, en st 18% the azo n so pa im tw ns o ia gy en vi ci n h or ip r u l ro l m m fro n-A n* al d k nm Pa gio bu b Am en re si iod a ne iv zo t ss er ni es sit an y ** EP&L: in monetary cia so terms, the l environmental econo impact of our Our More than R$ 1.2 billion in mic production chain business volume generated ic corresponds to nom in the Amazon since 2010 eco 6.9% of net revenue essence: E 3 Our brands should engage WellBeing well being well e nvironm Carbon neutral l socia Well throughout the ent consumers in value chain. tr topics that are important for Programme seeks an the common good, to reduce GHG defend values and emissions as well promote healthy as offsetting them sfo t en practices so nm cia rm iro l nv ati Conscious e 30% ofleadership leadership consumption: ic positions occupied on product impact e om by women and 6.1% con on e ec declared to consumers of disabled people om nc and upon purchase via ic in the work force e nv rie Rede Natura ent social ironm pe On average, prod ex uction l 1.7 million 850 different consultants items produced nd in Latin America for each bra l 26 Natura stores sales cycle Plan to l Review of l Rede Natura: l increase wealth logistics network digital platform and new generation with 3 million for consultants distribution centres customers (whose income installed in 5 l Products in 3,400 pharmacies grew by 17% in 2017). l Education recent years. l Experiments with electric vehicles for platform for cargo transportation consultants rela tion ship selling in channels 4 multiple * In proceeds from sales.** EP&L (Environmental Profit and Loss) converts environmental impacts into monetary values. 21 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Main indicators Economic (R$ million) 2016 2017 Net revenue 1 7,912.7 9,852.7 Ebitda 1 1,256.5 1,741.9 Consolidated net income 1 2 308 670 Free cash generation 1 470 617 Average daily volume of shares traded 3 39 46 Business volume in the Amazon to date from 2011 (in R$ million) 973 1,222 Wealth distribution (R$ million) 2016 2017 Capital provider 2 308 670 Natura Beauty Consultant 4,430 4,579 Employees 1,327 1,836 Suppliers 6,512 8,046 Government 2,009 2,000 Environmental 2016 2017 Relative GHG emissions (kg CO2e/kg product billed) 4 5 3.17 3.20 GHG emissions in the value chain (tCO2e)5 303,424 308,048 Water consumption Brazil (l/unit produced) 0.53 0.53 % post-consumer recycled material in finished product packaging — Brazil 4.3 4.6 % of eco-efficient packaging Brazil 6 20 21 Vegetalization rate in formulas (% of total mass) 83% 81% Raw materials originating in Pan-Amazon region (% in relation to R$ million) 19.1% 18.1% Social 2016 2017 Crer Para Ver (Believing is Seeing) revenue (R$ million) 7 38.2 35.7 Families benefiting in Pan-Amazon supplier communities 2,119 4,294 1 Consolidated Natura &Co (Natura, Aesop and The Body Shop) indicators. 2 Takes into account net profit attributable to controlling shareholders and the participation of non-controlling shareholders. 3 Source: Bloomberg. 4 CO2e (or CO2 equivalent): measure used to express greenhouse gas emissions, based on each one’s global warming potential. 5 Includes GHG Protocol scopes 1, 2 and 3. 2017 inventory audited by KPMG. 6 Packaging at least 50% lighter than regular/similar packaging or comprising 50% post-consumer and/or renewable non-cellulosic materials that do not increase mass. 7 Includes proceeds from Brazil and the International Operations. 22 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Multichannel Natura >>> Relationship Selling growth plan <<< The direct selling model colleagues. During the implementation of the is one of our major strengths. Currently we have new Relationship Selling model, we conducted an analysis 1.7 million Natura Beauty Consultants, of which 1.1 milion with each NCA to identify which of them would fit the new in Brazil alone. Whenever necessary we review our profile proposed for leaders. Those considered unsuitable relationship with this stakeholder group, as well as were invited to focus on consulting. the value proposition we offer them. In the most recent modification, we sought to revive the essence of the Another possible career path is Beauty Entrepreneur direct sale model adopted by Natura, opting to rename (further information in the following box). All these it Relationship Selling. The change took into account options permit the consultants to choose their the importance of the link between the consultants own professional path, in accordance with their and the consumers of our products for our business. ambition and talent. After a stage in which we listened to consultants to The model also establishes the role of Natura Business understand their needs and aspirations, in 2017 Development Manager, a group of Natura we undertook a major revitalization in Relationship employees who work in the sales force and whose role Selling with a value proposition based on three was also modified. They oversee the work done by the principles, Purpose, Belonging and Prosperity leaders, in addition to being responsible for training (in Portuguese called the 3 Ps) and a growth plan new consultants. aimed at increasing average remuneration. This new model offers diverse opportunities in direct The strategy was focused on improving the quality selling in accordance with each consultant’s profile. of our network in Brazil, resulting in increased These are: Natura Beauty Consultant, Business Leader, productivity for the consultants, whose average annual Beauty Entrepreneur or Business Development Manager. income grew by around 17% (for leaders, the increase was more than 60%). Tracking consultants’ performance In this model the consultants have five levels on a daily basis and the results of our satisfaction of progression – seed, bronze, silver, gold and and loyalty surveys demonstrate that the model diamond – and ascension is linked solely with was well received. Its introduction did, however, lead individual performance. At each new level, to a reduction in the size of the consultant network in 2017 the percentage the consultant earns from sales (see the following numbers). increases, as does her average income. Natura also offers improved payment terms and a series of benefits, The transformation to the Relationship Selling such as courses, prizes and recognition measures. model is already being implemented in Chile. In 2018, we should extend it to the other operations in Latin Upon reaching the silver category, the consultant may America. In these countries, the number of consultants opt for a new career path, that of Natura Business continues to grow. The total was 589,000 Leader. While continuing to work in consulting, in 2017, particularly worthy of note being Mexico. she also starts leading a group of consultants, providing support in their day-to-day activities, Inspired by the desire to make a difference in the presenting them with new products and advising them lives of our consultants, we also have a on how to develop their business. The leader substitutes programme focused on their self-development, and enhances the role formerly played by the which is extensive to the consultants’ families. Natura Consultant Advisor (NCA). The new format This is based on monitoring the Human Development promotes entrepreneurship among the consultants, Index (HDI) for consultants (further information in offering them more incentives to act as advisors to their Positive social impact, on page 49). 23 2017 ANNUAL REPORT BEAUTY ENTREPRENEUR We also offer our consultants the opportunity to become Beauty Entrepreneurs, which involves opening Aqui Tem Natura franchises. This is one of the career options for consultants who have been active in Relationship Selling for at least one year and who have reached diamond level. The option is designed for consultants who have been successful in selling our products and who are given the opportunity to receive support from Natura to develop their business in line with our proposition and our Essence. We ended 2017 with more than 50 stores aligned with this model. Located on shopping streets and in galleries, they stock the complete portfolio of Natura products. Promoting entrepreneurship among our consultants is one of the priorities of the Natura 2050 Sustainability Vision, along with increased average income targets, incentives for learning and promoting health. Development is also encouraged through the Movimento Natura (Natura Movement), which recognizes social transformation initiatives undertaken by the consultants in their communities (read more on page 50). Revitalization of Relationship Selling NATURA BEAUTY CONSULTANT BUSINESS LEADER BEAUTY ENTREPRENEUR Consultants Brazil (in thousands) 2015 2016 2017 Natura Beauty Consultant 1,377 1,256 1,084 Business Leaders 1 9.5 8.3 5.2 1 The business leaders substituted the Natura Consultant Advisors (NCAs). Consultants International Operations (in thousands) 2015 2016 2017 Argentina 139.6 161.2 170.9 Chile 72.7 74.3 73.4 Colombia 71.9 87.8 96.7 Mexico 130.4 125.8 160.6 Peru 90.5 94.0 87.4 Total 506.5 545.5 589.0 NCAs International Operations 1 2015 2016 2017 Chile 747 681 420 Peru 1,084 901 845 Colombia 439 691 719 Total 2,270 2,273 1,984 1 In the International Operations there are more countries that use the NCA (Natura Consultant Advisor) model. 24 2017 ANNUAL REPORT >>> From the viewpoint of the consultants <<< GRI 102-43, 102-44 The transformation of the Relationship Selling model took region and in the states of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and place in October, after the conclusion of some pilot projects. Espírito Santo. By the end of 2017, the Brazilian consultants had already recognized the positive impacts of the changes, which There was, however, a decrease in the loyalty rate among influenced our loyalty index. Comprising three indicators leaders – from 31.7% in 2016 to 23.2% in 2017, which (satisfaction, intention to continue their relationship with demonstrates the need to adjust certain aspects of the Natura and recommendation), the score was the highest model, particularly ensuring full comprehension of the role ever. Consultant loyalty increased from 31.2% in 2016 to this group is expected to play. 33.9% in 2017, worthy of note being the indicator that measures intention to continue the relationship with the In our International Operations, the loyalty index was 43.1%. company. Although there had been a slight reduction This was 5% above target, worthy of note being Argentina from one year to the other, the indicator that measures and Mexico, which had the best results with 52% and 49.6% satisfaction with the commercial terms offered by Natura respectively. Among the NCAs/leaders, loyalty increased grew by 9%, especially among consultants in the southern significantly in Chile and in Colombia. Consultant loyalty index — Brazil (%) 1 2015 2016 2017 Satisfaction 2 93.3 93.1 92.6 Loyalty 3 29.8 31.2 33.9 Leader loyalty index — Brazil (%) 2015 2016 2017 Satisfaction 2 92.8 94.6 84.2 Loyalty 3 29.5 31.7 23.2 1 Source: Ipsos Institute. 2 Satisfaction is the percentage of consultants and leaders who are “completely satisfied” or “very satisfied” (Top2Box). 3 Loyalty: percentage of people consulted who gave the top score (“Top1Box”) on a scale from 1 to 5 points, in the three aspects: satisfaction, intention to continue the relationship with Natura and recommendation. Consultant loyalty index — International Operations (%) 1 2015 2016 2017 Satisfaction 2 93.0 94.0 95.7 Loyalty 3 37.3 37.4 43.1 NCA loyalty index 4 — International Operations (%) 2015 2016 2017 Satisfaction 2 95.3 96.3 97.2 Loyalty 3 52.4 53.3 56.3 1 Source: Ipsos Institute. 2 Satisfaction is the percentage of consultants and leaders who are “completely satisfied” or “very satisfied” (Top2Box). 3 Loyalty: percentage of people consulted who gave the top score (“Top1Box”) on a scale from 1 to 5 points, in the three aspects: satisfaction, intention to continue the relationship with Natura and recommendation. 4 In the International Operations there are countries that still use the NCA (Natura Consultant Advisor) model. Consultants Leaders 1 29,803 1 In addition to the improvements in the Average 30 model and in sales performance, the annual income increase is explained by the redesign of the 20 18,428 leaders’ (former NCAs) activities, which led consultants 17,614 to a reduction in the total number of leaders. and leaders Consequently, those remaining had a larger 10 Brazil (R$) 4,161 4,028 4,728 group of consultants to supervise, elevating their average annual income. 0 2015 2016 2017 25 2017 ANNUAL REPORT >>> Training platform <<< GRI 404-2 With the introduction of the Relationship Selling As was foreseen, the changes in the model led to model, we developed a new training strategy a decrease in the number of consultants receiving for the Natura Beauty Consultants. In 2017, we invested classroom training from Business Development in behavioural training programmes, in addition Managers. To reinforce face-to-face training we created a to maintaining the focus on functional topics specialized group consisting of 40 instructors in 12 regions and product knowledge. We launched more around Brazil. These instructors deliver programmes than 50 new virtual training courses and worked on ranging from product workshops to functional and improving the consultants’ experience, with behavioural courses for Beauty Consultants. We also the migration of the training menu to increased participation in virtual courses offered via the consulting application. We also provide specific the website and mainly via the consulting application. courses for different consultant profiles, such as makeup Training delivered over these two platforms increased by and perfume specialists. 28% compared with 2016. In total, we recorded more than 1.9 million training sessions (virtual, face-to-face and led Through a partnership with a French institution, we offer by external specialists) – beating the company’s global a course with international certification in perfumery. target by 12.2% (read more on page 111). >>> Tribute to consultants <<< In 2017, our 1.1 million Brazilian consultants saw themselves September 22 . A number of actions were organized represented on TV by the actress Mariana Xavier, who on the date, such as promotions and an event on played a Natura Beauty Consultant in the soap opera A entrepreneurship promoted by the Chronos brand at the Força do Querer, aired by Rede Globo between April and Casa Natura Musical, in São Paulo, and transmitted live to October. This was the first time that a merchandising the whole of Brazil, in partnership with Editora Abril. action extended beyond the programme script. The character Abigail lived on in digital content on the The project also included the engagement of all the channel’s website after the soap opera had ended. To Natura areas in the largest communication plan ever develop the character, the actress spent time with Natura undertaken in the consulting area, part of our effort to Beauty Consultants in order to learn more about them forge closer links with consultants and to stimulate their and their work routines. Another tribute was the creation passion for the activity, as well as to attract new talent to of Natura Beauty Consultant Day, commemorated on the consultant network. >>> Head first into digitalization <<< Increasingly our Relationship Selling model is being unification of our registration base and the supported by digital transformation. We encourage commercial models. In 2017, we increased the number consultants to create their own pages on the Rede of features available on our digital tools. The Natura Natura, which facilitates consulting work and the sale application for consultants enables access to all the of our products via e-commerce. They also use the information necessary for consulting work – face-to-face Consulting application for mobile phones with a series and online sales –, as well as a series of training programs. of features that support face-to-face sales. These two resources were created to promote Other recently incorporated features are the business and income for our consultants. In Brazil, possibility of viewing purchase statistics and the number we now have 163,000 consultants who have their of accesses to the consultants’ pages on the Rede own pages on the Rede Natura, while 586,000 Natura, as well as messaging to congratulate customers use the Consulting app for mobiles. on their birthday or to recommend the acquisition of Natura products. There is also a tool that permits In 2018, we will continue to work on the convergence consultants to transmit orders to Natura via audio. of the platforms to facilitate Relationship Selling in For Business Leaders and Business Development person and in the virtual world. We are encouraging Managers, the application contains an option the integration of consulting work with the for organizing relationship events and actions. 26 2017 ANNUAL REPORT EASY EXCHANGE SEAL Although the company has always offered customers the option of exchanging Natura products via the 0800 hotline and online chat, a survey among Brazilian consumers showed that part of them were unaware of this service. This would frequently mean that customers would not choose a Natura product as a gift for someone. After conducting tests in the city of Guarulhos (São Paulo) in 2016, and in the city of São Paulo and other regions in Greater São Paulo in 2017 for Mother’s Day and Valentine’s Day, we officially launched the easy exchange seal nationwide in time for the 2017 Christmas season. Now the consultant can put the exchange seal on the product, filling out the date on which the consumer bought it. The seal has the address of the website where the consumer can obtain information about exchanging the gift, as well as the location of consultants who will perform this exchange (this is an activity which the consultant must register for) or the closest Aqui Tem Natura franchises. It is still possible to exchange Natura products directly via our 0800 number and chat channels. >>> Expansion of the Rede Natura <<< The Rede Natura (Natura Network), our online sales directly and also provides consultants with a space channel and digital relationship platform continues to for their own virtual store, with an exclusive webpage grow, consolidating its position as yet another option for and customer relationship tools. The platform has acquiring Natura products in the practical and convenient also been adopted in Chile and in Argentina. In 2018, manner associated with digital media. Launched three it should be extended to the other countries in Latin years ago, revenues from the platform grew by 80% in America in which we have operations. We also sell 2017, or six times higher than the market average. our products via e-commerce in the United States and Europe – orders to the European continent are fulfilled The platform already serves more than 3 million by our operation in France. customers, of whom 50% access it via mobile devices (smartphones and tablets). Currently, around 20% Our digital strategy has elevated Natura to fourth place of the revenue from the platform comes from among global cosmetics brands with the highest traffic purchases made via the Rede Natura application. in digital channels, according to Similarweb (an online market intelligence platform), in the process facilitating In Brazil, the Rede Natura permits consumers to buy access to young, urban consumers and classes A and B. >>> Participation in retail <<< Attentive to the demands of different consumer profiles, we are commercialized via the e-commerce operation, inaugurated our retail presence in 2015, commercializing which serves other European countries, too. certain products for daily use in pharmacies. In 2016, we With support from Aesop and The Body Shop, brands launched the first Natura stores in Brazil and have been which now make up the Natura Group, we expect growing in this channel ever since. to intensify our learning in the retail channel. And we also envisage other opportunities for synergies, In April 2018, we had a total of 26 Natura stores. for example, in distribution channels. They are located in Buenos Aires (Argentina), Santiago (Chile), New York and New Jersey (USA), Paris (France) OUR PRODUCTS IN PHARMACIES and in shopping malls in the states of São Paulo and We continue to increase the number of pharmacies Rio de Janeiro. Based on the learning acquired, commercializing the Sou product line. In 2017, we started we have continued to enhance the model and to working with the following pharmacy chains: Drogaria develop our expansion plans. São Paulo (São Paulo), Pacheco (Rio de Janeiro), Panvel (Rio Grande do Sul), Araújo (Minas Gerais), Clamed (Santa After starting in the North American market with the Ekos Catarina) and Extrafarma (Pará), and we consolidated our line, in 2017 we introduced Chronos. The signature Natura presence in the RaiaDrogasil chain. Brasil has been added to the product names, attesting to and valuing their Brazilian roots. The products are now available in a total of 3,450 stores. During the year we also began to commercialize In Paris, we maintained our space in the charming Marais Natura Faces products in 90 RaiaDrogasil stores in São district and inaugurated a second store last year in the La Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. On another action front, we Defense commercial centre. Our portfolio in France includes are commercializing our makeup line at seven Renner the Ekos, Chronos and Mamãe e Bebê lines. The three department stores, located in São Paulo and Porto Alegre, brands may also be found in large department stores and as well as via the chain’s e-commerce operation. 27 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Digital technology as a business enabler Digital technology is growing in importance intelligence. These technologies enable the for our business, not only as a commercial tool but also construction of new services, such as the individualization as a driver of advances in a series of Natura processes. of CRM (Customer Relationship Management) actions, In 2017, we were able to apply the “agile way” of with the intelligent recommendation of products in managing projects and initiatives – intrinsic to technology accordance with the customer profile and context. – to other company areas, such as product development and logistics. This enables us to innovate more and to Additionally, we have launched a number of industry do it more effectively, working faster and exploiting 4.0. initiatives. And to enhance essentially the multi-disciplinary inputs from all the people and administrative processes such as those in the People audiences involved. Management area – in 2017, we started using an application through which staff can check on diverse Digital technology had a powerful influence on types of information and services related to their the transformation to our Relationship Selling model daily routines (company news, pay slips, 360º feedback, and management of sales force routines, based on benefits, among other functionalities). the co-creation of solutions with the commercial team. It is our intention to replicate the learning from this We are also consolidating a new way of working which process in other areas of the company. includes partnerships with startups and universities, as well as mobilizing different teams in cross-disciplinary, We are investing in solutions that use disruptive non-hierarchical projects. All of these investments will technologies, such as augmented reality, the internet be maintained, since they drive gains in productivity and of things, bots, machine learning and artificial reductions in costs and losses for Natura. 28 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Sustainability as driver of innovation At the end of 2016, we integrated the In 2017, another major step was taken in biotechnology innovation, sustainability and marketing areas and the consolidation of the omic sciences under a single vice president, aimed at reinforcing (genomic, proteoic and metabolomic), which the Natura way of promoting innovation. We continue enable the simultaneous study and mapping to invest in developing products that ally high of diverse active ingredients. This enables faster technology, the sustainable use of social biodiversity confirmation of the ingredients being ingredients and disruptive brand concepts, in addition researched at a lower cost. We have research to listening to what our customers want. centres located in the Cajamar (São Paulo) and Benevides (Pará) units. We also continue to enhance the structure of the innovation team. For example, we centralized The changes have had a positive effect on the speed the product research, creation and packaging areas of our new product development process. under the same director, boosting connectivity This is evident in the 7.5% growth in our innovation between ideas and ensuring a less bureaucratic, rate, which increased from 57.1% in 2016 to 64.6% last year. more streamlined process. In 2017, 13 patents were granted to Natura. Innovation 2015 2016 2017 Investment (R$ million) 221 188 172 Number of products launched 1 220 255 213 Innovation rate (%) 2 n.a. 57.1% 64.6% 1 Covers products that offer consumers a new value proposition, including new packaging and formulations. 2 The innovation rate is calculated by adding the gross revenues for the last twelve months from products launched in the last 24 months over the total gross revenue for the last 12 months. Only takes Brazil into account. >>> Wealth of Brazilian social biodiversity <<< The products we develop based on Amazonian social the plant (leaf, fruit, stalk) containing the cosmetic benefits biodiversity ingredients are the result of years of field are identified, as is the most effective means of extracting research and laboratory tests conducted by the members them (oil, butter or another presentation). After this, Natura of our innovation team. From the beginning of research develops the formula for the product. In parallel, the to prove the effectiveness and to ensure the safety of a company drafts the future marketing plans for the product new input to the development of the supply chain and the and initiates training for the families who will supply the launch of a new product takes between three to five years. active ingredient. After identifying the potential use of the ingredient, we seek The supplier communities are remunerated for each of to acquire it from the agro-extractivist community that the social biodiversity active ingredients employed in our produces it. Only then do we begin scientific tests on the portfolio, beginning with the community from which the ingredient. Genomic studies are conducted to ensure the traditional knowledge originated or the one from which complete characterization of the plant and understanding we acquired the ingredient at the research stage. From of which compound generates the benefit indicated this point, these communities are considered to be genetic previously by traditional knowledge or the scientific heritage locations. Our relations with these communities bibliography. The molecules are analyzed and the parts of are shaped by the Policy of Sustainable Use of Social 29 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Biodiversity Resources; they are also in compliance with extracted from Brazilian biodiversity. Brazil’s new Biodiversity Law (read more on page 48). A case in point is the Ekos Patauá product line. One of the Our focus is on leveraging the wealth of the country’s main novelties in 2017 was the launch of six hair products biodiversity. For example, our perfumes are the result that use the potential of oil extracted from patauá to of a blend of around 2,500 ingredients employed in the strengthen and accelerate the growth of the strands perfumery industry worldwide with 20 unique essential oils (further information ahead). THE PATAUÁ CHAIN For many generations, women who live in the Chico Mendes Extractivist Reservation, a federal conservation unit in Acre created in 1990, have used the oil from a rounded fruit common in the region on their hair. This is patauá, known for strengthening the hair and speeding up growth. Inspired by this traditional knowledge, we acquired the fruit from this Amazonian palm tree in the municipality of Cametá, in the Lower Tocantins region of the state of Pará, where we work with communities that supply açaí, murumuru and ucuuba. We conducted the genetic mapping of the fruit and upon obtaining positive results, we identified the best way to store the fruit in order to maximize the quality of the oil. After being frozen, the patauá is transported by boat to the Cofrutas cooperative or to a Natura partner, Beraca, where the oil is extracted and sent to our factory in Cajamar (São Paulo), where it is transformed into the six Ekos Patauá line products. Respecting the plant’s natural cycle, in 2018 we will prepare new families to supply Natura with patauá. >>> Main launches <<< Like the Ekos Patauá line, the main novelties In the TodoDia line, worthy of note was Hidratante Corporal in our portfolio in 2017 reflected the Natura way of Sorbet (Sorbet Body Moisturiser), which can be stored in innovating which, whenever possible seeks to ally the refrigerator and increases the sensation of freshness the best in cosmetic science with active ingredients when applied to the skin. In the Kaiak line, we launched K, from Brazilian social biodiversity. The Natura Homem with a differentiated, intense fragrance for men. The scent line was completely reformulated, with the relaunch has woody notes and remains on the skin for up to 10 hours. of 12 products using a new fragrance and more biodiversity active ingredients. The brand was also COMMITMENT TO CONSUMER SAFETY repositioned, based on research into the behaviour GRI 103-2; 103-3; 417-1 of contemporary man and the infinite possibilities Our formulations only use products and ingredients that of exercising masculinity. have been proven to be safe, always in compliance with international laws, standards and good practices. Our The Natura Chronos line gained a Revitalizing researchers stay abreast of scientific discussions on the use Concentrate based on sapucainha (Carpotroche brasiliensis) and polyphenols, the first product with an exclusive anti-pollution and anti-stress technology which repairs the damage caused by We adopted rice and bamboothese external factors, stimulates the skin’s natural defences and slows down the emergence of wrinkles, based biodegradable exfoliants blemishes and flaccidity. We also launched Una CC Nude Me, a multifunctional cosmetic that corrects to substitute polyethylene dark circles under the eyes and worry lines, prevents microbeads — which end early aging and, thanks to DetOx+ technology, revives the natural luminosity of the face. up in rivers and oceans 30 2017 ANNUAL REPORT of ingredients, in particular those considered controversial. eliminated the material from our rinsable When there is evidence that a substance presents a risk products, substituting them with biodegradable to the environment or human health, we substitute it in exfoliants based on rice and bamboo. our formulations, even when this is not a legal requirement The decision was taken because regular sewage in the countries in which we operate. We have already treatment systems are incapable of retaining the eliminated triclosan, parabens and phthalates from our microbeads, which end up in rivers and oceans. portfolio. In 2017, in line with guidance from the European Union prohibiting the use of MIT (methylisothiazolinone), we The Natura product packs provide information started to eliminate the substance from our non-rinsable on the third-party manufacture of product components; products. GRI 102-11 substances that can generate environmental impacts; safe use and proper disposal of products; and an We also stopped employing polyethylene microbeads as indication of the recommended number of times a pack exfoliating agents in products under development and may be refilled, among other data. RESPECT FOR ANIMALS In 2006, we were the first company in Brazil to completely eliminate animal testing in our products, a decision based on our beliefs and values. Since 2008, we have been on the Projeto Esperança Animal (PEA) list, which publishes an annual list of Brazilian companies that do not conduct tests on animals. 31 3. GENERATING A POSITIVE IMPACT: PATH TO 2050 32 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Integrated management The Sustainability Vision is aimed logistics, in the valuation of environmental externalities, at transforming Natura into a company that generates in promoting the social and human development of our a positive impact by 2050. This means that in addition consultants, suppliers and surrounding communities, and to reducing and mitigating the effects of our activities, in strengthening company culture, among others. In some we want to promote a positive social, environmental, public commitments, however, we have identified the need economic and cultural impact. Constructed based to step up our efforts in order to achieve targets. Areas on a long-term orientation, the Sustainability Vision such as climate change, increasing the percentage of ecocontains intermediate commitments and targets, efficient packaging, the human and social development of with the first cycle ending in 2020. our main stakeholder groups, as well as the empowerment of consumers in relation to our causes, are some of the We have had some important achievements in the three company’s priorities for 2018. years since this strategy was implemented, such as value generation for the Pan-Amazon region, where business We are engaged in assessing and evolving the volume exceeded R$ 1.2 billion in 2017, beating the target Sustainability Vision to establish new commitments for the established for 2020. We also progressed in managing period from 2020 to 2030, and we will continue to develop the communities in the Pan-Amazon region, in reverse Natura’s business-related strategic agenda. Status of the 2050 Sustainability Vision ambitions on target or already achieved on schedule behind schedule Topic Ambition for 2020 status Management model Brands Integrated management Ethics and transparency Government and society Governance for sustainability Relative emissions Climate change Offsetting emissions Energy Waste Reduction of environmental impact Recycled material Packaging Recyclable material Eco-efficient packaging Water Supplier communities Social biodiversity Business volume Sustainable social biodiversity businesses Industrial park Formulations 33 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Status of the 2050 Sustainability Vision ambitions (continued) on target or already achieved on schedule behind schedule Topic Ambition for 2020 status Average income Educational actions Natura Beauty Consultants Consultant HDI Entrepreneurship Human development Communities Positive social impact Territory strategy Suppliers Supply chain Women leaders Employees Disabled people Engagement Consumers Culture for sustainability Stakeholder engagement SEE OUR AMBITIONS IN DETAIL ON PAGE 78. Performance management We remain committed to surrounding our operations and the families monitoring our activities, including the different stages supplying Pan-Amazon social biodiversity of the product life cycles and the impacts we provoke on active ingredients. employees, consultants, consumers, suppliers and members of the supplier communities, as well as the environment. The knowledge accumulated in the course of these years of continuous monitoring is Using the United Nations Development Programme’s employed in measures aimed at (UNDP) Human Development Index (HDI) as a reference, conserving natural resources, reducing environmental we created our own HDI which has measured impacts and developing our stakeholder groups. the year on year evolution in our consultants’ living standards since 2014. All these metrics are linked with performance targets and public commitments assumed We also manage territories, including the communities to drive progress in the 2050 Sustainability Vision. 34 2017 ANNUAL REPORT >>> Socioenvironmental accounting <<< EP&L (Environmental Profit and Loss) is With the visibility afforded by these numbers, we will a methodology that measures the positive and continue to reduce our negative impacts and leverage negative impacts of all the phases of production, our positive effects by means of our carbon, waste commercialization and disposal of an organization’s and water footprint programmes. With the Carbon products in monetary terms. Four years ago, we Neutral programme alone, the organization has made initiated a project to measure and disclose how our a contribution of almost R$ 1.4 billion over the last ten activities impact nature and, consequently, people’s years. This takes into account aspects that include human well-being. Thus, Natura is part of a group of health, community development, ecosystem services and companies that is in the forefront of knowledge related climate change. What this means is that offsetting carbon to impact measurement worldwide. We intend to emissions through support for forestry, energy efficiency, influence other organizations to engage in this renewable energy and waste treatment projects not only movement so that they may evolve in their metrics and mitigated the company’s emissions but also generated in managing their business chains. The calculation environmental and social benefits. takes into account the volume of solid waste generated, land use, consumption and pollution of water, as NEW CHALLENGES well as emissions of greenhouse gases and other We want to increase the importance of the valuation atmospheric pollutants. of externalities in future business decisions, as well as using it as an instrument in Natura’s accountability and We want to transform the EP&L into an applicable transparency. management instrument. Our first calculation was based on 2013 data. Today we have identified We are aware that the product usage phase is the biggest results up until 2017 and have projections for the coming challenge presented by this calculation, which takes into years. Assessing this period, we have established that account energy and water consumption by consumers and there has been a gain in efficiency in relation to is a key factor in society’s consumption habits. environmental impact and net revenue, with a 1.6 percentage point variation since 2013. In 2017, our Our next step will be to implant a similar pioneering externalities (the impact generated) represented 6.9% methodology focused on the social sphere. This means of Natura’s net revenue. we will incorporate the valuation of our contributions and impacts on the social development of the communities with It should be understood that the performance of these which Natura maintains relations, such as the generation numbers is also affected by our financial result of employment and the stimulation of entrepreneurship and by the lower production volume compared with among employees and consultants, among others. Certain 2013. We know that the impact valuation methodologies social aspects have already been taken into account in are still evolving, but we believe that we are on a analyzing the co-benefits of the company’s Carbon Neutral path that will substantiate Natura’s desire to make a Programme and these will now be extended to the entire difference in the world. Natura process and its value chain. Valuation of environmental impact 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 8 8.6% 7.7% 7.3% 7.3% 6.9% 6 Impact of externalities (R$)/ 4 Cumulative net revenue (R$) 1 variation from Variation compared 2 2013 to 2017 with previous year (percentage points) -0.1 p.p. 0.3 p.p. -1.6 p.p. -0.8 p.p. -0.4 p.p. 0 -2 1 To correct the amounts over the course of the years, global economic growth and the increase in the concentration of greenhouse gases in accordance with IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ) data from 2014 were taken into account. 35 2017 ANNUAL REPORT CALCULATOR PROJECTS IMPACT Since 2010, a mandatory stage in the Natura innovation process has been the use of a tool called an environmental calculator. This digital system uses information about packaging and formulas to calculate the environmental impact a product will have while it is still at the development stage. In conjunction with other factors, the results indicated by the calculator are used to decide whether the company will proceed with or interrupt the product development process, enabling researchers to make more conscious decisions about the choice of inputs. The decision on whether or not to develop the product also takes into account other business factors and the availability of resources, among other requirements. At present the calculator is supported by LIMS (Laboratory Information Management System) software, which assesses all the data on carbon emissions, post-consumer recycled material, potential for recycling, refilling, life cycle assessment, materials of vegetable and natural vegetable origin, waste and biodiversity ingredients, in addition incorporating details about certification. Currently, the company has 1,462 raw materials and 94 packaging materials available in the tool 36 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Reduction of environmental impact In the environmental area, we are committed to questions such as climate change, social biodiversity, waste management, energy and water. We work proactively on reducing our impact and innovating in all these areas. Carbon: monitor, reduce and offset GRI 103-2; 103-3 The Carbon Neutral Programme, emissions from the extraction of raw materials, created in 2007, was Natura’s first public commitment. from freight haulage operators, and from packaging It established the target of a one-third reduction manufactured by third-parties. in the company’s emissions by 2013, which represented the avoidance of 480,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions. In 2017, the company had a 0.8% increase in relative The volume avoided is equivalent to 83,000 trips around GHG emissions and a 2% increase in absolute emissions the Earth by car. As part of our 2050 Sustainability compared with 2016. This is due mainly to an increase Vision, we assumed the commitment to reduce our relative in items with higher relative emissions, as well as GHG emissions by a further 33% by 2020, using 2012 as to the growth in our International Operations, increasing base year. GRI 305-5 the impact of exports and product transportation to consultants. In the comparison with 2012 (the base The programme was developed on three fronts – year of the commitment), there was a cumulative measuring, reducing and offsetting. The first reduction of 0.5% in relative emissions. We continue to seek consists of the annual monitoring of all the organization’s alternatives that will enable us to honour our commitment emissions by means of an inventory audited by an through measures such as optimizing the raw materials independent company. What differentiates logistics process, greater efficiency in delivering product Natura is precisely the scope of the inventory, which to consultants in Brazil, diversifying our fleet and covers not only the company’s own emissions but also increasing the use of materials that provoke a lower those of our entire production chain, including the environmental impact in our products. GRI 305-1; 305-2; 305-3; 305-4 Cumulative reduction in Relative emissions (kg of Vision commitment for Year Total CO2e (t) emissions 1 2 relative emissions since CO2e/kg of product billed) 2020 2012 (%) 2015 321,267 3.17 1.4 2016 303,424 3.17 1.3 -33% relative emissions 2017 308,048 3.20 0.5 1 CO2e (or CO2 equivalent): measure used to express greenhouse gas emissions, based on each one’s global warming potential. 2 Includes GHG Protocol scopes 1, 2 and 3. 37 2017 ANNUAL REPORT GRI 305-1; 305-2; 305-3 Emissions in the value chain (t)1 2015 2016 2017 Extraction and transportation of raw materials and packaging (process and 127,788 122,337 119,101 transportation to direct suppliers) Direct suppliers (process and transportation to Natura) 31,731 30,378 29,574 Industrial and internal processes 18,557 15,633 16,754 Product sales (transportation and distribution) 66,749 63,465 62,751 Use of products and disposal of packaging 76,442 71,611 79,868 Overall total 321,267 303,424 308,048 1 Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory takes into account not only the company’s own emissions but also those of the entire production chain, including freight haulage operators that transport raw materials and packaging materials manufactured by third-parties. We comply with GHG Protocol standards and the principles of the ABNT NBR ISO 14064-1 standard, which establish rules encompassing conception, development, management and elaboration. The 2017 Natura GHG inventory was audited and assured by KPMG. Biogenic emissions (tCO2 equivalent) 1 2015 2016 2017 Direct biogenic emissions (from the burning or biodegradation of biomass) 9,347 8,870 9,387 GRI 305-1 Indirect biogenic CO2 emissions GRI 305-3 10,746 9,366 8,976 Total biogenic emissions 20,093 18,236 18,364 1 Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory takes into account not only the company’s own emissions but also those of the entire production chain, including freight haulage operators that transport raw materials and packaging materials manufactured by third-parties. We comply with GHG Protocol standards and the principles of the ABNT NBR ISO 14064-1 standard, which establish rules encompassing conception, development, management and elaboration. The 2017 Natura GHG inventory was audited and assured by KPMG. We voluntarily offset 100% of the emissions energy efficiency programmes. In this way, we that we are unable to avoid, ensuring we remain have managed to align reduction in impacts on climate carbon neutral. This offsetting involves the acquisition change with the generation of socioenvironmental of carbon credits from organizations that have reduced benefits. Between 2007 and 2016, five public tenders their emissions by means of projects to keep forests were launched and 36 projects contracted. standing, reforestation, the substitution of fossil fuels and The total amount offset was 2,945,158 tCO2e. Read more in our inventory filed in the Brazilian Public Emissions Records (Registro Público de Emissões, available here in portuguese) Emissions offset Of the 36 offsetting projects contacted by Natura in the ten years of its Carbon Neutral Programme: 30 6were in in Latin 37% 63% forestry energy Brazil America projects projects It should be noted that since 2007 Natura has in ingredient transportation, reduction in impacts due implemented measures to reduce its emissions to Ekos brand refills, the use of post-consumer recycled throughout the chain. The reductions in absolute GHG glass in perfumery and the use of post-consumer emissions refer to improvements in processes and recycled PET and green PE in product packaging. Although products, considering indirect scope 3 emissions, these initiatives drove absolute reductions, they had little worthy of note being: use of cabotage to supply the impact on Natura’s overall result. The amounts are distribution centres, gains from exports based on local not comparable over the years because different production in the International Operations, efficiency gains initiatives were adopted in each period. GRI-305-5 38 2017 ANNUAL REPORT GRI 305-5 GHG emission reductions resulting directly from emission reduction initiatives (tCO2e) 2015 2016 2017 Reductions in other indirect emissions (scope 3) 1 9,357 8,213 8,578 Total reductions 9,357 8,213 8,578 1 The emissions reduction calculation (scope 3) took into account emissions in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively over each period and not from one year to the other. The amounts are not comparable over the years because different initiatives were adopted in each period. GAINS THROUGHOUT THE CHAIN Examining the entire value chain enables us to work on different fronts to reduce our impact on climate change. We strive to drive innovation and generate additional benefits at every stage of the production and distribution of our products. Carbon and waste calculator: a tool developed to measure the environmental impact of a new product under development; it takes into account GHG emissions and waste generation, from the formulation stage to the disposal New product of packaging. development/ Vegetalization of formulas: in 2005, we started to substitute animal fat with vegetable oils in our toilet soap lines. In innovation process 2007, we replaced mineral oils with vegetable oils. In 2017, 81% of our formulas comprised renewable vegetable oils (see the historical series in the item Origin of material and product certification). Use of refills: in addition to pioneering the use of refills for our daily use products, over time we started using more efficient materials, such as 100% recycled post-consumer PET for the refills. The relative emissions generated by a Natura refill are on average 47% lower than those for the regular product. Packaging Packaging: our target is to include 10% recycled post-consumer materials and 74% recyclable materials in the development composition of our packaging by 2020. We also intend to reach the rate of 40% eco-efficient packs. One of the main contributions to this advance is the Ekos line. It was relaunched in 2016 employing more reused materials, with relative emissions 30% lower than the materials used previously. Other initiatives include the use of recycled glass in perfumery, packs made from recycled PET and green PE. Organic alcohol: our perfumery line uses alcohol made from sugarcane that is grown without burning and without Production the use of crop defence products or chemical fertilizers, resulting in a 39% reduction in carbon footprint compared with conventional alcohol. Low impact transportation: we were the first company in Latin America to adopt an electric vehicle for transporting cargo in the distribution operation to consultants in the city of São Paulo and the surrounding metropolitan region. On average, this vehicle emits nine times less carbon than a conventional model. We also developed other measures Logistics/ to reduce the impact of product transportation, such as new carton sizes for sending product to consultants, the distribution use of maritime transportation instead of air freight, review of the logistics network, expansion of the distribution centres in Brazil and the expansion of local international production. We also use ethanol-powered buses to transport employees. Social biodiversity active ingredients: we promote the generation of sustainable businesses through the Amazônia Programme. We maintain relations with 34 communities, incentivising production techniques that have already helped keep 257,000 hectares of forest standing. This has reduced deforestation, one of the main causes of GHG emissions in Brazil. Restoration of Xingu River springs: we support the Instituto Socioambiental’s Y Ikatu Xingu movement aimed at reclaiming and protecting around 300,000 hectares of land surrounding the sources of the Xingu River in Mato Grosso. An innovative system permits the plantation of a larger quantity of seeds in less time, with a 50% cost saving. To ensure the feasibility of the project, the local community collected a large quantity of seeds which culminated in the creation of a seed network, involving indigenous peoples, collectors, nursery operators and agricultural Standing forest producers. Currently comprising 450 collectors, most of whom are women, the network has been generating an average annual income of more than R$ 2 million. Natura contributed to the reclamation of 516 hectares by means of an emissions offsetting programme. Reca Carbon Project: we recognize the importance of family agricultural producers in the conservation of forests, and we believe that reconciling production activities and forestry maintenance is economically advantageous. As part of this strategy, we initiated the Payment for Environmental Services Project (PSA in the Portuguese acronym), remunerating communities not only for the purchase of ingredients and sharing of benefits, but also for the environmental protection work they do. The project involves 109 families on 125 properties in the border region of the states of Acre, Rondônia and Amazônia (read more about the project in Sustainable Social Biodiversity Businesses, on page 43). Efficient stoves: this is a partnership between Natura and the Instituto Perene which enables the construction of sustainable stoves in the Recôncavo Baiano region in Brazil. A similar project was implemented in Mexico. The Social benefits stoves use a technology that permits a significant reduction in the consumption of firewood, helping to minimize greenhouse gas emissions, the degradation of forests and local public health problems. A total of 12,247 stoves have been installed in the two countries. 39 2017 ANNUAL REPORT >>> Partnership for the climate <<< GRI 305-5 With the knowledge accumulated over a decade in the To further this commitment, in September 2017 Carbon Neutral Programme, we realized that we could we launched a common platform of carbon emission leverage the effectiveness of the measures if we work offsetting projects in partnership with Itaú Unibanco, together with partners who share the same objectives. called Compromisso com o Clima (Climate Commitment). According to the World Resources Institute, Brazil comes The initial objective is to offset 500,000 metric tons of seventh in the ranking of countries with the highest CO2 carbon by means of independent projects and to attract emissions in the world. more companies to the initiative. In 2015, the year of the Paris Agreement, Natura led a The first Compromisso com o Clima tender dialogue in which 200 people from different companies received applications from 95 projects, located in and civil society organizations participated. The subject 24 states and the Distrito Federal. The areas include was the responsibilities of the production sector in relation energy, agriculture, forestry and waste treatment. to climate change. Presenting the work undertaken in the Eight projects were selected for legal appraisal and Carbon Neutral Programme as a reference, the objective execution. To compensate our 2017 and 2018 emissions, we was to articulate an institutional support network for will select projects approved in the tender. We would like innovative, sustainable initiatives aimed at the transition to and will encourage Natura’s partners and suppliers a low carbon economy, as well as promoting the emissions to choose from among the projects selected to honour offsetting agenda in Brazil. their own offsetting commitments. PAYMENT FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES GRI 305-5 The Payment for Environmental Services (PSA in the Portuguese acronym) project, which links the Amazônia Programme (read more on page 43) and our Carbon Neutral Programme, is the first carbon offsetting initiative organized by Natura. In a concerted effort, the programme invests in forestry conservation, strengthening production chains, territorial development, environmental/land deed regularization, valuing sustainable production systems and maintaining agricultural producers on the land, among other objectives. The pilot project was implemented in the Reca (Reflorestamento Econômico Consorciado e Adensado) supplier community, located in the border region of the states of Acre, Rondônia and Amazonas, an area with a high deforestation rate due to activities such as livestock breeding and timber exploitation. A total of 77% of local families, who are Natura suppliers, entered the program. In 2017, they started receiving payment for promoting the sustainable stewardship of social biodiversity active ingredients. The amount paid was equivalent to what Natura paid for the ingredients supplied by Reca for the same period (2013-2015), thereby doubling the families’ income. From 2018, payments will be made on an annual basis. Between 2013 and 2015, deforestation rates were 60% lower than in the surrounding communities. The area conserved during the period is equivalent to 170 soccer fields, meaning emissions of 74,000 metric tons of carbon gas were avoided. Natura is committed to the project for a period of 25 years. We estimate that the deforestation rate in the Reca area will be zero in 2038 and believe that the environmental service model may be adopted in other areas. 40 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Packaging and waste: making new again GRI 103-2; 103-3; 301-2 We recognize our responsibility The Chronos face category refills also performed well. We for the life cycle of our products and packaging. We also are certain that the offer of refills will be essential for us recognize the challenge managing post-consumer waste to reach the rate of 40% eco-efficient packaging for our represents for society, particularly in large urban centres. products, part of our ambitions for 2020. Over the years, we have invested in increasing the use of eco-efficient packaging (at least 50% lighter than regular/ We also continue to progress in the use of recycled similar packaging; and/or comprising 50% post-consumer glass in Brazil. We expanded the use of post-consumer recycled material and/or renewable non-cellulosic recycled material from 20% to 30% in the packaging materials that do not increase mass). for some brands, such as Ekos, Kaiak, Humor and Essencial. This movement began in 2015, when we In 2017, we continued to increase the rate of eco-efficient started to employ recycled glass from beverage industry packaging in Brazil and in Latin America, reaching 21% of waste. One year later, we began to source part of the the products commercialized. This progress was made recycled glass from cooperatives. To ensure the quality possible, in particular, because of the good performance of of these packs made from glass of more heterogeneous the Ekos and TodoDia lines of body care products, whose origin, we implemented a rigorous approval process for packs are made from 100% post-consumer recycled PET or the cooperative suppliers, encompassing traceability, sugarcane-based 100% green PE. formalization and regulatory compliance. GRI 301-2 Recycled materials used in product manufacture (%) Vision commitMaterial 2015 2016 2017 ment for 2020 Post-consumer recycled material incorporated into 2.9% 4.3% 4.6% 10% finished product packaging – Brazil 1 Recyclable2 material in finished product packaging – 50% 51% 50% 74% Brazil 1 Percentage of post-consumer recycled material mass in relation to total mass of packaging materials, weighted by the quantity billed. 2 Percentage of recyclable material mass in relation to total mass of packaging materials, weighted by the quantity billed. GRI 301-2 Eco-efficient packaging as a proportion of items billed (%) Vision commit2015 2016 2017 ment for 2020 Brazil 26% 20% 21% 40% International Operations 23.7% 20.8% 21.5% GRI 417-1 Origin of material and product certification 1 (%) 2015 2016 2017 Material of renewable vegetable origin 83.0% 83.0% 81% Material of natural vegetable origin 6.6% 5.6% 5.6% Material with certification of origin 2 13.0% 13.0% 13.1% 1 Calculated on dry base of raw materials present in product formulation. 2 The percentage of material with certification of origin increased because the number of certified inputs employed in the body care and perfumery categories grew. 41 2017 ANNUAL REPORT >>> Reverse logistics programmes <<< GRI 103-2; 103-3; 301-3 Driven by our commitment to reduce the Dê a Mão para o Futuro ­— we continue to support impact of post-consumer waste and by Brazil’s the industry reverse logistics programme, an initiative national solid waste policy, over recent years we organized by Abihpec in conjunction with the cleaning have conducted a reverse logistics pilot programme products industry association Abipla and the biscuit, aimed at developing an efficient model for dough and bread industry association Abimapi. recovering the post-consumer packaging of our products. Currently we are engaged in two post-consumer Considering the volumes recovered through the two packaging reverse logistics programmes: programmes – Elos and Dê as Mãos para o Futuro –, in 2017 we achieved a 29% recovery rate for products and their Elos Programme ­— a shared responsibility packaging materials. Our commitment for 2020 is to reach programme between Natura and its packaging a reverse logistics volume of 50% of the waste generated suppliers, to guarantee traceability, approval and by Natura product packaging in Brazil (in equivalent metric reverse logistics in the post-consumer recycled tons). One of the main challenges in reverse logistics material supply chains incorporated into is the need to expand the recycling chain in Brazil, our packaging. which is the focus of the two projects mentioned. Vision commitment 2017 Product and packaging material recovery rate (%) for 2020 29% 50% See our water footprint GRI 103-2; 103-3; 303-1 Natura continues to work on a due to the fact that the Brazilian energy grid is primarily methodology for measuring the impact of water use driven by hydroelectric power. In line with our 2020 throughout the chain as a basis for defining initiatives commitment, we will maintain our efforts to identify that will make a more effective contribution to reducing possibilities for reduction at this stage. and neutralizing the company’s water footprint, similar to what is done in the Carbon Neutral Programme. In our industrial processes, relative consumption was the same as the previous year (0.53 litre of water per unit Our major challenge is in the product use phase produced), even though the total production grew by and is linked with consumer behaviour. We are aware 10%, counting the Cajamar and Ecoparque units and that the most significant impact is caused by generating third-party manufacturers. Absolute water consumption energy to heat the water used in consumers’ homes grew 4% compared with 2016. > What we did in Vision commitment for 2017 We finalized Natura’s water 2020 Implement a water footprint footprint study and incorporated impact reduction and ecotoxicity assessment into neutralization strategy for the product safety assessments. entire Natura value chain. 42 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Water consumption per unit produced GRI 303-1 Total litres per unit produced 0.8 0.6 0.49 0.53 0.53 0.4 7.332,9 0.2 0.0 2015 2016 2017 GRI 303-1 Water withdrawn by source — Natura Brazil (m3)1 2015 2016 2017 Ground water 177,866 190,898 252,016 Municipal or water utility supply 20,872 23,858 37,958 Total 198,738 214,756 289,974 1 Up until 2016, the numbers did not take third-party manufacturers into account. Sustainable social biodiversity businesses GRI 103-2; 103-3; 203-1 We have used Amazonian social Although it was created by Natura, today the biodiversity inputs since 2000, the year the programme has innumerable partners including Natura Ekos line was launched. In addition to buying inputs Brazilian and international companies, research directly from extractivist communities, which generates institutions and non-governmental organizations. improved livelihoods and income for these communities, Since the beginning of the Amazônia Programme, we work actively on keeping the forest standing. we have worked with 25 native species and contributed This goal is only possible because it is based on the vision to the conservation of over 257,000 hectares of standing of transforming social and environmental challenges for forest. By the end of 2017, we had beaten our target the families living in the region. Our strategy is to promote of generating R$ 1 billion in business volume in the region and expand a sustainable economy based on Amazonian between 2010 and 2020 by 22%. The cumulative volume biodiversity, driving innovation and ensuring economic exceeded R$ 1.2 billion. and social visibility on a global level. Another 2020 target is to source 30% of the production In 2011, we implemented the Amazônia Programme, inputs consumed by Natura from the Pan-Amazon region, which reflects the company’s belief in the potential encompassing other countries in which the Amazon forest the region has to become a major global centre of is located. In 2017, the indicator was 18.1%, a slight decrease technologyand sustainable business in line with its in function of the sales mix. Nonetheless, the total purchase natural vocation. Work on the programme is based volume of ingredients from the Amazon increased due to the on three pillars: science, technology and innovation; purchase of products based on certified palm and Brazil nut developing sustainable chains; and institutional oil from the region. Part of our commitment is to guarantee reinforcement. that the use of these ingredients in the portfolio remains proportional to the company’s growth. GRI 203-1 Amazônia Programme Vision commit2015 2016 2017 ment for 2020 Percentage of raw materials bought from the 12.3% 19.1% 18.1% 30% Pan-Amazon region by Natura1 (at sales cost) Business volume in the Amazon region2 (R$ million) 752 973 1,222 1,000 1 Total purchases of raw materials from Pan-Amazon region versus total purchases of other inputs. 2 Cumulative amount since 2011 including the purchase of Amazonian raw materials, benefit sharing, investments in the Ecoparque, local development, institutional reinforcement, innovation, environmental projects and the purchase of carbon credits. 43 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Science, technology and innovation The first pillar of the Amazônia Tests demonstrated that palm oil production was higher Programme comprises the research and compared with the volume obtained from monoculture, scientific production initiatives that value the region’s even with fewer palm trees planted per hectare. It was also wealth. By means of an international alliance, in noted that the system generated additional environmental 2016 Natura was selected by USAID (United States benefits, such as the creation of a natural barrier against Agency for International Development) to ensure the pests thanks to the diversity of vegetable species, as well continuity of a project that employs an agroforestry as the sequestration of carbon from the atmosphere. In the system in the cultivation of palm oil. The total investment social dimension, the production of fruit and seeds from in the project is US$ 4.8 million. the other species generated an increase in income for the producers. The project began in 2007, with a pilot stage undertaken in Pará in partnership with Finep There is the prospect of expanding the project. Currently (Financiadora de Estudos e Projeto) and Embrapa (Empresa there are three demonstration areas, totalling 37 hectares. Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuária). In an 18-hectare area In its products, Natura only uses palm oil certified by the managed by members of the Camta (Cooperativa Agrícola RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil), which assures Mista de Tomé-Açu) cooperative, monoculture was replaced sustainable production in the chain. The expectation is that with an agroforestry system that combines the cultivation Natura will start acquiring the input from the agroforestry of the palm trees with other vegetable species. system as soon as the scale of production permits it. NÚCLEO DE INOVAÇÃO NATURA AMAZÔNIA (NINA NATURA AMAZÔNIA INNOVATION NUCLEUS) The Natura Amazônia Innovation Nucleus (Nina), located in the Ecoparque in Benevides (Pará), is a science and technology hub that prioritizes the development of innovations and technologies which may be applied in social biodiversity production chains and in the company. Its partners in this endeavour include the Federal University of Amazonas (Ufam), the Amazonian research institute Inpa (Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazônia) and the Amazon state research foundation Fapeam (Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado do Amazonas), in addition to Embrapa. In 2017, as a result of changes in the Natura Innovation team (read more on page 29), the field team, which engages directly with the communities, started working in tandem with the ingredients development team, with the objective of generating synergy and streamlining research and development processes. Social biodiversity production chains GRI 103-2; 103-3; 203-1; 203-2; 304-2; 413-2 We want to build and continuously expand This increase was due mainly to the resumption of sustainable production chains in the Pan-Amazon region relations with the Reserva Extrativista Chico Mendes by means of the Amazônia Programme. In 2017, we worked community for the use of patauá, the new ingredient with 34 supplier communities, two of which joined the in the Ekos line. In this location, 1,926 families are network during the year. We practically doubled the recognized as possessing the traditional knowledge number of families benefiting from this arrangement to associated with this fruit and are remunerated as part 5,296, of which 4,294 are in the Pan-Amazon region. of the company’s benefit sharing policy. 44 2017 ANNUAL REPORT We also initiated relations with another new community In 2017, this stakeholder group received almost R$ 18 million, comprising 37 families, which provides Brazil nuts. In an increase of more than 70% compared with 2016. the meantime, a cocoa producing cooperative opted to terminate its participation in the Transamazon organic The amounts include payment for the supply of inputs and cocoa group and left our network of supplier communities. for benefit sharing, as well as investments in infrastructure, training and technical services, among others. The amount Most of the communities are located in the states of Acre, to be paid is calculated after the company conducts field Amazonas, Pará, Rondônia and Amapá, but Natura also audits in which we identify and define the communities’ obtains biodiversity ingredients from other states in Brazil. needs, as well as opportunities for improvement. Vision commitGRI 203-2 Communities and families 2015 2016 2017 ment for 2020 benefiting in the Pan-Amazon region 1,529 2,119 4,294 10,000 GRI 203-2 Communities and families benefiting 1 2015 2016 2017 Communities with which Natura maintains relations 30 33 34 Families benefiting in the communities 2,251 2,841 5,296 1 The number of partners and families is monitored by the Natura social biodiversity tracing system. The number includes ten associations and 24 cooperatives. GRI 203-2 Funds allocated by family (R$ thousands) 2015 2016 2017 Direct funds 2 3.1 3.2 Supply 1 2.0 2.9 GRI 203-1 Community investments (R$ thousands) 2015 2016 2017 Supply 2,837 5,771 9,213 Benefit sharing 1 2,411 3,070 6,075 Support for local development and infrastructure projects 2 443 669 763 Use of image 3 14 36 5 Training 4 245 77 70 Technical services 5 139 255 337 Carbon credits 6 1,478 Studies 7 490 245 0 Total allocated to communities 6,579 10,123 17,942 1 Benefit sharing: direct funds from the sharing of benefits for access to genetic heritage and traditional knowledge acquired in communities, allocated under contract with Natura. 2 Support for local development and infrastructure projects: in 2017, the investment was employed in building drying and storage facilities, enabling the communities to boost their volume of higher added value business, as well as improving production quality and controls. 3 Use of image: the amounts paid by Natura for use of the images of community members in institutional or marketing materials. 4 Training: management and organizational development, technical exchanges, training in good production and stewardship practices, and occupational health and safety programmes. 5 Technical services: technical services rendered to cooperatives/communities by external consultants or consultants hired by Natura.6 This information was included from 2017. 7 Studies: development of diagnoses, management plans, stewardship plans, mapping exercises, information surveys, field research and loyalty/satisfaction surveys. 45 2017 ANNUAL REPORT >>> Social Biodiversity Chain Verification System <<< GRI 103-2; 103-3 By continuously monitoring safety, conservation of biodiversity, organizational a series of indicators, we are able to measure the management, good production practices and the positive impacts generated by our relations with the traceability of production chains to certify the ethical and communities, as well as determining the investment sustainable origin of ingredients. The audits are conducted in training necessary to develop competencies among annually in all the communities. When necessary, this group. In this way, we help to strengthen the we develop action plans based on the results. communities and increase their autonomy, encouraging In 2017, the verification system was applied to three new them to expand supply to other companies. supplier communities. Natura already maintained relations with one of them — Avive (Associação Viva Verde da In partnership with the Union for Ethical Biotrade Amazônia), located in the municipality of Silves (AM) — (UEBT), we developed a Social Biodiversity Chain but only started sourcing ingredients from it in 2017. Verification System, which is used to audit 100% of For two years, the audit results have accounted for 80% of the supplier communities in 65 supply chains. the points in the BioQlicar award (read more on page 52). This system enables us to verify questions related to This score increased again, reaching 3.97%. In 2016, labour practices, occupational health and the score was 3.94% and in 2015, 3.68%. GRI 414-1 COOPERATION IN THE ECOPARQUE The Ecoparque in Benevides was inaugurated by Natura in 2014 as a hub to connect communities supplying social biodiversity ingredients with companies willing to invest and develop businesses in the region. In addition to the Natura soap plant, the German company Symrise, which produces natural oils and essences, has been operating in the Ecoparque since 2015. Last year, Natura, Symrise and GIZ (German Agency for International Cooperation) formed an association to generate a positive impact for 14 partnering cooperatives, comprising 1,140 families. The project, which is already being implanted, encompasses the provision of training in management and accountability, measures to enhance the cooperatives’ production processes and assistance in initiatives to reclaim degraded areas. Natura will be responsible for providing technical assistance in the field and in the processing units, as well as developing new value chains for vegetable species as yet not in use. Symrise will develop new methods and technologies for production pre-processing by the communities and cooperatives, helping to establish quality standards for the inputs. It is estimated that the project will boost the cooperatives’ average sales volume by up to 20%, which in turn will increase the families’ income. All participants in the project are audited under the Social Biodiversity Chain Verification System. 46 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Institutional reinforcement GRI 103-2; 103-3 To develop an economy that revolves around areas, we are engaged in developing a shared territorial the standing forest, we believe it is necessary to be aware development management model in conjunction with local of local social and environmental priorities and, through governments, communities and companies, the objective partnerships, to promote the growth and development being to generate plans and targets for the regions. of local institutions and communities. By means of the Natura’s engagement in the Territórios Prioritários para survey, we map opportunities to provide incentives for o Desenvolvimento de Negócios Sustentáveis (Priority entrepreneurship and promote education oriented to the Territories for the Development of Sustainable Businesses) forest, digital inclusion, as well as carbon emission reduction takes the form of investments in entrepreneurship, and offsetting projects. Currently we are engaged in the education and social biodiversity production chains. There development of three territories – Mid Juruá (Amazonas), follows a description of the main actions in each one of the Lower Tocantins (Pará) and Transamazon (Pará). In these territories in 2017. The Fórum de Desenvolvimento Territorial do Médio Juruá (Mid Juruá Territorial Development Forum), which consists of local agents and involves the participation of Natura, received US$ 2.3 million in funding from USAID, (United States Agency for International Development). The money will be invested in diverse projects to promote education, basic sanitation, infrastructure and access to potable water, as well as studies on production chains in the region, examples being fruits such as andiroba and ucuuba. Sitawi, a civil society organization that raises capital to generate positive social and environmental impacts, led by Natura and Coca-Cola (our partner in the project), coordinated the preparation of the local development proposal Mid presented to USAID. The project outlined the main needs in the region based on data from the Social Progress Juruá Index-Communities (IPS), that has been used as a tool for diagnosing and assessing socioenvironmental (AM) impact in Mid Juruá since 2015. The diagnosis, which presents the communities’ perception of critical topics, will enable companies, government, NGOs and civil society movements to align their investment efforts in the region. It should be noted that the action of the Mid Juruá Forum, the involvement of multiple stakeholders and the adoption of the IPS index as a basis for diagnosis were determinant in USAID’s selection of the initiative and in the amount of funding provided. Also worthy of note were the development of projects in partnership with Capes (Coordenação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior) and UAB (Brazilian Open University, in Carauari) to train 45 young community members; support for the constitution of the CFR (Casa Familiar Rural) association in Carauari; organization of the RedAmérica Transformers Award; partnerships to implant a university level course in Education aimed at conservation units, with an entry exam scheduled for the end of 2018; and the disclosure of the results of the second IPS survey in the territory. We supported the certification of 23 Rural Family Homes (CFRs) in Pará (seven in the Transamazon region), qualifying them to seek public funding; support for the creation of the first specialized course in Alternating Transamazon Education in the Amazon region for 30 CFR teachers in partnership with the rural family home association Arcafar Region and Ufopa (Western Pará Federal University); and we used tax incentives to provide funding for the Municipal Child’s and Adolescent’s Right Council in Brasil Novo for the remodelling of the CFR in the municipality. In 2017, we signed an agreement with the Fundação Banco do Brasil (FBB) to boost the use of biodiversity products and services, benefiting more than 200 families from four communities. The initial investment made by the foundation involved R$ 190,000 for the construction of ten high efficiency solar dryers to enhance andiroba and murumuru fruit production quality and for the purchase of 40 seats to improve safety in harvesting the patauá fruit. Natura’s contribution will be in form of training and technical assistance for the families. Other actions include: tax incentive investments to remodel the CFRs (Rural Family Homes ) in Lower Abaetetuba and Cametá; in partnership with Latam, the construction of IT laboratories in five cooperatives Tocantins and two CFRs, benefiting 350 people; an agreement with the FBB to develop social biodiversity production chains; a technical cooperation agreement involving Natura, Symrise and GIZ to develop an organic product street market in Cametá; and support for the formation of technical and specialization courses in agroecology. Worthy of note was the organization of the 1st and 2nd Jirau Network meetings, with more than 400 participants, involving activities such as short, practical permaculture courses and an agro-ecological product fair. The third edition of the meeting has already been confirmed for 2018. In the Lower Tocantins region, our partners are the Federal University of Pará, the Instituto Federal do Pará and the agricultural cooperative Cooperativa Agrícola Resistência de Cametá (CART), in addition to the Rural Family Homes and the government. 47 2017 ANNUAL REPORT >>> The Biodiversity Legal Framework in practice <<< As provided for in Brazil’s new Biodiversity Law 13.123/2015, representatives of the communities, the ICMBio (Instituto known as the Biodiversity Legal Framework, in 2017 the Chico Mendes de Conservação da Biodiversidade), linked SisGen (National System for the Management of Genetic with the Ministry of the Environment, and Natura. In 2017, Heritage and Associated Traditional Knowledge) system the committee launched a tender and the four projects came into operation. Now applications to perform research approved are now being executed in the region. on biodiversity ingredients must be registered on this platform. The law is aimed at eliminating bureaucracy In the Reserva Extrativista Chico Mendes in the state for access to genetic heritage and associated traditional of Acre, a location recognized as a source of traditional knowledge, boosting research and business opportunities knowledge on the use of patauá, we created a fund in related to Brazilian biodiversity assets. conjunction with representatives of five local residents’ associations and ICMBio. This will be responsible for Natura was the first company to adopt and use the system managing and implementing benefit sharing projects. in Brazil. The agreements with the communities in the Mid Juruá region were undertaken in accordance with the new To provide information and debate the changes arising legislation, based on non-monetary benefit sharing. The from the new legal framework, we organized an event in resources will be employed in local development initiatives. Benevides (Pará) with representatives from the supplier The agreement is managed by a committee comprising communities, universities and other partners. 48 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Positive social impact We maintain our belief that in order to sustain and ensure the future of our business in the long term we need to generate a positive impact on all those who interact with Natura and help to build our company – employees, consultants, suppliers and members of the supplier communities, consumers and, on a broader level, the whole of society. Aware that these questions are interrelated, we focus on incentives for quality education, enterprise, professional development, social and economic inclusion, steady growth and improved distribution of per capita income, diversity and the strengthening of civil society organizations. Greater development for the consultants We want to make a difference in by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) the lives of our Natura Beauty Consultants, not just bearing the same name. professionally and financially, offering them an increasingly The consolidated index takes three dimensions into account robust career path, but also providing them with resources – health, knowledge and work. The result, on a scale from and instruments that will drive a positive impact on 0 to 1, is fundamental for measuring the effectiveness of their lives and those of their families. Since 2014, we have the self-development strategies we have drafted for the managed to gain more in-depth knowledge about the network. In 2017, the HDI score was 0.593, in line with the living standards and demands of our consultants through 2016 result of 0.5. The challenge we face is developing monitoring the consultant Human Development Index Natura’s strategy to impact the consultant network based (HDI), a specific methodology developed by Natura inspired on the results of this indicator. >>> Access to health services <<< In 2016, based on the initial HDI results, The healthcare benefits include discounts of up to 60% on which indicated that many consultants wished doctor’s visits, examinations and medication (medicines to resume their studies, we developed an education are available through a network of eight thousand programme in partnership with the Instituto Natura pharmacies in the country). This initiative facilitated access (see following block). to private healthcare services for the consultants and their dependents, many of whom had been unable to afford At a second stage, in 2017, we started working these previously. on the healthcare front. We conducted a pilot-project in the cities of São Paulo and Porto Alegre, providing The programme is being executed by a partner healthcare services for the consultant and for with a network that ensures the service is available in one family member. After the test stage, the programme most of the municipalities in which the Natura Beauty was extended to the whole of Brazil in December. Consultants reside. 49 2017 ANNUAL REPORT GROWTH OF EDUCATION PROGRAMME Around 90,000 consultants and family members have enrolled in the Natura education programme initiatives, which include face-to-face or distance learning degree, postgraduate, language and vocational courses, among others. Some of the offerings have exclusive discounts, while others are free, such as the reading club which sends the consultants books. The initiative, funded by the Crer Para Ver product line, is run in partnership with the Instituto Natura, which is responsible for the curatorship of the courses offered. In addition to Estácio University, which offers a total of 80 degree and postgraduate courses, we have formed partnerships with Geekie Games (an online preparatory platform for Brazil’s Enem national secondary education examination), the Khan Academy (online Mathematics reinforcement course), Prepara Cursos (for vocational technical courses) and the Wizard by Pearson and English Live chains of language schools. Additionally, the consultants have free access to exclusive educational contents created by the Crer Para Ver brand. These include knowledge chains in the areas of communication, culture and citizenship, as well as information on how the consultants may collaborate in the education of their children and their relationship network. When the education programme has been in place for one year and a half, we will initiate studies to measure the impact that these opportunities have generated for our consultants. >>> Movimento Natura (Natura Movement) <<< In 2017, we reached the number of one thousand social of its Acolher Award. A total of 402 projects were submitted initiatives posted on the Movimento Natura website, to the 2017 edition of the award, and over 164,000 people the platform that connects social development projects voted in the selection phase. A total of 13 initiatives were run by Natura Beauty Consultants with people interested recognized in the three categories: consultants in supporting them. Since 2014, not only consultants, (8 projects), Natura employees (3) and consumers (2) – but the public in general have has been able to mobilize a new category created in 2017. The winners receive support around social enterprises. In 2017 alone the financial support and training in social enterprise. initiative’s website (www.movimentonatura.com.br) received some 2.2 million visits. Since the first edition, 70 projects have received As part of the movement, since 2010 Natura has the Acolher Award. See all the award winners recognized social and environmental projects with here (in Portuguese) outstanding transformational potential by means Consultants engaged in the Movimento Natura (units) 2015 2016 2017 Public 1 1,308,917 2,193,662 2,194,838 Participations 2 3 32,724 55,355 56,228 1 Calculation of the indicator is based on the number of visitors to the website. 2 In addition to consultants, other groups, such as consumers, access the platform. 3 Calculation of the indicator is based on active participation: registration of people or initiatives, participation in campaigns, sharing content on the social networks and interactions with those responsible for the initiatives on the platform. 50 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Local development programme GRI 103-2; 103-3; 413-2 In addition to the communities supplying development, business and opportunities programmes, social biodiversity ingredients, Natura’s commitment to cultural programmes, placemaking actions to encourage promoting social and economic development is extended interaction and the harmonious use of public spaces, to the communities surrounding our operating units – impacting around one thousand people. In the Vila Cajamar (São Paulo), Benevides (Pará) and the Vila Jaguara Jaguara area, the company promoted the Jaguara Leisure district in the city of São Paulo, where the company’s new and Culture Circuits, as well as social project and social administrative headquarters and distribution centre communication workshops for a total of approximately are located. This commitment is part of Natura’s 2050 1,700 participants. In Cajamar, we also supported Sustainability Vision. placemaking measures (Viva Vielas Project), and we were engaged in establishing indicators to measure the impacts To generate transformations at scale, we work in of the Cidades Sustentáveis (Sustainable Cities) project, arrangements and partnerships with local governments, involving 1,800 people. grass roots communities and other companies to promote Another way of fostering the development of the territorial development solutions. In 2017, there were no communities surrounding the Natura sites is the negative impacts recorded in areas surrounding our sites. development of partnerships with local suppliers, whenever In Benevides, in partnership with Rede Udben, we this is feasible. In 2017, 5.2% of total Natura spending on undertook a series of measures such as: research and local suppliers went to companies in Cajamar and Benevides. GRI 204-1 Amount spent on local suppliers by operational unit 1(R$ million) 2015 2016 2017 Cajamar 2 144 155 169 Benevides 2 110 3 12 Total 322 158 181 % spending on local suppliers 5.47% 3.00% 5.22% 1 Only the production units (Cajamar and Benevides) are considered to be operational units. Our definition of local considers total purchases made from suppliers located in the same municipality as these units, whichever Natura unit they may supply. Since we consider only company-owned manufacturing units, the International Operations whose products are manufactured by partners are not taken into account in this calculation. 2 In Cajamar, the increase is due mainly to the higher business volume. There was an alteration in business volume with suppliers in the area surrounding Benevides in 2016 and 2015 due to a review of the scope of the indicator. 51 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Suppliers: partnership for development GRI 103-2; 103-3; 102-9 We interact on a continuous basis categories, such as production suppliers (raw materials, with the partners in our supply chain, seeking to packaging, third-party manufacturers), logistics and freight strengthen and drive the sustainable development haulage operators and digital technology partners. of their businesses. We are also committed to ensuring traceability throughout this sizeable chain, which currently The Qlicar award has been extended to include BioQlicar comprises some 10,400 suppliers in all the countries and Qlicar Innovation. in which Natura operates. In 2017, payments to these suppliers totalled R$ 5.1 billion. In the two previous years, • BIOQLICAR: aimed at communities supplying social the amount was R$ 4.2 billion. biodiversity ingredients. Currently, 80% of the score is derived from the results achieved in the Social Biodiversity Today, 240 partners account for over half (57%) of the Chain Verification System, the audit conducted by Natura purchase volume and, consequently, are considered to focused on traceability (read more on page 46, in the be strategic for the business. This group participates sub-chapter Sustainable Social Biodiversity Businesses). in the Qlicar programme, the main objective of which is The remaining 20% refers to meeting the planned to drive gradual improvements in processes and in the production volume and delivery times. Two communities management performance of this network. The programme receive awards every year – the one with the highest score involves a series of assessments based on the pillars and the one making the most progress in terms of quality (Q)uality, (L)ogistics, (I)nnovation, (C)ompetitiveness, (A) and good practices. mbiental (Environment), Social and (R)elationship. The results may generate improvement plans, which are undertaken by the suppliers with support from Natura. • QLICAR INOVAÇÃO: this recognizes partners working in research and technological development. In 2017, there On an annual basis, we recognize the most outstanding were awards in the areas of technology, product and performance among Qlicar participants in different cosmetic performance. GRI 102-9 Information about suppliers 1 2015 2016 2017 Estimated monetary value of payments to suppliers (R$ billion) 4.2 4.2 5.1 Annual contract renewal rate (%) 40 20 11 1 Does not take Aesop and The Body Shop into account. >>> Requirements for contracting suppliers <<< GRI 308-1; 414-1 To select the suppliers with whom we work, criteria include compliance with legal requirements we take into account their adhesion (environmental operating licence, water withdrawal to the Natura code of conduct and ethical permit, industrial waste disposal environmental commitments. We also verify the financial certificate), the existence of an environmental policy health of the companies and their and proof that it is communicated, assessment compliance with registration requirements. of environmental risks and management of water and energy consumption, emissions, waste The percentage of new suppliers subject to and effluent generation, among other details. screening and monitoring in environmental, labour, During the year, the assessment was expanded societal impact and human rights criteria from 999 to 1,119 partners because the supplier reached 1.6% in 2017. For example, the environmental base for the International Operations was included. 52 2017 ANNUAL REPORT >>> Supplier and supplier community loyalty <<< GRI 102-43; 102-44 In 2017, we had the best result ever in the supplier In the 20 supplier communities surveyed, loyalty assessment, with a 37% increase in the the loyalty rate was 27%.In five of the communities, consolidated index. In the International Operations, the loyalty rate was high (above 38%), growth was 10%, compared with 43% in Brazil. in 11 it was average (31% to 10%) and in four it was low. In 2017, we revised the research methodology. Our performance improved in a number of aspects, such as relationship, service and perception We now use an application to collect the data of operational processes. With a sample that and the responses are transmitted via covered 51% of the supplier base, only 4% a digital system, which has streamlined and simplified of suppliers declared that they were dissatisfied the process. with the company. Supplier loyalty (%) 2015 2016 2017 Satisfaction by supplier 1 81% 82% 89% Supplier loyalty Brazil 2 18% 21% 30% Supplier loyalty International Operations 2 41% 41% 45% Consolidated loyalty Natura (Brazil and International Operations) 2 25% 27% 37% 1 Satisfaction: percentage of satisfied and completely satisfied suppliers. This year the data take into account global information (Brazil and International Operations). In view of this, we revised the information from 2015 and 2016. 2 Loyalty: combination of the attributes overall satisfaction, intention to continue as a supplier and recommendation of Natura as a customer. 53 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Commitment to education GRI 203-1; 203-2; 103-2; 103-3 We created the Instituto Natura in growing 5.9 p.p. compared with 2016.This means that more 2010 to manage the funds raised by the sale of our Crer than 1 million consultants bought at least one product from Para Ver product line. This non-cosmetic product line has the line in the course of the year. Even so, due to results been part of the Natura portfolio since 1995, with all the below expectations in some products, total revenue was R$ income invested in projects to improve the quality of public 22.9 million, 3.8% down on 2016. education in Brazil and in the countries in which we have operations in Latin America. More recently, the institute In the International Operations, revenue and penetration has developed educational initiatives for the Beauty dropped, which was considered normal after the above Consultants (further information on page 50). average performance in 2016.Total revenue was almost R$ 12.8 million (R$ 14.5 million in 2016).Penetration decreased In Brazil, Crer Para Ver penetration in the year was 28.5%, from 19.4% to 17.7%. GRI 203-1 Investments benefiting public education 2015 2016 2017 Crer Para Ver line revenues — Brazil 1 (R$ million) 19.5 23.7 22.9 Crer Para Ver penetration — Brazil 2 (% cycle) 22.9% 22.6% 28.5% Crer Para Ver revenues — International Operations (R$ million) 1 10.5 14.5 12.8 Crer Para Ver penetration — International Operations (% cycle) 2 17.0% 19.4% 17.7% 1 Refers to earnings before tax on the Crer Para Ver product line. 2 Indicator for the average percentage of Natura Beauty Consultants buying any Crer Para Ver product versus the total number of active Natura consultants during the 19 cycles. >>> Instituto Natura in action <<< The Instituto Natura (iN) contributes towards the the potential for collaboration between the federal transformation of education in Brazil and in the other government, the states and municipalities in the country. Latin American countries in which Natura operates. The In 2017, the 1st Colabora Educação Seminar was held. iN is a non-profit organization (Oscip in the Portuguese This engaged state and municipal representatives in acronym) whose objective is to strengthen the people a discussion of collaborative models and their positive and organizations engaged in education, in particular effects on education. Inspired by the state/municipality teachers, schools, public administrators and Natura Beauty collaboration model in place in Ceará for over 10 years Consultants. – PAIC (Pacto pela Alfabetização na Idade Certa), –, we started to provide support for the PAES learning pact in In 2017, a year in which new administrations had taken Espírito Santo and the Colabora Amapá initiative, with the office in Brazilian municipalities after the elections held the intention of furthering support for other states from 2018. previous year, the institute’s main challenge was to mobilize new administrators in municipal education departments The institute also works in partnership with the education to ensure the continuity of existing programmes. One focus departments in Cajamar (São Paulo) and Benevides during the year was the virtual platform Conviva Educação, (Pará), where Natura has operations. In these two locations which offers training , information and tools with the aim we have been running the RAE (Education Support of fostering a network for the exchange of experiences and Network) initiative since 2013. This is aimed at helping learning among municipal education departments. In 90 to enhance educational administration and to improve days, we updated the registration of some four thousand student learning. The project was implanted after a municipalities. We ended 2017 with 4,700 cities registered, diagnosis conducted by the Instituto Natura, which led of which 1,600 access the platform frequently. For 2018, the to a four-year plan aimed at strengthening educational priority is to measure the impacts the project is having on management in municipal education departments. the administration of education at municipal level in Brazil. The positive effects of the RAE network are evident in the improved results in the Prova Brasil national school Together with another eight educational institutes and performance assessment and the Ideb basic education foundations, the Instituto Natura is a member of the development index (Índice de Desenvolvimento da Movimento Colabora Educação, aimed at leveraging Educação Básica) in these municipalities. 54 2017 ANNUAL REPORT FULL-TIME SCHOOLS Two years ago, the Instituto Natura focused its efforts on transforming the full-time school model into public policy. The work, done in partnership with other institutions, is aligned with measures taken by the Ministry of Education to introduce this policy for Secondary Education, backed by an investment of R$ 1.5 billion. The policy is being implemented gradually and is intended to benefit 500,000 new students by 2018. Another project is the School Learning Community During the year, a methodology was developed to assess (Comunidade de Aprendizagem na Escola) aimed the impacts of the TRILHAS (TRAILS) programme, which at driving social transformation through school provides training for teachers of literacy skills. The data administrators, teachers, students, families and the also contributed to the design of Digital TRILHAS, community. In 2017, this project was undertaken in 108 which will increase the scalability of the initiative from 2018. schools in Brazil and in 268 schools in Argentina, Another action in place in 22 states is the Escola Colombia, Chile, Peru and Mexico. It should be noted Digital (Digital School), a collaborative network comprising that in the International Operations, the initiative is state and municipal education departments that managed by the local Natura operations, with support provides free and open access to more than 20,000 from the iN. digital education resources. Network of people and organizations involved in the Instituto Natura initiatives — Brazil 2015 2016 2017 Municipalities 4,884 828 1,601 Schools 910 1,053 Teachers 9,183 34,633 Students 476,507 1,174,238 Municipal Education departments 4,884 828 1,601 State Education departments partnering with the Instituto Natura 27 22 25 Natura Beauty Consultants n.a. 24,000 62,000 GRI 203-1 GRI 203-1 Investment in projects developed Investment in projects developed and supported by Crer Para Ver Brazil and supported by Crer Para Ver (R$ million) International Operations (R$ million) 30 30 23.9 24.6 23.4 20 20 10.2 10.4 10 10 8.1 0.0 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Network of people and organizations involved in the Instituto Natura initiatives — International Operations 2015 2016 2017 Schools/organizations 337 475 2,433 Teachers, coordinators and headmasters 10,598 13,057 10,459 Students 60,191 89,021 173,074 Further information about the Instituto Natura at www.institutonatura.org.br (Portuguese). 55 2017 ANNUAL REPORT A more diverse and inclusive environment GRI 103-2; 103-3 In 2016, we launched the Natura Diversity including picking by light, which enables disabled Policy which formalized the work and the efforts underway employees, including the intellectually impaired, to pick and to foster diversity, inclusion and a multicultural environment sort products. The system of flashing lights allows the tasks among our employees, as well as generating positive to be executed intuitively. impacts outside the company. In 2017, we defined the Employees with hearing impairments receive support priority audiences and topics: gender diversity, focused from so-called godparents who are trained in Brazilian on women in leadership positions, and the inclusion of sign language, Libras, to facilitate communication in the the disabled. In addition to these groups, who are part of work place. Another simple but effective measure is the our 2050 Sustainability Vision, we incorporated the LGBT inclusion of sub-titles on all videos for employees. In 2017, audience and the question of ethnic/racial equality. we inaugurated a translation centre to provide assistance for the disabled in medical consultations in the Natura Our commitment is to have women occupying 50% of healthcare facility. A Libras translator can assist in the director level positions in all the Natura operations in consultation via videoconferencing. Latin America by 2020. We have progressively increased this percentage, which reached 32.69% in 2017. To In 2017 we also started work on promoting ethnic-racial honour this commitment, we ensure that 50% of the final equality, with an initial focus on the intern programme, candidates for positions at any level in the Natura hierarchy the main gateway to the company. This is being done in are women. Furthermore, internally we are engaged in partnership with EmpregueAfro, a consultancy specialized boosting the potential of female employees, bolstering in recruitment, training and development programs for their self-confidence and driving empowerment through Afro-Brazilians. the provision of tools to enable them to achieve a balance between their professional and family lives. In practice, we Another initiative was also started aimed at the LGBT offer leadership training via the Mosaico Programme and a audience. In 2017, we externalized our values by means of a series of benefits (read more ahead). campaign for the Faces makeup line, with advertising that addresses the question of gender. In 2018, we intend to A number of other initiatives are in place to encourage establish discussion groups to get employees to help us to the hiring of disabled people and to establish an inclusive think about how Natura may effectively contribute towards environment. Our commitment for 2020 is to have 8% of the inclusion of this group. Our idea is to create groups disabled people in the workforce. We have been successful focused on all the diversity topics: women in leadership in this area, ending the year with 6% of disabled staff in our positions, disabled employees and ethnic/racial inclusion. Brazilian units, 50% of whom are women. Natura guarantees six-month maternity leave, In addition to the exclusive vacancies for the disabled, a 40-day paternity leave, as well as a parenting disabled person may apply for any job vacancy at Natura course extensive to fathers which includes discussion because all positions in the company are open to everyone. of domestic roles and task-sharing. There is a nursery Specifically in the São Paulo Distribution Centre, 15% of the for employees’ children. In 2017, this benefit was members of the workforce are disabled, and our target is to extended to employees who take maternity leave under the increase this rate to 30%. The fully automated distribution INSS social security system, regardless of gender identity centre employs a number of assistive technologies, and sexual orientation. GRI 405-1 Employees 2015 2016 2017 by functional category and Vision commitgender (%) men women men women men women ment for 2020 Production 60.1% 39.9% 60.3% 39.7% 62.4% 37.6% Administrative 20.7% 79.3% 20.7% 79.3% 21.5% 78.5% Management 42.8% 57.2% 45.0% 55.0% 43.3% 56.7% Director level 74.1% 25.9% 70.4% 29.6% 67.3% 32.7% 50% Total 36.8% 63.2% 36.5% 63.5% 37.2% 62.8% 56 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Disabled employees 1 2015 2016 2017 by functional category and Vision comgender (%) — men women total men women total men women total mitment for Brazil 2020 Production 2.0% 1.6% 3. 7% 2.1% 1.6% 3.7% 2.2% 1.5% 3.8% Administrative 0.5% 1.3% 1.8% 0.4% 1.5% 1.9% 0.7% 1.5% 2.2% Management 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Director level 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Total 2.5% 3.0% 5.5% 2.6% 3.1% 5.7% 2.9% 3.1% 6.0% 8% 1 disabled people. Data monitored only in the operations in Brazil. >>> Nossa Gente (Our People) <<< At Natura, our purpose is to develop enterprising people together with the Human Resources team in order to shape and leaders for the company and for the world. Based on development paths, recognition measures, specific training this belief, a new people management model was launched programmes and individual acceleration actions. in 2017. Called Nossa Gente (Our People), the model is designed to bring about the transformations we want to For example, the new feedback process encourages see in our employees and in our business. employees to take control of their career, proactively requesting conversations with their direct managers in the Adopting a broad-based approach, the programme stage known as Development Dialogues. These dialogues comprehends the entire personnel management cycle, take place throughout the year, whenever the manager and ranging from the attraction and selection of talent, through employee need to align deliveries and priority behaviours integration, performance, development and training, to for the culture. It is our expectation that this proximity will recognition, reward, career progression and succession. support the people management process. Although there are specificities in accordance with each We also created a networked feedback tool available audience, the programme connects the diverse stages as a mobile phone application in which any of the annual performance review, the feedback process employee may make a simple, informal assessment and the People Forum, a meeting at which managers of a colleague, highlighting behaviours that should assess the performance of employees from different teams be maintained or that need to be developed. >>> Education for Transformation <<< GRI 103-2; 103-3; 404-1, 404-2 To support the Natura cultural transformation reformulated to support the cultural process, we implemented the Education for transformation journey which is intended to make Transformation movement, sustained by the corporate Natura more flexible and less hierarchical. education architecture. This involved updating We are sure of the role we expect leaders to play some programmes and launching new initiatives. on this journey, inspiring employees by example and engaging their teams. We promoted a workshop The model starts with the induction of new employees, addressing this dynamic, incorporating questions including entry-level programmes (Apprentices, such as self-knowledge and managing the transition, Interns and Trainees), followed by Passport to aimed at preparing leaders for the context of accelerated the Future, a career acceleration programme that will change in the current environment. Mosaico incorporated be open to operational personnel and Business two fundamental pillars – focus on results and Development managers in 2018, and culminating in on relations –, in line with the priority behaviours Mosaico, offered to all levels of management. Mosaico was (read more in Culture for Sustainability, on page 59). 57 2017 ANNUAL REPORT All leaders will take the Mosaico programme in 2018. The New partnerships were included in Natura Education in Induction Programme was also reformulated to drive closer 2017 (boosting the number of institutions from five to 17), alignment with the Natura Essence, the organizational with the provision of partial or full grants for employees. culture behaviours, as well as the company’s values and Discounts are also extensive to family members (spouses, strategies. This is a two-day classroom learning experience. children and wards aged up to 21 years).The partnerships are valid all over Brazil for both classroom and distance Allied with these initiatives is the Natura Education learning courses. programme, which provides employees with financial support for formal education initiatives. Relaunched in The review and enhancement of the people management 2017, in addition to incentives and recognition, the new process took up a large part of the year and impacted programme is aimed at accelerating employees’ careers part of the corporate education programming, resulting by means of integrated measures to drive academic in a reduction in the number of hours training per development, language acquisition and the curatorship of employee, in particular for director level, management and contents for professional development. administrative functions (see the following table). Investments in education by operation (R$ thousands) 2015 2016 2017 Brazil 12,578 7,400 8,300 Argentina 1,842 2,925 2,556 Chile 292 404 802 Mexico 443 534 598 Peru 86 417 397 Colombia 194 1,326 1,075 France 87 175 0 Total 15,522 13,181 13,728 Natura Education Programme — Employees in the Brazilian Operation 2015 2016 2017 Grants conceded 214 132 210 Grants conceded/enrolments (%) 65% 0% 78% Amount invested in the Natura Education programme (R$ thousands) 955 535 690 GRI 404-1 Average hours of employee training 2015 2016 2017 by functional Average Average Average category Women Men Women Men Women Men hours hours hours Director level 20 6 18 29 32 31 5.4 6.6 6.2 Management 41 29 34 48 45 46 18.7 23.4 20.9 Administrative 50 56 44 44 44 39 15.5 27.6 18.6 Operational 66 75 72 25 37 32 16.9 37.6 30.0 Apprentice 34 34 34 41 43 41 44.6 40.6 43.4 Intern 120 70 101 47 49 48 42.2 45.8 43.2 58 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Culture for sustainability In 2017, we further developed employees, senior management must be an example of the the cultural management programme for all employees. desired behaviours. GRI 102-16 This focuses on the rapid changes society is undergoing, driving the demand for faster decision making, team work The first of the four behaviours is to place the consultants at and the more effective use of digital tools in the workplace. the centre of our decision making, inspiring every one of our Our new administrative headquarters in Vila Jaguara actions. The second behaviour involves bringing conflicts in the city of São Paulo were inaugurated in 2017 and out into the open and resolving them in a positive manner. already incorporate this new way of working. The space It is aimed at encouraging employees to discuss problems was designed to enable employees to work in an totally arising in their daily business routines. This requires people collaborative, open environment with no barriers. to be proactive and transparent. Great ideas emerge from collective intelligence and from discussions that frequently For Natura to conclude this transformation, we defined start from initially conflicting viewpoints. The third four behaviours – two focused on relationship and two behaviour concerns the result of the whole, recognizing that focused on results –, that need to be internalized by all each employee contributes to the achievement of Natura’s our employees and which we believe will lead to important targets and, in parallel, should feel responsible for the changes that will leverage our results. This work began with company’s advances and its challenges. Lastly, the fourth an alignment of principles and values between Natura’s behaviour is recognizing and celebrating achievements, Executive Committee and the members of the Board of creating a culture that commemorates the small day-toDirectors. It is our understanding that rather than inspiring day victories that lead to success on a broader level. Consumer engagement In parallel with the cultural transformation movement beauty can”. The film is narrated by a man who is looking for focused on our employees, we are working on engaging the woman of his life – and who he discovers inside himself, our brand’s consumers more effectively in valuing diversity, a drag queen. The objective is to celebrate diversity and to culture and sustainability. We believe in the potential our urge consumers to free themselves from pre-established products have to mobilize people around these causes and paradigms. to promote debate. In fact, some of our campaigns and launches during the course of 2017 prioritized emerging And to pay tribute to the characteristic creativity and good social questions. humour which should be a source of pride for Brazilians, we launched the Simpatias de Humor campaign for St The Faces makeup line adopted a new brand positioning Valentine’s Day. This reinterpreted traditional lovers’ recipes in which it assumes the city as a cause and launched for winning over a companion in a fun way. The campaign the digital campaign #Quemévocênarua, #tánacara, reinforced Natura’s positioning as the Casa de Perfumaria #tánarua (#youinthestreet, #inyourface, #inthestreet). This do Brasil – a country teeming with creativity, originality and addresses current social tensions, such as harassment, the irreverence. imposition of beauty standards and prejudice (homophobia and fatphobia, among others). On Amazon Day in September, we joined the #TodosPelaAmazônia (#EveryonefortheAmazon) campaign Chronos celebrated 30 years on the market and was against the presidential decree extinguishing Renca, a relaunched with new formulas and unique products. national reservation covering more than 47,000 square The campaign addressed the question #velhapra (#oldfor) kilometres and endangering preservation areas and with a film underscoring the fact that beauty is ageless. traditional peoples. These measures drew the attention The Natura Homem line was also relaunched with new of consumers and society as a whole to the issues of formulations and 12 products that question outdated sustainable development, preserving the standing forest stereotypes of what it means to be a man, showing that and other key environmental questions.. there are countless ways of exercising masculinity. #velhapra #Quemévocênarua Still on the question of gender, we launched a makeup #tánacara #tánarua #TodosPelaAmazônia campaign to celebrate diversity with the concept “all 59 2017 ANNUAL REPORT >>> The powerful, active voice of Brazilian music <<< We believe that music is the voice of the people, where invested totalled R$ 5.6 million nationwide, with support everyone meets up. To enhance these meetings, Natura from the Rouanet law and state tax (ICMS) incentives for Musical was repositioned with a focus on engaging and cultural initiatives in Rio Grande do Sul, Minas Gerais, São getting closer to consumers, in particular younger ones. Paulo, Bahia and Pará. As part of this strategy, we inaugurated Casa Natura Musical in São Paulo, a space for live programming showing Twenty-one artists and bands, ten festivals and two music Brazilian music as it is and promoting brand and product weeks are some of the causes that will be supported experiences for consumers. by Natura Musical during the course of 2018. In the “New launches” category there were 1,618 submissions We also maintained our tenders to foster the development assessed by a network of representatives from the world of artists using company funding and incentive laws. The of music, including curators, producers, artists, journalists tender system was renewed and simplified to offer greater and festival representatives. These new names join the opportunities for the projects that drive the vibrant 330 projects supported during the 13 years existence of Brazilian music scene. In addition to sponsoring the launch Natura Musical, which have ensured its recognition as the of new works by artists associated with contemporary main platform promoting Brazilian music. In the digital questions such as identity and representation, the main environment, Natura Musical renewed content, introducing novelty in 2017 was partnerships with independent festivals, dialogues on contemporary topics and creating a promoting the circulation of contemporary music, enabling community of more than 500,000 people engaged in it to reach a larger, more diverse audience. The funds culture and behaviour. Get to know all the projects supported here (in Portuguese). 60 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 4. ABOUT THE REPORT 61 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Parameters for the elaboration of the Natura 2017 Annual Report Natura has been presenting Shop, which was acquired in September 2017. its economic-financial and socioenvironmental For the non-financial information, however, the scope of performance in accordance with the Global Reporting the indicators refers to Natura’s activities in Brazil and in Initiative (GRI) guidelines for almost two decades. The its International Operations, where the major part of our first report in this format refers to the year 2000. As was operations and, consequently, our social and environmental the case last year, the Natura 2017 Annual Report has impacts are concentrated. adopted the Standards version, and the Comprehensive in accordance option. GRI 102-51, 102-52, 102-54, 102-55 The Natura &Co corporate brand was launched in February 2018. The group is seeking to establish an integrated approach to managing the businesses, while respecting The production of the material is oriented by the the independence and particularities of each of the three commitments assumed in our 2050 Sustainability Vision companies. For the coming years, we will assess ways of and our Materiality Matrix, which lists the six priority topics managing non-financial topics as a group. GRI 102-45 in accordance with our stakeholder groups (the correlation is shown further ahead). GRI 102-46 There were no changes with respect to materiality and the understanding of its boundaries. The last review of the In the GRI Content Index, we have listed only materiality process was undertaken in 2014. Significant the most relevant indicators, the so-called material changes in the data reported in previous years and any indicators. But in accordance with our commitment to alterations in the calculation bases or measurement transparency, we have opted to continue to report other techniques are indicated throughout the text and tables in indicators, both GRI and those related specifically to the the report. GRI 102-10, 102-48, 102-49 business, in a complementary section (see Attachments). This report also communicates Natura’s progress in relation to the principles of the Global Compact, The data in this publication refer to the period from to which the company is a signatory. The UNO (United January 1st to December 31st, 2017. The results disclosure Nations Organization) initiative engages companies, process is monitored by the Vice President of Marketing, workers and civil society in promoting sustainable Innovation and Sustainability and by the office of the CEO of growth and citizenship. Natura by means of the Corporate Affairs area. The annual report was also assured by KPMG. GRI 102-32, 102-50, This report is part of the Natura annual results disclosure 102-56 process, which also includes the Management Report, published on March 15, 2018, and a printed report For further information about this report, it is possible to portraying the highlights of the year for Natura &Co contact the team responsible for its publication via the (the group formed by Natura, Aesop and The Body Shop), email relatorioanual@natura.net. In addition to this email released on the same date as this Natura 2017 Annual address, stakeholder groups are welcome to express their Report: April 20, 2018.The information in the financial opinions about Natura’s performance, management and statements covers all our operations, including Aesop, relationship practices via the social networks and in facean Australian company acquired in 2013, and The Body to-face meetings. GRI 102-53 >>> Our material topics <<< GRI 102-40; 102-42 As part of the dialogue with the Natura relationship industry documents. These were presented in a series of network, we consult the main stakeholder groups consultations undertaken in Brazil and in the International to define the company’s critical topics. In the most recent Operations. process, conducted in 2014, six topics were defined: water, education for the development of Natura The perceptions of Natura’s priority stakeholder groups employees and consultants, climate change, waste, (employees – including leaders –, Natura consultants, transparency and product origin and valuing customers and suppliers – including communities) social biodiversity. The process of defining materiality were taken into account, as well as the opinions of some took into account the company’s Sustainability Vision, shareholders and representatives of local communities. including company strategy up to the year 2050 and A total of more than 4,200 online questionnaires were the ambitions to be fulfilled by 2020.The process was answered, complemented by 40 personal and telephone based on the identification of more than 20 pre-selected interviews and a discussion panel with 18 participants sustainability topics drawn from the Vision and from drawn from different groups. 62 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Materiality – GRI 102-43; 102-44; 102-46; 102-47; 103-1 Where it occurs Related aspects and Topic Description Correlation with the SDGs GRI 103-1 indicators _Water sources and envi_Water Relative reduction in water ronment _Effluents and waste consumption and pollution _Supplier communities SDG 6. Clean water and Water throughout the value chain _Operational units GRI 303-1, 303-2, 303-3, sanitation and the neutralization of _Society in general 306-1 and 306-5 water impact. _Consumers (use and post-consumer disposal) _Indirect economic imDevelopment of the consul_Natura consultants pacts; Education for the tant network and employe_Employees _Training and education development of employees es, including measures to _Instituto Natura SDG 4.Quality education and NCs promote improvements in _Society in general GRI 203-1, 203-2, 404-1 public education. and 404-3 Reduction of greenhouse _Economic performance _Suppliers gas emissions throu_Emissions. _Freight haulage operators ghout the value chain and Climate change _Operational units SDG 13. Climate action neutralization by means of GRI 201-2, 305-1, 305-2, _Environment projects that include social 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 benefits. and 305-6 _Product conception _Operational units (zero Development of packadejects) _Materials ging that has a lower _Freight haulage operators _Effluents and waste SDG 12. Responsible conWaste environmental impact and _Recyclable material coo_Products and services sumption and production that promotes conscious peratives consumption. _Consumers (post-consuGRI 301-2, 306-2 and 301-3 mer disposal) Environment _Environmental assessment of suppliers _Supplier assessment for labour practices _Supplier assessment for _Supplier chain Expanding visibility of busihuman rights Transparency and product _Supplier communities ness practices and product _Supplier assessment for SDG 12. Responsible conorigin _Operational units origin. impacts on society sumption and production _Corporate management _Product and service _Consumers labelling _Products and services GRI 102-9, 308-1, 414-1 and 417-1. _Economic performance _Indirect economic impacts; _Biodiversity _Local communities _Child labour _Forced or compulsory labour _Product conception Promoting sustainable bu_Supplier assessment for _Supplier communities sinesses by using products human rights SDG 15. Life on land Valuing social biodiversity _Procurement policies and services primarily from _Grievance and complaint _Consumers the Pan-Amazon region. mechanisms related to _Pan-Amazon region human rights _Products and services GRI 201-1, 201-2, 203-1, 203-2, 304-1, 304-2, 413-1, 408-1, 409-1, 414-1 and 103-2 63 2017 ANNUAL REPORT GRI Content Index Standard disclosures Organizational profile Sustainable GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Development Goals GRI 102: Standard disclo102-1 Name of organization 8 sures 2017 102-2 Activities, brands, 8 products and services 102-3 Location of head8 quarters 102-4 Location of opera8 tions 102-5 Nature of ownership 8 and legal form 102-6 Markets served 8 102-7 Scale of organization 9-10 102-8 Information about 86-87 8 employees and workers 102-9 Supplier chain 52 102-10 Significant changes There were no signifiin the organization and its cant changes in terms of supplier chain location, operation and supplier chain 102-11 Precautionary ap31 proach or principle 102-12 Initiatives developed 116 externally 102-13 Participation in asso116 ciations Strategy Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 102: Standard disclo102-14 Declaration from 4-5 sures 2017 senior decision maker 102-15 Main impacts, risks 15-16 and opportunities Ethics and integrity Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 102: Standard disclo102-16 Values, principles, 2, 59 16 sures 2017 standards and norms of behaviour 102-17 Mechanisms for 17 16 advice and concerns about ethics Governance Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 102: Standard 102-18 Governance 13 disclosures 2017 structure 102-19 Delegation of 13 authority 64 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 102-20 Executive level re13 sponsibility for economic, environmental and social topics 102-21 Consulting stake13 16 holders on economic, environmental and social topics GRI 102: Standard 102-22 Composition of the 13-14 5, 16 disclosures2017 highest governance body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest 13 16 governance body 102-24 Nominating and The selection of board members 5, 16 selecting the highest takes into account their qualificagovernance body and its tions, complementary executive committees experience, identification with Natura’s business principles and the absence of conflicts of interest. The term of office is one year, which may be renewed upon approval of the shareholders’ meeting. There are no specific diversity criteria for the selection of board members, but inclusion and equality are valued and are the focus of a specific Natura policy. The company in fact has as a target 50% women in executive leadership positions by 2020. Read more on page 56. 102-25 Conflicts of interest We value the best corporate go16 vernance practices. All decisions regarding the operations are submitted to management, in accordance with the competencies established in the company bylaws. In the event of a potential conflict of interest regarding the matter under analysis and a member of our decision making bodies, we comply with corporate legislation whereby the respective member abstains from voting, with the decision being taken by the other members who are impartial in relation to the matter in question. Further information is available in item 16.3 of our Reference Form. 102-26 Role of highest It is the function of the Board of governance body in Directors to determine and to setting purpose, values and monitor the implementation of strategy company strategy and to periodically assess the performance of the CEO and the Executive Committee. The board members analyse Natura’s quarterly and annual management reports, which include socioenvironmental indicators considered relevant for the company. Board members also analyse the definition and review of strategic planning, expansion projects and investment programs, risk management and the definition of profit share plan payouts to Natura employees. Read more on page 13. 102-27 Collective 13 4 knowledge of the highest governance body 102-28 Evaluating the As a result of the transformations highest governance in the business related to the body’s performance acquisition of The Body Shop, the self-assessment process for board members was not conducted in 2017 65 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 102-29 Identifying and It is the role of the Executive 16 managing economic, Committee and the Board environmental and social of Directors to monitor impacts the Sustainability Vision, which addresses Natura’s main socioenvironmental and business topics, and which were raised by the stakeholder consultation processes. 102-30 Effectiveness of risk 15 management processes 102-31 Review of economic, It is the role of the Executive environmental and social Committee and the Board topics of Directors to monitor the Sustainability Vision, which addresses Natura’s main socioenvironmental and business topics. However, there is no pre-established interval for monitoring by the board. Read more on page 15. 102-32 Highest governance 62 body’s role in sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating The board members analyse critical concerns Natura’s quarterly and annual management reports, which include socioenvironmental indicators considered relevant for the company. Board members also analyse the definition and review of strategic planning, expansion projects and investment programs, risk management and the definition of profit share plan payouts to Natura employees. 102-34 Nature and total The board members analyse The critical concerns number of critical concerns Natura’s quarterly and anthat are not described nual management reports, are related to strategic which include socioenvironinformation which is mental indicators considered restricted to senior relevant for the company. management and the Board members also analyse Board of Directors. the definition and review of strategic planning, expansion projects and investment programs, risk management and the definition of profit share plan payouts to Natura employees. Read more on page 15 102-35 Remuneration Our senior management policies remuneration policy and practices are set forth in item 13 of our Reference Form. 102-36 Processes for Our senior management determining remuneration remuneration policy and practices are set forth in item 13 of our Reference Form. 102-37 Stakeholder The shareholders approve 16 involvement in management remuneremuneration ration in the Ordinary General Meeting. On this occasion, they may comment favourably or not on remuneration. Our senior management remuneration policy is set forth in item 13 of our Reference Form. 102-38 Total annual 88 compensation ratio 102-39 Percentage increase 89 in total annual compensation ratio 66 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Stakeholder engagement Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 102: Standard disclo102-40 List of stakeholder 62 sures2017 groups 102-41 Collective bargainAll employees are covered 8 ing agreements by collective agreements, which are coordinated by the Human Resources area and comply with the standards and limits set forth in local legislation. 102-42 Identifying and 62 selecting stakeholders 102-43 Approach to Natura maintains ongoing stakeholder engagement dialogues in diverse forums with its stakeholder groups. One of these involves consumers, consultants and researchers, among others, in the co-creation programme aimed at generating ideas for innovation. Similarly, on an annual basis we evaluate the quality of these relations by means of satisfaction and loyalty surveys with our priority stakeholder groups: employees, Natura Consultants, suppliers, supplier communities and consumers. Read more on pages 25, 53, 63, 96-97. 102-44 Key topics and 25, 53, 63, 96-97 concerns raised Reporting practice Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 102: Standard disclo102-45 Entities included in 62 sures2017 the consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report 62 content and topic boundaries 102-47 List of material 63 topics 102-48 Restatements of 62 information 102-49 Changes in 62 reporting 102-50 Reporting period 62 102-51 Date of most recent 62 report 102-52 Reporting cycle 62 102-53 Contact point for 62 questions regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting 62 in accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 64-77 102-56 External assurance 118-119 67 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Material topics Economic performance Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 11, 84 1, 5, 8, 16 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 11, 84 management approach GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic 84 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 performance 2017 value generated and distributed 201-2 Financial implica16, 85 13 tions and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit 91 plan obligations and other retirement plans 201-4 Financial 85 assistance received from government Market presence Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 88, 90 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 88, 90 management approach GRI 202: Market presence 202-1 Ratio of lowest 88 1, 5, 8 2017 starting salary to the local minimum salary 202-2 Proportion of senior 90 8 management hired in the local community Indirect economic impacts Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 43-44, 54 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 43-44, 54 management approach GRI 203: Indirect economic 203-1 Infrastructure 43-45, 54-55, 109 2, 5, 7, 9, 11 impacts 2017 investments and services supported 203-2 Significant indirect 44-45, 54-55 1, 2, 3, 8, 10, 17 economic impacts 68 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Procurement practices Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 51 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 51 management approach GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of 51 12 practices 2017 spending on local suppliers in significant units of the operation Anti-corruption Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 98-99 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 98-99 management approach GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations 98 16 2017 submitted to assessments related to corruption 205-2 Communication and 98 16 training in anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed cases of 99 16 corruption and measures taken Anti-competitive behaviour Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 100 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 100 management approach GRI 206: Anti-competitive 206-1 Legal actions for 100 16 behaviour 2017 anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices 69 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Materials Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 41-42 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 41-42 management approach GRI 301: Materials 2017 301-1 Materials used by 42-43, 105 8, 12 weight or volume 301-2 Recycled input 41 8, 12 materials used 301-3 Reclaimed 42-43 8, 12 products and their packaging materials Energy Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 101 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 101 management approach GRI 302: Energy 2017 302-1 Energy consumption 101, 103-104, 110 7, 8, 12, 13 inside the organization 302-2 Energy consumption 104 7, 8, 12, 13 outside the organization 302-3 Energy intensity 103-104 7, 8, 12, 13 302-4 Reduction of energy 104 7, 8, 12, 13 consumption Water Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 42 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 42 management approach GRI 303: Water 2017 303-1 Total water 42-43, 104 6, 7 withdrawn by source 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by 6 withdrawal of water 104 303-3 Percentage and total 104 6, 8, 12 volume of water recycled and reused 70 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Biodiversity Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 44 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 44 management approach GRI 304: Biodiversity 2017 304-1 Operational sites 107 6, 14, 15 owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts 44 6, 14, 15 of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected 108 6, 14, 15 or restored 304-4 IUCN Red List species 108 6, 14, 15 and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations Emissions Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 37, 109 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 37, 109 management approach GRI 305: Emissions 2017 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) 37-38 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 GHG emissions 305-2 Energy indirect 37-38 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 (Scope 2) GHG emissions 305-3 Other indirect 37-38 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 (Scope 3) GHG emissions 305-4 GHG emissions 37 13, 14, 15 intensity 305-5 Reduction of GHG 37-40 13, 14, 15 emissions 305-6 Emissions of 101 3, 12, 13 ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides 101 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 (NO, ) sulphur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions 71 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Effluents and waste Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation 63 approach 2017 of the material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 41, 109 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 41, 109 management approach GRI 306: Effluents 306-1 Water discharge by 106 3, 6, 12, 14 and waste 2017 quality and destination 306-2 Waste by type and 105 3, 6, 12 disposal method 306-3 Significant spills 107 3, 6, 12, 14, 15 306-4 Transport of 105 3, 12 hazardous waste 306-5 Water bodies 106 6, 15 affected by water discharges and/or runoff Environmental Compliance Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 109 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 109 management approach GRI 307: Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with 109 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 compliance 2017 environmental laws and regulations Supplier Environmental Assessment Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 52 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 52 management approach GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that 52 environmental were screened using assessment 2017 environmental criteria 308-2 Negative 110 environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 72 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Employment Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 56 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 56 management approach GRI 401: Employment 2017 401-1 New employee hires 92 5, 8 and employee turnover 401-2 Benefits provided 91 8 to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 92 5, 8 Labour relations Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 56 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 56 management approach GRI 402: Labour relations 402-1 Minimum notice 87 8 2017 periods regarding operational changes Occupational health and safety Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 95 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 95 management approach GRI 403: Health 403-2 Types of injury and 96 3, 8 and safety 2017 rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers’ 95 3, 8 representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees 73 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Training and education Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 57-58 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 57-58 management approach GRI 404: Training and 404-1 Average hours 57-58 4, 5, 8 education 2017 of training per year per employee 404-2 Programs for For layoffs resulting from 8 upgrading employee restructuring, we provide emskills and transition ployees with support for their assistance programs career transition by offering a set of special conditions. Read more on pages 26, 57 404-3 Percentage of em94 5, 8 ployees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Diversity and equal opportunity Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 56 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 56 management approach GRI 405: Diversity and equal 405-1 Diversity of 56 5, 8 opportunity 2017 governance bodies and employees 405-2 Ratio of basic 89 5, 8, 10 salary and remuneration of women to men Non-discrimination Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 97 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 97 management approach GRI 406: 406-1 Incidents of 97 5, 8, 16 Non-discrimination 2017 discrimination and corrective actions taken 74 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Freedom of association and collective bargaining Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 97 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 97 management approach GRI 407: Freedom of 407-1 Operations and sup97 8 association and collective pliers in which the right to bargaining 2017 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Child labour Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 99 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 99 management approach GRI 408: Child labour 2017 408-1 Operations and 99 8, 16 suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour Forced or compulsory labour Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 99 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 99 management approach GRI 409: Forced or 409-1 Operations and 99 8 compulsory labour 2017 suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour Security practices Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 100 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 100 management approach GRI 410: Security practices 410-1 Security personnel 100 2017 trained in human rights policies or procedures 75 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Rights of indigenous peoples Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 100 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 100 management approach GRI 411: Rights of 411-1 Incidents of violations 100 2 indigenous peoples 2017 involving rights of indigenous peoples Local communities Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 44, 47, 51 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 44, 47, 51 management approach GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local 112 communities 2017 community engagement, impact assessment, and development programs 413-2 Operations with 44, 51 1, 2 significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Supplier social assessment Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 46, 52 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 46, 52 management approach GRI 414: Supplier social 414-1 New suppliers that 46, 52 assessment 2017 were screened using social criteria 414-2 Negative social 114 5, 8, 16 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 76 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Public policy Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 100 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 100 management approach GRI 415: Public policy 2017 415-1 Political contributions 100 16 Customer health and safety Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 30, 113 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 30, 113 management approach GRI 416: Customer health 416-1 Assessment of the 113 and safety 2017 health and safety impacts of product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of 113 16 non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services Marketing and labelling Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 63 approach 2017 material topic and its boundaries 103-2 Management 30, 113 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 30, 113 management approach GRI 417: Marketing and 417-1 Assessment of the 30 12, 16 labelling 2017 health and safety impacts of product and service categories 417-2 Incidents of 113 16 non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 77 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 5. 2050 SUSTAINABILITY VISION AMBITIONS 78 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Detailing of Sustainability Vision ambitions on target or already achieved on schedule behind schedule Topic Ambition for 2020 Related SDG 2017 Performance Status Integrated Management To implement the valuation We have made significant progress with the EP&L managemodel of socioenvironmental extermodel. In 2017, we calculated the results for 2014 to 2016 ment nalities, taking into account based on a methodology that accounts for the envithe positive and negative imronmental impacts generated throughout the Natura pacts of the extended value value chain. We also advanced in incorporating social chain (from the extraction of topics into the calculations, assessing the social and enraw materials to the disposal vironmental impacts generated by the Natura carbon of products) for the Natura offsetting projects. We face the challenge of implemenbrand. ting the EP&L in management and of building a model for the valuation of social impacts throughout our value chain by 2020. Brands The environmental and social We disclose the impacts of products bought by consufootprints of all Natura brand mers. Currently under review, the transparency strateproducts will be disclosed, as gy will include the definition of the methodologies to will all the respective improcalculate product footprints from 2018.The challenge vement commitments. for the company is to implant a balance sheet of its footprint for disclosure to consumers by 2020. Government Stimulate public discussion We have worked with a series of civil society orgaand society and debate around our nizations, companies, government entities, among material topics based on others, to promote an agenda for the common good the review of the materiality which also drives innovation and evolution in Natura matrix elaborated in 2014. strategies. Ethics and For the Natura brand, to The evolution and updating of the Sustainability Vision transparency implant full transparency in was postponed as a question of strategic priority. The the provision of information review is being undertaken in 2018. Regarding transpaabout products and the rency in relation to products, the social and environcompany’s progress towards mental footprint strategy will provide greater clarity its Sustainability Vision. about our choices. In 2017, diverse positions assumed by the company, such as bans on certain ingredients and on animal testing, were presented to consumers on our website. In 2018, the strategy will evolve to ensure achievement of the 2020 ambition. Governance Implant a Consulting Council In function of the company’s strategy and the recent for sustainacomprising external speciaexpansion of the group, this ambition will be reviewed bility lists to assess the company’s in 2018. progress and to help develop strategy. Reduction Climate For the Natura brand, reduce In 2017, the company had a 0.8% increase in relative of envichange relative greenhouse gas GHG emissions and a 2% increase in absolute emissions ronmental emissions (scopes 1, 2 and 3) compared with 2016. This is due mainly to an increase impact by 33%. in items with higher relative emissions, as well as to the growth of our International Operations, which intensified the impact of exports and the transportation of products to consultants. In the comparison with 2012 (the base year of the commitment), there was a cumulative reduction of 0.5% in relative emissions. We continue to seek alternatives that will enable us to honour our commitment through measures such as optimizing the raw materials logistics process, achieving greater efficiency in delivering product to consultants in Brazil, diversifying our fleet and increasing the use of materials that provoke a lower environmental impact in our products. We continue to offset all the From 2007 to 2016, 35 projects totalling 2,945,158 tCO2e emissions that cannot be were contracted. Forestry projects accounted for avoided through initiatives 37%, and energy projects for the other 63%. 39% of the that in addition to reducing projects are linked with the Pan-Amazon region and and/or sequestering greesix are in other countries in Latin America. In 2017, we nhouse gases, are aimed at launched two new initiatives: the Compromisso com driving socioenvironmental o Clima (Climate Commitment) tender, in partnership benefits, primarily in the with Itaú Unibanco, and the Payment for EnvironmenPan-Amazon region tal Services project in the Amazon. Energy To implement a strategy to We continue to prioritise the purchase of cleaner diversify sources of renewaenergy. Our energy matrix comprises approximately ble energy for the Natura 96% energy from renewable sources. The diversificaoperations in Brazil. tion strategy is at the planning stage and will be up and running by 2020. Waste To collect and recycle 50% 2017: 29% 2020: 50% of the volume of waste The total consists of the results of two shared responsigenerated by Natura product bility programmes conducted jointly with the industry packaging in Brazil and with our suppliers. (in t equivalent). 79 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Packaging To use at least 10% post2017: 4,63%; 2020: 10% -consumer recycled material Worthy of note was the increased use of recycled in the total mass of Natura glass. Our challenge is to expand the recycling chain packaging in Brazil. in Brazil. 2017: 50%; 2020: 74% To use at least 74% recyclable Making progress in packaging ecodesign to increase material in the total mass of the recyclability of some product categories is one of Natura packaging in Brazil. the challenges we face in order to achieve the 2020 target. Reduction of envi2017: 21%; 2020: 40% To ensure that 40% of the units ronmental We need to expand these chains in Brazil by increbilled by Natura in Brazil have impact asing the use of post-consumer recycled material, eco-efficient packaging. refills and renewable packs. Water For the Natura brand in For the Natura brand in Brazil, implement a strategy Brazil, implement a strategy to to reduce and neutralize impact, based on measurereduce and neutralize impact, ment of our water footprint, taking into account the based on measurement of our entire value chain. water footprint, taking into account the entire value chain. SustainaSocial bioTo reach 10,000 families in 2017:4,294 families; 2020:10,000 families ble social diversity the Pan-Amazon production We more than doubled the indicator in 2017. biodiversity chains. Achieving the target depends on the strategy businesses of increasing the consumption of Pan-Amazon vegetable ingredients in proportion with Natura’s growth. To achieve a business 2017: 1.222 billion; 2020: 1 billion. The target was volume of R$ 1 billion in the achieved ahead of plan, in 2016. Pan-Amazon region To implant a technological We inaugurated the Ecoparque in Benevides (Pará) industrial park (Ecoparque) in in 2014. It produces 60% of Natura toilet soaps. Since the Brazilian Amazon region 2015, Symrise, a German natural oils and essences manufacturer, has been operating in the same space. We want to expand partnerships with other companies seeking to develop business locally based on the concept of industrial symbiosis. FormulaTo guarantee that 30% of 2017:18.1%; 2020:30% tions the total inputs consumed The purchase of Pan-Amazon ingredients grew in by Natura in Brazil in value absolute amounts, but there was a reduction in share come from the Pan-Amazon in relation to total inputs acquired. Our challenge is to region. increase the use of these ingredients in the portfolio in proportion with the company’s growth. Positive Natura To significantly increase The growth plan for consultants launched in 2017 has social Beauty the real average income of already impacted remuneration, which grew by 17% impact Consultant Natura Beauty Consultants for consultants and 61% for leaders. Our challenge in Brazil. is to define the role Natura should play in boosting consultants’ income by 2020. Stimulate their interest in onIn 2016, we developed an education plan for congoing learning and provide sultants and their families based on the consultant a broad educational offering HDI (Human Development Index) drivers, offering that meets their needs. partial grants and exclusive conditions for learning experiences. Create an indicator to assess We created the HDI for consultants in Brazil. We have the human development of been tracking it for four years to shape the developthis stakeholder group and ment of initiatives such as healthcare and educational develop a strategy to promobenefits. te a significant improvement. Expand the collaboration The Movimento Natura is a digital platform that connetwork, supporting nects those organizing socioenvironmental projects socioenvironmental with people who want to help with them. It receives entrepreneurial actions. around 2.2 million accesses a year. More than 50,000 people benefit from the projects supported in the healthcare, education, culture, sports and other areas. 80 2017 ANNUAL REPORT CommuniEvolve the indicators for We maintained the actions in the Local Development Positive ties measuring human and Programme in Benevides, São Paulo and Cajamar, whisocial social development in our ch improved the aptitude and organization of the local impact communities and develop a development networks. In the last two years, we have plan to promote significant also conducted some experiments, such as analysis of improvement. the Social Progress Index in the Mid Juruá region (Amazonas) and in Cajamar. We also support the Cidades Sustentáveis (Sustainable Cities) movement run by the Rede Nossa São Paulo, for the city of Cajamar. These analyses will enable us to build the impact indicator methodologies which will help us execute the strategy. This will allow us to gain more in-depth understanding of the topics that are important for these territories and to enhance the social and human development indicators. Develop a strategy for the To generate transformations at scale, we work in arsocial biodiversity territories in rangements and partnerships with local governments, the Pan-Amazon region and grass roots communities and companies to promote the communities surrounding territorial development solutions. In 2017, we focuour main operations in Brazil, sed on consolidating support and strengthening the by means of dialogue and local networks in the Mid Juruá and Lower Tocantins collaborative construction territories and in the communities surrounding our together with the local popuoperations in Cajamar and Benevides. lations and actors. Suppliers Evolve the supplier selection In recent years, the company has been making a major and management process, effort to increase productivity throughout its chain. furthering integrating socioThe process of reviewing and assessing suppliers will be environmental and financial reinforced from 2018 on. parameters. Supply To guarantee the traceability We finalized the traceability of 100% of the manufacchain of 100% of the inputs produturers link of our production inputs. From 2018, we will ced by the direct manufacimplement a traceability strategy for all the links of the turers (last link) by 2015. To chains considered critical. By means of a verification implement a traceability system that has already been implemented we monitor programme for the remaiall the biodiversity input chains. ning links in the Natura brand value chain by 2020. Employees For the Natura brand, reach 2017: 33%; 2020: 50% the rate of 50% women ocThe growth in the rate of women in senior manacupying leadership positions gement is the result of the gender equality strategy, (director level and above) aligned with the Natura Diversity Policy created in 2016. We are, however, still faced with the challenge of increasing the number of women in leadership positions by 2020. For the Natura brand in 2017: 6%; 2020: 8% Brazil, to have 8% disabled Worthy of note is the gender balance among disabled employees in the workforce. employees (50% men, 50% women). Implement a strategy to leIn 2017, we initiated the cultural management front verage employees’ execution aimed at strengthening the desired Natura culture potential through engagewhich will enable business strategy and organizational ment in the Natura culture. transformation while respecting our essence. We also defined four priority behaviours: place the consultant at the centre of our decisions; bring conflicts out into the open and resolve them constructively; pursue the result of the whole; and celebrate victories. Our next challenge will be to extend this journey to the entire organization and to expand reflection on the desired culture and priority behaviours for the long term. Culture for Consumers Define priority topics and We have defined priority claims to build the value of sustainaimplement a strategy that sustainability among the end consumers and, based on bility mobilizes Natura brand these, we will develop a mobilization strategy by 2020. consumers. The topics include: living forest; 100% organic alcohol; climate commitment; sustainable packaging; intelligent refills; quality education; no animal testing; beauty free from stereotypes; relationship network. Stakeholder Institutionalize a governance Dialogues with stakeholders of interest for the evolution engagemodel with external engageof our sustainability strategy are being conducted with ment ment to evolve management different audiences in the company’s different projects and sustainability strategy and initiatives. For example, in 2017 we conducted the New Economy Dialogues in partnership with the B Corp movement; we launched the carbon offsetting platform, addressing the question of climate change together with Itaú Unibanco. However, we recognize that it is a challenge to keep our main stakeholder groups connected and engaged in the ongoing process of assessing our performance and the evolution of our Sustainability Vision. 81 6. Attachments 82 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Index Economic-financial management 84 People management 86 Labour practices 87 Remuneration and benefits 88 Turnover 92 Career development 94 Health and safety 95 Relationship quality 96 Freedom of association 97 Non-discrimination 97 Ethics and human rights 98 Anti-corruption 98 Human rights 99 Indigenous people’s rights 100 Public policies 100 Anti-competitive behaviour 100 Environmental management 101 GHG emissions 101 Energy 101 Water 104 Waste and effluents 105 Biodiversity 107 Investment in environmental protection 109 Environmental compliance 109 Environmental assessment of suppliers 110 Suppliers’ environmental impact 110 Natura Beauty Consultants 111 Surrounding communities 112 Consumers 113 Consumer health and safety 113 Society 114 Social assessment of suppliers 114 Support and sponsorship actions 115 Leadership and social influence 116 Institutional representation 116 83 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Economic-financial management Direct economic value generated and distributed GRI 103-2; 103-3; 201-1 Direct economic value generated (R$ million) 1 2015 2016 2017 Total gross revenues 12,820 12,138 13,824 Economic value distributed (R$ million) 1 2015 2016 2017 Operating costs 3,394 3,946 4,866 Employee salaries and benefits 1,245 1,327 1,836 Profits distributed 369 130 214 Payments to suppliers 3,147 2,763 3,393 Payments to government 2,149 2,009 2,000 Payments to creditors 2,356 1,775 1,040 Community investments 7 10 18 Total 12,666 11,960 13,367 1 Consolidated economic performance for Natura &Co (including Natura, Aesop and The Body Shop). Economic value retained (R$ million) 2015 2016 2017 “Direct economic value generated” less “Economic value distributed” 154 178 456 See the full value added statements in our consolidated Financial Statements, available here (in portuguese) 84 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Financial implications and other risks and opportunities arising from climate change GRI 201-2 The topics climate change and social biodiversity are part of the Natura risk matrix, monitored by the Executive Committee, and, through the supporting committees, also by the Board of Directors. In relation to climate changerelated risks, our major concern is understanding, monitoring and mitigating whatever may affect our value chain. While we work on defining a specific analysis of the effects associated with climate change in the risk management process, strategic mitigation projects are in place throughout the organization and have become formal company sub-processes, such as the Carbon Neutral program, which prioritizes the reduction of direct and indirect emissions throughout the chain, as well as offsetting 100% of the emissions that cannot be avoided. The offsetting measures are voluntary and non-mandatory and do not portray the financial implications of climate change-related risks. Read more in the inventory, accessible in Brazil’s public emissions record (Registro Público de Emissões, here (in Portuguese), and on page 37, in Reduction in environmental impact. On page 15, we also present our risk management process in full. Government funds GRI 201-4 Assistance received from the government (R$ millions) Types of assistance 2015 2016 2017 Tax incentives/credits 1 3 4 1.5 Subventions for investments, research and development (R&D) and other relevant types 14 18 17.6 of grants 2 Other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any company 1 3 1.6 operation Total 18 25 20.7 3 1 Income tax incentives (Corporate Income TaxIRPJ) related to Brazil’s Rouanet and Sport laws, to the Child’s and Adolescent’s Rights Fund, to the worker’s meal program and to the ICMS tax incentive for the Natura Musical projects. 2 Incentive related to the two-month extension to maternity leave, introduced by Decree 7.052/2009. The expense is not deductible in the calculation of actual profit and in the calculation base for CSLL (Contribuição Social sobre o Lucro Líquido) tax; however, it is deductible in full from corporate income tax (IRPJ). 3 With the reduction in the taxable profit, which is the basis for Lei do Bem and other incentives, the use of the benefit was limited. 85 2017 ANNUAL REPORT People management Profile Information about employees GRI 102-8 Employees by type of work contract and gender 1 2 2015 2016 2017 Type of contract men women total men women total men women total Fixed term 17 83 100 9 99 108 12 75 87 Permanent 2,408 4,083 6,491 2,327 3,962 6,289 2,343 3,881 6,224 Total 2,425 4,166 6,591 2,336 4,061 6,397 2,355 3,956 6,311 1 Expatriates, interns, members of the Board of Directors and Instituto Natura employees were not taken into account. We used as a reference the headcount at the end of December. 2 In function of the adaptation to the GRI Standard, there were changes in reporting certain information compared with previous years. Employees by type of work contract and region 2015 2016 2017 Region Fixed PermaFixed PermaFixed Permaterm nent Total term nent Total term nent Total Brazil 58 5,093 5,151 51 4,856 4,907 54 4,711 4,765 Argentina 24 526 550 42 555 597 28 614 642 Chile 0 185 185 0 185 185 0 189 189 Mexico 0 117 117 0 124 124 0 116 116 Peru 12 218 230 14 213 227 5 213 218 Colombia 5 317 322 0 339 339 0 362 362 France 1 35 36 1 17 18 0 19 19 Total 100 6,491 6,591 108 6,289 6,397 87 6,224 6,311 86 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Employees by type of employment 2015 2016 2017 Type of employment men women total men women total men women total Full-time 2,425 4,166 6,591 2,336 4,061 6,397 2,355 3,955 6,311 Part-time 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 Total 2,425 4,166 6,591 2,336 4,061 6,397 2,355 3,956 6,311 Employees by age group 2015 2016 2017 < 30 years 1,365 1,262 1,214 From 30 to 50 years 4,729 4,647 4,619 > 50 years 497 488 478 Total 6,591 6,397 6,311 Employees by functional category 2015 2016 2017 Director level 54 54 53 Management 666 631 596 Administrative 3,625 3,611 3,608 Production 2,246 2,101 2,054 Total 6,591 6,397 6,311 Members of governance bodies 2015 2016 2017 Board of Directors 8 9 10 Labour practices Minimum notice period regarding operational changes GRI 402-1 There is no minimum notice period for operational changes in collective agreements and conventions, but Natura complies with the minimum periods established in legislation and/or in union agreements. 87 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Remuneration and benefits Ratio of lowest starting salary to the local minimum salary GRI 103-2; 103-3; 202-1 Natura is against any kind of discrimination or inequality based on race, colour, sex, age or religious belief. Consequently, there are no salary distinctions related to these aspects. Our salary levels are in accordance with competitive remuneration in the respective local markets. In Colombia and in Brazil, the operational production units are aligned with local market practices and comply with collective conventions, which means that salaries are closer to the legal minimum salaries. Particularly in Natura Argentina, there are positions in which the remuneration is determined by union agreement. Coincidentally, these positions are occupied by women, which means that their salaries are closer to the local minimum salary. The remuneration of third-party employees is determined based on negotiations with the service providers, who are responsible for complying with all legal obligations, including the conditions established in the collective agreements and conventions applicable to their categories. Ratio of the lowest salary to the minimum salary, by gender 2015 2016 2017 Operational unit 1 men women men women men women Brazil 40% 40% 60% 60% 60% 60% Argentina 213% 59% 205% 52% 222% 69% Chile 138% 93% 303% 92% 294% 136% Peru 378% 233% 374% 171% 374% 171% Mexico 635% 489% 685% 545% 462% 348% Colombia 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1 The minimum salaries used for the comparisons above were: Brazil (R$ 937.00), Argentina (ARS 8,860.00), Chile (CLP 270,000.00), Colombia (COP 737,717.00), Mexico (MXN 2,401.20) and Peru (PEN 850.00). Ratio of total annual remuneration of the best paid individual to the median annual salary of all employees GRI 102-38 As in the previous year, it was not possible to report this in line with the GRI standard requirements due to the confidential nature of this information. 88 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Percentage increase in total annual remuneration GRI 102-39 Ratio of the increase in the annual remuneration of the highest paid individual to the Country median increase in annual remuneration for all employees 1 (%) Brazil 1.12% Argentina 1.12% Chile 0.28% Colombia 1.47% Mexico 0.53% Peru 0.62% 1 In function of the adaptation to the GRI standard, there is no basis for comparison with the previous years. The concept of total annual remuneration was used for the response. This includes: basic annual salary, 13th and 14th salaries, 1/3 of salary relative to vacation pay, bonus from the profit share program and sales bonus, when applicable and in accordance with the country. Ratio of women’s salary to men’s salary GRI 405-2 From 2017, we started reporting the data for our International Operations, encompassing administrative and management positions, which are the most representative. In general terms, we reiterate that our salary scale is not defined by gender. The variations between women’s and men’s salaries occur in function of the amounts established for each position and function in the Natura organizational structure. It is not possible to compare the total annual package, which includes remuneration and benefits, because the benefits are not quantified by gender or functional category. In Brazil, the collective agreements represent an increase from 2% to 5% in the salaries of operational and administrative employees. Management employees had a fixed amount incorporated into their basic salary. For female administrative employees, the positive salary difference is due in particular to sales bonuses, which increase monthly remuneration. The sales bonuses also have a positive impact on the remuneration of women who occupy administrative positions in the International Operations. Ratio of women’s salary to men’s salary by functional category – Brazil 2015 2016 2017 Director level -15% -10% -19% Management -4% -1% -3% Administrative 20% 10% 18% Production -23% -22% -22% 89 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Ratio of women’s salary to men’s salary – 2017 Country Management Administrative Argentina -11% 3% Chile 3% 33% Colombia -9% -4% Mexico 7% -1% Peru -5% -28% Hired in the local community GRI 103-2; 103-3; 202-2 Members of senior management hired in the local community – Brazil 2015 2016 2017 All members of senior management hired 1 169 164 59 Cajamar2 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Benevides (Ecoparque)3 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Natura São Paulo (NASP) 4 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Natura Lapa 5 3.0% 4.3% 0.0% 1 In 2017, we did not hire members of senior management resident in the communities surrounding Natura facilities. As part of the measures to develop surrounding communities, we prioritise hiring employees for the organisation’s so-called entry level positions. To publicize vacancies in the company’s apprentice programme, in 2017 we participated in social and cultural events and selected a group of schools in the local communities to make presentations which described the opportunities offered by the programme. For effective vacancies, we conducted campaigns in the city of Cajamar and in the district of Vila dos Remédios, in São Paulo, which is where the Natura headquarters are located. 2 Includes the entire city of Cajamar (SP). 3 Includes the Pará municipalities of Benevides, Marituba, Santa Bárbara and Santa Izabel, as well the Mosqueiro district in Belém. 4 Includes the Jaguara district, which is part of the city of São Paulo (SP) and comprises the boroughs Vila Jaguara, Vila Piauí, Vila dos Remédios and Jardim Marisa. 5 Includes the districts Lapa, Vila Leopoldina and Barra Funda, all located in the city of São Paulo (SP). Senior management members hired in the local community – International 2015 2016 2017 Operations 1 Argentina 59% 67% 71% Chile 0.0% 20% 25% Colombia 20% 25% 40% Mexico 50% 70% 75% Peru 66% 67% 57% Total 40% 57% 61% 1 A major part of senior management positions are occupied by nationals of the country in which the Natura operation is located. The increase in all the countries is the result of internal succession appointments. 90 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Obligations of the defined-benefit and other pension plans GRI 201-3 Pension plan 1 2015 20162 20172 Contributions made by Natura (R$ million) 4,642 3,753 3,397 1 The Natura Saving Incentive is a defined contribution plan administered by a supplementary pension organization. The employees’ contribution varies from 1% to 5% of their salary, while Natura contributes 60% of the employee’s contribution, limited to a salary of R$ 19,140.00. 2 The decrease in the amount invested in the last two years is due to the reduction in the headcount and the withdrawal of funds by employees upon termination, as well as the nonadhesion of new participants to the plan, which is voluntary. Employee Benefits – Brazil GRI 401-2 Benefits Dental assistance Check-up for executives Restaurant in Cajamar, Benevides (Ecoparque), Natura São Paulo (NASP) and Itupeva Hub 1 Food allowance Private pension Employee Support Programme (EAP in the Portuguese acronym) Nursery assistance Nursery allowance Allowance for employees with disabled children Gym subsidy (sales force) Happy Day (day off on employee’s birthday) Birthday Present (employees receive a Natura product on their birthday) New-born baby kit (female employees or partners of employees who have babies receive a Natura Mamãe & Bebê line bag of products) Payroll deductible Pharmacy purchases Accompaniment of mothers-to-be Mothers-to-be meetings Maternity leave of up to 180 days Paternity leave of up to 40 days Christmas card/food hamper Presents for employees ’ children aged up to 9 years of age Events (recognition for length of service, year-end party etc.) Well-being space (beauty salon with hairdressing, make-up, massage, nail care, barber services etc.) 1 Convenience Space (sale of Natura products at special prices) 1 1 Benefits also offered to temporary employees. The others are offered only to full-time employees. 91 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Maternity and paternity leave GRI 401-3 The retention rate has remained stable during recent years. From 2016, when we introduced 40-day paternity leave, there was an increase in the number of employees using the benefit. In parallel, the maternity leave rate has continued to drop. Maternity and paternity leave 2015 2016 2017 men 2,163 2,065 2,129 Employees who were entitled to parental leave women 2,988 2,842 2,839 men 77 87 111 Employees who took parental leave women 158 139 90 men 76 88 112 Employees who returned to work after the end of the leave women 145 151 90 men 49 71 73 Employees who returned to work after the end of the leave and were still employed 12 months later women 126 107 105 men 99% 101% 101% Return rate (%) 1 women 92% 109% 100% men 89% 93% 83% Retention rate (%) women 79% 74% 70% 1 Frequently the leave does not end in the same year it is requested, consequently in some years the number of people returning is higher than those starting leave. Turnover New employees and turnover rate GRI 401-1 In 2017, the number of hires grew 37% compared with the previous year, without significant distinction by gender and particularly in the age group of up to 30 years. The increase in hiring is concentrated in Brazil, explained by the expansion of the local structure and the opening of the new channels. 2015 2016 2017 Employees hired, by age group Number (un.) Rate (%) Number (un.) Rate (%) Number (un.) Rate (%) < 30 years 430 46.89% 361 44.84% 644 58.5% From 30 to 50 years 478 52.13% 434 53.91% 446 40.5% > 50 years 9 0.98% 10 1.24% 11 1.0% Total 917 100% 805 100% 1,101 100% 92 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 2016 2017 Employees hired, by gender Number (un.) Rate (%) Number (un.) Rate (%) Number (un.) Rate (%) Men 393 42.86% 307 38.14% 414 38% Women 524 57.14% 498 61.86% 687 62% Total 917 100% 805 100% 1,101 100% 2015 2016 2017 Employees hired, by region Number (un.) Rate (%) Number (un.) Rate (%) Number (un.) Rate (%) Brazil 602 65.65% 511 63.48% 741 67.3% Argentina 109 11.89% 122 15.16% 155 14.1% Chile 28 3.05% 34 4.22% 42 3.8% Mexico 32 3.49% 34 4.22% 28 2.5% Peru 34 3.71% 34 4.22% 44 4.0% France 6 0.65% 4 0.50% 6 0.5% Colombia 106 11.56% 66 8.20% 85 7.7% Total 917 100% 805 100% 1,101 100% 2015 2016 2017 Employees who left the company, by age group Number (un.) Rate (%) Number (un.) Rate (%) Number (un.) Rate (%) < 30 years 260 27.0% 476 46.6% 360 30.8% From 30 to 50 years 646 67.0% 452 44.2% 685 58.7% > 50 years 58 6.0% 94 9.2% 122 10.5% Total 964 100% 1,022 100% 1,167 100% 2015 2016 2017 Employees who left the company, by gender Number (un.) Rate (%) Number (un.) Rate (%) Number (un.) Rate (%) Men 359 37% 409 40.02% 395 34% Women 605 63% 613 59.98% 772 66% Total 964 100% 1,022 100% 1,167 100% 93 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Employees who left the 2015 2016 2017 company, by region Number (un.) Rate (%) Number (un.) Rate (%) Number (un.) Rate (%) Brazil 719 74.59% 765 74.85% 861 73.8% Argentina 74 7.68% 84 8.22% 109 9.3% Chile 27 2.80% 34 3.33% 39 3.3% Mexico 36 3.73% 29 2.84% 40 3.4% Peru 39 4.05% 38 3.72% 54 4.6% France 16 1.66% 22 2.15% 5 0.4% Colombia 53 5.50% 50 4.89% 59 5.1% Total 964 100% 1,022 100% 1,167 100% Career development GRI 404-3 Employees who received 2015 2016 20171 performance reviews by functional category men women total men women total men women total Director level 40 14 38 16 36 17 40 14 38 Total Management 285 381 284 347 263 333 285 381 284 employees Administrative 751 2,874 747 2,864 776 2,832 751 2,874 747 Production 1,349 897 1,267 834 1,280 774 1,349 897 1,267 Employees Director level 33 13 37 16 36 17 33 13 37 submitted to performance Management 250 343 282 347 263 324 250 343 282 and career development Administrative 672 2,281 731 2,864 726 2,638 672 2,281 731 reviews Production 1,083 672 1,185 834 1,188 672 1,083 672 1,185 Director level 83% 93% 97% 100% 100% 100% 83% 93% 97% Management 88% 90% 99% 100% 100% 97% 88% 90% 99% % by gender Administrative 89% 79% 98% 100% 94% 93% 89% 79% 98% Production 80% 75% 94% 100% 93% 87% 80% 75% 94% 1 In 2017, the performance review process was reformulated, culminating in the new people management process called Nossa Gente (Our People).The new process is continuous. For administrative (including the sales force), management and director level employees, the data reported are for the process ended on December 31, 2017. For operational employees, the data reported refer to 2016, and the appraisal process was concluded in January 2017. 94 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Internal hiring Internal hiring is an integral part of Natura’s talent retention strategy. The overall rate remained stable in 2017, with the growth in the indicator in the International Operations offsetting the retraction in Brazil. Especially for leadership positions, the overall increase was very significant, impacted by the expansion of internal hiring in the International Operations. Internal hiring for positions offered/occupied by employees (%) Operation 2015 2016 2017 Brazil 57% 61% 57% International Operations 42% 47% 56% Total 54% 57% 57% Internal hiring for leadership positions offered/occupied by employees (%) Operation 2015 2016 2017 Brazil 72% 73% 78% International Operations 51% 49% 79% Total 67% 65% 78% Health and safety Incidence or risk of occupational diseases GRI 103-2; 103-3; 403-3 We aim to consolidate a health and safety culture to ensure a healthy and safe work environment. We are committed to raising employee awareness of the importance of adopting a healthy lifestyle, focused on the 3Ps (proactive mindset, prevention and protection).With this in view, we launched the Viva sua Saúde (Live your Health) programme, based on an integrated vision of health. We have not identified employees who perform activities in which there is a high risk of occupational diseases. In 2017, our investments in prevention included a programme to monitor chronic diseases, an ergonomics programme, work place exercises, specialized company health services (psychology, physiotherapy, acupuncture and orthopaedics), accompaniment of mothers-to-be, a nutrition programme, as well as an influenza vaccination campaign. 2015 2016 2017 Investments in disease prevention (R$ thousands) – Brazil 2,661 2,848 3,051 95 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Health and safety rates GRI 403-2 As a result of the ongoing evolution of our safety management system, in 2017 the number of accidents involving Natura employees and third-party contractors continued to drop. Health and safety rates 1 – Brazil 2015 2016 2017 EmployeNested conEmployeNested conEmNested conTotal Total Total es tractors 2 es tractors 2 ployees tractors 2 Occupational disease frequency rate 0.2 0 0.2 0.1 0 0.1 0 0 0.0 Lost days 3 212 329 541 161 150 311 210 51 261 Number of fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Taking into account accidents recorded with employees at the units in Cajamar, Lapa, the distribution centres, Itupeva Hub, Natura São Paulo (NASP) and Ecoparque. Minor injuries only requiring first aid were not included. 2 Taking into account service providers at the units in Cajamar, Lapa, distribution centres, Itupeva Hub, Natura São Paulo (NASP) and Ecoparque. 3 A lost day is when the employee does not return to his or her job until the next working day after the incident. Lost days include all subsequent days of absence starting from the date of the incident. 2017 Health and safety rates for Natura employees, by gender 1 men women Total injuries 12 6 Occupational disease rate 67% 33% Lost days rate 53% 47% Absenteeism rate 1.42% 1.15% Number of fatalities 0 0 1 The accident frequency rates are calculated based on the number of accidents per man/hour worked multiplied by 1,000,000. Relationship quality Approach to stakeholder engagement and main topics and concerns raised – Employee engagement GRI 102-43; 102-44 In 2017, we conducted our third Engagement Survey, achieving growth in all regions of activity. The first and second surveys took place in 2014 and 2016 respectively. In the global indicator we achieved 4.04 points on a scale from 1 to 5.In Brazil, we evolved from 3.88 points in 2016 to 3.96 in 2017.The result in the International Operations was an improvement from 4.19 to 4.27. Last year, we also conducted the survey in France, achieving a score of 4.18 points. 96 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Engagement Survey – Favourability (%)1 2016 2017 Brazil 3.88 3.96 Argentina 4.15 4.33 Peru 4.33 4.41 Chile 4.08 4.10 Mexico 4.16 4.28 France n.d. 4.18 Colombia 4.21 4.21 Overall average – Natura 3.95 4.04 1 The data do not take into account the International Operations area, the office dedicated to the international operations in Buenos Aires (Argentina). Satisfaction with the Ombudsman channel GRI 102-43; 102-44; 103-2; 103-3 At the beginning of 2017, we altered the survey methodology used to measure satisfaction with the Ombudsman channel, adopting a scale from 1 to 5 points, where scores of 4 and 5 are considered satisfactory.The satisfaction rate was 89%, slightly higher than the previous two years (82% in 2016 and 83% in 2015). Our goal is to continue to improve the survey application process to increase the percentage of responses in relation to the total number of contacts received by the channel. This year, 41% of the employees who used the Ombudsman service responded to the satisfaction survey. Satisfaction with the Ombudsman channel (%) 2017 Internal audience 89% Supplier 88% Natura Beauty Consultant 98% End consumer 100% Freedom of association Possible violation or risk of violation of freedom of association and collective bargaining GRI 103-2; 103-3; 407-1 We support freedom of union association both for employees and suppliers’ employees, as set forth in our Code of Conduct. Non-discrimination Cases of discrimination and corrective measures taken GRI 103-2; 103-3; 406-1 All reports of discrimination are addressed by the Ombudsman. There were two reports in 2017.There has never been a proven case of discrimination. Should this occur the applicable measures will be taken. All cases of probable breaches involving ethics and discrimination are reported to the Ethics Committee, in which senior management participates. 97 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Ethics and human rights Anti-corruption Operations submitted to corruption-related assessments GRI 103-2; 103-3; 205-1 Natura was recognised publicly as a Pro-Ethical company in 2016 and 2017 by Brazil’s Ministry of Transparency and the Federal Comptroller General. This recognition is due to the measures the company has in place to prevent, detect and remedy cases of corruption and fraud. It should be noted that we are signatories to the United Nations Global Compact, and we support the Alliance for Integrity, a global anti-corruption initiative. In 2017, the Compliance, Internal Controls and Risk areas maintained the programme to ensure compliance with Brazil’s anti-corruption law (law 12.846/2013). This entailed a number of initiatives, such as updating the mapping of all the company’s critical areas; the organization of training focused on the country’s anti-corruption law for employees and for small and medium sized product and service providers; the reassessment of the company’s level of risk in relation to legislation; tests for the controls regarding the Code of Conduct, the Ethics Committee and the whistleblowing hotline; as well as internal communication to reinforce awareness in this area. Communication and training in anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI 103-2; 103-3; 205-2 In the course of the year, a large number of actions were taken to reinforce anti-corruption procedures and policies among employees, reporting to respective area managers and directors. We also communicated our anti-corruption policies and procedures to 880 Natura suppliers, worthy of note being the recommendation to conduct an e-learning programme about the Natura Code of Conduct. These partners include third-party contractors. 2015 2016 2017 By functional category Communicated Trained Communicated Trained Communicated Trained Director level 59 48 54 51 58 57 Management 679 619 631 614 610 604 Coordination 1 799 796 Administrative 3,819 3,594 3,584 3,393 2,229 2,136 Production 2,246 1,998 2,101 1,928 2,322 2,284 Trainees 2 27 26 24 24 Apprentices 2 140 123 152 68 Interns 2 150 140 129 129 Total 6,803 6,259 6,687 6,683 6,323 6,098 1 In the previous years, the coordinators communicated and trained were part of the administrative staff. 2 Data not available for 2015. 3 Includes all training on the Code of Conduct for Employees 2016 Brazil and International Operations undertaken between 01/01/2017 and 21/12/2017 and based on the headcount in December 2017. Indirect contractors in the operational area were added to the administrative staff. 98 2017 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 2016 2017 By region – Brazil Communicated and trained Communicated and trained Communicated and trained South 36 33 29 Southeast 1,311 480 333 Midwest 17 5 3 Northeast 103 21 8 North 113 16 7 Total 1,580 555 380 Confirmed cases of corruption and measures taken GRI 103-2; 103-3; 205-3 As a consequence of the strategy aimed at publicising the Ombudsman service, the number of cases of corruption involving Natura Beauty Consultants and Business Leaders grew, which increased the overall indicator compared with 2016. In contrast, there was a drop in the number of cases that resulted in the punishment and dismissal of employees. Public authorities were not involved in any of the cases. Cases of corruption 2015 2016 2017 Confirmed cases of corruption 12 6 13 Confirmed cases in which employees were dismissed or punished for corruption 26 5 2 Confirmed cases in which contracts with commercial partners were terminated or not 0 0 6 renewed due to corruption-related violations Human rights Operations and suppliers identified as presenting significant risk of child, forced or slave labour and measures taken GRI 103-2; 103-3; 408-1; 409-1 Our suppliers declare their working conditions and are audited periodically. We also continue to assess our supplier communities regarding human rights, as part of our Social and Biodiversity Chain Verification System. In 2017, no cases indicating the use of child or forced labour were identified in the communities. Nonetheless, in some Amazon communities that sell biodiversity ingredients, there are indications of families whose children and adolescents work in production chains. This is a cultural tradition in certain communities, and does not violate Natura principles (that is, children who help their parents out but do attend school, thus not violating the principles of ethical biotrade). It should be noted that our production chain management system is audited annually by an independent body, in addition to being accredited by the UEBT (Union for Ethical Biotrade). Security personnel trained in human rights policies and procedures GRI 103-2; 103-3; 410-1 Security procedures at Natura encompass human rights training, including the training mandated by the Brazilian Federal Police. All security personnel take the Federal Police training, as well as other specific courses. In 2017, 85 (60.3%) of the 141 members of the Natura security team were trained in human rights. 99 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Indigenous people’s rights Cases of violations of indigenous people’s rights GRI 103-2; 103-3; 411-1 In 2017, there were no incidents involving indigenous peoples in the locations in which we operate Public policies Political contributions GRI 103-2; 103-3; 415-1 In accordance with a specific internal policy, valid in Brazil and in the International Operations, Natura does not make contributions to campaigns, parties and/or candidates for public office, during or outside electoral processes. Anti-competitive behaviour Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices GRI 103-2; 103-3; 206-1 In 2017, we were not subject to administrative or judicial sanctions for violations of laws or regulations governing anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices. 100 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Environmental management GHG emissions GRI 305-1; 305-2; 305-3 Greenhouse Gas emissions by scope (tCO2 equivalent) 2015 2016 2017 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 4,156 4,975 5,187 Indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy (Scope 2) 7,909 5,094 6,006 Other GHG emissions (Scope 3) 309,202 293,355 296,855 Total GEE emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) 321,267 303,424 308,048 Emissions of ozone depleting substances (ODS), NOx, SOx and other significant atmospheric emissions GRI 305-6; 305-7 There are no indications that ozone depleting substance emissions are significant at Natura facilities (considering the boilers at Cajamar and Ecoparque), given that we comply with the applicable standards and laws and adopt all the pertinent internal controls. In relation to NOx, SOx and other atmospheric emissions, our impact is not significant. In Cajamar, our boilers burn clean fuels (ethanol and LPG). Significant atmospheric emissions 1 2 (kg/h) 2017 NOx 0.87 SOx 0.06 Persistent organic pollutants (POP) 0 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 0 Hazardous atmospheric pollutants (HAP) 0 Particulate material (PM) 0.86 Other standard categories of atmospheric emissions identified in regulations 0 1 At Ecoparque, we considered the biomass boiler chimney emissions analysis report prepared by the consultancy Bioagri Ambiental in August 2017. 2 These emissions are not monitored for transportation. We prioritize monitoring of GHG emissions, which are more relevant for Natura and its value chain. Energy Energy consumption inside the organization GRI 103-2; 103-3; 302-1 Electricity and fuel consumption in 2017 is based on the following Natura sites: Cajamar, Benevides, Natura São Paulo (NASP) and the Itupeva Hub, the distribution centres operated by third-parties in the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Paraná, Minas Gerais, Bahia, Pernambuco and Pará, six third-party manufacturers (chosen because their volumes are representative) and the administrative support site located in São Paulo (E-Business Park) to the extent that it was used by Natura in 2017. There was a 7% increase in energy consumption in Cajamar and Benevides, due particularly to the growth in production (up 15% compared with 2016). However, relative consumption (MWh/unit produced) at both sites was lower than in 2016. In the other sites, there was an 11% increase in consumption, driven mainly by the inauguration of the new NASP administrative site in São Paulo. There was a 25% decrease in absolute consumption by the third-party manufacturers and, consequently, a reduction in relative consumption (MWh/unit produced), explained by the 2% reduction in production volume compared with 2016. 101 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Consumption of fuel from non-renewable sources – 2015 2016 2017 Natura Brazil (MWh1) Diesel oil (generator sets) 908 1% 1,197 2% 1,301 1.51% LPG gas 1,972 2% 1,714 2% 1,784 2.07% Natural gas 0 0 0 0 676 0.78% Total 2,881 3% 2,911 4% 3,761 4.36% 1 We changed the measurement unit from Tj to MWh. Consumption of fuels from renewable sources – Natura Brazil (MWh1) 2015 2016 2017 Solar energy 6 6 6 Alcohol 2 10,736 11,236 12,770 Briquettes 3 0 8,131 8,488 Electrical energy – from the grid 57,142 52,750 61,179 Total 67,883 72,122 82,444 1 We changed the measurement unit from Tj to MWh. 2 Renewable fuel used to produce steam at Cajamar. 3 Biomass boiler at Benevides. Energy consumed by type – Natura Brazil (MWh1) 2015 2016 2017 Electricity 58,050 53,947 62,486 Heating 0 0 432 Refrigeration 0 0 0 Steam 20,778 20,000 23,286 Total 78,828 73,947 86,204 1 We changed the measurement unit from Tj to MWh. Total energy consumption – Natura Brazil (MWh1) 2015 2016 2017 Cajamar and Benevides sites 59,917 59,083 63,105 Other Natura locations in Brazil 0 15,972 17,720 Natura third-party manufacturers 9,944 7,194 5,380 Total 71,876 84,266 86,204 1 We changed the measurement unit from Tj to MWh. 102 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Energy matrix Natura Brazil (%) 2015 2016 2017 Electricity (grid) 71.00% 70.00% 70.97% Solar energy 0.004% 0.007% 0.006% Briquettes 12.00% 11.00% 9.85% Alcohol 13.00% 15.00% 14.81% Diesel oil 1.00% 2.00% 1.51% Bunker oil 0 0 0 LPG gas 2.00% 2.00% 2.07% Natural gas 0.78% Total 100% 100% 100.00% Energy consumed outside the organization GRI 302-2 Energy consumed outside the organization 1 (GJ) 2015 2016 2017 Goods and services acquired 189.44 148.23 112.05 Upstream transportation and distribution 497.59 495.83 458.55 Waste generated in the operation Business travel 55.65 45.38 46.15 Employee transportation 29.48 27.75 27.77 Downstream transportation and distribution 207.94 214.70 194.09 Total 980.10 931.99 838.62 1 There was a 10% reduction in the total energy consumed outside the organization, worthy of note being goods and services acquired (suppliers and thirdparties), with a 24% decrease compared with the previous year. Energy intensity GRI 302-3 The reduction was the result of the 10% increase in total production in 2017 compared with 2016, in spite of the 7% increase in absolute energy consumption. Energy intensity (MWh/unit produced) 2015 2016 2017 Inside the organization 1 2 190 Outside the organization 3 44 Total 149.39 158.83 157.16 1 Units produced at the Cajamar site and the Benevides (Ecoparque) site. 2 The calculation base for the indicator was modified in 2017. It was not possible to calculate the historic series in the new format. 3 Units produced by six third-party manufacturers monitored by the Natura environmental area. 103 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Reduction in energy consumption GRI 302-4 Reductions in energy consumption obtained in function of conservation and efficiency (GJ) improvements 2015 2016 2017 Efficiency projects 1 .04 kJ .00 kJ 43.20 MWh Solar energy consumption .02 kJ .02 kJ .00 MWh Total .06 kJ .02 kJ 43.20 MWh 1 Substitution of fluorescent and metal-vapour lamps with LED lamps in diverse areas of the Cajamar site (restaurant, service area etc.). Water Total water withdrawn by source GRI 303-1 There was a 4% increase in absolute water consumption (m³) and a 0.5% decrease in relative consumption (L/unit produced) in function of the 10% increase in total production in 2017 compared with the previous year, taking into account Cajamar, Benevides (Ecoparque) and third-parties manufacturing finished products in Natura’s name. Due to the lack of a public water supply network, the water used in the Cajamar and Benevides facilities comes from semi-Artesian wells. These draw water from the Cristalino aquifer (Cajamar) and the Barreiras aquifer (Benevides – Ecoparque). In the city of São Paulo, where the administrative headquarters and a distribution centre are located, water is supplied by the public network*. GRI 303-2 Water consumption – Natura Brazil (m3) 2015 2016 2017 Natura sites 1 177,866 191,277 245,386 Other locations 2 52,826 50,224 19,084 Third-party manufacturers 3 63,027 37,453 25,504 Total Brazil 293,719 278,954 289,974 * In Cajamar the information comes from the water withdrawal permit. At the Ecoparque, the data come from the environmental control report from when the unit was implanted. 1 Sites operated by Natura: Cajamar, Benevides, Natura São Paulo (NASP), Lapa, São Paulo Distribution Centre and the Itupeva Hub. 2 Distribution centres operated by third-parties. 3.They manufacture products in Natura’s name. Total volume of water recycled and reused GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused 2015 2016 2017 Water recycled 1 and reused 2 by the organization (m3) 82,972 63,523 72,072 Water withdrawn (m3) 3 0 0 166,793 % of water recycled and reused 59% 41% 43% % of water recovered 4 over the total of water treated in the wastewater treatment 59% 41% 43% plant 1 Water recycled and water reused in flushing, irrigation and other industrial processes. Also called reused water.2 Reused water comprises the water dejects from potable water purification treatment in the plants. The purification process generates a deject with a high saline content. This is reintroduced into the potable water system in which it is diluted. 3 Only the data from Cajamar were taken into account. 4 Water recovered is equivalent to the sum of recycled and reused water. 104 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Waste and effluents Materials used by weight or volume (except water) GRI 301-1 Material1 2 2015 2016 2017 Direct material (t) 70,283,211 70,635,227 69,032,746 Direct material (m3) 9,583,511 8,162,401 8,867,217 1 From 2015, the calculation was revised to take into account inputs and/or raw materials used in the operations at Cajamar (SP) and Benevides (Ecoparque). Up until 2014, the amount only took into account the materials consumed by the plants in Cajamar. 2 The variation between 2015 and 2016 is due to the variation in units produced, the production mix and the internalization of production of some items. The variation between 2016 and 2017 reflects the increase in production in the perfumery line, aligned with the growth strategy drafted for the category in 2017. Waste discriminated by type and disposal method and transportation of hazardous waste GRI 306-2/306-4 Total waste by type (t) 1 2015 2016 2017 Hazardous waste 2 3,428 3,933 4,305 Non-hazardous waste 11,585 9,601 7,706 Total 15,013 13,534 12,011 1 This refers to Cajamar, Benevides (Ecoparque), Natura São Paulo (NASP), the São Paulo Distribution Centre and the Itupeva Hub. The indicator does not take into account waste generated in civil construction works (rubble) undertaken at the facilities. 2 Hazardous waste (class I): the quantity generated is equivalent to the value of the waste transported. All the waste generated is treated externally. This is carried out by suppliers located in Brazil, duly screened by Natura. There were no significant spills at the Natura units in 2017. Disposal of hazardous waste (%)1 2015 2016 2017 Recovery (including energy recovery) 82.4% 71.1% 36.9% Incineration (mass burn) 17.6% 28.9% 63.1% 1 Hazardous waste is not disposed of in landfills. Disposal of non-hazardous waste (%) 2015 2016 2017 Recycling 1 90.0% 91.0% 91.1% Incineration (mass burn) 6.0% 1.9% 3.5% Landfill 4.0% 7.2% 5.5% 1 Recycling encompasses waste which is sent for composting, co-processing and recycling/reuse. 105 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Indirect waste Natura (t) 2015 2016 2017 Waste referring to other Natura locations 1 2,127 1,162 1,332 Waste from Natura third-party manufacturers 2 1,543 1,131 876 Total 3,670 2,293 2,208 1 This refers to the distribution centres, with the exception of the São Paulo distribution centre. 2 This refers to the six largest Natura third-party manufacturers. Waste per unit produced (g/unit produced) 1 2015 2016 2017 Waste per unit produced (g/unit produced) 1 25.50 22.80 25.92 1 The waste/unit produced indicator is the sum of all Natura’s direct and indirect waste, in grams, divided by the total number of units produced directly and indirectly by Natura. This grew in function of the greater volume of waste generated at the Ecoparque. Part of the effluent generated at the Ecoparque cannot be treated internally. Due to the lack of specialized suppliers able to undertake this treatment, the material is incinerated and categorized as class 1 (hazardous) waste. The installation of a wastewater treatment plant in the Ecoparque, concluded in October, and the covering of some dams should help to gradually reduce the numbers. Water discharge (discriminated by quality and disposal) and water bodies affected by water discharges and/or drainage) GRI 306-1; 306-5 In 2017, a number of improvements in the effluent treatment process at Cajamar (SP) resulted in a significant reduction in the BOD (biological oxygen demand) and COD (chemical oxygen demand) parameters. The Natura headquarters in São Paulo only generates domestic effluent, which is collected by the Sabesp public sewage system. Since there are no metres, the volume of water consumed and the volume of effluent are considered to be the same. Total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges (treated volume) Volume m3 Water that was Water quality, includUnit Disposal ing treatment method reused by another 2015 2016 2017 organization Reuse and discharge in Activated sludge and Cajamar No 129,041 157,101 145,747 waterway reverse osmosis Waste water treatment Ecoparque Discharge in waterway plant and filtering No 4,261 18,369 14,496 garden Natura São Paulo (NASP) Municipal network n.a. No 17,849 15,311 29,804 106 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Treated effluent in Cajamar (mg/l) Legal parameter 2015 2016 2017 BOD1 60 13.30 29.10 10.53 COD2 150 55.10 76.40 56.67 Oils and grease 120 18.4 16.6 15.78 1 BOD: biological oxygen demand. 2 COD: chemical oxygen demand. Treated effluent Ecoparque (mg/l) Legal parameter 2015 2016 2017 BOD1 10.90 5.50 5.20 COD2 55.00 33.40 30.70 Oils and grease <5 7.00 5.00 5.00 1 BOD: biological oxygen demand. 2 COD: chemical oxygen demand. Significant spills GRI 306-3 There were no significant spills at the Natura units in 2017. Biodiversity Operating units inside or adjacent to protected areas or areas with a high biodiversity rates GRI 304-1 Classification 1 Cajamar Ecoparque Natura São Paulo (Headquarters) Geographical location City of Cajamar (SP) City of Benevides (PA) City of São Paulo (SP) Surface and underground areas owned, rented or administered by Own area Own area Rented area the organization Permanent Protection Area Permanent Protection Area (APP) Position of operational unit in (APP) inside the site (areas near a inside the site (areas close to the ZPI (priority industrial zone) relation to the protected area A tributary of the Benfica River and Juqueri River and a spring) a spring) Administrative and industrial Administrative and logistics with Administrative and industrial production of basic soap mass and warehousing and distribution of Type of operation cosmetics production toilet soap cosmetics Size of operational unit 646,000m2 1,729,000m2 111,700m2 (m2) 1 Information about the value of biodiversity and the type of ecosystem in the areas is not available. 107 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Protected or restored habitats GRI 304-3 Aspect Cajamar NASP Ecoparque Size of protected or restored 15 hectares restored 4 hectares restored habitat areas (km2) Location of protected or restored Inside site Inside site habitat areas Restoration measure approved by independent external specialists Yes – Management plan Yes – Management plan (PRAD) Partnerships with third-parties to protect or restore habitat areas other than those in which the orgaNo No No nization supervised and implanted restoration or protection measures Reforestation using native Atlantic Reforestation using native Amazon Standards, methodologies and Rainforest species species premises adopted Species included on the IUCN red list and on Brazilian conservation lists with habitats located in areas affected by the organization’s operations GRI 304-4 In the Ecoparque, according to the 2011 Environmental Control Report, there is one species of fauna classified as near threatened and no endangered species of flora. In Cajamar, according to a tree and fauna registration exercise and survey conducted in 2012, there were no endangered species. At the Natura headquarters, located in an urban area, we have no information regarding endangered species. 2017 Red lists and criteria for endangered species 2 Species of Brazilian biodiversity present in Natura products 1 MMA3 IUCN3 Ucuuba – Virola surinamensis Vulnerable Endangered Brazil nut – Bertholletia excelsa Vulnerable Vulnerable Erva-mate – Ilexparaguariensis Near threatened Andiroba – Carapaguianensis Of little concern Priprioca – Cyperusarticulatus Of little concern 1 The endangered vegetable species native to Brazil and which are used in the Natura product lines were considered. Conservation projects are developed in partnership with research institutes and the direct suppliers of tree species from Brazilian biodiversity obtained by means of sustainable extraction. For Brazil nuts and yerba mate we concluded two conservation projects in partnership with Embrapa. We also finalized a conservation project for ucuuba, conducted in partnership with UFSCar (São Carlos Federal University) and the agricultural communities involved in this production chain. The sustainable use of non-timber forest resources, such as leaves, fruit and seeds contributes towards keeping the forest standing. We also stimulate the adoption of organic and agroforestry production systems. 2 None of the species discriminated above is on the Cites (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora) list. 3 MMA (Brazilian Ministry of the Environment) and IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature). 108 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Investments in environmental protection Total environmental investments and expenditures (R$ million) GRI 103-2; 103-3 During the year, the total amount invested grew in function of investments in social biodiversity (Amazônia Programme), a result of the steady increase in the volume of business Natura is doing in the Pan-Amazon region. There was also an increase in investments in environmental technologies for effluent treatment at the Cajamar and Ecoparque sites. Topic Description 2014 2015 2016 2017 Investments in the Amazônia Social biodiversity 385,000 169,765 220,700 249,330 Programme 1 (GRI 203-1) Investments in the Carbon Neutral Climate change 1,731 764 3,293 3,151 Programme Reverse Logistics Programme and Waste disposal of industrial waste from Natura 6,327 9,935 11,375 10,768 units 2 Water Footprint Programme and Water and effluents treatment of industrial waste from 2,685 3,410 3,583 2,824 Natura units 2 Sustainable technologies in products Innovation and socioenvironmental and clean technologies implemented in 6,645 6,661 3,874 9,188 technologies the operations Movimento Natura and Consultants’ 1,706 2,306 1,695 710 HDI Social Local development in the Natura units 2 375 478 910 1,127 (GRI 203-1) Other types of support, sponsorship Other and association related to sustainabili1,880 1,263 1,194 698 ty3, as well as environmental insurance Total 406,349 194,582 246,624 277,796 1 The amounts for the Amazônia Programme are annual, whereas the amount disclosed for business volume in the Amazon (Sustainability Vision commitment) represents the total amount to date. 2 Natura units: Cajamar, Natura São Paulo (NASP) and Benevides (Ecoparque). 3 The support and sponsorships indicated here differ from overall Natura support and sponsorships in that they refer only to sustainability-related matters. Environmental compliance Non-compliance with laws and regulations GRI 103-2; 103-3; 307-1 In 2017, there were no significant fines or non-monetary sanctions related to environmental issues. Natura considers significant fines to be ones in excess of R$ 5 million or that represent a medium to high risk for the company’s image. 109 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Environmental assessment of suppliers Negative impacts in the supplier chain and measures taken GRI 308-2 Suppliers with potential or actual negative environmental impacts 1 2015 2016 2017 N.º of suppliers assessed for negative environmental impacts 409 338 424 N.º of suppliers identified as causing negative environmental impacts 128 120 399 Actual or potential significant negative environmental impacts identified in the supplier n.a. n.a. 600 chain Number of suppliers identified as causing significant actual or potential negative environmental impacts, with whom improvements were agreed on as a result of assess73 53 165 ment Percentage of suppliers identified as causing significant actual or potential negative environmental impacts, with whom improvements were agreed on as a result of assess57.03% 44.17% 41.35% ment 1 From 2017, the data include suppliers in Brazil and in the International Operations. Suppliers’ environmental impact Main packaging and raw material suppliers 1 2015 2016 2017 Number of suppliers assessed 118 83 100 Energy consumption (j) GRI 302-1 Electrical energy 9.9E+13 8.3E+13 6.66E+13 Diesel (generator sets) 1.9E+13 4.9E+13 2.54E+13 GLP 3.9E+12 3.1E+13 2.09E+12 Natural gas 6.0E+13 3.8E+13 9.10E+13 Total 1.8E+14 1.7E+14 1.85E+14 Water consumption (m ) 1 3 Total 281,000 157,978 280,535 Waste generation 2 (t) Waste disposed of in landfills or incinerated 1,460 1,285 2,580 Waste recycled 6,065 4,618 2,765 1 The figures for 2017 include the International Operations. For this reason there was a 20% increase in the total number of suppliers compared with 2016. Water consumption grew by 78% compared with the previous year, which corresponds to the average consumption for the years prior to the water crisis in Brazil. 2 The total volume of waste generated decreased by 9%, even so there was a 40% drop in the volume of waste recycled. 110 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Natura Beauty Consultants Training Brazil Number of Natura Beauty Consultants in training in Brazil (thousands) 2015 2016 2017 New consultants 543 554 460 Initial training 315 230 180 Total consultants trained by subject1 1 374 397 184 Natura Beauty Consultants – Training actions – Global actual 3 2015 2016 2017 Percentage of single consultants trained (penetration) 41% 39% 31% Total training undertaken 2 (thousands) 1,909 1,789 1,920 1 Includes the participation of the same consultant in different training sessions. Only training in the Face, Perfumery and Make-up categories given by Relationship Managers is considered. 2 Takes into account all the different courses done by the same consultant in separate sessions (courses given by Relationship Managers, virtual training and/or other initiatives). 3 We altered the name “global target” to “global actual”, because the data reported for 2015, 2016 and 2017 refer to the actual number of consultants trained. Consultant Training 12 – International Operations 2015 2016 20173 Argentina 8,590 10,389 9,272 Chile 4,091 5,233 4,584 Colombia 6,717 7,035 8,426 Peru 7,088 12,582 10,291 Total 26,486 35,239 32,573 1 Average number of consultants trained per cycle, without repetition, in the three focus categories: Face, Perfumery and Makeup. This means that we count only one training course per consultant during the period of one year, even if the consultant does the programme more than once. 2 To make the face-toface training more personalized and focused on trial, the number of participants per course is limited to 25 consultants. 3 This year we renewed the courses in the three categories (Face, Face, Perfumery and Makeup) and launched two new courses: Enhance your Beauty and Daily Care. 111 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Surrounding communities Investments Investments in surrounding communities1 (R$ thousands) 2015 2016 2017 Natura funds 432 354 280 Crer Para Ver funds 455 556 847 1 Includes Cajamar, Natura São Paulo (Jaguara district) and Benevides. Operations with local community engagement, impact assessment and development programs implemented GRI 413-1 Type of initiative % of operations 1 Assessments of socioenvironmental impacts, including gender impact assessments, based on participative processes 2 66% Public disclosure of the results of environmental and social assessments 66% Local development programs based on the needs of the respective communities 100% Stakeholder engagement plans based on mapping of priority stakeholders 100% Committees and broad-based local community consultation processes, including vulnerable groups 100% Work councils, occupational health and safety committees and other bodies representing employees to discuss impacts No Formal grievance and complaint processes open to local communities 3 100% 1 The results have been the same for the last three years:2015, 2016 and 2017. 2 The Social Progress Index (IPS) was the metric chosen to assess the impact of our activities in the areas close to NASP and Cajamar. In Benevides, the assessment was qualitative in nature and involved broad-based meetings and community gatherings to validate the new stages of the Natura local development program. 3 The Ombudsman channel is open to all stakeholder groups. Moreover, Natura has local community engagement and impact assessment programmes in place in the areas surrounding Cajamar, Benevides and Jaguara (NASP), ensuring ongoing dialogue with these communities. 112 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Consumers Consumer health and safety Products and services for which health and safety impacts are assessed GRI 103-2; 103-3; 416-1 Natura has a constant commitment to the health and safety of its consumers. For this reason, the company has rigorous internal processes for 100% of the products in its portfolio, ranging from the conceptual development of the product to its launch. This includes product and raw material safety and effectiveness tests and assessments, as well as stability, microbiological and quality control tests to ensure compliance with the requirements of the respective sanitary authorities and a differentiated positioning aligned with the company’s commitment to transparency. After they have been launched, all Natura products are submitted to the company’s cosmetovigilance system, a process which provides feedback for our continuous improvement cycle. Furthermore, we underscore that our development process encompasses functional, sensory and emotional aspects of the products. The focus is on continually furthering our knowledge of customer behaviour and providing innovative products and services. Cases of non-compliance regarding product and service impacts on consumer health and safety and product and service information and labelling GRI 103-2; 103-3; 416-2; 417-2 In 2017, Natura did not receive any fines or sanctions for the violation of laws and regulations related to the supply and use of products and services, product and service labelling or to putting customer health and safety at risk. 113 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Society Social assessment of suppliers GRI 414-2 The number of audits increased due to the expanded scope of the indicator, which included the International Operations as well as Brazil. The percentage of suppliers whose activities were terminated was not greatly reduced, demonstrating suppliers’ interest in regularizing any deviations identified. Suppliers presenting potential or actual negative social impacts 1 2015 2016 2017 Suppliers screened for social impacts 409 338 440 Suppliers identified as causing significant potential or actual negative social impacts 126 130 147 Suppliers identified as causing significant potential or actual negative social impacts, 78 51 52 with improvement plans agreed on Percentage of suppliers identified as causing significant potential or actual negative 61.90% 39.23% 35.37% social impacts, with improvement plans agreed on Suppliers identified as causing significant potential or actual negative social impacts 0 0 0 with whom relations were terminated as a result of assessment 1 New indicator measured only in 2017. 114 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Support and sponsorship actions A total of R$ 12.8 million was invested in support and sponsorships in the course of 2017. Once again, the strategy focused on valuing Brazilian music through the Natura Musical programme was worthy of note. In 2017, the platform inaugurated the Casa Natura Musical venue in the city of São Paulo (read more on page60) and increased the number of sponsorship tenders for festivals. In the course of the year, 69 projects were undertaken, 36 cultural products (CDs, DVDs, LPs and books) were launched, and more than 160 shows were held all over Brazil, with a total attendance of 175,000 people. We activated new contents in the digital channels (Facebook, Instagram, Youtube, Twitter, Spotify and the Natura Musical website), which received over 25 million views. In the fashion world, we were present at the two editions of the São Paulo Fashion Week, impacting more than 112,000 attendees and generating more than 70 million views in the event’s digital channels. Experiences involving product trials and gifts were promoted for consumers, opinion formers, journalists, consultants and employees in our makeup space, which was open to the public. In the second edition of the show in August, Natura was the official makeup brand and we organized an unprecedented co-creation event that culminated in a show-happening for around two thousand people. We also maintained our support aimed at consolidating collaboration and dialogue networks related to important institutional topics for the company, with a focus on sustainability and innovation. During the year we participated in the following events: Sustainable Brands, Virada Sustentável RJ, Congresso Nacional de Inovação, Conferência Anpei de Inovação and Virada Empreendedora. Moreover, we sponsored Instituto Ethos and the annual conference it organizes, as well as a room at the Fundação Getulio Vargas, forging closer links with academia. The foundation also permits us to use the space for some sales force training programmes. Investments Natura funds (R$ thousands) 2015 2016 2 2017 Sustainable development 154 337 150 Brazilian music 9,010 1,879 6,706 Fashion 1 0 2,610 2,845 Reinforcement of civil society organizations 1,020 603 552 Cities 314 0 0 Total company funds 10,498 5,429 10,103 Investments funded with tax incentives (R$ thousands) 3 2015 2016 2017 Brazilian music 4 5,541 3,175 2,751 Total (company and tax incentives) 16,039 8,604 12,854 1 In 2016, we resumed our investments in fashion, previously declared as behaviour and attitude. 2 Change in the methodology for declaring Natura funding compared with previous years. The company declared the investments it made directly in projects using its own funds. 3 In the last three years, we did not undertake any tax incentive investments in sustainable development, reinforcement of civil society organizations, sport, fashion and cities. 4 Rouanet law (federal sphere) and ICMS (in the states of Bahia, São Paulo, Minas Gerais, Pará and Rio Grande do Sul). 115 2017 ANNUAL REPORT Leadership and social influence GRI 102-12 In 2017 Natura was active in the public sphere in sustainability-related questions through industry associations, particularly noteworthy being the implementation of the Biodiversity legal framework in defence of the PanAmazon region and the debate on banning animal testing. Other topics in which the company was active were: the preservation of autonomy in direct selling, reinforcing female entrepreneurship, innovation and tax questions. In 2017, Natura initiated a series of dialogues with society about the generation of a positive impact. The first meeting was attended by Richard Branson, the founder of the Virgin Group, as well as other guests, and revolved around the prospects of a new economy in which businesses may and should generate solutions for sustainable development based on the challenge of generating a positive impact for society and the environment. To commemorate the 10th anniversary of its Carbon Neutral Programme, Natura, in partnership with Itaú Unibanco, presented a joint platform to promote measures to offset greenhouse gas emissions. The company is also part of the Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi), which is pursuing an absolute reduction in emissions in line with the level of decarbonization necessary to maintain the increase in global temperature below 2ºC.We are also members of The Natural Capital Coalition, a global group whose objective is to harmonize approaches to natural capital and its conservation, and We Mean Business – Net Zero 2050, an initiative to drive the transition to a low carbon economy. In partnership with Claudia magazine, we commemorated Natura Beauty Consultant Day (September 22), debating female empowerment and entrepreneurship. In line with our vision of gender equality, we organized an encounter with a group of men who inspire others to free themselves from stigmas and stereotypes and who have singular experiences to share about the construction of identity, image and beauty. Institutional representation GRI 103-13 In 2017, Natura’s CEO, João Paulo Ferreira, took part in the WFDSA (World Federation of Direct Selling Association) CEO Council, a federation of 60 direct selling associations from the around the world. Together with Moacir Salzstein, Natura’s director of Corporate Governance and vice president of the Brazilian direct selling association Abevd (Associação Brasileira de Empresas de Vendas Diretas), he also participated in the organization’s world congress. In Brazil, Natura is represented on diverse Abevd committees: Legal and Tax Affairs Committee, Institutional Affairs Committee, Communication Committee, Benefits Committee, and the Research Committee. We are also very active in the Brazilian CFT association Abihpec (Associação Brasileira da Indústria de Higiene Pessoal, Perfumaria e Cosméticos), participating in the following working groups: Environment, Tax, Regulatory, Labour Relations, Overseas Trade and Communication, as well as in the respective sub-groups. To bring discussion on the prohibition of animal testing to the forefront, we participate actively in the alternative methods sub-group; additionally we assumed a seat on the Renama (Rede Nacional de Métodos Alternativos) Steering Council. In the areas of sustainability, ethics, integrity and transparency, we maintain our representation in the Instituto Ethos (Instituto Ethos de Empresas e Responsabilidade Social), where Andrea Alvares, vice president of Marketing, Innovation and Sustainability, and Marcelo Behar, director of Corporate Affairs are on the board of directors. In parallel, Priscila Specie, Public and Government Relations manager, is on the Steering Council. We also participate in the Climate, Companies and Human Rights, Integrity and Anti-corruption working groups. 116 2017 ANNUAL REPORT In partnership with the Instituto Ethos and Ceert (Centro de Estudos das Relações de Trabalho e Desigualdade), we joined the Coalizão Empresarial para a Equidade de Raça e Gênero (Business Coalition for Racial and Gender Equality). In 2017, for the first time ever Instituto Ethos held a conference in Belém, Pará, where we organized a debate on women in the Amazon region. In the Movimento Mulher 360º, we accompany the dialogues among members and the board of director meetings, at which Kássia Reis, our legal director, represents Natura. In the UN Brazil Global Compact Network, we have a seat on the Brazilian Global Compact Committee and participate in diverse working groups. Andrea Alvares is on the board of the sustainable development business council Cebds (Conselho Empresarial Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Sustentável). We are also represented in the National Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Commission by Instituto Ethos, as well as in the national industry confederation CNI (Confederação Nacional da Indústria). We participate in the discussions organized by the B Corp system, in which we were recertified in 2017. We also participate in Getap (Grupo de Estudos Tributários Aplicados) and CCiF (Centro de Cidadania Fiscal). In the CNI, we are involved in the environment, tax and overseas trade forums. Our vice president of Operations and Logistics, Josie Romero, is a member of the FNQ (Fundação Nacional de Qualidade) Curators Council. Our co-founders are also board members of diverse associations. Pedro Passos is a board member of Iedi (Instituto de Estudos para o Desenvolvimento Industrial) and a member of the MEI (Mobilização Empresarial pela Inovação) Business Leaders Committee, of the CNI, and the Conselho de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social, a group of civil society representatives that provides direct advice to the Presidency of the Republic. Guilherme Leal is part of the B Team, a global group of leaders for social, environmental and economic transformation and is a member/curator of Instituto Ethos. 117 118 119 120 2017 ANNUAL REPORT CREDITS NATURA DIRECTOR OF CORPORATE AFFAIRS Marcelo Bicalho Behar COMMUNICATION MANAGER Milena Buosi ANNUAL REPORT COORDINATOR Fábio Peixoto DESIGN Carolina Almeida EXECUTIVE PRODUCTION Priscila Costa MARKETING, INNOVATION AND SUSTAINABILITY Luciana Vilanova, Janice Rodrigues, Keyvan Macedo FINANCE, INVESTOR RELATIONS AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION Márcio Bologna and Elisa Fortino MARKET RELATIONS Marcel Goya and Luiz Palhares PRODUCTION OF THIS EDITION ART DIRECTION AND GRAPHIC DESIGN Aline Leme COPY AND SUSTAINABILITY CONSULTING Report Sustentabilidade EDITING Álvaro Almeida and Michele Silva REPORTING Renata Costa and Talita Fusco PROJECT AND RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT Ana Souza GRI CONSULTING Juliana Fullmann, Fabíola Nascimento and Victor Netto CRITICAL ANALYSIS OF INDICATORS LINKED WITH THE SUSTAINABILITY VISION Gestão Samaúma Karina Baratella PHOTOGRAPHY Gustavo Zylbersztajn (models) ILLUSTRATION Filipe Jardim INFOGRAPHICS Newton Verlangieri (maps and infographs) Bruna Foltran (tables and graphs) TRANSLATION Raymond Maddock 121
