International Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 ALDI SOUTH Group Foreword Materiality analysis Key ﬁgures CR strategy GRI Index UN Global Compact and SDGs Key ﬁgures in focus 404 74.16% 99.58% product variants which have of all relevant products of all production facilities undergone optimisation in contain certiﬁed palm used by our suppliers which terms of their salt, sugar, or (kernel) oil. are located in BSCI risk fat content. countries have undergone audits. ! 19.6 75% Continuously low quota of million euros were donated of our refrigeration systems work-related accidents to charitable organisations. operate on more climatefriendly refrigerants. CR focus topics Customers Health and well-being Supply chain Protecting our forests Supply chain Supplier assessments People Occupational safety and the promotion of health Community Long-term partnerships Environment Modern refrigeration technology Foreword Dear Reader, Simple, responsible, consistent – this is how we conduct our business operations in 11 countries. Our responsibility for people, planet, and climate forms the guideline for all our actions. With this second Corporate Responsibility Report, we provide information about how we assume responsibility within the central ﬁelds of action related to our business operations Customers, Supply chain (Resources and Suppliers), People, Community, and Environment. We report on our approaches pursued, our goals, our progress made, and our future challenges. Since the publication of our ﬁrst CR Report for the business year 2015 in summer 2016, we have made signiﬁcant progress in many ﬁelds of action. In order to learn more about our achievements, please click here. For further information on key ﬁgures from the area of Corporate Responsibility, please refer to the section titled Facts and ﬁgures. In summer 2017, we joined the Global Compact, the United Nations’ sustainability network. Committing to the ten principles of the Global Compact is another important step of our responsibility journey. With the present report, we provide information regarding our progress made with respect to the implementation of these ten principles (Communication on Progress, see also here). The United Nations have deﬁned the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to be implemented between 2016 and 2030. Together with the Global Compact, the SDGs form the basis for the further development of our sustainability strategy. These include, for example, our current measures for the further development of our climate strategy in line with the requirements stipulated by SDG 13, which is called Climate action. Climate protection is of vital importance to global development, and limiting global warming is a precondition for achieving many of the SDGs. By the year 2020, we intend to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions per square metre of sales ﬂoor by 30% compared to the year 2012. In most of our countries of operation, we have achieved this goal already. Our future climate strategy will be based on the goal of limiting global warming to well below two degrees Celsius (2 °C) compared to pre-industrial times, as deﬁned within the Paris Agreement. In collaboration with experts, we are currently evaluating the consequences of this goal for our business operations and potential contributions to climate protection to be made throughout our supply chain. The present international CR Report provides an overview of the topics addressed at international level by the national organisations of the ALDI SOUTH Group. We selected the topics to be included in our CR Report based on our stakeholders' expectations, our actual or potential abilities to make a change (materiality analysis), as well as our general beliefs as detailed in our CR Principles. In addition to the activities covered by this report, all national organisations of the ALDI SOUTH Group take various other measures, participate in initiatives and projects, and address a broad variety of topics. For further information on the tasks pursued by the national organisations, please refer to the links provided under International activities at the end of each chapter. We hope you enjoy reading our CR Report and are looking forward to hearing from you. Please feel free to send us your questions and comments via email to cri@aldi-sued.com. Sven van den Boomen Managing Director Corporate Responsibility International on behalf of the companies of the ALDI SOUTH Group GRI disclosures Strategy 102-14 Company proﬁle ALDI SOUTH – simply successful Our focus on the essentials and our optimisation of the discount principle has made ALDI SOUTH the leading international retailer it is today. We offer a consciously reduced, carefully selected range of food products and other daily necessities. Throughout our different countries of operation, we offer between 1,390 and 1,800 core range products and a changing selection of 80 to 120 special buys every week. In some countries, we also offer services, such as travel bookings, telephone and photo services, the sale of green electricity, internet streaming, or ﬂower delivery and, in Germany, the delivery of special buys. In addition, our customers in Austria, the United Kingdom, and China can shop online at ALDI. Our private label brands form the heart of our core product range. These allow us to offer an optimally selected range of products and guarantee quality at the best price. We continually reﬁne our private label brands together with our suppliers while supplementing these with other popular brand-name products. A company shaped by simplicity and efﬁciency Our corporate structure is based on the principle of 'simplicity and efﬁciency'. The majority of our processes and structures – from buying and IT to logistics and store workﬂows – are applied consistently across the different countries and are optimised for maximum efﬁciency. Our organisational structures are always set up in an equal manner at both regional and national level. Decentralised operations and international alignment are the key to success Our decentralised business model has been a decisive factor in shaping the positive development ALDI SOUTH has continually experienced. The proximity to our customers and our knowledge of national and regional markets allow us to tailor our range to the needs of our customers. This also applies to the area of corporate responsibility. The expectations and needs of our customers and other stakeholders often differ considerably from country to country. For this reason, we address a variety of topics independently within our individual countries of operation, while other topics are managed based on a common strategic framework and internationally aligned objectives. Legal structure From a legal perspective, ALDI SOUTH is structured as a group of companies based on two pillars. In Germany, our business is operated by a group of 30 independent regional companies. Our international operations are legally separated from these and are bundled and coordinated under the umbrella of HOFER KG in Austria. HOFER KG subsidiaries have been carrying out business operations in Switzerland, Slovenia, Hungary, the United Kingdom, Ireland, the US, and Australia for many years now. In 2017, we launched our ALDI web shop in China. At the beginning of March 2018, a separate HOFER KG subsidiary, ALDI Italy, started business in the Italian market. HOFER KG in Austria as well as its international subsidiaries across the globe have set up a number of regional branches of similar size within their respective countries of operation. The national operations in Austria, Switzerland, Slovenia, Hungary, and Italy are collectively referred to as HOFER S/E (South East). The Asian Ofﬁce in Hong Kong provides support for the companies of the ALDI SOUTH Group in the area of buying. For the implementation of CR goals in Asia, we are additionally supported by our CR Units in Hong Kong and Dhaka, Bangladesh. Shareholders ALDI GmbH & Co. KGs HOFER KG Austria ALDI SÜD Dienstleistungs-GmbH & Co. oHG Switzerland ALDI International Services GmbH & Co. oHG Slovenia Hungary Italy HOFER S/E USA UK Ireland Australia Asian Ofﬁce Hong Kong Germany China International Currently being established As of 31 December 2017 Centralised corporate services ALDI SÜD Dienstleistungs-GmbH & Co. oHG in Mülheim an der Ruhr, Germany, provides central services for the German regional companies in the areas of buying, administration, and IT, marketing and communications as well as logistics and services. Similarly, ALDI International Services GmbH & Co. oHG in Mülheim an der Ruhr provides buying, corporate responsibility, auditing, and IT-related services for all of the companies throughout the ALDI SOUTH Group. A long tradition The family-owned business initially founded in 1913 was divided in 1961 to form what has since developed into two groups of companies: ALDI SOUTH and ALDI North. These two business groups have remained linked by family ties, but both are legally and economically independent entities. With the exception of Germany, both groups operate in different countries. (ALDI international: ALDI.com) Today, the ALDI SOUTH Group operates more than 5,900 stores and 85 regional distribution centres around the world. With 126,000 employees, the ALDI SOUTH Group generated net sales of EUR 51.8 billion in 2017. Ownership structure The main capital interests of the companies of the ALDI SOUTH Group are held by the two foundations Siepmann-Stiftung and Carolus-Stiftung, both based in Germany. The foundations’ management boards primarily represent the founding family. An Advisory Board consisting of foundation representatives and external experts advises the shareholders on economic and strategic matters. Neither the shareholders nor the Advisory Board are involved in day-to-day operations. 51.8 5,903 85 net sales in billion euros stores distribution centres GRI disclosures Organisational proﬁle 102-1 102-2 102-3 102-4 102-5 102-6 102-7 Governance 102-18 CR strategy “Simplicity and responsibility are core values of ALDI SOUTH. Our business model is simple: great quality at the best price, fair and honest product offers, and efﬁcient business processes. In all we do, we assume responsibility towards our customers, business partners, employees, the community, and the environment. Our CR Principles summarise our commitments to people and planet. They guide all of us in our day-to-day actions and are a strict requirement of our business partners.” CR Principles The companies of the ALDI SOUTH Group are committed to the principles of corporate responsibility (CR). We focus on the essentials and on achieving the greatest possible impact. Concretely, this means that we 1. analyse the impact of our business operations on our community and the environment, 2. identify topics and effective approaches, 3. set measurable goals, 4. plan and implement effective measures, and 5. monitor implementation and adjust measures as required. CR Principles In 2010, ALDI SOUTH established a set of international CR Principles, which were last revised in 2015. These principles deﬁne our understanding of responsibility towards people and planet. They guide us in our day-to-day actions and are a strict requirement of our business partners. The CR Principles describe our approach in the ﬁve key areas of action: Customers, Supply chain, People, Community, and Environment. Implementation Up to top management level, representatives of the CR departments participate in all important international committees of the ALDI SOUTH Group. Consequently, CR-related aspects are considered within the scope of decision-making processes at top level. We develop international strategies for fulﬁlling our responsibility across all areas of our business. These strategies are then implemented by the ALDI SOUTH Group’s national organisations in each of the countries where we operate. In addition, each national organisation also develops its own national set of CR activities according to country-speciﬁc conditions. The international goals are summarised in our International Action Plan (IAP), which also deﬁnes key performance indicators for measuring our progress. Progress is measured at least once a year and reported on by each of the national organisations. The summary of these national progress reports forms the basis for internal reporting activities and external communication of goal achievement. All national organisations maintain communication with their relevant stakeholders. At international level on behalf of the national organisations, the Corporate Responsibility International department is responsible for communicating with stakeholders and representing the positions jointly adopted by the ALDI SOUTH Group’s national organisations in international bodies and associations. In 2017, we conducted an international survey of over 5,900 internal and external stakeholders and interviewed over 40 ﬁeld experts. The goal of this survey was to determine whether we currently address the most important CR-related issues, and whether we prioritise these appropriately from a stakeholder perspective. The results of this survey are reﬂected within a comprehensive materiality analysis, which forms the foundation for further developing our international and national CR strategies. Decentralised company structure For the planning, monitoring, and implementation of measures, each of the ALDI SOUTH national organisations has established its own CR department, which is responsible for the majority of CR activities. In some countries, certain topics, particularly in the areas of climate and environmental protection and human resources, are coordinated by one of the regional companies or a speciﬁc department. International coordination and presence in Asia The department Corporate Responsibility International (CRI) is a central service unit for the national organisations when it comes to topics with international relevance. CRI supports the national organisations in developing and coordinating strategies and operational approaches. On their behalf, CRI also analyses future trends and developments in the area of sustainability, prepares proposals for the strategic coordination of relevant activities, coordinates the internal reporting process, and coordinates external CR communication at group level. CRI also maintains dialogue with international stakeholders and represents the ALDI SOUTH Group’s national organisations in international committees and multistakeholder initiatives. Each of the ALDI SOUTH Group’s national organisations sources a portion of their products from Asia. To minimise the risks relating to production conditions and ensure compliance with our high standards, the ALDI SOUTH Group has been operating its CR Unit Asia in Hong Kong since 2012 and established a second CR Unit in Bangladesh in 2017. The focus of these CR Units is to monitor our suppliers’ production facilities and the performance of our suppliers with regard to corporate responsibility. For this purpose, the CR Units conduct audits of the working conditions in the production facilities on behalf of the national organisations of the ALDI SOUTH Group and provide support to suppliers in implementing speciﬁc social and environmental standards. Goals The strategies established for implementing the CR Principles in each of the different modules include international goals which provide direction for each of the ALDI SOUTH Group’s national organisations. In addition to the range of international goals presented here, the national organisations also set their own goals to pursue as part of their national CR strategies. 1. Customers Goal Status as of 2017 Time frame Food safety standards: Production facilities commissioned for food products are to be certiﬁed according to an internationally recognised food safety standard. 96.25% Ongoing Responsible marketing: Each national organisation of the ALDI SOUTH Group is to Implemented throughout approve a national policy for responsible marketing. all ALDI SOUTH countries Since 2017 2. Supply chain – Resources Goal Status as of 2017 Time frame Palm oil/palm kernel oil: Since the end of 2015: DE, UK, All palm oil/palm kernel oil used in our private label food IE, AT, CH, AU products is to be certiﬁed. 90% By the end of 2018: US, SI, HU All palm oil/palm kernel oil used in our private label nonfood products is to be certiﬁed. 13% By the end of 2018 Sustainable forestry: All wood and paper-based product components are to be produced from certiﬁed raw materials or recycled materials. 80% By the end of 2020 All wood and paper-based components contained in the product packaging of our everyday product range are to be produced from certiﬁed raw materials or recycled materials. 52% By the end of 2020 Cocoa: All cocoa contained in the relevant private label products is to be certiﬁed. 80% By the end of 2020 Coffee: The percentage of certiﬁed coffee is to be steadily increased. 43% Ongoing Fish sourced from responsible ﬁsheries: Products containing ﬁsh and seafood are to be sourced from responsible ﬁsheries. 82% Ongoing 3. Supply chain – Suppliers Goal Status as of 2017 Time frame Social Monitoring Programme: All non-food commodity groups are to be integrated within Implemented throughout the Social Monitoring Programme (SMP). all ALDI SOUTH countries Since the end of 2017 Auditing: All main production facilities used for non-food items which have been integrated within the Social Monitoring Programme are to possess a valid social audit report or certiﬁcate accepted by ALDI SOUTH. Ongoing Since 2008 All new non-food production facilities located in Bangladesh are to be visited within the scope of an ALDI Social Assessment. Ongoing Seit 2015 Detox Commitment: Transparency concerning all main and pre-production facilities used for textiles and shoes. Ongoing Since 2015 Wastewater and sludge analyses are carried out at all wetprocessing facilities used for textiles and shoes. 89% Since 2015 All textiles and shoes are to be produced in compliance with the ALDI threshold values deﬁned for alkylphenol ethoxylates (APEOs) and perﬂuorinated compounds (PFCs). (see Detox Commitment) Ongoing Since 2017 The quantities of ﬁbres used for garment and household textile products are being monitored. Ongoing Since 2017 The leather used as a main component of textiles and shoes is to be sourced solely from tanneries which possess a certiﬁcate issued by the Leather Working Group (LWG). Ongoing By 2020 A system is to be implemented for recording and donating product samples (of textiles and shoes) to non-proﬁt Implemented in 8 of 9 organisations. ALDI SOUTH countries By 2020 Information on Detox-relevant topics is to be published regularly. Ongoing Since 2017 4. People Goal Status as of 2017 Time frame Professional development: The training programme offered by the ALDI Academy/ALDI University is to be continuously improved with regard to its range of target groups and their individual needs. Ongoing Since 2010 A global competency model as well as requirement proﬁles tailored to the needs of different groups of employees are to be established. Planned By 2020 Corporate health management: A corporate health management system is to be Planned/Currently being implemented in each ALDI SOUTH country. implemented By 2018 Diversity: A global guideline for equal opportunities is to be implemented. Currently being planned By 2020 5. Community Goal Status as of 2017 Time frame Strategy: An impact-oriented strategy for community activities is to Implemented throughout be implemented throughout all ALDI SOUTH countries. all ALDI SOUTH countries Since 2016 6. Environment Goal Status as of 2017 Time frame Company Carbon Footprint: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions generated per m² Achieved or exceeded in 3 of sales ﬂoor by 30% throughout all ALDI SOUTH countries out of 5 ALDI SOUTH country or country clusters (base year: 2012). clusters By 2020 Energy management system: An energy management system based on the requirements of the ISO 50001 norm is to be implemented throughout all ALDI SOUTH stores. 100% Since 2016 Refrigeration technology: In the refrigeration systems installed in all stores, refrigerants with a global warming potential (GWP) of > 2,200 are to be replaced by an alternative refrigerant with a lower GWP. 75% By 2025 Lighting: In all stores, chiller cabinets are to be illuminated using LED bulbs instead of conventional ﬂuorescent tube lighting. 80% By 2017 In all stores, chest freezers are to be illuminated using LED bulbs instead of conventional ﬂuorescent tube lighting. 63% By 2017 All new ALDI SOUTH stores are to be ﬁtted entirely with LEDbased interior lighting. Ongoing Since 2017 Waste: In all countries of the ALDI SOUTH Group, waste volumes and disposal methods for the most relevant waste fractions Expansion to include are to be recorded by means of adequate monitoring Implemented throughout further waste fractions as of systems. all ALDI SOUTH countries 2018 GRI disclosures Organisational proﬁle 102-12 Materiality analysis ✔ Selection of topics We selected the topics to be included in our CR Report based on our stakeholders' expectations, our actual or potential impact, and our general belief as expressed in our CR Principles. Approach In 2017, more than 5,900 stakeholders from all countries where the ALDI SOUTH Group conducts its business participated in an online survey. We asked our stakeholders to rate the importance they attach to various sustainability-related topics. The surveyed stakeholder groups included customers, employees, suppliers, and non-governmental organisations specialising in supply chain and environmental protection. These groups were identiﬁed as being most relevant based on the criteria of 'potential inﬂuence of ALDI SOUTH', 'potential inﬂuence of the stakeholder group on ALDI SOUTH', and 'possible potential for conﬂict'. In addition, we also conducted detailed interviews with 43 experts from the same areas across all ALDI SOUTH countries. The online questionnaire had a total of 44 topics which were allocated to the following ﬁelds of action: Governance & Management, Customers & Community, Supply chain, People, and Environment. To identify the topics for the survey, we reviewed internal strategy papers and external analyses as well as materiality analyses prepared by other market agents and results from market research, and created a comprehensive list of potential aspects. Through a series of workshops held with the internal experts of the Corporate Responsibility International (CRI) department, we grouped the numerous aspects within 44 topics. The online questionnaire provided detailed explanations of the individual topics and clear distinctions between them. These topics ranged from emission prevention to work-life balance. The online survey participants were asked to indicate to which extent the individual topics inﬂuenced their assessments and decisions vis-à-vis ALDI SOUTH (or ALDI, HOFER, or ALDI SUISSE, respectively depending on the country), using a scale ranging from 'not important at all' to 'very important'. Furthermore, the participants could specify additional topics they deemed relevant using free-text ﬁelds. The participants initially completed the ﬁeld of action allocated to them – for example, suppliers completed the topics from the 'Supply chain' ﬁeld of action. Subsequently, the participants were also free to answer questions from other ﬁelds of action. More than 90% of the surveyed consumers not only completed the topics from the 'Customers' ﬁeld of action allocated to them but also voluntarily answered questions from other ﬁelds of action, such as 'Supply chain' or 'Environment'. In addition, for each topic, our internal sustainability experts assessed the impact level of our business operations in accordance with the requirements deﬁned by the Global Reporting Initiative. In doing so, they considered the actual current impacts of the business operations on the respective topic. To simplify comparison, all topics were grouped into 'low', 'medium', and 'high' impact topics by our internal experts. The external expert interviews provided a more comprehensive assessment of the ALDI SOUTH Group's present CR performance. Moreover, they helped us identify trends and provided indications regarding potential future developments. Selection of 44 topics for Prioritisation of ﬁve ﬁve ﬁelds of action stakeholder groups Governance & Management Environment Customers Environment NGOs Customers & Supply chain Employees Supply chain Community People Suppliers NGOs • Interviews held with 43 experts Impact assessment in cooperation with sustainability experts • Online survey of 5,904 stakeholders Results workshop • Combination of the results of the impact assessment and the online survey • Identiﬁcation of implications for reporting Key topics Strategy development Materiality matrix The results of the stakeholder analysis and the impact assessment formed the basis for the materiality matrix displayed below. The vertical position on the y-axis (relevance) corresponds to the average assessment of the topic across all stakeholder groups and countries. All stakeholder groups were weighted equally, while the countries were weighted depending on the number of stores in each country. The allocation to one of the three groups on the horizontal x-axis is based on the impact assessment provided by our internal sustainability experts. The topics’ boundaries can be illustrated by displaying or hiding those topics which are allocated to the 'Supply chain', 'Own activities', 'Customers', and 'Community' areas of impact along the value chain. The colours show the ﬁeld of action of a topic. Those 15 topics which are characterised by particularly high relevance and/or impact are highlighted in full colour. Fields of action Supply chain People Environment Governance & Management Customers & Community Impact in the area of Supply chain Internal activities and people Customers Community Relevance Extremely high High Rather high Impact Low Middle High Results of the materiality analysis The results of the materiality analysis generally conﬁrmed our previous assessment. The three topics rated 'very important' most often across all stakeholder groups and countries are 'Working conditions throughout the supply chain' for the 'Supply chain' ﬁeld of action, 'Product quality and safety' for the 'Customers' ﬁeld of action, as well as ‘Ethical business practices and compliance’ for the ‘Governance & Management’ ﬁeld of action. Results of the materiality  analysis Download PDF Focus topics The focus topics for this CR Report were selected based on the results of the materiality analysis. 'Customers' focus: health and well-being 'Range of affordable, healthy food products' was one of the top-rated topics in the 'Customers' ﬁeld of action. The topic of 'Promoting a healthy and sustainable lifestyle' was also rated as important. 'Resources' focus: protecting our forests The top-rated topics in the 'Supply chain' ﬁeld of action include 'Environmental impacts of agriculture, forestry, and ﬁshery' and 'Sustainable purchasing practices'. In the ‘Customers’ ﬁeld of action, the topic of 'More sustainable products' belongs to the most important topics. We chose the topic of 'Protecting our forests' as an area of focus to explain the potential impact of our activities on important ecosystems and to show the measures we take in order to contribute to the protection of forests. 'Supply chain' focus: supplier assessments The topics rated by many stakeholders as 'very important' include 'Working conditions throughout the supply chain', 'Fair business relationships', and 'Sustainable purchasing practices'. One of the instruments we use to promote further improvement in these areas is the systematic assessment of our suppliers' CR performance. 'People' focus: occupational health and safety Both the topics of ‘Occupational safety’ and ‘Health of employees’ were priority topics in the 'People' ﬁeld of action. Since we attach high importance to our employees' health and safety, we selected this focus topic for the 'People' chapter of the CR Report. 'Environment' focus: modern refrigeration technology Our stakeholders consider the 'Reduction of GHG emissions caused by business operations' to be important. Our efforts for modernising our refrigeration equipment provide us with particularly great inﬂuence as refrigeration accounts for a large portion of our energy consumption and the refrigerants used are of considerable relevance to our GHG balance. 'Community' focus: long-term partnerships The materiality analysis shows that from our external stakeholders’ view, our company's community activities are not considered a priority. However, we, and our employees, attach increasing importance to this commitment. Within this area of focus, we present our approach to achieving a particularly high societal impact by concentrating on long-term partnerships. In addition to these areas of focus, the survey also showed a number of topics which are of great importance to our customers, employees, and other stakeholders. Within the 'People' ﬁeld of action, the topics of 'Diversity and equal opportunities', 'Work-life balance and compatibility of job and family', and 'Attractiveness as an employer' were rated as 'very important'. The concept of diversity and equal opportunities is deeply rooted within our corporate culture and forms part of our CR Principles. Within the scope of implementing our strategy to become an employer of choice within the retail industry, we are currently developing several initiatives to provide our employees with an attractive working environment. For our customers, 'More sustainable packaging' is an important ﬁeld of action. Plastic shopping bags are a striking example in this context. As a matter of principle, we do not offer such shopping bags free of charge – not even in countries where free shopping bags are common practice. In various countries, we have already replaced disposable shopping bags with reusable shopping bags. We are making the gradual transition of the packaging of our core range products made from cardboard or paper to raw materials originating from certiﬁed sources or recycled materials. In this context, we will need to face various challenges as product packaging must fulﬁl a broad variety of requirements (including sustainability, hygiene and protection of the merchandise against damage, consumer-oriented presentation, and efﬁcient transport). 'Avoiding food waste' is one of the most highly ranked topics in the 'Environment' ﬁeld of action. Although we continuously increase our range of fresh products offered, we still succeed in reducing food waste to a minimum. This is possible because of our focused range of products and our appropriate merchandise planning methods. We donate unsold but still sound merchandise to charitable organisations, while organic waste is repurposed as animal feed or for the production of bioenergy. Additionally to raising awareness on the topic among consumers, for example through the “Reste Retten” (“Save food scraps”) campaign in Germany, we intend to reduce food waste caused during agricultural production and transport in cooperation with our suppliers. Insights gained from the expert interviews The interviews held with external experts provided us with many important indications concerning the ongoing development of our corporate responsibility strategy. The multitude of challenges faced throughout our supply chains continue to provide potential for optimisation. We deem an ever stronger integration of sustainability requirements into our other business processes – with a particular focus on buying operations – and adequate consideration of the related performance of suppliers and producers within the scope of product selection to be important tasks for the ALDI SOUTH Group. At the same time, we were happy to hear that the interviewed experts – most of them from the 'Supply chain' ﬁeld of action – perceive our efforts to be serious and credible. GRI disclosures Stakeholder engagement 102-40 102-42 102-43 102-44 Reporting practice 102-46 102-47 Compliance and risk management In addition to the requirements deﬁned by national and international law, the ALDI SOUTH Group is committed to upholding its own set of ethical values and standards. The Code of Conduct of the ALDI SOUTH Group, which deﬁnes our expectation of integrity and legal compliance, was approved in 2015. The Code of Conduct forms the basis for the national codes of conduct which provide guidance for our employees worldwide. Comprehensive training All employees receive regular training to keep them up to date on relevant legal topics. The frequency and scope of these training measures are aligned with the requirements of the different areas of responsibility. For example, the training measures provided for employees within our Buying departments cover areas such as competition law, while employees with HR responsibilities are trained in areas such as data protection. We also organise tailored individual training sessions on the adequate handling of customer data. Alert lines We have created independent points of contact within all national organisations of the ALDI SOUTH Group. Our employees and, in most countries, our third-party service providers and suppliers can contact these alert lines in order to report potential instances of non-compliance, discrimination, or other forms of misconduct. To ensure that incidents are in fact reported and the individuals remain anonymous, all information is anonymised and treated as conﬁdential on request before being forwarded to the responsible parties within the ALDI SOUTH Group. In line with the relevant national framework conditions, alert lines have been established in the United Kingdom, Ireland, the US, Australia, and China. In Germany, Austria, Slovenia, Switzerland, Hungary, and Italy, independent counsels of trust are available. These counsels of trust serve as a neutral point of contact. The process allows both the informant and the person(s) against whom a complaint has been made to state their view. Internal structures for a zero-tolerance policy The internal monitoring system of the ALDI SOUTH Group is supported by the International Internal Auditing department. This department performs regular audits in accordance with speciﬁc standards. We thoroughly investigate any irregularities detected and adhere to a zero-tolerance policy with respect to violations of our Code of Conduct. If a supplier or service provider is found to have committed a serious violation, we reserve the right to terminate the business relationship. Serious misconduct by an employee may result in termination of the employment contract and claims for damages. We monitor working conditions and social standards at the production facilities used throughout our supply chain as part of our Social Monitoring Programme. Moreover, we supplement external audits with internal reviews and work together with our business partners to continually improve social and environmental standards in production throughout the supply chain. Data protection Within the scope of its business operations, the ALDI SOUTH Group processes personal data. In individual cases, the national organisations of the ALDI SOUTH Group process personal customer data, mostly in order to follow up on complaints, but also in order to adjust our offers even better to the requirements of our customers. We strive to collect only data absolutely required for the speciﬁc purpose and treat all data conﬁdentially in accordance with the applicable national laws. Within the scope of our online business operations in China and the United Kingdom as well as for the purpose of home deliveries in Germany and Austria, data is gathered, processed, and stored in accordance with each country's applicable legal requirements. Prior to releasing new systems, processes, and individual measures, the responsible data protection ofﬁcers are consulted. In Germany, an external data protection ofﬁcer can also be contacted in the event of questions concerning data collection and processing. Risk management To ensure our company's success and future operations, we have established appropriate risk management systems at both national and international level. We analyse existing risks, monitor future trends, and evaluate different scenarios to regularly identify, assess, and evaluate arising uncertainties. It is our aim to effectively mitigate and manage risks, and to ultimately prevent them wherever possible. The risk management approach taken by the ALDI SOUTH Group is subject to continuous improvement. In 2014, we established an international Risk Management and Compliance department. At the same time, a risk management system based, among other things, on the internationally recognised COSO Enterprise Risk Management framework was also introduced. GRI disclosures Organisational proﬁle 102-11 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Anti-corruption 205-2 Initiatives and associations Memberships Country/country clusters Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh ALDI SOUTH Group actionsanté eine Initiative des Bundesamt für Lebensmittelsicherheit und Veterinärwesen und des Bundesamt für Gesundheit Switzerland Aktionsplattform Lebensmittelhandel zur Förderung der Tafelarbeit und zur Vermeidung von Lebensmittelabfall Austria amfori BSCI ALDI SOUTH Group amfori BEPI ALDI SOUTH Group Altstoff Recycling Austria AG Austria Arbeitsgemeinschaft Verpackung + Umwelt e. V. (AGVU) Germany ARGE Gentechnik-frei Austria, Switzerland ARGE Nachhaltigkeitsagenda für Getränkeverpackungen Austria Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation (APCO) Australia Better Cotton Initiative Germany Bord Bia Ireland British Dietetic Association UK British Nutrition Foundation UK/Ireland British Retail Consortium UK Bundesdeutscher Arbeitskreis für Umweltbewusstes Management (B.A.U.M.) e. V. Germany Business in the Community UK/Ireland Champions 12.3 UK/Ireland Change4Life UK/Ireland Childhood Obesity Strategy as part of the UK government UK/Ireland Community Alcohol Partnerships UK Cotton made in Africa Germany Council für nachhaltige Logistik Austria Courtauld 2025 UK/Ireland Deutsche Gesellschaft für Personalführung e.V. Germany Donau Soja Austria, Switzerland DrinkAware UK/Ireland EHI Retail Institute Germany Environmental Protection Agency GreenChill Partnership USA EU GreenBuilding Programme Austria Fair Company Germany Farm Africa UK Feeding America USA Food Marketing Institute Health & Wellness Council USA Food Standards Agency Salt Targets as supplements to the Childhood Obesity Strategy as part of the UK government UK/Ireland Forum Nachhaltiger Kakao Germany Fur Free Retailer Program Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Slovenia, Hungary, Italy Groceries Supplier Code of Practice UK Handelsverband Deutschland HDE e.V. Germany IGD Services UK/Ireland Imkerverband Slowenien Slovenia Initiative Tierwohl Germany Irish Food Waste Charter UK/Ireland Juice CSR Platform Germany KlimaExpo.NRW Germany Klimaschutz-Unternehmen e.V. Germany Land schafft Leben Austria Lean and Green Germany Leather Working Group ALDI SOUTH Group London Benchmarking Group UK/Ireland Mitglied der Initiative „Lebensmittel sind kostbar!“ des Bundesministeriums für Landund Forstwirtschaft, Umwelt und Wasserwirtschaft Austria National Farmers Union (NFU) Fruit and Veg Pledge UK/Ireland North American Sustainable Palm Oil Network USA öbu Der Verband für Nachhaltiges Wirtschaften Switzerland Portman Group UK/Ireland Red Tractor UK/Ireland REFRESH Germany respACT Austrian Business Council for Sustainable Development Austria Responsible Use of Medicines in Agriculture (RUMA) UK/Ireland Round Table on Responsible Soy ALDI SOUTH Group Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) ALDI SOUTH Group RSPCA Assured UK/Ireland Schweizerische Gesellschaft für Ernährung SGE Switzerland Seafood Task Force USA Sedex Supplier Ethical Data Exchange UK, Australia Soja Netzwerk Schweiz Switzerland Stiftung 2° Germany Stiftung Lesen Germany Sustainable Fisheries Partnership UK/Ireland, USA, Australia Sustainable Packaging Coalition USA Swiss Platform for Sustainable Cocoa Switzerland Swiss Retail Federation Switzerland Szövetség az ifjúságért Hungary Bündnis für nachhaltige Textilien Germany The Global Coffee Platform Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Slovenia, Hungary, Italy The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) UK The Supply Chain Initiative Germany, Austria, Slovenia, Hungary, UK/Ireland The Wine and Spirit Trade Association UK/Ireland Verband Lebensmittel ohne Gentechnik (VLOG) Germany Mreža za družbeno odgovornost Slovenia Verein für kontrollierte alternative Tierhaltungsformen e. V. (KAT) Germany Združenje delodajalcev Slovenije Slovenia GRI disclosures Organisational proﬁle 102-12 102-13 Customers “We promise our customers quality products at the best prices. […] It is our responsibility to design our select product range in a way that meets our customers’ everyday needs. For us, quality includes consumer safety, health and wellbeing, and the sustainability of our products and their production. The safety of our products is one of our core commitments to our customers.” CR Principles Content Introduction Focus: health and well-being Key ﬁgures SDGs and GRI International activities Every day, millions of customers visit one of over 5,900 ALDI SOUTH stores worldwide and rely on our value proposition of quality at the best price. Our customers have come to rely on safe and high-quality products, and they also value products which promote a healthy lifestyle, cater to special dietary needs, and are manufactured in a more sustainable manner. We constantly develop our product range and business processes, as we always want to meet our customers’ expectations. Product quality and safety are our ﬁrst priority. The establishment of comprehensive quality assurance controls at all stages of the supply chain – from manufacture to sale – is a crucial factor of this approach. In this respect, we beneﬁt from the fact that about 90% of the products we sell are offered under our own private labels. This enables us to work closely together with our suppliers to ensure our products meet quality, composition, and sustainability criteria. We are continually adding new products, and we regularly ﬁnd improved alternatives to existing products within our range. This includes, for example, vegetarian, vegan, lactose and gluten-free products, as well as organic products and products certiﬁed according to sustainability standards. As a result, our customers can rely on us to provide the highest quality at the best possible price. More than 96% of the production facilities used to manufacture the private label food products offered by ALDI SOUTH are certiﬁed according to strict food safety standards, which are recognised by the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI). For the rest of the production facilities, such a certiﬁcation cannot be obtained for reasons such as small company size. Both food and non-food products are required to undergo comprehensive quality testing and evaluation, both internally and through our third-party service providers, before being introduced to our product range or sold as special buy. In the rare instance that a product must be removed from sale as a matter of precaution, we ensure that we react quickly and thoroughly. In the future, we will continue to offer products and services which meet the desires and expectations of customers in each of our national markets. In doing so, we have recognised the growing importance of maintaining dialogue with our customers – not least via social media platforms. Through all national markets, ALDI SOUTH is becoming increasingly present on platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Pinterest. Furthermore, we have established internal corporate policies concerning responsible marketing practices in each of the countries where we operate. Focus: health and wellbeing A balanced diet and routine physical activity are the foundation for a healthy and happy life. We want to make it as simple as possible for our customers to lead a healthy and active lifestyle. For this reason, we have an international strategy for health and well-being in place, which was subsequently adapted to national market requirements and is being implemented worldwide. Within each of our national organisations, we continuously analyse and improve the composition and nutritional proﬁle of our various food products. According to national priorities, we focus on reducing salt, sugar, fats, trans fats, additives, and the overall calorie content in our products. In 2017, we reformulated more than 400 processed product variants in collaboration with our suppliers, optimising the sugar, salt, and/or fat content of these products without compromising on quality. The desires, expectations, and needs of our customers are just as diverse as the customers themselves. For this reason, over the past few years, we have introduced more vegan, vegetarian, lactose and gluten-free products to our range. In 2017, we listed various product options labelled as suitable for vegetarians or vegans. For example, in Austria, a total of 416 product variants (275 vegan and 141 vegetarian product variants) carried the ‘V label’, an internationally protected quality seal issued by ‘Vegane Gesellschaft Österreich’. Increasingly, our customers are interested in supporting local producers and sustainable development. By offering certiﬁed organic and local products, as well as products certiﬁed by organisations such as Fairtrade and Rainforest Alliance, we enable our customers to purchase these at a discount price. For example, organic products accounted for a sales share of 4.5% in the whole group in 2017. We support our customers in making healthy lifestyle choices, for example by offering products, such as fresh fruit and vegetables, at affordable prices all year round. In addition, we provide our customers with recipes for simple, healthy meals and with information and short videos on leading a healthy lifestyle. One example is our German online portal 'www.aldi-inspiriert.de' (‘ALDI inspires’), which offers our customers access to a range of free and personal advice on sport, ﬁtness, nutrition, and overall health. In several of the countries we operate in, ALDI SOUTH also supports charities in order to motivate children and young people to lead healthy and active lifestyles and impart important information on healthy nutrition. We always want to offer the right selection of products at the best price. Therefore, we constantly develop our product range in coordination with our customers, suppliers, and experts, and we will continue to improve our range without compromising on taste and quality in future. Offering product Improving ingredients Promoting a options for speciﬁc and nutritional proﬁle healthy lifestyle dietary needs of our food products Key ﬁgures 404 product variants which have undergone optimisation in terms of their salt, sugar, or fat content. Product safety The indicator is based on the last production facility in the supply chain which adds value to the product. GFSI: Global Food Safety Initiative Percentage of food production facilities for the manufacture of food items which are certiﬁed in accordance with a GFSI-recognised standard 96.25 ✔ The indicator is based on all publicly recalled food and non-food products. Number of public product recalls 47 ✔ Health and well-being Percentage of sales of organic food products (labelled EU organic, Bio Suisse, Australian certiﬁed organic, USDA organic) 4.5 ✔ Sustainable Development Goals GRI disclosures Management approach 103-1 103-2 103-3 Customer health and safety 416-1 Resources “Our aspiration is that all our products be made in a sustainable way. We consider environmental and social criteria, including animal welfare, throughout our product supply chains – from raw materials to ﬁnal production. Raw materials include agriculture and forestry, livestock and ﬁsh, and other natural resources used for our products and packaging.” CR Principles Content Introduction Focus: protecting our forests Key ﬁgures SDGs and GRI International activities A large variety of different agricultural commodities and natural resources are required for the manufacture of our products. The cultivation of crops, the rearing of animals, and the extraction of raw materials often involve consequences for the environment, climate, wildlife, and population. The same is true for certain processing and production processes. We strive to achieve an increased sustainable use of global resources. To achieve this, we analyse the resources used for our products and the possible risks or negative impacts associated with these resources that need to be considered. For the relevant resources, we deﬁne strategies in order to ensure their long-term availability and minimise the associated negative impacts to the greatest extent possible. Within the scope of our cooperation with suppliers and our dialogue with experts and non-governmental organisations (NGOs), we work to successively improve the sustainability of our entire supply chain. For the practical implementation of this goal, the individual national organisations of the ALDI SOUTH Group deﬁne their own tailored buying policies and guidelines for many areas. At international level, the ALDI SOUTH Group primarily focuses on the resources of wood and paper, palm oil/palm kernel oil, coffee, cocoa, ﬁsh and seafood, as well as cotton. Over the past few years, we have made considerable adjustments to our product range. For example, we have increased the share of certiﬁed wild-caught ﬁsh and seafood products from 44% to 55% and the share of certiﬁed aquaculture products from 67% to 84% between 2015 and 2017. In 2017, we published an International Position Statement on Sustainable Product Packaging. In addition, we developed an internal guideline which aims to support our buyers in using the most environmentally friendly packaging possible. Moreover, we also published an International Position Statement on Animal Welfare in 2017, which formed the basis for the review and implementation of the relevant national requirements in close cooperation with our suppliers. Among other things, in every country of the ALDI SOUTH Group and with that also outside of the European Union, we are committed to sourcing 100% of our shell eggs from cage-free supply chains by 2025 at the latest. At present, we are developing activities at international level and considering initiatives from the areas of product packaging and tea. We have established international working groups entrusted with the task of developing an international strategy for increasing the sustainability of our supply chain and our involvement, for example, in multistakeholder initiatives. We will continue to assess our product supply chains with regard to particular risks concerning compliance with human rights and possibilities for the ALDI SOUTH Group to contribute to the reduction of these risks. Focus: protecting our forests Around 30% of the Earth's land area is covered by forest. The Earth's forests are of vital importance to global ecosystems – they provide habitats for a diversity of species and have important functions for the Earth's climate. In this respect, the tropical rainforests in South America and Southeast Asia are of particular importance. However, millions of hectares of forest are destroyed each year to make way for agricultural and urban areas. Deforestation signiﬁcantly contributes to global greenhouse gas emissions. A large share of forests are destroyed in order to create cultivation areas for animal feed, such as soy, crop plants, such as oil palms, or grazing land for cattle farming. In addition, logging for obtaining wood as a construction or working material and the production of paper and cardboard also causes the further reduction of global forests. In terms of our buying activities, we aim to ensure that the products we offer do not contribute to illegal logging. In this respect, we initially focus on four key areas: soy cultivation, palm oil/palm kernel oil production, forestry, and cattle farming. Our aim is to ensure that the cultivation of soy, which is primarily used as animal feed within our supply chains, has no negative impacts on forest areas. For this purpose, we maintain intensive dialogue with our stakeholders and became a member of the Roundtable on Responsible Soy (RTRS) and the Retailer Soy Group (RSG) in May 2017. Within the scope of further developing our strategy for ensuring the ecologically and socially responsible cultivation of soy, we calculated a soy footprint for our business operations in Germany, the UK, Ireland, and across HOFER S/E for the ﬁrst time in 2017 with the aim of providing a quantitative impact assessment of our supply chain. This soy footprint reﬂects the soy usage of relevant animal products, which account for the majority of the soy footprint in our supply chain. Based on the updated soy footprint, we will develop appropriate measures and intensify our involvement in multi-stakeholder initiatives over the course of the next year. In many cases, the palm oil/palm kernel oil contained in our products cannot be readily replaced by other fats or oils. One aspect which needs to be considered is the higher yield achieved with oil palms compared to all other oil plants. In order to obtain the same quantity of oil from other plants, signiﬁcantly larger cultivation areas would be required – meaning the problem would only be displaced. This is why we rely on the use of palm oil/palm kernel oil from certiﬁed sources. We joined the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) in 2011 and, since late 2015, the palm oil/palm kernel oil contained in our private label food products sold in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Ireland, and Australia is certiﬁed according to the RSPO chain of custody standards. By the end of 2018, we aim to complete the transition to certiﬁed palm oil/palm kernel oil for all of our private label products worldwide. For derivatives and fractions contained in non-food products, we will also accept RSPO Palm certiﬁcates. We are also actively involved in the Retailer Palm Oil Group and the Retail Palm Oil Transparency Coalition. A signiﬁcant share of the globally traded palm oil/palm kernel oil is produced by smallholders. In order to account for these smallholders within the scope of our commitment to using sustainable palm oil/palm kernel oil, we employ a combination of three measures: We purchase RSPO Independent Smallholder Credits to support their work, we participate in the RSPO Smallholder Working Group in order to further support and integrate smallholders, and since 2017, we have been supporting a smallholder project in Côte d'Ivoire in order to pave the way for a sustainable cultivation of palm (kernel) oil. In close cooperation with our partner, the NGO Solidaridad, we have developed a project focussing on the protection of native forests and environmentally friendly cultivation methods. Solidaridad offers intensive training which builds on an existing RSPO Smallholder Support Fund project supporting 5,000 smallholders and is intended to qualify up to 3,200 smallholders to protect their forests as well as align their cultivation methods with environmental and resource conservation requirements. For all products which are made of wood or contain wooden components as well as our paper products and cardboard packaging, we pay attention to sourcing our raw materials in a sustainable manner. The share of products which are certiﬁed according to the FSC®, PEFC, or SFI standard or made from recycled materials amounts to 80%. For products and product packaging of our core range products made of paper or cardboard, we have set the goal to only use certiﬁed or recycled materials by the end of 2020. In addition to this, we already completed the transition to sustainable paper for all our advertising materials in 2012. Moreover, both the impacts of cattle farming in South America and the accompanying deforestation of native forests are important issues to be addressed in the future. We are currently analysing potential connections with products we source as well as suitable measures for addressing this issue. One major challenge in this respect is the complex supply chain with its many stages of cattle farming. Over the next few years, the focus of our efforts will be on enhancing the traceability of our products and the resources used. In close cooperation with our suppliers and other stakeholders, we will continue to work to increase the number of products derived from sustainable sources and thus contribute to the protection of our forests. Soy Palm oil/palm kernel oil Wood Cattle farming Protecting our forests Key ﬁgures Palm oil/palm kernel oil: percentage of certiﬁed products ✔ Paper products: percentage of sales of certiﬁed/recycled products ✔ 26% 74% PALM OIL/PALM KERNEL OIL (CERTIFIED) PALM OIL/PALM KERNEL OIL (NON-CERTIFIED) 6% 94% PAPER PRODUCTS (CERTIFIED/RECYCLED) PAPER PRODUCTS (NON-CERTIFIED/NON-RECYCLED) Palm oil/palm kernel oil The indicators are based on the total amount of palm oil/palm kernel oil used for our products and derived from the physical supply chain options ‘Identity Preserved’ (IP), ‘Segregated’ (SG), or ‘Mass Balance’ (MB) as deﬁned by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). Percentage of certiﬁed products (food and non-food products) compared to the total number of products containing palm oil/palm kernel oil 74.14 ✔ Percentage of tonnage for certiﬁed palm oil/palm kernel oil in food products 90.18 Percentage of tonnage for certiﬁed palm oil/palm kernel oil in nonfood products 12.68 Wood and paper The indicators are based on all products with wood-based components. The sales share is speciﬁed for all products for which the wood-based components are certiﬁed according to FSC®, PEFC, or SFI or made from recycled materials. SFIcertiﬁed products are included as of 2017. Percentage of sales of certiﬁed/recycled products 80.45 ✔ Paper products: percentage of sales of certiﬁed/recycled products 94.19 ✔ The indicator is based on all core range products with wood-based product packaging. The percentage speciﬁed refers to all products which are certiﬁed according to FSC®, PEFC, or SFI or which contain a minimum of 70% recycled material. Percentage of products with certiﬁed/recycled product packaging 51.74 Cocoa The indicator is based on all products from the chocolates, biscuits, and seasonal confectionary commodity groups as well as products from other commodity groups which contain at least 10% cocoa, such as baking chocolate and drinking chocolate. Percentage of sales of products containing certiﬁed cocoa (Fairtrade/Fairtrade Sourcing Program for cocoa, UTZ, Rainforest Alliance, organic) 79.76 ✔ Coffee Percentage of certiﬁed coffee (Fairtrade, UTZ, Rainforest Alliance, organic) contained in the total amount (in tonnes) of coffee 43.44 Fish and seafood Sales share of certiﬁed aquaculture or wild-caught ﬁsh products in the total sales of aquaculture or wild-caught ﬁsh and seafood products Percentage of sales of certiﬁed wild-caught products (MSC) 55.31 ✔ Percentage of sales of certiﬁed aquaculture products (ASC, organic, GLOBALG.A.P., BAP, minimum two stars) 83.94 ✔ Our criteria for the responsible sourcing of ﬁsh: 1. Certiﬁcation in accordance with one of our recognised standards (Marine Stewardship Council (MSC), Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC), Organic, GlobalG.A.P., Best Aquaculture Practices (BAP) and further by Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI) recognised standards), or 2. World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) or Sustainable Fisheries Partnership (SFP) rating shows a low or medium risk, or 3. the raw material originates from a ﬁshery participating in an Fishery Improvement Project (FIP) or Aquaculture Improvement Project (AIP). Additional criteria for tuna: the producer is a member of the International Seafood Sustainability Foundation (ISSF) or the ﬁshing vessel is registered within the ProActive Vessel Register (PVR). Percentage of products which comply with our criteria for the responsible sourcing of ﬁsh 81.63 Soy Fresh meat products, consumer milk products, and shell eggs were included in the calculation of the soy footprint. The soy footprint does not contain products sourced from deforestation-free supply chains which are deﬁned as products certiﬁed in accordance with the standards set by ProTerra/Danube Soya/Europe Soya and not originally sourced from South America. Soy footprint (in tonnes) 298,174 Sustainable Development Goals GRI disclosures Management approach 103-1 103-2 103-3 Supplier environmental assessment 308-2 Suppliers “For our suppliers, we are a fair and reliable business partner. Together, and in cooperation with other stakeholders, we are committed to improving the living and working conditions throughout the supply chain. We articulate our expectations clearly to all our suppliers and business partners. Together with our suppliers, we work towards increased transparency and continuous improvement within the supply chain.” CR Principles Content Introduction Focus: supplier assessments Key ﬁgures SDGs and GRI International activities Ranging from textile products and household appliances to food from all over the world, we offer our customers a wide variety of different products, both through our core range and our weekly range of special buy items. Throughout our global supply chains, we assume responsibility for promoting fair working conditions and environmental compliance. Our requirements towards suppliers and products are recorded within the ALDI “Social Standards in Production” as well as other speciﬁc standards. Using suitable monitoring approaches, audits, and training measures, we strive to ensure that our suppliers are able to fulﬁl our requirements. In this context, we closely collaborate with our suppliers in order to achieve continuous improvements. We regularly review and, if necessary, update our requirements. For example, having joined the Greenpeace Detox campaign in 2015, we are committed to eliminating certain chemicals from textile and shoe production by 2020. By participating in industry and multi-stakeholder initiatives, we actively contribute to the further development of standards and practical approaches as well as knowledge sharing. On a regular basis, we assess the potential risks related to social and environmental standards connected to the production of certain goods or in certain regions, and then prioritise our planned measures accordingly. For several years now, a major focus of our efforts has been on the production of textiles and shoes in Bangladesh, China, and other countries in Asia. Through our programme aimed at reviewing and improving social standards (Social Monitoring Programme, SMP) and the implementation of the Detox Commitment, we have seen great achievements over the past few years. 99.58% of the nonfood production facilities used for the manufacture of products which are covered by an SMP could present valid social audits in 2017. All Bangladeshi production facilities which were used by our suppliers in 2017 have already been visited by ALDI representatives within the scope of an ALDI Social Assessment (ASA). Through our ALDI Factory Advancement (AFA) Project, which we conduct in Bangladesh, we offer additional training measures at almost 40 production facilities with the highest relevance for ALDI. Regarding the implementation of the Detox Commitment, we have achieved important initial milestones. Among others, wastewater analyses − which provide information on the use of chemicals in production − are already available for 89% of all pre-suppliers using wet processes. We are committed to continuing our efforts in this area. To do so, we will continue to increase the transparency of our supply chains and work towards continuous improvements at all levels of the supply chain together with our suppliers. We regularly review new requirements and integrate them into our processes. Focus: supplier assessments A strategy is only as good as its implementation. With regard to sourcing, this means that our commitment to sustainability and responsibility needs to be reﬂected in our purchasing practices. The majority of our products are not sourced directly from producers, but from suppliers who commission the manufacture or import of the products. Therefore, collaborating with our suppliers is an essential factor in achieving our sustainability goals. In 2017, we began consolidating our global garment textile supply chain and intensifying discussions with suppliers about Corporate Responsibility (CR)-related topics. As a result, the number of production facilities used by our suppliers in this sector has already decreased by 31%. Thus, our suppliers are able to achieve better capacity utilisation of production facilities, enabling investments in the improvement of working conditions and environmental compliance to pay off sooner. To ensure continued compliance with our high standards in the future, new garment textile suppliers must ﬁrst undergo an auditing and approval process conducted by the responsible CR department. Furthermore, these suppliers are obliged to specify a ﬁxed production facility pool for the production of ALDI merchandise. New production facilities may only be used once we have conﬁrmed that they adhere to our requirements. At the same time, we have begun to systematically assess our suppliers’ CR performance. On the one hand, we wish to support our business partners in improving their performance. On the other hand, we aim to increase collaboration with those suppliers implementing our CR requirements to a particularly high degree. During the introduction phase, we initially accepted various suppliers of garment textiles and other non-food items into the programme. In the future, we will extend the CR performance assessment programme to include additional suppliers. The starting point of our CR performance assessment programme for suppliers is a review of all available information on our business partners and their production facilities. In order to evaluate our suppliers’ CR set-up, we analyse a wide variety of information. In doing so, we not only take their plans and CR strategies into account but also query information on personnel resources and organisational structures for the implementation of our CR requirements. For the veriﬁcation of these information, we use the ﬁndings gained during on-site visits conducted as part of our ALDI Social Assessments. As a rule, these on-site visits are conducted by employees of our ALDI CR Units in Hong Kong and Dhaka together with independent auditors and supplier representatives. Based on our assessments, we regularly conduct supplier interviews in order to identify potential for improving our suppliers’ CR performance. Wherever required, we support our suppliers in further developing their processes by providing targeted training sessions. The CR assessment is an increasingly important factor which inﬂuences contract placement. In future, we plan to increase our cooperation with those suppliers which fulﬁl our CR requirements to a particularly high degree and to discontinue our business relationships with other suppliers. Consequently, particularly committed suppliers will be able to expand their collaboration with us by increasing their investments in sustainability. Continuously increasing the sustainability of our supply chain is a task we face together with our suppliers. In order to achieve effective changes, we need to steadily enhance the knowledge of our own supply chains and our understanding of the related challenges and opportunities. Therefore, measures for improving transparency are the initial focus of many of our initiatives. By assessing the CR performance of our suppliers, we are taking an important step towards ensuring that we can meet the ever increasing challenges of the future together. Intensifying of cooperation Discontinuing of business relationship + – Self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) by suppliers Monitoring Evaluation Monitoring Evaluation Training Key ﬁgures Number of ALDI Social Assessments (ASAs) conducted per country of production 5 Turkey 216 3 Egypt 57 China 6 Bangladesh Pakistan 10 2 India Philippines 1 1 Myanmar Vietnam 1 Thailand ASAs are audits of production facilities that are carried out by ALDI SOUTH employees together with external auditors and supplier representatives mainly in Bangladesh and China. ALDI Social Assessments (ASAs) Number of countries in which an ASA has been conducted 10 Number of ASAs conducted 302 Third-party social audits The indicator takes into account all contractually agreed main non-food production facilities located in risk countries, as deﬁned by the amfori Business Social Compliance Initiative (amfori BSCI), and which are already integrated within an ALDI SOUTH Social Monitoring Programme as well as all social audit reports and certiﬁcates accepted by ALDI SOUTH. Percentage of non-food production facilities with a valid social audit report 99.58 ✔ ASAs in Bangladesh The indicator is based on all contractually agreed, main non-food production facilities used for ALDI SOUTH production which are located in Bangladesh. Percentage of production facilities located in Bangladesh which have been continuously visited within the scope of an ASA 100 ✔ Supplier assessments The indicator is based on all risk-relevant garment textiles suppliers of ALDI SOUTH. Percentage of garment textiles suppliers for which a supplier assessment was conducted 100 Wastewater and sludge analyses The indicator is based on all wet-processing facilities used for textiles and shoes which have been contractually agreed with ALDI SOUTH and on test reports for wastewater and sludge analyses which are no older than one year. Percentage of wet-processing facilities for which a valid wastewater and sludge analysis report has been provided 89 Sustainable Development Goals GRI disclosures Organisational proﬁle 102-9 Management approach 103-1 103-2 103-3 Child labor 408-1 Forced or compulsary labor 409-1 Human rights assessment 412-1 Supplier social assessment 414-1 414-2 People “Our employees are the key to our success. They are the ones that deﬁne the ALDI business day after day and distinguish us from our competitors. For ALDI to continue on the path of success, we want to be the employer of choice within the retail sector and to attract talented professionals who work together with us to further develop the global market.” CR Principles Content Introduction Focus: occupational safety and the promotion of health Key ﬁgures SDGs and GRI International activities Across the globe, the ALDI SOUTH Group employs over 125,900 people. Over the past few years, the number of employees has increased impressively. This growth is a strong indicator of our success. At the same time, it poses the challenge of continuing to preserve our strong corporate culture of respect and fairness, as outlined within our ALDI Management System (AMS). We want to be perceived as a reliable employer at all locations where we operate. All of our employees are treated equally. We offer our employees job security, attractive remuneration and beneﬁts, as well as comprehensive training measures and development opportunities. An important success factor is constituted by efﬁcient workﬂows and clearly deﬁned responsibilities. Within our growing company, the commitment and motivation of our employees are of central importance. For that, a good cooperation and communication are key factors. Both are described in our AMS. Our 2016 employee survey showed that our employees’ motivation levels throughout the different national organisations are well above the respective industry averages. The positive mood of our employees shows that our efforts help us to reach our goal of being an employer of choice within the retail sector. At the end of 2016, we adopted an international employee strategy in order to provide a common strategic framework. The detailed implementation of this strategy is the responsibility of the individual national organisations. Other topics which are currently addressed both by the national organisations and at international level include talent attraction, staff turnover reduction, and training as well as development. Focus: occupational safety and the promotion of health We strive to promote the health and well-being of our employees. This involves not only the prevention of workplace accidents but also various measures and initiatives concerning the protection and promotion of overall health. The strong importance attached to occupational health and safety within our company is also reﬂected by the results of our employee surveys and the materiality analysis conducted in 2017. The majority of our staff work in stores or logistics. In order to prevent accidents, we utilise modern equipment and appropriate workwear, and we strategically design our workplaces and workﬂows to ensure maximum safety. For example, when working in our freezer warehouses, employees are obliged to wear special protective clothing. Within our regular warehouses, a 'pick-by-voice' system was developed so employees have both hands free when packing and moving bulk merchandise. In order to design the check-out process at our stores as ergonomically as possible, the barcodes printed on our products are placed in such a way that the merchandise does not need to be lifted or turned at checkout. However, technology alone is not enough to ensure workplace safety. We attach great importance to providing regular staff training on operational health and safety, and the compliance with safety regulations – such as wearing protective footwear, and the correct use of potentially dangerous equipment – is monitored and reviewed on a regular basis. In several of our countries of operation, not only our technical equipment but also our health protection measures are subject to regular external reviews. For years now, we have been able to maintain a constantly low accident rate throughout the ALDI SOUTH Group. In many ALDI countries, the statistical development of accident rates is regularly monitored. By the end of 2018, we plan to align our efforts for the promotion and protection of our employees’ health undertaken in all our countries of operation within a corporate health management system. Prevention of workplace accidents Safe and healthy Measures and working environment initiatives Key ﬁgures Accident rate per area Values as a % 5 5. 82 2. 57 2. 5 0. 4 Total Store Operations Logistics Administration Unless indicated otherwise, the information provided is based on the number of employees per capita as of 31 December (excluding employees within special operating units, such as the coffee roasting plants and chocolate factory). Deviations from the total number of employees may be due to rounding. Employment structure Average number of employees 125,977 Percentage of newly recruited employees compared to the average number of employees 28.73 Percentage of partand full-time employees compared to the total number of employees Full-time 39.01 Part-time 60.99 Percentage of permanent employees compared to the total number of employees 97.9 Number of staff on parental leave 6,734 Number of employees with over 10 years of service with the company 25,569 Average number of employees per area of employment (percentage of the average number of employees) Store Operations 97,232 (77.18%) Logistics 19,423 (15.42%) Administration 9,322 (7.4%) Age structure Percentage of employees under the age of 30 compared to the total number of employees 43.79 Percentage of employees between the ages of 30 and 50 compared to the total number of employees 45.28 Percentage of employees aged 50 years or older compared to the total number of employees 10.92 Women in management positions Information provided in full-time equivalents Percentage of female employees compared to the total number of employees 62.47 Percentage of female employees compared to the total number of employees in management positions 40.81 ✔ Lower management 41.65 Middle management 32.3 Upper management 12.22 Employee satisfaction (2016) Information provided includes the coffee roasting plants and the chocolate factory Average engagement index as a % 86 ✔ Apprentices Number of apprentices at ALDI SOUTH 6,160 Percentage of apprentices who were placed permanently following completion of their training 70.37 Sustainable Development Goals GRI disclosures Organisational proﬁle 102-8 Management approach 103-1 103-2 103-3 Employment 401-1 401-3 Occupational health and safety 403-2 Training and education 404-2 Community “ALDI is part of the community. To us, responsibility means making a positive contribution to the community by applying our skills and resources beyond our core business operations. The objective of our community activities is to deliver a sustainable societal impact. This will be achieved by engaging in long-term partnerships with charitable organisations and focusing on key issues and target groups.” CR Principles Content Introduction Focus: long-term partnerships Key ﬁgures SDGs and GRI International activities The ALDI SOUTH Group contributes to public welfare through donations, the engagement of its employees, and long-term partnerships with social organisations. In each of our countries of operation, we sustainably support effective social initiatives and offers. For this purpose, we commit to long-term partnerships with selected charitable organisations, which, above all, provide services in the areas of education, health, nutrition, social affairs, and environmental protection. In addition to money donations, we also donate products. By means of sales campaigns, as part of which we donate parts or the entirety of the sales proceeds of a selected product, we do not only generate additional donations but also provide our partner organisations with positive exposure and the opportunity to promote their vision and services to millions of our customers. We do not make any donations to political parties or organisations afﬁliated with political parties. In 2017, we provided funding in the amount of approximately EUR 19.6 million in order to support charitable causes across all of our countries of operation. In addition, we donated various products with a total sales value of more than EUR 660,000. Practically all of our stores and regional distribution centres cooperate with organisations which collect unsold food products and donate these to charitable causes. Also, more than 2,900 of our employees participated in corporate volunteering activities. Focus: long-term partnerships Societal changes do not occur overnight. Developing, implementing, and making available effective solutions requires patience and perseverance. We therefore focus on establishing long-term partnerships with charitable organisations in order to support our partnering organisations in ways which enable them to reach their desired target groups with particularly effective services. The starting point for these partnerships is an intensive selection process during which we get to know our potential partners and jointly develop concepts for long-term cooperation. We expect our partnering organisations to thoroughly plan the impact of their activities and to assess whether the projected impact actually occurs. Throughout each partnership, we do not only cover project costs but also provide funds for the further development and management of the partnering organisation. In addition to money donations, we also use other resources available to our company and increasingly combine different types of support. For example, the knowledge and experience of our employees can be a valuable resource for our partners. Sales campaigns help increase public awareness and generate additional funds. One example of this approach is our cooperation with the non-proﬁt organisation Feeding America in the US. Feeding America is an umbrella organisation of regional and local food banks which receive product donations from ALDI and other retailers and distribute them to those in need. Next to donating over 20 million pounds of food annually, ALDI US also supports Feeding America with money donations to cover organisation costs. In 2017, for the ﬁrst time ever, we also encouraged our employees and customers in the US to make donations for those affected by the Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. As a result, ALDI US and our employees collectively donated over USD 275,000 (EUR 243,432). Within a matter of days, our customers also showed their generosity by donating USD 400,000 (EUR 354,082) to Feeding America to help those impacted by the hurricanes. In other countries, we also focus on maintaining long-term partnerships: in Australia, we have been supporting Barnardos Australia, one of the country’s leading child protection charities, for many years. This year, we celebrate 15 years of support in the form of monetary donations, sales campaigns, and more recently, by becoming the principal supporter of the annual Barnados 'Mother of the Year' award. In the UK, ALDI UK/Ireland and many of its employees provide various forms of support to the Teenage Cancer Trust, which offers special facilities and services for teenagers suffering from cancer. With these forms of long-term cooperation, we aim to make the best use of our resources for the beneﬁt of societal causes beyond our core business. Since 2006, ALDI SOUTH Germany has provided over EUR 60 million in funding in order to support the charitable organisation Auridis gGmbH, which also belongs to the ALDI SOUTH Group. Above all, Auridis uses these funds to provide effective services for socially disadvantaged families throughout Germany. In addition to this, we maintain funding partnerships with charitable organisations, such as the 'GemüseAckerdemie', which implements innovative approaches to promoting healthy nutrition and sustainable consumption. In Austria, HOFER dedicated its efforts in 2017 to the area of farming and agriculture and to supporting social integration within the agricultural industry. This included regional projects by HOFER aimed at providing socially disadvantaged young adults with job prospects in agriculture, as well as the 'HOFsuchtBAUER' ('Farm seeks Farmer') platform, which helps to connect farmers with potential young successors for running their farms. In Hungary, ALDI works with its long-term strategic partner 'Bátor Tábor', a foundation which supports children suffering from severe or incurable illnesses and their families. In Slovenia, HOFER provides monthly donations to the sponsorship project 'Botrstvo', which is dedicated to supporting socially disadvantaged children, while in Switzerland, ALDI SUISSE cooperates with UNICEF Switzerland within the scope of a multi-year funding campaign called 'IMAGINE', which beneﬁts children in Malawi and across Switzerland. Long-term partnerships Big effects on the community Key ﬁgures 19.6 million EUR were donated to charitable organisations. ✔ Money donations: monetary donations made to charities or other social organisations for the promotion of non-material causes without the expectation of any form of consideration in return Donations Sales value of foodstuffs and other products not withdrawn from sale which were donated to charities in EUR 668,464 Number of product collaborations and/or sales campaigns conducted for the beneﬁt of non-proﬁt organisations 28 Long-term partnerships Number of organisations supported within the scope of long-term (≥ 1 year) partnerships at national level 42 Employee volunteering Number of employees who participated in corporate volunteering activities 2,909 Sustainable Development Goals GRI disclosures Management approach 103-1 103-2 103-3 Local communities 413-1 Public policy 415-1 Environment “We aim to minimise the ecological footprint of our entire business. We strive to become a climate-neutral company and are therefore committed to the continuous reduction of our greenhouse gas emissions.” CR Principles Content Introduction Focus: modern refrigeration technology Key ﬁgures SDGs and GRI International activities Climate protection, waste reduction, and green building are the topics at the centre of our environmental protection activities. Currently, we primarily focus on areas under our direct control, i.e. our stores, regional distribution centres, and transport logistics. Our climate protection goal is to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions – measured in carbon equivalents per square metre of sales ﬂoor – by at least 30% compared to 2012 by 2020. For this purpose, we calculate our Company Carbon Footprint (CCF) on a regular basis. The CCF was last calculated for the year 2016. The largest share of our greenhouse gas emissions was caused by energy consumption, followed by fuel consumption, refrigerant leakages, and heating energy consumption. Wherever possible, we employ energy-efﬁcient modern technologies, such as state-of-the-art refrigeration systems and LED lighting. In several countries, we already use green electricity, which is produced without any carbon emissions, exclusively. We focus on conserving fuel in our logistics operations by optimising trailer capacity utilisation, developing new logistics concepts, and operating a modern ﬂeet of vehicles. We increasingly use more environmentally friendly refrigerants for our chest freezers and chiller cabinets, and we focus on modern, energy-efﬁcient technology for heating purposes. With regard to waste management, we follow the principle “reduce, reuse, recycle”. We strive to minimise the volume of our operational waste which is incinerated or sent to landﬁll. In order to avoid food waste, we offer products at reduced prices shortly before their best-before dates expire and donate unsold volumes of food products to charity, farmers, or for the production of biogas. With regard to the implementation of our climate protection goal, we are making solid progress. In almost all countries the ALDI SOUTH Group operates in, we have been able to signiﬁcantly reduce our relative greenhouse gas emissions. The switch to green electricity throughout the European countries where ALDI SOUTH Group operates was an essential step. In addition, in several countries we generate electricity with photovoltaic systems on the roofs of our stores, regional distribution centres, and administrative buildings. For example, in 2016, we already covered 15% of our energy demand in Germany with solar power generated by more than 1,250 photovoltaic systems installed on our roofs. The replacement of standard refrigerants by more environmentally friendly alternatives is also progressing according to plan (see focus: modern refrigeration technology). With regard to transport logistics, we were able to reduce the emissions produced per kilometre travelled by our logistics vehicles in most countries. In Germany, Austria, Switzerland, and Slovenia, we have become climate-neutral through modernisations, the use of electricity from renewable sources, and the compensation of unavoidable emissions by supporting various climate protection projects. We are currently establishing waste monitoring systems in all countries. Cardboard, paper, and cardboard packaging as well as plastic ﬁlm/shrink wrap used in our operations, together with batteries from material handling equipment (MHE), are almost entirely recycled. Nearly all of our stores collaborate with local, regional, or national charitable organisations which distribute donated food products to people in need. To ensure that our buildings are ﬁt for the future, we increasingly apply sustainability standards. More than 45% of our Austrian stores are certiﬁed in accordance with the EU GreenBuilding standard, and ﬁve stores are even certiﬁed as ‘emission-free’. Our new stores in Germany are constructed based on the silver standard of the German Sustainable Building Council (‘Deutsche Gesellschaft für nachhaltiges Bauen’, DGNB). With regard to environmental protection, we have already reached very high standards in many areas. While we continue to optimise our operational procedures, we will increasingly focus on our supply chains and our cooperation with service providers and suppliers in the future. For example, in order to develop a long-term climate strategy beyond 2020, we are currently evaluating our potential contributions throughout the supply chain, for instance, within the area of procurement logistics or with regard to products and production methods. The 2015 Paris Agreement on climate protection and the goal to limit global warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius (2 °C) above pre-industrial levels form the framework for our strategic thinking. With regard to waste management, we focus, among other things, on the topic of packaging and strive to better implement the principle “reduce, reuse, recycle” in collaboration with our suppliers and service providers. Focus: modern refrigeration technology The refrigeration technology used in our stores, regional distribution centres, and logistics vehicles essentially inﬂuences the achievement of our climate protection goals. On the one hand, the discharge of refrigerants into the environment cannot be entirely avoided. On the other hand, refrigeration systems are responsible for a large share of our energy consumption. Using modern, environmentally sound, and climate-friendly refrigerants is an essential approach to reducing harmful greenhouse gas emissions. Until very recently, the refrigerants used were almost exclusively halogenated hydrocarbons, i.e. compounds of hydrocarbons and substances such as ﬂuorine and chlorine. Compared to carbon dioxide, the potential of these F-gases to contribute to the greenhouse effect (global warming potential, GWP) is up to 4,000 times higher. Moreover, several refrigerants are suspected to accelerate the depletion of the ozone layer. For this reason, refrigerants with a signiﬁcantly lower GWP, such as carbon dioxide (GWP of 1) or ammonia (GWP of 0), are increasingly used. At present, approximately 25% of our stores are equipped with carbon dioxide-based refrigeration systems for the chiller cabinets and storage areas, and ammonia-based refrigeration systems are used in the majority (2016: 83%) of our regional distribution centres. All new free-standing chest freezers within our stores which are not connected to the central refrigeration system operate on propane, which possesses a low GWP and does not deplete the ozone layer. Moreover, we are successively replacing the refrigerants used within our logistics vehicles with modern alternatives. In all our refrigeration systems, including those in chest freezers and logistics vehicles, we monitor any refrigerant leakages in order to identify and repair defects at an early stage. Within our modern refrigeration systems, efﬁcient technology, electronic controls, and continuous monitoring of electricity consumption help us to save both costs and energy and thereby avoid unnecessary emissions. The use of LED lighting in chest freezers and chiller cabinets also contributes to saving energy. In addition to being more energy-efﬁcient, LED lighting also emits less heat. Further energy savings are achieved by optimising the temperature settings of our refrigeration equipment. Reliable technology enables us to reduce cooling performance without running the risk of exceeding the required minimum temperatures. Increasing the temperature in a chest freezer used at ALDI SOUTH from -21 to -19 degrees Celsius alone can reduce energy consumption by 200 kWh per year per chest freezer. This corresponds to an overall energy saving of 10%. Our efforts are coming to fruition. At present, we are using a refrigerant with a GWP of less than 2,200 for mediumtemperature refrigeration in 75% of our stores and aim to increase this share to 100% of our stores by 2025. Currently, some of our refrigeration systems are so efﬁcient that we can no longer use their exhaust heat in order to heat our stores and thus need to consider alternatives. Our leading position with regard to the use of modern refrigeration technology has been conﬁrmed multiple times: the non-governmental organisation Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA) awarded us the title of 'Green Cooling Leader' in Europe in 2013, 2014, and 2016, and we received the 2016-2017 ‘Best of the Best’ award from the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s GreenChill Partnership. Distribution centre Transport Store Key ﬁgures Percentage of stores with medium-temperature refrigeration systems (coolers/chillers) using a refrigerant with a GWP < 2,200 ✔ 25% 75% PERCENTAGE OF STORES GWP < 2,200 PERCENTAGE OF STORES GWP > 2,200 The damage potential of refrigerants is reported as Global Warming Potential (GWP). The GWP value indicates a refrigerant’s potential greenhouse effect in comparison to the same amount of carbon dioxide (CO2). Refrigeration Number of stores with CO2-based integrated refrigeration systems 1,496 Heating Percentage of stores equipped with a system for heat recovery from refrigeration compared to the total number of stores 44.82 Company Carbon Footprint (2016) Company Carbon Footprint in kg of CO2e per m2 of sales ﬂoor by country/country group (change compared to the base year 2012 as a %) Germany 120 (43%) HOFER S/E 89 (56%) UK/Ireland 178 (50%) US 562 (+ 5%) Australia 711 (16%) Greenhouse gas emissions (2016) Absolute amount of greenhouse gas emissions in 1,000 t of CO2e (change compared to the base year 2012 as a %) 1,421 (3%) ✔ Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) in t CO2e Heating 104,330 Fuel 160,636 Refrigeration 205,051 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) in t CO2e Electricity 761,247 District heating 2,358 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) in t CO2e Third-party logistics 199,367 Greenhouse gas emissions in transport logistics in kg CO2e/km 0.87 Energy and electricity (2016) Energy consumption in GWh 4,202 Percentage of energy consumption per source Electricity 54.5 Heating 13.76 Fuel 31.73 Total electricity generated by ALDI SOUTH-owned photovoltaic units in kWh 140,921,931 Lighting Percentage of stores equipped with LED lighting in chiller cabinets compared to the total number of stores 80.06 Percentage of stores equipped with LED lighting in chest freezers compared to the total number of stores equipped with lighting in chest freezers 63.32 Management of recyclable materials Total tonnage per waste fraction Cardboard, paper, and cardboard packaging 609,794 Plastic ﬁlm/shrink wrap 14,405 Recycling of transport packaging Percentage of transport packaging recycled from cardboard, paper, and cardboard packaging 98.82 Percentage of transport packaging recycled from plastic ﬁlm/shrink wrap 98.68 Avoiding food waste Percentage of stores cooperating with charitable organisations to donate unsold food of sound quality compared to the total number of stores 82.28 Future-oriented construction methods Number of stores built in accordance with a green building standard (LEED, BREEAM, DGNB, Green Star, etc.) or voluntary energy efﬁciency standard (Minergie, Energy Star, Nullenergie, etc.) 317 Sustainable Development Goals GRI disclosures Management approach 103-1 103-2 103-3 Energy 302-4 Emissions 305-1 305-2 305-3 305-4 305-5 Efﬂuents and waste 306-2 About this report This Corporate Responsibility Report for the ALDI SOUTH Group is available electronically in both English and German. Our ﬁrst-ever report was published in 2016 and covered the reporting year 2015. Target groups The report addresses both internal and external stakeholders, in particular our employees, customers, business partners, and interested members of the public. Reporting period The reporting period is 1 January to 31 December 2017. Any activities undertaken outside of this reporting period are indicated accordingly. The editorial deadline was 9 July 2018. Reporting scope The subject of the report is the ALDI SOUTH Group. During the reporting period, this business group comprised the companies of the ALDI SOUTH Group in Germany as well as HOFER KG in Austria with its direct and indirect subsidiaries operating under the HOFER or ALDI name in Switzerland, Hungary, Slovenia, Italy (initial store openings in 2018), the United Kingdom, Ireland, the US, Australia, and China (online mail order service since 2017), including the respective national and international administrative and service organisations. Any information referring to a speciﬁc national organisation of the ALDI SOUTH Group is indicated accordingly. Due to their very recent market entry, ALDI Italy and ALDI China are not considered within the scope of the goals or key performance indicators (KPIs) speciﬁed within this report. Reporting content This report has been prepared in accordance with the 'Core' option of the Sustainability Reporting Standards developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Individual exceptions were made in the case of indicators for which reliable data can presently not be gathered. The report’s structure is based on the ALDI SOUTH Group’s strategic orientation and the ﬁve ﬁelds of action as deﬁned in our CR Principles: Customers, Supply chain, People, Community, and Environment. Throughout all ﬁve ﬁelds of action, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) issued by the United Nations serve as the framework for our activities within the area of sustainability. The speciﬁc SDGs considered within the scope of the individual ﬁelds of action are indicated accordingly within each chapter. The report focuses on the jointly coordinated activities of the national organisations of the ALDI SOUTH Group. Furthermore, the report contains references to the websites of the national organisations, which provide detailed information on the different goals set and measures taken in the area of Corporate Responsibility. Please note that these are not included in this report and may change over time. The content of the report was selected based on the materiality principle. The process of the materiality analysis is presented in detail here. KPIs for measuring the progress of our CR activities, together with information concerning the method of their selection and data collection, are provided in each of the corresponding chapters as well as the KPI overview. Reporting cycle The International Corporate Responsibility Report is published every two years. The next report for the reporting year 2019 is due to be published in 2020. In the years between the publications, information on the development of relevant KPIs is provided in the form of a data update which will be published online. Audit of the report Together with the materiality analysis conducted within the scope of the International Corporate Responsibility Report 2017, selected KPIs for the reporting year 2017 were veriﬁed by the auditing ﬁrm KPMG AG. The corresponding audit certiﬁcate issued by KPMG AG can be accessed here. Selected KPIs from the International Corporate Responsibility Report 2015, together with the GHG balance and the Company Carbon Footprints for the years 2012, 2014, and 2016, were veriﬁed by the auditing ﬁrm PricewaterhouseCoopers AG. The audit certiﬁcate issued by PricewaterhouseCoopers AG can be accessed here. Veriﬁed content is indicated by a tick (✔). A grey tick (✔) indicates content veriﬁed by PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, while a black tick (✔) indicates content veriﬁed by KPMG AG. Editorial note For the sake of simplicity, all statements within the report are gender-neutral. Contact If you have any questions or comments, please contact our Corporate Responsibility International (CRI) department via email to cri@aldi-sued.com. Further information For further information, please visit the websites of the individual national organisations of the ALDI SOUTH Group: ALDI SOUTH Germany HOFER Austria ALDI SUISSE Switzerland HOFER Slovenia ALDI Hungary ALDI Italy ALDI United Kingdom ALDI Ireland ALDI US ALDI Australia ALDI China GRI disclosures Organisational proﬁle 102-10 Reporting practice 102-45 102-48 102-49 102-50 102-51 102-52 102-53 102-54 102-56 Key ﬁgures Using selected key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas of Company, Customers, Supply chain, People, Community, and Environment, we provide information on the effectiveness of our actions whilst highlighting areas where we are already making strong progress as well as other areas where further action is still required. Together with the materiality analysis conducted within the scope of the International Corporate Responsibility Report 2017, selected KPIs for the reporting year 2017 were veriﬁed by the auditing ﬁrm KPMG AG. The corresponding audit certiﬁcate issued by KPMG AG can be accessed here. Selected KPIs from the International Corporate Responsibility Report 2015, together with the GHG balance and the Company Carbon Footprints for the years 2012, 2014, and 2016, were veriﬁed by the auditing ﬁrm PricewaterhouseCoopers AG. The audit certiﬁcate issued by PricewaterhouseCoopers AG can be accessed here. Veriﬁed content is indicated by a tick (✔). A grey tick (✔) indicates content veriﬁed by PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, while a black tick (✔) indicates content veriﬁed by KPMG AG. Deviations compared to previous reports Important criteria in selecting the KPIs to be reported are our materiality analysis as well as the relevance of these KPIs for managing our internal processes. For this reason, several KPIs are no longer reported for 2017. At the same time, there are KPIs which are included for the ﬁrst time, some of them even retrospectively for previous reporting years (such as KPIs regarding GHG emissions). Compared to the report for 2015 and the update for 2016, we have introduced 29 additional KPIs for 2017. In several cases, the report for 2017 speciﬁes ﬁgures for the individual ALDI SOUTH national organisations in addition to the ﬁgures which apply to the ALDI SOUTH Group as a whole. For some KPIs, the underlying deﬁnitions and/or methods of data collection have been modiﬁed compared to previous years. As a result, some ﬁgures deviate from the ﬁgures reported in previous years. Supply chain Wood and paper: SFI-certiﬁed items are included as of 2017. Coffee: The value of 39.96% reported for 2016 has been corrected to 35.43%. Fish and seafood: For the reporting year 2015, the following KPI deﬁnition was applied: “Sales share of certiﬁed aquaculture or wild-caught products in the total sales of aquaculture or wild-caught ﬁsh and seafood products (based on: retail price, only own-brand products, commodity groups frozen food, chilled food, and fresh ﬁsh)”. Canned ﬁsh products were also evaluated but not included within this deﬁnition. Audits: For the reporting year 2015, the following KPI deﬁnition was applied: “Share of audited production facilities (as contractually agreed in the reporting period) in relation to the total number of production facilities located in Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) risk countries for the commodity groups textiles, shoes, and toys”. For the reporting year 2016, the respective data was queried for the textile, shoes, and toys commodity groups as well as for other risk-relevant non-food commodity groups. ALDI Social Assessments: For the reporting years 2015 and 2016, the following KPI deﬁnition was applied: “Share of production facilities (as contractually agreed) visited within the scope of an ALDI Social Assessment (ASA) in relation to the total number of textile production facilities (as contractually agreed) located in Bangladesh”. Environment GHG emissions: The GHG emissions reported within the scope of the Company Carbon Footprint in 2012 and 2014 were recalculated for the reporting year 2016 based on updated emission factors. Management of recyclable materials: The value of the KPI “Percentage of stores cooperating with charitable organisations to donate unsold food of sound quality compared to the total number of stores” of 81% reported in 2015 has been corrected to 80.26%. Company Net sales Figures in billion EUR 2015 2016 2017 ALDI SOUTH total 45.5 47.9 51.8 Number of stores As of 31 December 2015 2016 2017 Total 5,304 5,605 5,903 Germany 1,858 1,870 1,886 Austria 457 471 485 Switzerland 180 185 189 Slovenia 78 81 83 Hungary 107 119 127 UK 627 693 762 Ireland 122 128 130 US 1,483 1,602 1,739 Australia 392 456 502 Number of distribution centres As of 31 December 2015 2016 2017 Total 81 85 85 Germany 31 31 30 Austria 7 7 7 Switzerland 3 3 3 Slovenia 1 1 1 Hungary 1 1 1 UK 8 8 9 Ireland 2 2 2 US 22 24 24 Australia 6 8 8 Customers Product safety The indicator is based on the last production facility in the supply chain which adds value to the product. GFSI: Global Food Safety Initiative Percentage of food production facilities for the manufacture of food items which are certiﬁed in accordance with a GFSI-recognised standard * 2016 2017 Total 96.64 96.25 ✔ Germany 99.09 98.52 HOFER S/E 96.72 94.01 UK/Ireland 98.21 98.44 US 97.51 98.79 Australia 88.82 88.28 * In cases where GFSI recognised standards are not applied, ALDI requires the most comparable national standard or applies its own. The indicator is based on all publicly recalled food and non-food products. Number of public product recalls 2017 Total 47 ✔ Germany 7 HOFER S/E 6 UK/Ireland 11 US 17 Australia 6 Health and well-being Number of product variants which have undergone optimisation in terms of their salt, sugar, or fat content 2017 ALDI SOUTH total 404 Percentage of sales of organic food products (labelled EU organic, Bio Suisse, Australian certiﬁed organic, USDA organic) 2017 Total 4.5 ✔ Germany 6.95 HOFER S/E 8.94 UK/Ireland 1.12 US 4.16 Australia 1.45 Supply chain Resources Palm oil/palm kernel oil The indicators are based on the total amount of palm oil/palm kernel oil used for our products and derived from the physical supply chain options ‘Identity Preserved’ (IP), ‘Segregated’ (SG), or ‘Mass Balance’ (MB) as deﬁned by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). Percentage of certiﬁed products (food and non-food products) compared to the total number of products containing palm oil/palm kernel oil 2015 2016 2017 Total 66.81 68.68 74.14 ✔ Germany 65.72 77.56 74.56 HOFER S/E 59.99 67.05 67.84 UK/Ireland 78.46 77.54 81.81 US 31.77 30.04 71.86 Australia 84.1 69.43 73.01 Percentage of tonnage for certiﬁed palm oil/palm kernel oil in food products 2015 2016 2017 Total 71.5 84.99 90.18 Germany 95.38 99.99 99.99 HOFER S/E 89.21 90.76 88.66 UK/Ireland 87.84 100 99.98 US 11.33 27.86 65.24 Australia 95.71 100 100 Percentage of tonnage for certiﬁed palm oil/palm kernel oil in nonfood products 2015 2016 2017 Total 9.09 10.59 12.68 Germany 18.07 22.06 16.46 HOFER S/E 4.56 4.34 10.15 UK/Ireland 0 0.68 15.74 US 2.99 0 0.07 Australia 0.08 12.38 17.09 Wood and paper The indicators are based on all products with wood-based components. The sales share is speciﬁed for all products for which the wood-based components are certiﬁed according to FSC®, PEFC, or SFI or made from recycled materials. SFIcertiﬁed products are included as of 2017. Percentage of sales of certiﬁed/recycled products 2016 2017 Total 83.87 80.45 ✔ Germany 87.87 89.03 HOFER S/E 88.2 88.96 UK/Ireland 85.41 84.79 US 66.51 56.19 Australia 85.41 78.96 Paper products: percentage of sales of certiﬁed/recycled products 2015 2016 2017 Total 87.76 95.12 94.19 ✔ Germany 97.05 99.8 100 HOFER S/E 100 100 99.88 UK/Ireland 100 99.9 100 US 52.8 78.87 78.75 Australia 94.69 99.75 99.76 The indicator is based on all core range products with wood-based product packaging. The percentage speciﬁed refers to all products which are certiﬁed according to FSC®, PEFC, or SFI or which contain a minimum of 70% recycled material. Percentage of products with certiﬁed/recycled product packaging 2017 ALDI SOUTH total 51.74 Cocoa The indicator is based on all products from the chocolates, biscuits, and seasonal confectionary commodity groups as well as products from other commodity groups which contain at least 10% cocoa, such as baking chocolate and drinking chocolate. Percentage of sales of products containing certiﬁed cocoa (Fairtrade/Fairtrade Sourcing Program for cocoa, UTZ, Rainforest Alliance, organic) 2016 2017 Total 78.85 79.76 ✔ Germany 99.95 99.96 HOFER S/E 93.28 96.76 UK/Ireland 62.06 65.3 US 42.21 41.57 Australia 63.71 78.16 Coffee Percentage of certiﬁed coffee (Fairtrade, UTZ, Rainforest Alliance, organic) contained in the total amount (in tonnes) of coffee 2016 2017 Total 35.43 43.44 Germany * 49.36 59.44 HOFER S/E 59.56 67.93 UK/Ireland 13.12 14.39 US 9.18 25.62 Australia 5.69 5.82 *Additionally for ALDI SOUTH Germany: percentage of veriﬁed coffee (CAS-veriﬁed) contained in the total amount (in tonnes) of coffee: 7.52 (2016) and 7.58 (2017) Fish and seafood Sales share of certiﬁed aquaculture or wild-caught products in the total sales of aquaculture or wild-caught ﬁsh and seafood products Percentage of sales of certiﬁed wild-caught products (MSC) 2015 2016 2017 Total 44.02 ✔ 49.81 55.31 ✔ Germany 64.66 63.84 66.44 HOFER S/E 51.19 52.45 52.03 UK/Ireland 29.41 34.05 50.35 US 35.59 56.21 57.74 Australia 27.07 37.32 36.36 Percentage of sales of certiﬁed aquaculture products (ASC, organic, GLOBALG.A.P., BAP, minimum two stars) 2015 2016 2017 Total 67.19 ✔ 76.53 83.94 ✔ Germany 78.98 88.35 96.18 HOFER S/E 55.09 75.75 85.26 UK/Ireland 38.25 55.68 64.38 US 95.57 97.84 96.77 Australia 61.56 62.32 60.41 Our criteria for the responsible sourcing of ﬁsh: 1. Certiﬁcation in accordance with one of our recognised standards (Marine Stewardship Council (MSC), Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC), Organic, GlobalG.A.P., Best Aquaculture Practices (BAP) and further by Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI) recognised standards), or 2. World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) or Sustainable Fisheries Partnership (SFP) rating shows a low or medium risk, or 3. the raw material originates from a ﬁshery participating in an Fishery Improvement Project (FIP) or Aquaculture Improvement Project (AIP). Additional criteria for tuna: the producer is a member of the International Seafood Sustainability Foundation (ISSF) or the ﬁshing vessel is registered within the ProActive Vessel Register (PVR). Percentage of products which comply with our criteria for the responsible sourcing of ﬁsh 2017 ALDI SOUTH total 81.63 Soy Fresh meat products, consumer milk products, and shell eggs were included in the calculation of the soy footprint. The soy footprint does not contain products sourced from deforestation-free supply chains which are deﬁned as products certiﬁed in accordance with the standards set by ProTerra/Danube Soya/Europe Soya and not originally sourced from South America. Soy footprint (in tonnes) 2017 Total 298,174 Germany 103,408 HOFER S/E 24,957 UK/Ireland 169,808 US n/a Australia n/a Suppliers ALDI Social Assessments (ASAs) ASAs are audits of production facilities that are carried out by ALDI SOUTH employees together with external auditors and supplier representatives mainly in Bangladesh and China. Number of countries in which an ASA has been conducted 2015 2016 2017 ALDI SOUTH total 5 8 10 Number of ASAs conducted 2015 2016 2017 ALDI SOUTH total 269 286 302 Third-party social audits The indicator takes into account all contractually agreed main non-food production facilities located in risk countries, as deﬁned by the amfori Business Social Compliance Initiative (amfori BSCI), and which are already integrated within an ALDI SOUTH Social Monitoring Programme as well as all social audit reports and certiﬁcates accepted by ALDI SOUTH. Percentage of non-food production facilities with a valid social audit report 2015 2016 2017 ALDI SOUTH total 96.4 ✔ 99.54 99.58 ✔ ASAs in Bangladesh The indicator is based on all contractually agreed, main non-food production facilities used for ALDI SOUTH production which are located in Bangladesh. Percentage of production facilities located in Bangladesh which have been continuously visited within the scope of an ASA 2015 2016 2017 ALDI SOUTH total 98.6 ✔ 93 100 ✔ Supplier assessments The indicator is based on all risk-relevant garment textiles suppliers of ALDI SOUTH. Percentage of garment textiles suppliers for which a supplier assessment was conducted 2017 ALDI SOUTH total 100 Wastewater and sludge analyses The indicator is based on all wet-processing facilities used for textiles and shoes which have been contractually agreed with ALDI SOUTH and on test reports for wastewater and sludge analyses which are no older than one year. Percentage of wet-processing facilities for which a valid wastewater and sludge analysis report has been provided 2016 2017 ALDI SOUTH total 86 89 People Unless indicated otherwise, the information provided is based on the number of employees per capita as of 31 December (excluding employees within special operating units, such as the coffee roasting plants and chocolate factory). Deviations from the total number of employees may be due to rounding. Employment structure Average number of employees 2015 2016 2017 Total 105,036 113,478 125,977 Germany 32,110 33,663 35,152 HOFER S/E 14,730 16,070 18,216 UK/Ireland 26,585 28,709 30,916 US 21,604 24,383 30,517 Australia 9,372 9,841 10,106 International Services 636 812 1,069 Percentage of newly recruited employees compared to the average number of employees 2017 Total 28.73 Germany 21.32 HOFER S/E 32.05 UK/Ireland 22.48 US 40.08 Australia 33.75 International Services 24.41 Percentage of partand full-time employees compared to the total number of employees 2015 2016 2017 Full-time 36.09 37.92 39.01 Part-time 63.91 62.08 60.99 2015 2016 2017 Percentage of permanent employees compared to the total number of employees 97.5 97.5 97.9 Number of staff on parental leave 5,218 6,166 6,734 Number of employees with over 10 years of service with the company 21,848 24,133 25,569 Average number of employees per area of employment (percentage of the average number of employees) 2015 2016 2017 83,034 88,772 Store Operations (79.05%) (78.23%) 97,232 (77.18%) 14,978 (14.26% 16,585 19,423 Logistics ) (14.62%) (15.42%) Administration 7,025 (6.69%) 8,121 (7.16%) 9,322 (7.4%) Age structure Age structure (including apprentices as of 2017) 2016 2017 Percentage of employees under the age of 30 compared to the total number of employees 42.08 43.79 Percentage of employees between the ages of 30 and 50 compared to the total number of employees 46.65 45.28 Percentage of employees aged 50 years or older compared to the total number of employees 11.26 10.92 Women in management positions Information provided in full-time equivalents Women in management positions 2015 2016 2017 Percentage of female employees compared to the total number of employees 65.16 60.09 62.47 Percentage of female employees compared to the total number of employees in management positions 39.21 ✔ 38.36 40.81 ✔ Lower management 40.14 39.12 41.65 Middle management 29.53 30.87 32.3 Upper management 10.22 11.56 12.22 Employee satisfaction Information provided includes the coffee roasting plants and the chocolate factory Average engagement index as a % 2016 ALDI SOUTH total 86 ✔ Apprentices Number of apprentices 2015 2016 2017 Total 6,312 6,371 6,160 Germany 5,058 5,019 4,923 Austria 357 357 384 Switzerland 173 207 213 Slovenia 4 1 0 Hungary 15 73 74 UK 694 700 548 International Services 11 14 18 Percentage of apprentices who were placed permanently following completion of their training 70.51 69.5 70.37 Occupational health and safety Accident rate 2015 2016 2017 Total accident rate 2.82 3.06 2.82 Store Operations 2.96 2.78 2.57 Logistics 4.45 5.75 5.5 Administration 0.44 0.48 0.45 Community Money donations Money donations made to charities or other social organisations for the promotion of non-material causes without the expectation of any form of consideration in return Amount of money donated in EUR 2015 2016 2017 Total 12,097,882 ✔ 15,193,471 19,604,800 ✔ Germany 9,100,343 9,655,514 10,762,080 HOFER S/E 802,187 767,488 1,268,050 UK/Ireland 1,323,593 2,882,310 4,369,068 US 632,904 1,346,142 2,574,811 Australia 238,855 542,017 630,792 Number of product collaborations and/or sales campaigns conducted for the beneﬁt of non-proﬁt organisations 2016 2017 Total 22 28 Germany 0 2 HOFER S/E 13 14 UK/Ireland 7 7 US 0 1 Australia 2 4 Product donations Sales value of foodstuffs and other products not withdrawn from sale which were donated to charities in EUR 2015 2016 2017 Total 1,041,516 1,647,422 668,464 Germany 274,265 51,912 61,225 HOFER S/E 240,425 213,764 48,702 UK/Ireland 526,827 1,381,746 359,367 US * n/a n/a 199,171 Australia ** n/a n/a n/a * Data on product donations for the US for 2015 and 2016 is not available. ** Data on product donations for ALDI Australia for 2015, 2016, and 2017 is only available in tonnage. Long-term partnerships Number of organisations supported within the scope of long-term (≥ 1 year) partnerships at national level 2017 Total 42 Germany 4 HOFER S/E 25 UK/Ireland 6 US 4 Australia 3 Corporate volunteering Number of employees who participated in corporate volunteering activities 2016 2017 Total 1,289 2,909 Germany 82 837 HOFER S/E 760 764 UK/Ireland 34 61 US 402 1,219 Australia 11 21 Environment Company Carbon Footprint Company Carbon Footprint in kg of CO2e per m2 of sales ﬂoor by country/country group (change compared to the base year 2012 as a %) 2012 2014 2016 Germany 209 156 120 (43%) HOFER S/E 205 93 89 (56%) UK/Ireland 357 215 178 (50%) US 537 528 562 (+ 5%) Australia 846 727 711 (16%) Greenhouse gas emissions The GHG emissions reported within the scope of the Company Carbon Footprint 2012 and 2014 were recalculated for the reporting year 2016 based on updated emission factors. Absolute amount of greenhouse gas emissions in 1,000 t of CO2e (change compared to the base year 2012 as a %) 2012 2014 2016 Total 1,464 ✔ 1,330 ✔ 1,421 (3%) ✔ Germany 344 ✔ 268 ✔ 208 (40%) ✔ HOFER S/E 138 ✔ 65 ✔ 66 (52%) ✔ UK/Ireland 187 ✔ 131 ✔ 130 (30%) ✔ US 579 ✔ 628 ✔ 747 (+ 29%) ✔ Australia 215 ✔ 237 ✔ 269 (+ 25%) ✔ Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) in t CO2e 2012 2014 2016 Heating 80,451 90,548 104,330 Fuel 98,019 118,296 160,636 Refrigeration 158,386 223,154 205,051 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) in t CO2e 2012 2014 2016 Electricity 957,231 780,089 761,247 District heating 2,810 2,390 2,358 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) in t CO2e 2012 2014 2016 Third-party logistics 164,110 210,676 229,449 Greenhouse gas emissions in transport logistics in kg CO2e/km 2012 2014 2016 Total 1.05 1.08 0.87 Germany 0.98 0.96 0.91 HOFER S/E 0.99 1 0.96 UK/Ireland 0.83 0.91 0.76 US 1.10 1.19 0.86 Australia 1.49 1.29 1.07 Energy and electricity Energy consumption in GWh 2012 2014 2016 ALDI SOUTH total 3,294 3,756 4,202 Percentage of energy consumption per source 2012 2014 2016 Electricity 56.72 54.05 54.53 Heating 13.53 13.41 13.76 Fuel 29.75 32.53 31.73 Total electricity generated by ALDI SOUTH photovoltaic units in kWh 2015 2016 ALDI SOUTH total 108,128,361 140,921,931 Lighting Lighting 2015 2016 2017 Percentage of stores equipped with LED lighting in chiller cabinets compared to the total number of stores 52.83 72.76 80.06 Percentage of stores equipped with LED lighting in chest freezers compared to the total number of stores equipped with lighting in chest freezers 32.73 44.09 63.32 Refrigeration The damage potential of refrigerants is reported as Global Warming Potential (GWP). The GWP value indicates a refrigerant’s potential greenhouse effect in comparison to the same amount of carbon dioxide (CO2). Percentage of stores with medium-temperature refrigeration systems (coolers/chillers) using a refrigerant with a GWP < 2,200 in the total number of stores 2015 2016 2017 Total 50.57 ✔ 62.66 75 ✔ Germany 52.96 72.94 88.02 HOFER S/E 39.05 46.61 49.21 UK/Ireland 100 100 100 US 25.15 36.2 58.88 Australia 65.05 76.32 82.87 Number of stores with CO2-based integrated refrigeration systems 2015 2016 2017 Total 607 1,063 1,496 Germany 588 990 1,324 HOFER S/E 11 20 24 UK/Ireland 3 4 42 US 4 46 101 Australia 1 3 5 Heating Percentage of stores equipped with a system for heat recovery from refrigeration compared to the total number of stores 2015 2016 2017 Total 41.57 39.98 44.82 Germany 46.29 36.26 42.63 HOFER S/E 93.67 96.38 95.25 UK/Ireland 36.18 41.66 46.41 US 20.5 24.72 33.7 Australia 0 0 0 Management of recyclable materials Total tonnage per waste fraction 2015 2016 2017 Cardboard, paper, and cardboard packaging 513,103 553,204 609,794 Plastic ﬁlm/shrink wrap 13,244 13,268 14,405 Recycling of transport packaging 2015 2016 2017 Percentage of transport packaging recycled from cardboard, paper, and cardboard packaging 99.95 99.89 98.82 Percentage of transport packaging recycled from plastic ﬁlm/shrink wrap 99.93 95 98.68 Avoiding food waste 2015 2016 2017 Percentage of stores cooperating with charitable organisations to donate unsold food of sound quality compared to the total number of stores 80.26 76.2 82.28 Future-oriented construction methods Number of stores built in accordance with a green building standard (LEED, BREEAM, DGNB, Green Star, etc.) or voluntary energy efﬁciency standard (Minergie, Energy Star, Nullenergie, etc.) 2015 2016 2017 Total 187 256 317 Germany 24 50 87 Austria 143 186 207 UK 17 16 17 US 3 3 5 Australia 0 1 1 GRI disclosures Organisational proﬁle 102-7 102-8 GRI Index This report has been prepared in accordance with the 'Core' option of the Sustainability Reporting Standards developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Individual exceptions were made in the case of indicators for which reliable data can presently not be gathered. General GRI Standards GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational proﬁle GRI disclosure Name Reference 102-1 Name of the organization Company proﬁle Activities, brands, products, and 102-2 services Company proﬁle 102-3 Location of headquarters Company proﬁle 102-4 Location of operations Company proﬁle 102-5 Ownership and legal form Company proﬁle 102-6 Markets served Company proﬁle 102-7 Scale of the organization Company proﬁle, Key ﬁgures Information on employees and other 102-8 workers People, Key ﬁgures 102-9 Supply chain Suppliers Signiﬁcant changes to the 102-10 organization and its supply chain About this report 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Compliance and risk management 102-12 External initiatives CR strategy, Initiatives and associations 102-13 Membership of associations Initiatives and associations Strategy GRI disclosure Name Reference 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Foreword Ethics and integrity GRI disclosure Name Reference Values, principles, standards, and 102-16 norms of behavior Compliance and risk management Governance GRI disclosure Name Reference 102-18 Governance structure Company proﬁle Stakeholder engagement GRI disclosure Name Reference 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Materiality analysis 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Materiality analysis 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Materiality analysis 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Materiality analysis Reporting practice GRI disclosure Name Reference Entities included in the consolidated 102-45 ﬁnancial statements About this report Deﬁning report content and topic 102-46 boundaries Materiality analysis 102-47 List of material topics Materiality analysis 102-48 Restatements of information About this report 102-49 Changes in reporting About this report 102-50 Reporting period About this report 102-51 Date of most recent report About this report 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report Contact point for questions regarding 102-53 the report About this report Claims of reporting in accordance with 102-54 the GRI Standards About this report 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index 102-56 External assurance About this report, Auditors’ reports GRI 103: Management approach GRI disclosure Name Reference Explanation of the material topic and Customers, Resources, Suppliers, 103-1 its boundary People, Community, Environment The management approach and its Customers, Resources, Suppliers, 103-2 components People, Community, Environment Evaluation of the management Customers, Resources, Suppliers, 103-3 approach People, Community, Environment GRI Standards: Economic topics Anti-corruption GRI disclosure Name Reference Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 205-2 procedures Compliance and risk management GRI Standards: Environmental topics Energy GRI disclosure Name Reference 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environment Emissions GRI disclosure Name Reference 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 305-2 emissions Environment 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environment 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environment 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environment Efﬂuents and waste GRI disclosure Name Reference 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environment Supplier environmental assessment GRI disclosure Name Reference Negative environmental impacts in 308-2 the supply chain and actions taken Resources GRI Standards: Social topics Employment GRI disclosure Name Reference New employee hires and employee 401-1 turnover People, Key ﬁgures 401-3 Parental leave People, Key ﬁgures Occupational health and safety GRI disclosure Name Reference Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work403-2 related fatalities People Training and education GRI disclosure Name Reference Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 404-2 programs People Child labour GRI disclosure Name Reference Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant 408-1 risk for incidents of child labor Suppliers Forced or compulsory labour GRI disclosure Name Reference Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or 409-1 compulsory labor Suppliers Human rights assessment GRI disclosure Name Reference Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 412-1 assessments Suppliers Local communities GRI disclosure Name Reference Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 413-1 and development programs Community Supplier social assessment GRI disclosure Name Reference New suppliers that were screened 414-1 using social criteria Suppliers Negative social impacts in the supply 414-2 chain and actions taken Suppliers Public policy GRI disclosure Name Reference 415-1 Political contributions Community Customer health and safety GRI disclosure Name Reference Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service 416-1 categories Customers GRI disclosures Reporting practice 102-55 UN Global Compact and SDGs Communication on the ALDI SOUTH Group's progress report concerning the United Nations Global Compact In August 2017, the ALDI SOUTH Group signed the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and thereby committed to integrating the ten universal sustainability principles from the areas of human rights, labour, environment, and anticorruption within its corporate strategy and to implement these principles within the scope of its daily business operations. The below table shows how we implement the ten UNGC principles and indicates which passages of the report contain which information. Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Measure Evaluation of the results Relevant passage within the 2017 report CR Principles Suppliers key ﬁgures CR strategy Code of Conduct Suppliers ALDI “Social Standards in Production” based Key ﬁgures on the ILO standards, the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Conventions on the Rights of the Child, the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Measure Evaluation of the results Relevant passage within the 2017 report CR Principles Suppliers key ﬁgures CR strategy Code of Conduct Suppliers ALDI “Social Standards in Production” based People on the ILO standards, the UN's Universal Key ﬁgures Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Conventions on the Rights of the Child, the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Measure Evaluation of the results Relevant passage within the 2017 report ALDI Management System Suppliers key ﬁgures Suppliers ALDI “Social Standards in Production” based Key ﬁgures on the ILO standards, the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Conventions on the Rights of the Child, the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Social Monitoring Programme 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Measure Evaluation of the results Relevant passage within the 2017 report ALDI Management System Suppliers key ﬁgures Suppliers ALDI “Social Standards in Production” based Key ﬁgures on the ILO standards, the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Conventions on the Rights of the Child, the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Social Monitoring Programme 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and Measure Evaluation of the results Relevant passage within the 2017 report ALDI Management System Suppliers key ﬁgures Suppliers ALDI “Social Standards in Production” based Key ﬁgures on the ILO standards, the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Conventions on the Rights of the Child, the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Social Monitoring Programme 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Measure Evaluation of the results Relevant passage within the 2017 report ALDI Management System Suppliers key ﬁgures CR strategy ALDI “Social Standards in Production” based People key ﬁgures Suppliers on the ILO standards, the UN's Universal People Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Key ﬁgures Conventions on the Rights of the Child, the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Social Monitoring Programme Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Measure Evaluation of the results Relevant passage within the 2017 report Calculation of the Company Carbon Resources key ﬁgures Resources Footprint since 2012 Environment key ﬁgures Suppliers International climate strategy since 2014; Detox key ﬁgures Environment goal: to reduce GHG emissions per m2 of Key ﬁgures sales ﬂoor Climate-neutral national business operations within the ALDI SOUTH Group: Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Slovenia International strategy on efﬁcient waste management since 2015; a waste monitoring system is currently being established Certiﬁcation of buildings in accordance with/based on green building standards Implementation of an energy management system in all stores Use of modern refrigeration technologies in all stores and regional distribution centres Use of logistics vehicles which comply with the most current emission standards Environmental compliance measures within the area of textiles (Detox) Measures within the area of resources (e.g. Soy Footprint) 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and Measure Evaluation of the results Relevant passage within the 2017 report Calculation of the Company Carbon Resources key ﬁgures Resources Footprint since 2012 Environment key ﬁgures Suppliers International climate strategy since 2014; Detox key ﬁgures Environment goal: to reduce GHG emissions per m2 of Key ﬁgures sales ﬂoor Climate-neutral national business operations within the ALDI SOUTH Group: Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Slovenia International strategy on efﬁcient waste management since 2015; a waste monitoring system is currently being established Certiﬁcation of buildings in accordance with/based on green building standards Implementation of an energy management system in all stores Use of modern refrigeration technologies in all stores and regional distribution centres Use of logistics vehicles which comply with the most current emission standards Environmental compliance measures within the area of textiles (Detox) Measures within the area of resources (e.g. Soy Footprint) 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Measure Evaluation of the results Relevant passage within the 2017 report Calculation of the Company Carbon Resources key ﬁgures Resources Footprint since 2012 Environment key ﬁgures Suppliers International climate strategy since 2014; Detox key ﬁgures Environment goal: to reduce GHG emissions per m2 of Key ﬁgures sales ﬂoor Climate-neutral national business operations within the ALDI SOUTH Group: Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Slovenia International strategy on efﬁcient waste management since 2015; a waste monitoring system is currently being established Certiﬁcation of buildings in accordance with/based on green building standards Implementation of an energy management system in all stores Use of modern refrigeration technologies in all stores and regional distribution centres Use of logistics vehicles which comply with the most current emission standards Environmental compliance measures within the area of textiles (Detox) Measures within the area of resources (e.g. Soy Footprint) Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Measure Evaluation of the results Relevant passage within the 2017 report Code of Conduct Internal audits for verifying the Compliance and risk Compliance management (incl. training implementation of anti-corruption management measures) measures Risk management Internal reporting on the use of complaints mechanisms Alert lines and Counsels of Trust ALDI SOUTH and the UN's Sustainable Development Goals On 1 January 2016, the 17 goals for sustainable development (Sustainable Development Goals, SDGs) of the United Nations became effective with the publication of the United Nations Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development. The aim of these goals is to improve sustainable development at economic, social, and ecological level by 2030. Companies are requested to be involved in the implementation of these global goals. The ALDI SOUTH Group is aware of its responsibility in this area and describes the measures taken in order to achieve these goals within the CR Report 2017. The table below indicates those passages of the report which reference the SDGs. Chapter Customers Customers Supply chain Resources Suppliers People People Community Community Environment Environment Outlook 2015 − Progress 2017 Within each chapter of our CR Report 2015, we have provided an outlook of our planned activities. Please click on the individual ﬁelds in order to view the progress we have made so far. Increased involvement in international Increased presence in Asian production committees and multistakeholder initiatives countries Member of the United Nations Global In addition to our existing CR Unit Asia in Hong Compact since 2017 Kong (established in 2012), the ALDI SOUTH We participate in the amfori BEPI (Business Group opened a second CR Unit Asia in Dhaka Environmental Performance Initiative) (Bangladesh) in 2017. The CR Units in Dhaka and since 2017. For more information visit Hong Kong conduct audits of the working amfori.org. conditions during production and support suppliers and production facilities in implementing social and environmental Additional information standards on behalf of the ALDI SOUTH countries. Additional information Extended national and international CR Safety and quality teams In 2017, 96,25% of the food production facilities Further extension of the international CR used by the ALDI SOUTH Group were certiﬁed to teams. In addition to the national CR teams, a standard which is recognised according to new personnel for the international service the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI). unit CRI was recruited, in particular for the CR Units in Hong Kong and Dhaka. Additional information Additional information Health and well-being Greater transparency throughout the supply chain Across all countries, ALDI SOUTH works to optimise product ingredients in order to reduce Disclosure of the main production facilities their salt and sugar content. used for garment and household textiles as well as shoes on the website of ALDI SOUTH Additional information Germany International consolidation of the supplier and production facility pools used for garment textiles Greater transparency regarding supplier performance in the area of CR by introducing a rating system as of 2017 Additional information Intensiﬁed efforts in the areas of palm oil, Further development of the Social Monitoring wood and paper, cocoa, and coffee Programme (SMP) Continuous increase in the share of Integration of all relevant non-food sustainable palm oil/palm kernel oil, cocoa, commodity groups into the SMP as of the and coffee. The sales share of certiﬁed/recycled beginning of 2018 wood and paper products remained nearly Initial integration of food commodity stable. groups into the SMP Additional information Additional information Expansion of the ALDI Factory Advancement Continuous implementation of our voluntary (AFA) Project with a focus on social topics commitment to establishing ecological production standards for garment textiles, household textiles, and shoes (Detox Commitment) by 2020 Introduction of an alumni programme for production facilities which have completed the AFA Project. Additional projects support the opening of childcare facilities in the vicinity of Introduction of monitoring systems for production facilities and thus provide valuable collecting data on the substances used assistance to families. during the production of garment textiles, household textiles and shoes in order to facilitate the exclusion of hazardous Additional information chemicals Detox Summit in Shanghai in 2016 to give our partners and other relevant parties the chance to meet, intensify their exchange of information and experience, and learn from best practice examples Introduction of threshold values for the use of alkylphenolethoxylates (APEOs), perﬂuorated compounds (PFCs), and other hazardous chemicals during the production of garment textiles, household textiles, and shoes Increased transparency regarding the presuppliers used for garment textiles, household textiles, and shoes Performance of wastewater and sludge discharge analyses as well as chemical management audits at wet-processing facilities Approval of international objectives regarding the area of systemic change Additional information Ongoing support of personal employee Development of specialised strategies in development plans order to prepare for demographic change Implementation of a strategic institution for Approval of an International People Strategy, training and development (ALDI which aims to systematically develop and Academy/ALDI University) in each country. strengthen ALDI SOUTH as an employer of In 2016, the ALDI Academy/ALDI University choice as well as to preserve our employees' was available to almost all employee ability to work, in 2016. This strategy comprises groups. By 2020, the implementation all HR-related ﬁelds of action, e.g. health process is scheduled for completion for all management, promotion of diversity, etc. employee groups. Many of our training courses and seminars Additional information undergo regular internal quality audits with a view to continuous optimisation and further development. Regular performance reviews for all employees with at least one year of service with the company Additional information Inclusion of employees in corporate Expansion of corporate volunteering responsibility topics programmes Increase in our employees' familiarity with CR Employee participation in corporate topics by means of internationally standardised volunteering programmes in almost all CR Principles national organisations of the ALDI SOUTH Group. In 2017, more than 2,900 employees Additional information participated in corporate volunteering programmes. Additional information Increased community activities at national Continuous improvement of the energy level efﬁciency of our business processes Community activities carried out by all national Implementation of energy management organisations of the ALDI SOUTH Group systems in all stores by the end of 2016 Use of energy-efﬁcient refrigeration Additional information systems Use of LED lighting Additional information Extension of our waste monitoring system at Promotion of environmental and climate international level and harmonisation of protection projects at national level relevant measures at national level Environmental and climate protection projects Integration of additional waste categories in all countries within the waste monitoring systems used throughout all countries in accordance with Additional information the ALDI SOUTH strategy on sustainable waste management, which was approved in 2015. Additional information Auditors’ reports Together with the materiality analysis conducted within the scope of the International Corporate Responsibility Report 2017, selected KPIs for the reporting year 2017 were veriﬁed by the auditing ﬁrm KPMG AG. Auditors’ report CR Report 2017  Download PDF In addition to this, selected KPIs from the International Corporate Responsibility Report 2015, together with the GHG balance and the Company Carbon Footprints for the years 2012, 2014, and 2016, were veriﬁed by the auditing ﬁrm PricewaterhouseCoopers AG. Auditors’ report CR Report 2015 Auditors’ report Company  Link  Carbon Footprint Download PDF GRI disclosures Reporting practice 102-56 Legal notice Service provider within the meaning of Section 5 TMG (German Telemedia Act) ALDI International Services GmbH & Co. oHG ALDI SOUTH Group Mintarder Straße 36–40 45481 Mülheim an der Ruhr Germany Local Court of Duisburg, Department A (HRA) 8577 VAT identiﬁcation number DE 120353372 On behalf of the national organisations of the ALDI SOUTH Group. E-Mail cri@aldi-sued.com ALDI International Services GmbH & Co. oHG is represented by ALDI International Services GmbH, located in Duisburg in the jurisdiction of the Local Court of Duisburg: Department B (HRB) 2292, and represented by its Managing Directors: Swen Gallina, Dr. David Godschalk, Daniel Koch, Reiner Mischke, Oliver Pollhammer, Sven van den Boomen. Other partners All ALDI GmbH & Co. KGs (limited partnerships) belonging to the ALDI SOUTH Group ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Adelsdorf, Holzäckerstraße 1, 91325 Adelsdorf, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Aichtal, Riedstraße 8–12, 72631 Aichtal, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Altenstadt, Illertalstraße 2, 89281 Altenstadt, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Bingen, An den Steinäckern 1, 55411 Bingen, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Bous, Am Bommersbacher Hof 1–5, 66359 Bous, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Butzbach, In der Alböhn 1, 35510 Butzbach, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Donaueschingen, Pfohrener Straße 50, 78166 Donaueschingen, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Dormagen, Edisonstraße 12, 41542 Dormagen, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Ebersberg, Anzinger Straße 6, 85560 Ebersberg, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Eschweiler, Mariadorfer Straße 1, 52249 Eschweiler, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Geisenfeld, Römerstraße 2, 85290 Geisenfeld, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Helmstadt, Würzburger Straße 56, 97264 Helmstadt, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Kerpen, Humboldtstraße 38–44, 50171 Kerpen, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Ketsch, Karlsruher Straße 2, 68775 Ketsch, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Kirchheim, Rosengartenweg 11, 67281 Kirchheim a. d. Weinstraße, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Kleinaitingen, Messerschmittstraße 2, 86507 Kleinaitingen, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Langenfeld, Karl-Benz-Straße 4–6, 40764 Langenfeld, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Langenselbold, Am Seegraben 16, 63505 Langenselbold, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Mahlberg, Rotackerstraße 19–51, 77972 Mahlberg, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Mönchengladbach, Korschenbroicher Straße 605, 41065 Mönchengladbach, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Montabaur, Am Alten Galgen 21, 56410 Montabaur, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Mörfelden, Hessenring 1–3, 64546 Mörfelden-Walldorf, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Mülheim, Burgstraße 37, 45476 Mülheim a. d. Ruhr, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Murr, Lehmgrube 5, 71711 Murr, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Rastatt, Im Wöhr 7–9, 76437 Rastatt, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Regenstauf, Benzstraße 11, 93128 Regenstauf, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Rheinberg, An der Rheinberger Heide 11, 47495 Rheinberg, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Roth, Gildestraße 17, 91154 Roth, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG St. Augustin, Im Mittelfeld 11, 53757 St. Augustin, Germany ALDI GmbH & Co. KG Wittlich, Röntgenstraße 30, 54516 Wittlich, Germany Image credits ALDI SOUTH Group (CR Portal, Company, Customers, Suppliers/Focus: supplier assessments, People, People/Focus: occupational safety and the promotion of health, Environment, Environment/Focus: modern refrigeration technology, International Activities iStock.com / zoranm (Customers) iStock.com / t_lesiv (Resources) iStock.com / Brasil2 (Resources/Focus: protecting our forests) iStock.com / Nastasic (Resources) iStock.com / ktmofﬁtt (Resources) iStock.com / slpu9945 (Resources) iStock.com / poco_bw (Suppliers) iStock.com / oneinchpunch (Suppliers) iStock.com / PeopleImages (Community) plainpicture/Cavan Images (Customers) Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (Community/Focus: long-term partnerships) Bátor Tábor (Community) ALDI employee Jill Sacco, Corporate Responsibility (Community) Forward-looking statements This report contains statements that refer to the future development of the ALDI SOUTH Group. These forecasts represent estimates made based on the information available to the ALDI SOUTH Group at the time of writing. Actual developments may deviate from current expectations. The ALDI SOUTH Group accepts no responsibility regarding these statements.
