SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OCTOBER 2018 TABLE OF 1. MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR 2. ABOUT INTERCRUISES CONTENTS 3. INTERCRUISES SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES A. Increase stakeholders’ sustainability awareness B. Sustainable offices and services C. Promote sustainable destinations to clients and guests D. Promote sustainable development of suppliers E. Reduce carbon footprint F. Reduce discrimination G. Promote corporate responsible actions 4. INTERCRUISES SUSTAINABILITY BEST PRACTICES A. Human Rights B. Labor Standards C. Environment D. Anti-Corruption I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 2 1. M  ESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 3 On November 15th 2012, This year, as part of our Sustainability Roadmap, we have strengthened our commitments in As a proud member of the UNGC, we are thrilled to further our commitment to its principles Intercruises Shoreside & order to have a more positive impact on the and Sustainable Development Goals, and environments in which we operate. This includes look forward to reviewing and evaluating our Port Services became a the following: progress along the way. member of the United • Intercruises signed the Global Code of Nations Global Compact Ethics for Tourism – a set of principles implemented by the World Tourism Yours sincerely, (UNGC), and committed to Organization – considered a point of reference for key players in the tourism integrating the principles industry. of the UNCG within its • Intercruises successfully renewed the certification of the Integrated Management Olga Piqueras business strategy and daySystem (ISO 9001:2015 and ISO Managing Director 14001:2015) for Barcelona Operations Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services to-day operations. and Passenger Services in Palma de Mallorca. We are pleased to confirm our continued • Intercruises maintained its Travelife Partner support for the UNCG and renew our ongoing status for twelve global offices, while also commitment to the initiative and its principles introducing four new locations this year. concerning human rights, labor, environment We now have 16 offices providing services and anti-corruption, as well as the Sustainable across 116 destinations, accredited by Development Goals defined in the 2030 Agenda the Travelife Sustainability System for Tour for Sustainable Development. Our mission and Operators & Travel Agencies. values will help us achieve our goals to help • Intercruises became a member of UNGC’s reconcile economic growth with environmental Tourism Industry Spanish Working Group and social responsibility. With this document, with the aim to increase our sustainability our fifth annual Communication on Progress, activities within the Spanish tourism Intercruises is making a clear statement of this industry. commitment with stakeholders and the public • We continue to reduce our carbon footprint using our primary channels of communication. and compensate our emissions, and have continued to operate as a Carbon Neutral Company for two years running. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 4 2. ABOUT INTERCRUISES I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 5 Intercruises is an experienced global business offering turnaround, shore excursion, hotel and port agency services to the ocean and river cruise industry. Cruise specialist teams handle all vessel, guest and crew needs, before, during and after a ship’s time in port. Services are managed from over 100 local offices by teams operating Intercruises is an Official Partner of Travelife – an organization dedicated in over 400 ports worldwide, encompassing over 60 countries spread to promoting sustainable practices within the travel and tourism industry. across Africa, the Americas, Asia, Australia, Indian Ocean, Middle East, It is also an Active Participant of the United Nations Global Compact Mediterranean and Northern Europe. (UNGC) – a principle based framework dedicated to the implementation of better business practices, primarily in the areas of human rights, labor, the All Intercruises teams worldwide are supported by the Intercruises Global environment and anti-corruption. Intercruises has recently signed the Global Platform, a central team comprised of specialist in-house departments, Code of Ethics for Tourism – a set of principles implemented by the World including Health & Safety, Finance, Marketing & Communications, Business Tourism Organization, considered to be a point of reference for key players Processes, Sustainability and Operations Support. Intercruises supports in the tourism industry. cruise lines and vessels through strong industry relationships, high quality service standards, global resources and strict corporate governance, Intercruises is part of Destination Services, and is one of three businesses that including advanced health & safety procedures and an ongoing commitment make up the Destination Services business unit, along with Pacific World, to sustainable practices. an award-winning event management company, and Destination Services, a global DMC of local experts crafting worldwide experiences. Intercruises is an award-winning business, having received numerous accolades relating to service quality and innovation, including being the most successful business in the history of the Seatrade Insider Innovative Shorex Award, as a three time Winner and three time Runner Up. Intercruises also won a Wave Award in 2018 for Best Use of Technology. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 6 PART OF THE CRUISE INDUSTRY Diamond Executive Partner since Associate Member for over 10 Exhibitor, Advertiser, Sponsor and (Formerly Cruise Down Under) 2013 and Official Logistics Partner years and Official Shorex Supplier Official Logistics Partner on various Member since 2011 at various events since 2014 at various events occasions since 2004 Associate Member since 2014 Service Member for over 10 years Headline Sponsor since 2011 China Cruise and Yacht Industry and part of the Official Steering Association Executive Council Committee Member since 2017 I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 7 P a s si o n PRODUCT/SERVICES nd crew satisf u e st a acti seg o u i ar of ever ything w n is t Cr the he ed a t o TO BE THE WORLD’S LEADING PROVIDER ns is OF SHORESIDE tio tent to n, s sco er vic d& PORT SERVICES tte or mi pe e, r TURNAROUNDS SHORE EXCURSIONS PORT AGENCY HOTEL PROGRAMS com ble w or egar Fully dless ty i na circ usta Inte umsta bili and s et n ce s k pr hica Co a ac l l oc lia gr tice of it y s Re KEY STATS +60 +300 AMERICAS MEDITERRANEAN & EUROPE COUNTRIES FULL TIME CRUISE EMPLOYEES ASIA-PACIFIC +400 +12,000 PORTS ANNUAL PORT CALLS +100 +220m € OFFICES SALES (last Fiscal Year) INDIA & INDIAN OCEAN I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 8 For the last seven 2011 2012 2013 2014 years, Intercruises has pursued a more sustainable and responsible • IC Sustainability • United Nations Global • Cruise Gateway • Global Compact 1st way of doing Department Compact partnership Conference 2013, report sustainable shore business with its • Save the Children partnership • ISO 9001+14001 Certification for excursions • BCN Waste Management suppliers and the • 1st Carbon Operations and • Green Commitment • “Don’t Look Away” Barcelona Head Ecolabel (BCN) travel and tourism Management Office Child Protection reporting Campaign destinations in which we operate. 2015 2016 2017 2018 • ISO 9001+14001 • Travelife Partner • New Sustainability • Global Code of Ethics certification (including Certification for 12 Objectives and KPIs for Tourism PMI) offices • Carbon Neutral • Travelife Partner • Interquiz Project Project certification for 4 offices • STEP Project I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 9 3. INTERCRUISES SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 10 Intercruises integrates sustainability into its The fifth Intercruises Sustainability Report will focus on our sustainability roadmap, our sustainability priorities defined for the next few years and business strategy and tries to continuously their connection with the four areas of the Global Compact Principles and with the Sustainable Development Goals defined in the 2030 Agenda for minimize its impact to ensure prosperity Sustainable Development. for all. Intercruises uses its network of The Intercruises Sustainability Plan has established 26 goals under seven stakeholders to minimize the negative priority areas: impact of tourism in the communities in A. Increase stakeholders’ sustainability awareness B. Sustainable offices and services which it operates. C. Promote sustainable destinations to clients and guests D. Promote sustainable development of suppliers E. Reduce carbon footprint F. Reduce discrimination G. Promote corporate responsible actions I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 11 A. INCREASE STAKEHOLDERS’ SUSTAINABILITY AWARENESS We want to contribute to generating a positive impact within the tourism industry. The first step would be to raise sustainability awareness. UN GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE COMPACT 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES GOALS GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS NEXT STEPS New Policies / Sustainability Policy Adaptation to new Group Policies Manuals / Guidelines Sustainability Process Sheet Sustainability Guidelines for suppliers (Travelife Project) / Procedures Be greener in the office Global Compact COP 2017 New Sustainability Report adapted to IC and valid for Global Memoria del Port de BCN Compact Sustainability report Report to UNWTO Ethics about the Global Code of Ethics for Port de BCN Tourism UNWTO Ethics Sustainability Communications – Emails, Internal Articles – Webpage – Workshops – Social media Sustainability Training: Design content for onboarding and Awareness / training Waste Reduction Week some specific to operations (shore excursions) Being sustainable in the workplace Sustainability Week – Sustainable Development Goals GSTC Sustainable Tourism Training 17 policies developed Global Code of Ethics for Tourism signed MEASUREMENT 35 communications about Sustainability sent out in the last two years 8 training courses taken by 55 employees I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 12 HIGHLIGHTED ACTIVITIES Communications: internal and external • Travelife renewals Jul’18 communications have been sent to help combat • New Security Awareness training Jul’18 the biggest threats to sustainability. • APAC CSR Aug’18 • Sustainability achievements carbon footprint • Global Compact report Oct’17 Aug’18 • Carbon Offset Oct’17 • Innovative Shorex Award Aug’18 • Pink October Oct’17 • Waste reduction week Nov’17 including Intercruises also interacts with other best practices to reduce our environmental stakeholders to integrate sustainability into our footprint activities. We attend different workshops and • Printed paper communication Nov’17 meetings: • El Gran Recapte Campaign Dec’17 • New reusable cups Dec’17 •  Socially Responsible Companies: Barcelona, • Season Greetings Dec’17 29th of May, 2018. How to become a • Code of ethics Feb’18 positive influence for the society. • Sustainability update Mar’18 Including “Be • Valencia, Sustainable Cruise Destination: greener in the Office” Valencia, 28th of May, 2018. Identify the • Travelife ITB Mar’18 main impacts within the tourism industry • Health&Safety Update Mar’18 supply chain and an action plan to mitigate • ISO 9001&14001 Apr’18 them. • Boston & Barcelona donations May’18 • Tourism Cares Partnership Jun’18 • WED Beat Plastic Pollution Jun’18 I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 13 B. SUSTAINABLE OFFICES AND SERVICES – CERTIFICATIONS We promote the fostering of more sustainable environment within our and operations, and strive to receive the acknowledgement of compliance and vailidation from official auditors. UN GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE COMPACT 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES GOALS GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS NEXT STEPS Travelife Partner 16 Travelife Partner Certificates 2018 new petitions: Malaysia, Palma, etc. certification GSTC – Travelife Internal Sustainable Shorex Evaluation Certified – Shorex Travelife gets GSTC accreditation GSTC Certification implementation for shore excursions Certifications ISO 14001:2015 Barcelona follow-up ISO 14001:2015 for Barcelona certifications Malaga implementation 16 Travelife certifications worldwide (116 ports distributed in 12 countries and 1302 shore excursions developed) MEASUREMENT ISO 14001:2015 certification implemented in the Head Office I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 14 HIGHLIGHTED ACTIVITIES Intercruises controls and monitors sustainability REGION OFFICES PORTS COUNTRY issues through various internal and external processes aimed at ensuring the validity and 1 Singapore 1 Singapore reliability of our sustainability management 1 Hong Kong 1 Hong Kong practices and reporting. Regular controlling Asia-Pacific 1 Bangkok & Phuket 4 Thailand and monitoring gives us valuable information on the results of our sustainability work and 1 Sydney 21 Australia is therefore an important element in our Marseille continuous efforts to develop our reporting and 2 10 France building a more sustainable world. Nice • Lloyds and Molins de Q: ISO 9001 and Ireland 14001 certification 1 London 19 • Travelife Sustainable Certification UK • Group & Investors: Environmental, Social 1 Dubrovnik 17 Croatia and Governance KPIs 1 Piraeus 25 Greece Mediterranean & Europe During this year 2018, Intercruises Barcelona 1 demonstrated that its management system is Fuerteventura in line with the new ISO requirements and successfully maintained certification of the ISO Las Palmas de Gran Canaria 6 Spain 14001:2015 and ISO 9001:2015 without any Santa Cruz de la Palma 6 non-conformity. Tenerife Travelife verified our sustainability commitment Lanzarote and consistent sustainable business practices in Canada a variety of areas, including Legal Compliance, Americas 1 Fort Lauderdale 11 Environment & Community Relations, USA Transportation, Excursions and Destinations. Intercruises has reached the Travelife Partner full compliance status with 16 offices worldwide providing services across 116 destinations. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 15 C. PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DESTINATIONS TO CLIENTS OR GUESTS We are developing our own Sustainable Standards for our services to distinguish the most sustainable products included in our portfolio. We want to influence clients and tourists to choose the most sustainable options. UN GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE COMPACT 1 2 7 8 9 DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES GOALS GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS NEXT STEPS Create sustainable excursion checklist Sustainable excursions Create criteria to identify sustainable excursions Pending: Group criteria GSTC Sustainable Excursions Contribute to conservation and Not Started UNESCO Partnership protection of World Heritage sites Facilitate trained people, infrastructure, vehicles and excursions Wheelchair Training Create requirements checklist for adapted operations for people with disabilities 302 employees have completed the “Assisting Guests in Wheelchairs” training program MEASUREMENT 626 employees have completed the “Disability Awareness” training program I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 16 HIGHLIGHTED ACTIVITIES A sustainable excursion can have a positive A Day in Barcelona with a Meaning Panda Sanctuary CSR Program in Sichuan impact on the natural environment and local This excursion includes a visit to the church This tour allows guests to help improve the communities, offering customers unique and of Santa Anna. Within its walls, it houses a lives of panda bears through a real handsmemorable experiences while protecting wonderful project: It is the first church that on experience. Under the supervision of the resources for the future. There are some opened its doors so that homeless people can official trainers, guests are invited on site to examples of sustainable excursions included in sleep in it, becoming a “field hospital” 24 discover and learn about the pandas’ living our portfolio: hours a day, 365 days a year. One of the habits while caring for them, preparing their workers will briefly explain the project, and food and ensuring their environment remains how they make the difference to many people clean. Although making direct contact with the suffering from social exclusion. The visit will creatures is not permitted, this thrilling, up-close not only enrich the guests’ experience, but will experience focuses on sustainability, and helps also give back to the local community, as their to spread global awareness while allowing contribution is then directly invested into the guests to acquire a good understanding of project. the life of a species that is so symbolic of both China, and Asia. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 17 D. PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IN SUPPLIERS We will promote sustainable activities in our supply chain, rating their sustainability commitment while facilitating the necessary training and awareness sessions for them too. UN GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE COMPACT 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES GOALS GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS NEXT STEPS Favor suppliers and contractors who Animal Welfare requirements Create sustainable criteria to contract suppliers promote sustainable development Facilitate training for Not started GSTC Sustainable Excursions contractors 5,587 suppliers have been risk-assessed and another 3,575 are planned. The risk assessment includes Sustainability, Health & MEASUREMENT Safety and Legal topics. We are committed to taking action to support animal welfare together with our partners. We will continue to contract HIGHLIGHTED suppliers that adhere to both our Animal Welfare policy and the ABTA guidelines through our distribution channels, while ACTIVITIES also recognizing them as a participating member of our Animal Welfare Program, for them to gain addtional exposure, while maintaining our best practice when it comes to animal welfare. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 18 E. REDUCE CARBON FOOTPRINT We continue to analyse our Carbon Footprint, establishing several reduction goals while incorporating compensation projects. UN GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE COMPACT 7 8 9 DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES GOALS GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS NEXT STEPS Calculate Carbon Carbon Footprint for Barcelona and Travelife offices Group report for Carbon Footprint Footprint Sustrax program Carbon Footprint for Barcelona and Travelife offices Reduce Carbon Best practices awareness Footprint (Travel, Waste Reduction week Onboarding sustainability awareness waste, water, energy & Be Greener in the Office Best practices & technology available paper consumptions) IT donation US Carbon Neutral Project, CECIC Zhangbei Dayangzhuang Wind Farm – Head office offset Carbon Offsetting New Project to become neutral at our Head office New Global Travel Policy rolls out Mar’18 – 3€ per flight for offsetting Since FY14/15 we have reduced 20,88% of our Head Office Carbon Footprint 280 tons of CO2e have been neutralized in CECIC Zhangbei Dayangzhuang Wind Farm project in China MEASUREMENT Since FY11/12, paper consumption has decreased by 85% per employee Electricity consumption has decreased by 3,8% in the new office in a year. We classify more than 50% of generated waste to recycle it. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 19 HIGHLIGHTED ACTIVITIES Business travel is the biggest contributor to This year’s theme “Reuse and Reduce” focuses our carbon emission, which is why we have on the simple, yet effective ways in which we created an internally-funded program that can not only help prevent waste but also foster sees the company donate €2.60 for every a much more eco-friendly life, both in and business flight to Carbon Footprint Ltd, who outside of the office. then invest the funds into carbon-offsetting initiatives. This is designed to encourage a Beginning on Monday November 20th, As part of the Group, Intercruises has offset reduction in travel while raising company and Intercruises employees received a daily email its carbon emissions during the FY 16-17 employee awareness. This year our Corporate from the Sustainability Department, containing obtaining the status of a Carbon Neutral Sustainability team chose to donate all funds their top tips on certain topics, along with the Organisation. collected to the Portel-Pará Deforestation simple ways in which they can help make their an offsetting project, located within Brazil’s lives a little bit greener. The certification comes after a thorough Amazon. • Monday – Paperless Office analysis and assessment of our Carbon • Tuesday – E-Waste & Digital Waste Footprint by an independent body, Carbon Intercruises’ Waste Reduction Week – part of • Wednesday – Zero-Waste Packaging Footprint Ltd, using metrics devised by their a global initiative during which thousands of • Thursday – Reducing Carbon Footprint in the sustainability experts. organizations aim to increase awareness of the Office importance of sustainable resources and waste • Friday – Reducing Carbon Footprint at management. Home I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 20 F. REDUCE DISCRIMINATION (WOMEN, YOUNG PEOPLE AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES) Intercruises aims to provide a work environment that all employees can enjoy; free from all forms of discrimination based on race, religion, colour, gender, age, national origin, sexual orientation or disability. UN GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE COMPACT 1 2 3 6 DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES GOALS GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS NEXT STEPS Pending: Group Equality Plan Implement Equality Not started Collect info from all regions (% Women , % Youth, % Plan Disabilities) Partnerships with: INGEUS, groups at risk of social exclusion. More contracts for INSERTA (ONCE), disabilities Not started disadvantaged people #GrandesProfesionales (Adecco), disabilities Best Buddies project Ley General de discapacidad, compliance Current percentage of employees according to gender: • 57% Female MEASUREMENT • 43% Male Last FY we have promoted 14 wellbeing activities for employees. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 21 G. P  ROMOTE CORPORATE RESPONSABLE ACTIONS Intercruises’ engages with NGOs through different types of collaboration, from philanthropy to partnership, giving us the opportunity to invest in global Sustainable Development Goals using their expertise to create social change in the most effective way. UN GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE COMPACT 1 2 7 8 9 10 DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES GOALS GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS NEXT STEPS #IntercruisesGivesBack campaign Volunteering activities in Barcelona and other regions Promote volunteering worldwide (workshops) Barcelona: Let’s Clean Europe, Snorkel Sostenible, El Gran Corporate volunteering Volunteering Platform (cancelled) Recapte, La fam no fa vacances, Soñar Despiertos Events Tourism Cares Partnership (El Día del Niño, Campaña de Navidad, Mantenimientos), Hospital Sant Joan de Deu. Evaluate if we are going to continue with this or split the budget for different projects (Hospital Sant Joan de Deu, Monetary and in kind Save the Children & others (Seur, Pont Solidari, etc.) activities for Children, El Gran Recapte, Asociación contra el donations cáncer, Amigos para siempre Soñar Despiertos, Pequeños grandes momentos, etc.) I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 22 MEASUREMENT Last FY we donated 8,614 € to different • Banc dels Aliments warehouse: (food bank) • Tourism Cares: a US-based non-profit projects. This FY, our donations have increased foundation – a charity which collects, organization that aims to “advance the to 12.848 €. categorizes and repackages food donations travel industry’s social impact in order to to send to those in need. make a positive impact on people and See all organizations supported: places.” • Soñar Despierto Foundation: developing • S  ave the Children: invests in childhood projects for the social integration of minors • R ise Against Hunger: Intercruises took part worldwide, providing a healthy start, the and young people who live in shelters or in the First 1000 Days CSR program that opportunity to learn and be protected from care homes, coming from marginalised supports mothers and their young children harm. Operating out of 180 countries backgrounds or troubled families. in Manila by providing them with enough worldwide, the Save the Children charity nutritional food packages to last them six is often one of the first aid groups on the • F reedom Trail Foundation: supports months. ground in disaster situations preservation, rehabilitation and capital projects for official Freedom Trail sites which help avoid, minimize or mitigate adverse effects of the elements and man-made wear and tear of precious 17th, 18th, and 19th century sites in Boston. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 23 HIGHLIGHTED ACTIVITIES Banc des Aliments: members from Intercruises in Barcelona helped this During the recent APAC workshop in the Philippines, 32 team members organization by categorizing and packing the donated food, which from the region took part in the First 1000 Days CSR program. The team was then sent to families nationwide. This year Intercruises helped by were required to measure and separate the produce which was then categorizing and packing 201 pallets of food (approx. 90,000KG). distributed to make 505 individual meal packages, each containing rice, soy, dried vegetables/fruits, flavoring mixes, as well as vitamin and mineral sachets. All products were locally sourced, which supported the local economy. In the traditional St. Jordi’s day the girls from Intercruises Barcelona received a rose. The proceeds gathered from the flowers went to a charity that supports children and the young people of today. Intercruises Barcelona collaborates with SEUR “Tapones para una nueva vida” program. Caps for a New Life is a plastic cap recycling initiative that raises funds to help children receive medical treatments that are not currently covered by the national health system. This year in Barcelona we have collected 40 kg, equivalent to 20,000 plastic caps. With this initiative we raise money for children and additionally avoid the emission of 60 kilos of CO2, equivalent to the CO2 absorption of 10 trees. Intercruises also donates its honorarium payment for its consultancy work in the Museum of Science in Boston, New England, to the Freedom Trail Foundation. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 24 4. INTERCRUISES SUSTAINABILITY BEST PRACTICES I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 25 A. H  UMAN RIGHTS • Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in the abuse of human rights. Intercruises is committed to treating people in a Intercruises professes its regards and observance The fulfilment of the commitments arising from all way that respects their human rights by operating of human rights and we endeavour to engage those codes and principles allows us to create responsibly and sustainably worldwide. our stakeholders on issues around responsible shared value with our stakeholders and act practices in order to promote justice and equality together towards the communities in which we Intercruises is committed to providing human, across our global community chain while operate. in-kind and/or financial support to the local protecting vulnerable societies. communities where we are present, optimizing our social and economic impacts with the support Likewise, suppliers shall comply with the of our human team and network of partners. The Suppliers Code of Conduct. This code of conduct aim is to generate prosperity and sustainable sets out the minimum standards expected from development in the communities in which we the suppliers when working on our behalf. operate. Suppliers are expected to uphold our principles by adopting accessible clear policies and We establish some partnerships and procedures that respect human rights and collaborations with different NGOs to offer child protection. We also have included a more support to people, especially those from sustainability clause in our contracts to assure this undeveloped areas. commitment. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 26 B. L ABOR • Principle 3: B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Some of our people are often located in Intercruises acknowledges the right to collective safeguard against any form of Modern Slavery underdeveloped regions, like Mozambique, bargaining and freedom of association, trade occurring within our business or supply chain. Tanzania, Kenya, Cambodia, India, South union membership, collective labor negotiation Africa, Egypt, Vietnam, Indonesia, Cape Verde, and representation of members by trade unions Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires that Maldives, Dominican Republic, Sri Lanka, Peru, is not hindered at Intercruises. The unionization is Suppliers: Ukraine, and Brazil. Intercruises promotes free. The representatives of workers can be the opportunities for women and men to obtain company’s employees, who form part of a union 1. Adhere to International Labour Organization decent and productive employment, in conditions or group of independent employees. by treating workers with respect and of freedom, equity, security and dignity in line ensuring that relevant information on with SDOs to achieve equal and sustainable Intercruises is committed to ethical working employee rights is easily accessible; growth for all at all times. practices and maintains integrity and 2. Will not employ anyone against their transparency in all dealings with employees, will, traffic, use forced, bonded, and The company is in line with the labor principles clients, business partners and suppliers. compulsory or prison labor; laid out by the ILO, and both the national and 3. Must ensure no slavery or human trafficking international regulations. It also operates in Intercruises understands that slavery can occur in operates in their business or supply chain; compliance with the sector’s collective labor several forms, including forced labor, workplace 4. Must ensure that employees have the agreements that applies in each country, abuse, domestic servitude, child labor and correct visa and working documentation in depending on national law for the Travel human trafficking (“Modern Slavery”). We are place, and ensure that written contracts for Agencies sector. committed to putting in place effective controls to direct and contract workers exist. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 27 As part of our contract with suppliers, we require www.thecode.org) and will implement an Action Following the commitment expressed by the that they acknowledge and comply with the Plan accordingly to protect children at local management to guarantee the efficiency of Modern Slavery Act, and at our request, provide levels. We also include this obligation in our the principle of equality of treatment and us with any information or reasonable assistance sustainable clause for suppliers. opportunities between women and men within the to enable us to identify their supply chain. We Intercruises, aims for all employees to enjoy company, Intercruises ensures a work-life balance reserve our right to terminate a supplier’s contract a work environment free from all forms of with some measures for the reconciliation in the event that any instances of Modern Slavery discrimination or harassment. Thus, the company between work, private and family life: are discovered. does not tolerate abuse, bullying or harassment of any type including sexual harassment or any The company offers schemes for Intercruises does not permit child labor. People unwelcome conduct based on race, religion, pregnancy, maternity and paternity leave under 18 are only employed in accordance with colour, gender, age, national origin, sexual for all employees, depending on national national regulations and the UN convention on orientation or disability. laws. the Rights of the Child, ensuring that International The company supports flexible working Labor Organization conventions are fulfilled. As a global enterprise, Intercruises aims to times or part-time employment, for We have obligated our suppliers to honor the have as diverse and international work force example, to support family obligations as measures within both the contracts and Supplier as possible. Different nationalities are already well as to go on leave. Code of Conduct. represented in the top management team. We It is possible to request additional are keen to keep encouraging this diversity at holidays to the statutory paid leave per We pay particular attention to protecting children other management levels, too. annum through salary sacrifice where from sexual exploitation in travel and tourism operationally possible. and to strengthening responsible activities to Employees are evaluated on their individual contribute to the eradication of the commercial attributes, skills and capabilities, rather than on There are various reporting procedures in place sexual exploitation of children and adolescents. stereotypes, prejudice or assumptions. Intercruises to address any kind of discrimination cases, as an employer, has the primary obligation whether contacting management or using other Intercruises is committed to the group Child to make sure the workplace is free from forms of communication. If any discrimination Protection Policy, where we state our commitment discrimination and harassment, human rights are case arises that cannot be solved by an to condemn the exploitation of children a respected and provide equal opportunities. immediate line management, employees are able fundamental abuse of child’s human rights. We to report their concern using the The SpeakUp are committed to maintaining high standards of According to the law, the office buildings and Line, through which they can report anonymously professional conduct. other premises of Intercruises, provide (where and confidentially, acts of breach or misconduct. technically and financially viable) access for The Group has signed the Code of Conduct people with special needs. Due to the nature of for the Protection of Children from Sexual labor, employment of people with special needs Exploitation in Travel and Tourism (The Code is not always feasible. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 28 C. ENVIRONMENT • Principle 7: B  usinesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: u  ndertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: e  ncourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Since we have started to work under an are also aware that animal related issues are through the Sustainability clause in our contracts Environmental Management System, we have becoming more and more sensitive for our and with our Group Supplier Code of Conduct. defined more ambitious objectives year by year clients. We have applied the Group Animal to reduce our environmental footprint. Welfare Policy. This policy has been created Intercruises controls and monitors its to ensure rewarding experiences to customers environmental performance through various The Corporate Sustainability Policy establishes are provided while safeguarding the welfare of internal and external processes aimed at ensuring the framework for identifying, monitoring animals and public health. the accuracy of our data and validity of our and improving aspects of our company’s reporting. (ISO 14001:2015 certification and environmental and social performance. In the We apply different actions in order to raise Travelife Sustainability Program). policy, we formulate our view on sustainability, awareness on sustainability topics of Intercruises giving an insight into our targets and the means employees worldwide. We encourage our Across the group we are committed to to reach these targets. The policy reflects our people to save water, energy and paper and to purchasing sustainable products and have commitment to sustainability within our operations reuse and recycle waste using posters. Regular embedded sustainability principles in the Global and with our colleagues, suppliers and clients. sustainability updates are communicated by Procurement Policy. The inspiration for this came email and on our internal blog, The Interjournal from Intercruises’ core value to “implement and As a leading company in the travel industry, (available to all Intercruises employees). promote the use of sustainable ways of working.” Intercruises acknowledges the level of public concern about the welfare and protection of We encourage our suppliers to be more The Corporate Travel Policy includes sustainability animals both in captivity and the wild. We sustainable and environmentally responsible criteria in order to decrease our Carbon Footprint. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 29 Whenever possible, feasible and economically Some sustainability actions have been taken Consumptions: electricity, water, HVACR viable, we choose sustainable office supplies. this year. Those different actions have resulted (air conditioning / heating), printed paper Some examples of our sustainable purchases are: in CO2 emissions reduction and other benefits. and purchased paper, batteries and toner. They can be summarized as below: Emissions: business travel. More than half of the brochures are printed in the offices, and therefore, printed on Saving paper and supporting Save the Children Climate change has encouraged us, to measure 100% recycled paper. Business cards by sending an Intercruises Season’s Greetings our Carbon Footprint and to implement actions to are printed on FSC paper, calendars are E-Card. Instead of printing some Season’s Cards reduce it. printed in FSC material. we prefer to do it by e-mail, our Marketing Area Electronic equipment: Energy Star designs different cards to send to our client Head office environmental KPIs FY 15/16 FY 16/17 technology (in monitors, computers, contacts. laptops, printers and multi-function printers), Carbon Footprint (ton CO2) 280 269 mouse with wire instead of batteries, An internal e-learning platform, Intercruises solar calculators, rechargeable batteries, e-Learning Platform (IELP), has been developed Air travel (Km) 1.275.007 835.447 recyclable or refillable toners if available to create unlimited online courses reducing our Electricity (kWh) 83.856 89.929 for the printer and at the destination. paper consumption. This platform has been used Cleaning products: we ask our supplier to by over 5,300 trainees. Electricity (kWh/FTE) 601 655 substitute the hazardous ones for those that are respectful with environment. More environmentally-friendly workshops, with Printed paper (Sheets) 454.616 434.032 Vending machines: we have changed our different initiatives like: sending information via Printer paper (Sheets/FTE 3643 3164 vending food and beverage supplier, to WhatsApp to workshop participants (instead of one committed to responsible purchasing conventional printouts), write name tents using Reams of paper 850 725 buying primarily local, organic and GMOfallen leaves and reusing to fold into envelopes. free products. Reams of paper / FTE 6,86 5,29 Sustainable lanyards: used in the congress We constantly measure Intercruises environmental Landfill waste 45.330 48.783 and events. performance in order to be able to implement our Use of 100% biodegradable/compostable objectives of reduction and set some actions in Recycling waste 63.487 72.507 plates and cutlery during regular internal order to correct some deviations. Hazardous waste 11,3 322,2 company events. Waste: paper, confidential paper, plastic, In order to measure the improvements and bottle caps, lamps, E-waste, toner, effectiveness of our Environmental Management batteries, large waste, general waste, System, each year we set environmental sanitary bins, glass, writing instruments and objectives and key performance targets. CDs. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 30 D. ANTI-CORRUPTION • Principle 10: B  usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. UN key commitments include substantially An Anti-Bribery, Trade Restrictions and Business All employees can report anonymously and reducing corruption and illicit financial Ethics clause is included in all contracts with confidentially, any breaches or misconducts using flows, developing effective, accountable and clients and suppliers. Intercruises states that it the SpeakUp Line. transparent institutions, and strengthening takes a zero tolerance approach to breaches of access to information and participation in public international norms for trade, including bribery The report helps us to identify and prevent any decision-making. Intercruises has zero tolerance and corruption prevention legislation and risk that we may not be aware of, or that could to bribery and corruption and gives particular applicable restrictions on trade, funds flow and result in a negative impact for the company, focus to destination markets where perceived financing terrorism. colleagues, shareholders, the environment or the levels of corruption are high and with an absence public. We can use the SpeakUp Line 24 hours a of effective anti-bribery legislation. The group addresses Anti-Bribery and Corruption day, 365 days a year. through its Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Intercruises is committed to ensuring that effective Conduct, Policy on Procedures for Prevention of anti-bribery and anti-corruption procedures Bribery & Corruption, and the Policy on Business operate throughout all of its subsidiaries and Gifts, Hospitality and Sponsorship. In addition, to continue conducting business fairly, openly training programs for employees are performed and honestly with zero tolerance to bribery and on an ongoing basis via e-learning and face-tocorruption. face meetings. I NT E R C RUIS E S S U S TA IN ABI L I TY REPO RT O C TO BER 2 0 1 8 31
