7/21/2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that SVN International Corp. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Kevin Maggiacomo CEO & President SVN International Corp. SVN International Corp. 1 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress SVN International Corp., has been working throughout the year to better ourselves as a company, as well as improve on our promise to the UN Global Compact. Our corporation has taken steps in the main four areas of UN Global Compact: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our efforts have led us to be a more gender inclusive and overall, a more selfaware community. Human Rights SVN International Corp., as a company and a community require that all of our offices comply with the human rights initiative by providing safe, suitable and sanitary workplaces for the employees. Within our corporate offices, we supply a workplace that supports a human rights risk reduction by supplying an equal and safe workplace for our employees. Within our company policy, harassment, in any form is strictly prohibited. This includes harassment based on age, race, color, national origin, gender (including pregnancy, childbirth or medical condition related to pregnancy or childbirth), gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, religion, physical or mental disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, veteran status, military status or any other characteristic protected by federal, state or local law. All of our human resource policies and procedures are clearly outlined in our Human Resources Employee Handbook that is made available to all employees of the company. It specifically outlines the company's guidelines as to what is a protected class of persons. Additionally, we have recently updated our parental and family leave policy to be more inclusive of all genders and parental relationships. It is outlined in an addendum to the Employee Handbook. After discussion, the company had decided to implement a 14-day paid leave policy due to the birth, adoption or long-term foster care placement of a child. It is an inclusive policy running concurrently with the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act. SVN International Corp. provides training to our employees and franchisees to perform best hiring practices within their individual offices. This training can be an online training and our corporate offices prepare an in-person training on best hiring practices during our conferences for our franchisees. Finally, last year, we have implemented a program that sourced resumes from various colleges to assist our franchisees in hiring additional personnel and interns. This program further implemented the best hiring practices that created gender-neutral opportunities throughout the company. Labour All forms of harassment, verbal, physical, visual and cyberstalking are to be reported and investigated. We encourage all of our employees to do so by paying attention to other's reactions and states requests and preferences. We welcome the respect of others wishes, and we treat all in a professional manner regardless of gender, race, religion, nationality, age, sexual orientation, sexual identity or expression or any other protected characteristic. Harassment in the workplace is not tolerated and would require that disciplinary action be taken in the event that is it found that the harassment exists. The reporting of harassment would lead to steps taken by senior executives within SVN International Corp. and our HR department. All of SVN International Corp.'s employees are at-will employees. Within the Employee Handbook it states that 2 all employees are employed at an at-will basis. This policy means that any employee has a right to terminate the employment at any time, with or without cause or advance notice. SVN International Corp. prohibits forced labour within the company. Finally, to eliminate discrimination in our employment practices, SVN International Corp. has implemented formalized hiring practices across all the franchising offices as well as within our corporate offices. In the past year, we have performed research to identify the various methods of how our employees came to be hired within SVNIC. Through this research, it was discovered that we needed to implement a formalized hiring process to eliminate gender discrimination across the company. In order to do so, our offices are now mandated to comply with equal opportunity job postings. Importantly, all of our offices are required to meet the minimum wage standards. Environment While we do not have a formal process in place for our franchises, our corporate office in Boston, Massachusetts is situated within a WeWork building. The building itself, as well as our corporate office, partakes in a recycling program set up by the WeWork community. In addition to recycling paper, WeWork has a program to recycle electronics. The office building in which we are currently work is a certified Silver LEED building, meaning the building itself strives to remain a sustainable building while adding value to attract tenants by lessening the operations costs while boosting productivity. Within our corporate offices at SVN International Corp., we are committed to reducing our environmental impact and this past year we have worked to improve ourselves on this front. Anti-corruption In order to work against corruption, SVN International Corp. has recently instated policies to advance our anti-corruption initiative. Our industry is highly regulated. Therefore, when corruption arises, our industry would take actions in order to halt the advancement of the corruption and backtrack to force the corruption to be eliminated. Regardless, we have been working diligently within SVN International Corp. to standardize processes and increase transparency across the entire company. This allows SVN International Corp. to eliminate corruption while measuring corporate our outcomes and goals. In the past year, SVN International Corp. has increased our women employees by fifty percent. Additionally, we have worked hard to ensure that we have a gender balanced executive team and Board of Directors. Through this, we can ensure our efforts with the tenth principle of the UN Global Compact. We only hope to grow our gender neutrality throughout the SVN International Corp. community and continue our efforts to admonish corruption throughout the field. 3
