MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 In 2004, Mitsui systematically and clearly set forth in writing the implicit values it Publication of an shares as common knowledge, and issued its “Mission, Vision and Values” (see page Integrated Report 002). To “strive to contribute to the creation of a future where the aspirations of the people can be fulfilled,” set in Mitsui’s Mission, in 2015 we defined Five Material Issues (Materiality) as the important issues for our management to address (see pages 014–016). Meanwhile, in the same year, the United Nations adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which lay out 17 goals and 169 targets to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure prosperity for all by 2030, and clearly underline the priority issues on a global basis and ideal visions for the future. As a trading company, we possess various functions and develop a broad range of businesses in diverse countries and regions around the world. As our Materiality has strong association with the SDGs, we believe that we can make wide-ranging contributions to society through our businesses. Our diverse human resources leverage our comprehensive strengths and global network and continuously pursue industrial solutions to social issues. Since 2012, we have published the Annual Report with a view to an integrated report. The Annual Reports have introduced Mitsui’s value creation process that is aimed at improving our corporate value continuously, our CSR activities contributing to society through our business, and so on. We consider it important to send a clearer message from a long-term and comprehensive perspective about the unchanging approach of Mitsui’s management and each employee, pursuing sustainable development for both the society and us continuously, with the aim of creating a future where all aspirations can be fulfilled. Accordingly, we have renewed it as Integrated Report from the fiscal year ending March 2019. Looking ahead, we will continue to do our utmost to ensure that the Integrated Report serves as an effective communication tool that positively contributes to constructive dialogue with our stakeholders. To do so, we will strive to improve the clarity of this report based on the valued feedback we receive from our stakeholders. In the process, we referred to “the International Integrated Reporting Framework” propounded by International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and “the Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation” formulated by Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, in addition to other frameworks. In the course of preparing this report, we have worked closely with each of our internal departments to provide a summary of our holistic perspective on the Group as a whole. Through these means, I can say with confidence that this report was created in an honest and sincere manner. September 2018 Masami Iijima Representative Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors Chairman of the Governance Committee Recently, there has been growing interest in the United Nations’ “Sustainable Development  Editorial Policy Goals” (SDGs) and in “Environmental, Social, and Governance” (ESG) investments. In this  environment, we believe it is important to clearly convey the sustainable nature of Mitsui’s businesses and the potential for corporate value growth over the medium to long term  through explanations of the business risks and opportunities we identify as well as the  strategies and initiatives we are pursuing to address them. To this end, we have decided to  turn our conventional annual report into an integrated report. We hope that this report can  help further our stakeholders’ understanding of a general trading company’s business model, which is said to be difficult to comprehend, in addition to the competitiveness of Mitsui. This integrated report was completed with reference to the following guidelines: ・GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), Sustainability Reporting Standard ・Ministry of the Environment, Japan, Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 ・ISO 26000 (Guidance on social responsibility) ・IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council),  International Integrated Reporting Framework ・Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Japan,  Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure and  Company-Investor Dialogues for Collaborative Value Creation Media About Reports Reports Contents Booklet PDF HTML Issued by the Company Integrated For details, please see “CONTENTS” on page 003. Report (This booklet) This integrated report  …… [1] summarizes relevant  information with a particular focus on factors that impact Sustainability The Company publishes a sustainability report for Mitsui’s corporate value. In Report Mitsui’s multi-stakeholders. Published annually, the …… [2] Sustainability Report contains detailed non-financial addition to this report, the information. Sustainability Report 2018 was issued in Company publishes various August 2018. communication tools for Mitsui’s stakeholders. Annual The Annual Securities Report is prepared pursuant Securities to Article 24, Section 1 of the Financial Instruments Report and Exchange Act and is required to be submitted …… [3] to the Kanto Finance Bureau. Please refer to this report for more detailed financial information.  It is issued in late June of each year. Corporate In accordance with Japan’s Corporate Governance Governance Code, the Company publishes a Corporate Report Governance Report that provides details on Mitsui’s basic corporate governance approach and structure. The Company is also required to submit this report to the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Please refer to the PDF link for more detailed information related to Mitsui’s organizational design, operational status, and evaluation of Board of Director effectiveness. Management Information As used in this report,  “the Company” is used to  [3] Annual [1] Integrated Report refer to Mitsui & Co., Ltd.  Securities Report (Mitsui Bussan Kabushiki  Kaisha), while “Mitsui,”  “the Companies,” “the Group,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used  to indicate Mitsui & Co., Ltd.  and affiliated companies,  [2] Sustainability Report unless otherwise understood from the context. Financial Information Non-financial Information MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 001 Corporate Mission Management Strive to contribute to the creation of a future where the aspirations  Philosophy of the people can be fulfilled. Vision Aim to become a global business enabler that can meet the needs  of our customers throughout the world. Values • Build trust with fairness and humility. • Aspire to set high standards and to contribute to society. • Embrace the challenge of continuous innovation. • Foster a culture of open-mindedness. • Strive to develop others and oneself to achieve full potential. There has always been a close relationship between the growth of a corporation and the Mitsui’s development of society. Going forward, this relationship will hold an even greater significance. Value Creation We believe that we must continually improve the way we engage with environmental and societal issues, listen closely to our stakeholders, and ensure that we have a clear understanding of key concerns, issues, and expectations. It is then our responsibility to contribute to addressing issues and meeting expectations in the most effective way possible. We continue to ensure that all of our employees share our management philosophy,  as expressed in our Mission, Vision and Values, and to strengthen our robust management platform, including our governance and risk management systems. At the same time,  working alongside our stakeholders, our aim is to pursue business in a manner expressed  in our “360°business innovation.” slogan. This slogan indicates that one of our greatest strengths is our ability to connect various ideas, information, customers, partners, and our businesses. Through these connections, we will create new ideas and work to spur business and industrial innovation to create new value around the world so as to strive to contribute to the creation of a future where the aspirations of the people can be fulfilled. This is what Mitsui is expected to do and how Mitsui strives to create new value in pursuit of social sustainability. A better future Value creation 360°business innovation. Business Business associates / activities Consumers Government bodies Corporate Shareholders / Mission, NPOs / NGOs Investors Vision and Values Employees Management Communities platform Recognition of environmental and societal issues 002 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 004 CEO Message 072 Corporate Governance 074 External Directors Panel Discussion 010 Aiming for Sustainable Growth 078 Mitsui’s Corporate Governance 012 Our Corporate Value Creation Process 086  xecution of Business Activities  E 014 Material Issues of Focus (Materiality) and Internal Controls 017 Capitals 090  oard of Directors and Independent B 018  usiness Model for Growth That  B Directors Balances between Trading and  092  ull-time and Independent Audit & F Business Management Supervisory Board Members 020  ositioning Strategy That Leverages  P 093 Executive Officers Our Competitiveness 022 Portfolio Management 094 Fact Data 024 Enhancing Management Capital 1 096 M  itsui’s Continuing Evolution by Meeting Human Capital the Changing Needs of the Times T  he individual builds the business,  098 10-Year Financial Data and the business cultivates the individual 100 Participation in Initiatives 026 Enhancing Management Capital 2 101 Evaluation by Society Relationship Capital 102 Operating Environment Analysis Engagement for business creation 104 C  onsolidated Statements of  028 E  fforts to Address Climate Change through Financial Position Our Business 108 C  onsolidated Statements of Income  030 M  essage from the Chairperson  and Comprehensive Income of the Sustainability Committee 110 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 032 Our 112 Segment Information Progress 115  onsolidated Statements of Changes  C 034 Performance Highlights in Equity 036 CFO Message 116 Risk Information 042 P  rogress of Medium-term  123  ajor Risk Exposure by Country  M Management Plan and Fund Operation 046  esults of Initiatives  R 124 Investor Information Case 1: Establishing Selected  New Growth Areas 048  esults of Initiatives  R Case 2: Promoting the Digital Transformation Strategy 050  esults of Initiatives  R Case 3: Main Results of Our Efforts  toward Sustainability 052 Our Business A Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements: 054 Results by Operating Segment This Integrated Report contains statements (including figures) regarding Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (“Mitsui”)’s corporate strategies, 056 Iron & Steel Products Segment objectives, and views of future developments that are forward058 Mineral & Metal Resources Segment looking in nature and are not simply reiterations of historical facts. These statements are presented to inform stakeholders of the views 060 Machinery & Infrastructure Segment of Mitsui’s management but should not be relied on solely in making investment and other decisions. You should be aware that a 062 Chemicals Segment number of known or unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors 064 Energy Segment could lead to outcomes that differ materially from those presented in such forward-looking statements. 066 Lifestyle Segment These risks, uncertainties, and other factors referred to above  068 I nnovation & Corporate Development include, but are not limited to, those contained in Mitsui’s latest  Annual Securities Report and Quarterly Securities Report, and Segment Mitsui undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any 070 The Structure That Supports Mitsui forward-looking statements. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 003 Tatsuo Yasunaga Representative Director,  President and Chief Executive Officer 004 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 CEO Message We will strongly push forward with  the medium-term management plan with  even deeper confidence that we can achieve  the plan’s targets. In doing so, we will make  thorough efforts to further enhance our earning power, which centers on our competitiveness. Looking back on the first year of In the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019, the the medium-term management second year of our medium-term management plan and outlook for the fiscal plan, we are targeting profit after tax of ¥420 year ending March 31, 2019 billion. This figure is mostly in line with the first year’s profit of ¥418.5 billion, but what lies In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018,  behind it has changed significantly. As a result  the first year of the current medium-term  of resolving issues in the previous fiscal year  management plan, Mitsui made very  and new contributions to base profit by each significant progress, enhancing base profit  business segment, base profit will increase by in all segments by achieving solid results  approximately ¥70 billion. Notably, our target  in each of our key initiatives and tackling  of ¥180 billion profit after tax for our steadily specific areas of concern. We achieved a  growing non-resources areas accounts for 43% record high in core operating cash flow,  of our overall profit target, and we are on track Mitsui’s most important indicator, and made to achieve our profit forecast of ¥200 billion for steady progress in strengthening our financial non-resources areas in the fiscal year ending base by improving capital efficiency, rep­ March 31, 2020. resented by ROE, while reducing Net DER.  In Annual Report 2017, I expressed my  Shareholder returns, in the form of dividends confidence that we can reach the targets of  and share buybacks, totaled ¥172.5 billion and the medium-term management plan. That were the highest ever by Mitsui. confidence is now even deeper. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 005 CEO Message Business environment update social development at the country and regional and Mitsui policies level and addressing global-scale issues such  as climate change through our wide-ranging We continue to see climate change, partial global business activities—taking a long-term, globalization, expanding populations and balanced approach to both—is itself a sustainimproving living standards in emerging nations, able growth strategy. and technological innovation as important The second factor is the growing importance factors in our medium-term management  of data capital. There is something striking plan, and in light of changes over the last year,  about how, over the past year alone, AI and IoT I would like to look again at two of these factors have permeated society. This phenomenon has and our approach to tackling them. raised the value of data in business, giving it  The first is the acceleration of measures to a place next to human, manufactured, and tackle climate change, in particular in Europe financial capital, and is even changing the  and the U.S., and together with this, the expanface of capitalism itself. In many ways, power  sion of partial globalization and the increasing is steadily shifting into the hands of the  importance of a business development model consumer as business models made possible  aligned with the issues faced by each region. by ICT become more deeply entrenched. Mitsui has identified “Protection of the Global This trend is not only the concern of downEnvironment” as a material issue for us. We stream businesses that engage directly with recognize that our impact on the environment consumers. We believe that it is becoming presents potential risks to society and our susnecessary for businesses in all sectors, including tainable growth, but we are also keenly aware resources, materials, and infrastructure, to  that there are new business opportunities for  be directly aware of data capital and the  us in low-carbon energy and environmentally end consumer. friendly infrastructure and products. In our current medium-term management “Stable Supply of Resources and Materials” and plan, we have positioned the enhancement of “Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases & Quality innovation functions as a key initiative and we of Life” are also material issues for Mitsui and  are rolling out digital transformation activities fall under the ESG umbrella. The increase in throughout our group. To be clear, we are not demand for infrastructure, resources, and food merely pursuing AI and IoT as business areas  that has accompanied population growth and in and of themselves. Rather, by being a smart economic development, the changing tastes user of these technologies, which means  associated with higher standards of living, and employing them at our diverse project sites increasing healthcare needs associated with around the world, we will seek to gain a thorshifts in disease structure, are already recogough understanding of AI and IoT, and use this nized global issues. To address these issues knowledge to strengthen our group. there is a need for a steady, sustained, long-term At the corporate level, by equipping smaller approach to opening up new business frontiers teams to operate with a high degree of  that is sensitive to regional characteristics. sophistication, we can enable a significant  Contributing to the development of nations shift of personnel to the business frontlines  through this kind of approach is an important and strengthen Mitsui’s earning power. At the  mission for Mitsui. business frontline level, as a result of our sensiWe believe that contributing to economic and tivity to consumer-centric changes in the 006 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 CEO Message environment and our ability to find solutions to global challenges through our unique, on-theground expertise, we are beginning to see  cost reductions and sales growth in existing businesses. Looking ahead, we will further evolve the business by promoting cross-sector collaboration across divisions and business domains to accelerate comprehensive initiatives. Core and growth area initiatives for the current fiscal year We have a number of key initiatives for the  fiscal year ending March 31, 2019. In Resources on higher commodity prices. & Energy, Machinery & Infrastructure, and  In Machinery & Infrastructure, we are launchChemicals, which are Mitsui’s core areas and ing new power generation projects in the  profit base, we will apply the concept of  Middle East and Morocco and are accelerating “Enhancing Our Strengths.” initiatives in next-generation power including In Resources, we are steadily ramping up  distributed power and services by U.S. subsidiary the Moatize coal mine and Nacala infrastructure Forefront. In FPSO projects, where demand is projects in Mozambique, which have already recovering, primarily at Brazil-based Petrobras, begun contributing to profit, and are pursuing we will continue to enhance our fleet. We are ongoing enhancement of the profit base in also deepening efforts in mobility services such existing businesses, including the development as leasing, rental, and sharing in the railway, of South Flank iron ore mine with BHP. In Energy, automotive, and aircraft sectors. in the E&P business, we achieved production In Chemicals, we are pursuing ongoing  start-up at the Kaikias oil field one year ahead  facilities expansion at U.S. terminal business ITC of schedule. Looking ahead, we will launch the and are expanding our presence in the coating Tempa Rossa oil field in Italy and the Greater materials business centered on Helios, in which Enfield oil field in Australia. We will leverage we made the decision to invest in April 2018.  new Australian subsidiary AWE to enhance We are also strengthening our business base upstream and midstream business foundations through initiatives such as the expansion of in oil and gas while improving operator functions methionine production capacity at Novus and  and expanding the scale of our E&P business by enhancing trading. activities in Australia. In our LNG business, we In our four growth areas too, we are continuare making progress in construction projects for ing to push ahead with aggressive initiatives to the launch of Cameron LNG in the U.S., scheduled establish the revenue pillars for sustained for 2019, and we are accelerating our efforts to growth through our next medium-term  make a final investment decision on our LNG management plan and beyond. project in Mozambique. Through these initiaIn Mobility, in the fiscal year ended March 31, tives, which can both reduce costs and increase 2018 we engaged in a range of initiatives  production volume, we are increasing revenue toward the electrification of commercial vehicles in the resources area without needing to rely  and expanded our passenger rail network.  MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 007 CEO Message In Chile, we pursued initiatives in automotive Resources & Energy business, and by realizing operating lease and rental car businesses and synergies through our involvement in food and we will aim to enhance base profit in these agriculture and infrastructure improvement, we businesses. Furthermore, we are accelerating aim to pursue a model of business development our growth strategy for Gestamp, which is that shares the profits of economic progress planning to establish its first plant in Japan  with the local population and contributes  in Matsusaka, Mie Prefecture. to the further economic development of  In Healthcare, in the fiscal year ended March African nations. 31, 2018, we made an additional investment  In Retail & Services, we took steps to  in Columbia Asia Group and will continue to enhance base profit in our domestic and  strengthen our healthcare ecosystem in Asia.  international asset management businesses, We are addressing the demand for new drugs in expanding the businesses in part through our Russia through our investment in JSC R-Pharm, investment in CIM in the U.S. in the fiscal year a Russian pharmaceutical company, and we are ended March 31, 2018. We also strengthened expanding our businesses that provide temporary our sales and marketing capabilities through the staffing and permanent placement in the U.S. acquisition of Bigi Holdings to enhance our In Nutrition & Agriculture, in May 2018 we direct reach to consumers. In addition, we are invested in ETC Group, which deals in agriculimproving the quality of the assets of senior tural products and materials and manufactures living properties—a retirement community on and sells food products in East Africa. Mitsui the west coast of the U.S. that was acquired by already has a presence in the region through our MBK Real Estate (MRE)—and are working to The accumulation of assets and the start of their contributions to earnings and cash flow Year to March 2019 Year to March 2020 Core operating cash flow: ¥570bn Core operating cash flow: ¥630bn Profit for the year: ¥420bn Profit for the year: ¥440bn • Tempa Rossa (oil) • Kaikias (oil) • AWE (gas) • Greater Enfield (oil) • Cameron (LNG) • FPSO • Safi, Salalah-2  (power generation) Thoroughly • 1  2SPP, Track3B,  strengthen • Helios Ibri, Sohar3  • ITC expansion (power generation) existing businesses Investment in  • Bigi Holdings new projects • Nippon Steel & Sumikin Bussan Corporation Investment in  new projects ● Energy ● Machinery & Infrastructure ● Chemicals ● Others 008 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 CEO Message enhance the business’ profit base. We recognize that in order to ensure meaningful debate there must be a consistent level of Enhancing human resources understanding of the agendas among directors. and governance The thorough preparation in advance enables deeper discussion in Board meetings, and I The origins of Mitsui’s business are in trading believe strongly that it has been a key factor in and, over time, through our involvement in  the improvement of the quality of management. a broad range of business sectors and handling a diverse array of goods, we expanded from In conclusion trading into business investment, leveraging the vast expertise, customer base, and partnerships I noted above that my confidence in achieving that we had fostered through trade. By particithe targets of the medium-term management pating in the management of these projects, we plan has further deepened. As I noted in Annual helped increase their value and that in turn gave Report 2017, I am confident also that reaching rise to further trading opportunities and network our three-year quantitative targets will be only expansion. Through the continuous repetition  one of many milestones we pass on the road  of this cycle, Mitsui has evolved into its current to fulfilling our long-term vision for Mitsui as  form and our businesses have developed to the a group that draws on its comprehensive point where each has its own competitiveness. strengths and continuously takes the initiative  Though not on the balance sheet, the customers to incubate and develop new business. and partner networks, and our more than 42,000 I will do my utmost to combine effective professionals who have the capability and leadership with sound corporate governance  independence to leverage these relationships  to achieve not only the targets for the current to the full, what we call our “Strong Individuals,” fiscal year, ending March 31, 2019, which is a  remain Mitsui’s greatest assets. The continued crucial stepping stone along that path, but  strengthening of each individual will always be  also for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020 a key management focus. and for the sustainable growth of Mitsui further Promoting a level playing field dynamically  into the future. I very much appreciate your for our people in every region in which we interest in our progress, and look forward to operate encourages mutual understanding, your continued support. acceptance, and friendly competition that transcends nationality, gender, and language, and by working to “strengthen each individual” we September 2018 are building a full-strength team of professionals with diverse backgrounds and perspectives. Turning to governance, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 we further diversified our Board of Directors, improving the balance of represenRepresentative Director, tation, enhancing the Board’s effectiveness, and President and Chief Executive Officer demonstrating greater accountability by encouraging deeper discussion on major company policy and strategy and their implementation. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 009 CHAPTER 1 Aiming for Sustainable 010 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Growth 012 014 Our Corporate Value Creation Process Material Issues of Focus (Materiality) 017 Capitals 018 Business Model for Growth That Balances between Trading and Business Management 020 Positioning Strategy That Leverages Our Competitiveness 022 Portfolio Management 024 Enhancing Management Capital 1 Human Capital  The individual builds the business, and the business cultivates the individual 026 Enhancing Management Capital 2 Relationship Capital  Engagement for business creation 028 Efforts to Address Climate Change through Our Business 030 Message from the Chairperson of the Sustainability Committee MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 011 Our Corporate Value Creation Process The origin of Mitsui’s value creation lies in its approach of identifying societal issues and providing industrial solutions that address social needs. Under “Driving Value Creation,” our mediumto long-term goal, we are fully leveraging our various capitals and our highly competitive business model to formulate and execute our medium-term management plan, which addresses our Materiality. While allocating our finite capital in a well-balanced manner, we aspire for not only sustainable corporate value growth but also sustainable environmental and social development. Mitsui’s Vision ―Mitsui is a group that incubates and develops new businesses― A diverse pool of talented professionals that take the initiative to create new business and actively leverage Mitsui Group’s comprehensive strengths and global network for sustained creation of new value Megatrends That Mitsui Material Issues of Focus Mitsui’s Growth Model Envisions (Materiality) P.014–016 Capitals P.017 Stable supply of ◦ Population increase resources & materials ◦ Human capital ◦W  idening gap in income ◦ Organizational capital between rich and poor ◦ Relationship capital ◦C  limate change,  ◦ Financial capital environmental pollution Enhancement of local ◦ Natural capital industrial bases & quality ◦ Manufactured capital ◦ Aging population of life ◦R  apidly growing middleincome class ◦ Increase of healthcare needs Medium-term ◦ Diversification of human Protection of the Management Plan resources global environment ◦ Energy and water shortages ◦ Changes in work style Business Model ◦ I ncrease and diversification  Respect for of infrastructure needs P.018–023 human rights ◦ Technological innovation ◦B  usiness Model for Growth That Balances between ◦A  ccelerating smartification Trading and Business accompanied by increased Management security risk Corporate governance & ◦P  ositioning Strategy  ◦F  urther consideration  human resources That Leverages Our for human rights Competitiveness ◦ Portfolio Management 012 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 How We Quantify Outcomes P.034–035 Profit (loss) for the year attributable to owners of the parent / ROE  123 Core operating cash flow  13 Under the current medium-term management plan, we pursue each Total assets / Net DER  2 business strategy according to two strategic areas. Total shareholder return amount / Total shareholder returns Operating ■ Iron & Steel Products as a percentage of core operating cash flow  3 segments ■ Mineral & Metal Resources Core Areas Equity share of production  14 ■ Machinery & Infrastructure ■ Chemicals Power generating capacity (gross)  14 ■ Energy Female managerial staff / ■ Lifestyle Growth Female employees dispatched overseas  45 ■ Innovation & Corporate  Areas Number of NS GMs P.025  45 Development Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  4 Capital Allocation to Priority Areas; Outcomes Implementation of Medium-term Management Plan Core Areas Cash Flow Focused ◦ Resources & Energy Management; ◦M  achinery & Strengthen Infrastructure Financial Base ◦ Chemicals Maintain robust, P.042–045 sustainable earnings Progress of Medium-term growth  1 Management Plan Boost asset and capital efficiency  2 Digital Transformation Continually increase Enhance Governance, shareholder value  3 Personnel, and Innovation Functions Create social and environmental value  4 ◦D iversifying the Board  of Directors Growth Areas Improve human ◦ Mobility ◦M anagement geared resource capabilities  5 toward a sustainable ◦ Healthcare society and Mitsui ◦ Nutrition & Agriculture ◦ Retail & Services P.072–093 Corporate Governance MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 013 Material Issues of Focus (Materiality) As a provider of industrial solutions for sustainable social development, we identified issues that are of high importance for society and our stakeholders and that have a significant impact on our corporate management. We designated these issues as Materiality. Materiality provides us with guiding principles to accurately assess expectations of Mitsui and fulfill our social responsibility. Accordingly, addressing these issues will help us maintain and strengthen our value creation capabilities in a sustainable manner. Identification Processes on Materiality Megatrends That Mitsui Envisions Social and stakeholder engagement Importance for society and stakeholders P.012 5 Material P.026 Engagement  Issues for business creation International consensus • United Nations Global Compact • Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • OECD Guidelines for Periodic reviews Multinational Enterprises • Universal Declaration of Human Rights • ILO Declaration on Impact on our corporate management Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Verification of compatibility with manage• ISO26000 ment and business strategies at Sustainability • GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Promotion Officer’s meetings and the Sustainability Committee Review Process on Materiality Please see page 13 of Sustainability Report 2018. Verification of adequacy by external experts Approval by the Corporate Management Committee and the Board of Directors’ meetings Formulation / Implementation of specific initiatives under Materiality 014 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 1 2 3 4 5 Enhancement of Stable supply of Protection of the Respect for Corporate governance local industrial bases resources & materials global environment human rights & human resources & quality of life Realize through our business Business foundation Materiality Recognition of societal issues Main risks and opportunities Stable supply of • Population increase and  Risks expansion of demand for • Suspension of business operations and instability in the supply of energy and food resources & materials resources and materials resources because of climate change and population growth • Expanded responsibility for Opportunities environmental and social aspects • Sustainable resource development and food supply in supply chain • Reinforced competitiveness through measures to ensure traceability Enhancement of • Aging infrastructure in  Risks developed countries • Loss of credibility due to safety or health problems affecting infrastructure users  local industrial bases or final consumers of products and services • Infrastructure development in  & quality of life emerging countries Opportunities • Food safety and reliability • Enhancing quality of life in developing countries through infrastructure • Maintenance of health, securing development of medical, nursing care, and • Measures to ensure food safety and reliability welfare services • Growing demand for food with high added value in response to the growing  middle-income class • Changes in shifts in disease structure due to population growth/economic  development and increase in healthcare needs due to aging • Creation of markets by promoting ICT-based business to build urban social  infrastructure in response to the move toward developing smart cities Protection • Global warming and climate Risks change • Changes in each country’s policies and regulations related to the transition  of the global toward a low-carbon economy • Loss of biodiversity environment • Impact resulting from the creation of new technologies and new markets on supply • Energy and water shortages and demand of existing businesses • Environmental pollution • Operational risks associated with the physical impact of climate change • Adverse effects on production yields in agricultural, forestry, and fishery products due to abnormal weather • Increase in environmental costs resulting from ecosystem destruction and  degradation caused by business activities P.028－029  Opportunities • Expansion of environment-related markets due to increased environmental  Efforts to Address awareness and the tightening of regulations Climate Change • Creation of new business models through circular economy and sharing • Expansion of business domains (renewable energy, etc.) as a result of energy through Our Business diversification Respect for • Greater responsibility for  Risks human rights in the supply  • Disputes or protests concerning human rights issues in every spectrum of  human rights chain (labor practices, impact  business that could hinder the start-up or continuation of business on local residents, etc.) • Leakage of information held by the company that could be used to identify • Consideration for indigenous individuals people in conjunction with Opportunities resource development • Strengthening of the ability to ensure stable supply through consideration for • Illicit use of personal information human rights across all supply chains that may be obtained via the increasingly widespread use  of Internet and digital  communication technology Corporate • Malfunctioning of corporate Risks governance and internal controls • Impact due to a lack of appropriate decision making from a broad perspective governance & • Corruption in business of high public significance in emerging countries and  • Stagnation in productivity due to human resources cookie-cutter working styles other markets • Suspension of business operations due to information security problems • Diversification and globalization of human resources Opportunities • Contributions to labor productivity improvement via innovation in working styles • Promotion of fair and equitable treatment and meaningful human resources training • Enhancement of individual competitiveness through promotion of diversity management • Creation of new business opportunities focusing on the solution of societal issues through heightened employee sustainability awareness MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 015 Material Issues of Focus (Materiality) Materiality Related SDGs theme Initiatives of Mitsui Stable supply of Contributing to the stable supply of resources and materials through building of optimal supply chains, spanning all stages from upstream to downstream resources & Contribute to the stable supply of metal resources and energy, and maintain an asset portfolio materials that is sustainable over the long term Steadily and efficiently supply safe and reliable food resources Traceability management for grain crops, such as wheat, corn, and soybeans starting at the production and collection phases Meeting society’s expectation together with our business partners in order to resolve various issues in the supply chain E  nsure compliance with laws and regulations, respect for human rights, and maintenance of safety and sanitary working conditions; reduce environmental load; and give consideration to securing the safety and reliability of our products and services Enhancement of Contributing to nation building and enhancing quality of life through the establishment of infrastructure local industrial R  espond to the increasing demand for core infrastructure in emerging countries, which are bases & quality experiencing remarkable population growth and economic development, and by doing so, of life work to cultivate local industries and create employment S  ecure a safe and reliable food supply R  espond to the need for food with high added value, focusing particularly on greater demand for deliciousness and a heightened awareness of health P  ursue the establishment of healthcare ecosystems, which are next-generation medical infrastructure that enhances the quality and efficiency of medical treatment Protection Making contributions by providing industrial solutions to environmental problems through the development of environment-related businesses of the global Promote businesses and strengthen response capabilities in the field of renewable energy environment Proceed with initiatives toward smart cities, modal shifts, and the widespread use of new energy vehicles such as electric vehicles Continuously revising our asset portfolio with an awareness of enhancing our resistance to climate change-related risks Monitor government policies and regulations in each country of operation For energy, promote the strengthening of our asset portfolio related to gas and manage a crude oil portfolio with an awareness of the time period between 2030 and 2040 For metal resources, strengthen our asset portfolio—centered on iron ore, coking coal, and copper—by bolstering our cost competitiveness and promoting flexible asset replacement that responds to changes in demand forecasts Gradually reduce the ratio of coal-fired thermal power within our equity share of power generation capacity and increase the proportion of renewable energy, including hydraulic power, to 30% by 2030 Establishing targets to reduce annual energy consumption by an average of 1% or more at the Company and its domestic subsidiaries Respect for In terms of resource development, constructing infrastructure that supports the lifestyles of new inhabitants in planned development areas human rights Establishing a structure for protecting and managing personal information Create a CPO office under the Chief Privacy Officer (CPO) and raise the awareness of all officers and employees regarding the protection of personal information Regularly review the status of personal information management in the daily course of business and enhance it as needed Corporate Taking steps to improve the effectiveness of our corporate governance structure Improve transparency and accountability governance & Clarify the separation of management oversight and execution human Strengthening sustainability governance resources Cautiously promote businesses in accordance with the Specially Designated Business Management System, which responds to business domains with high qualitative risks pertaining to ESG (environmental, social, and governance) and other factors Reinforcing compliance under the concept that our sound reputation is the foundation of  our business, and we recognize that it is only through compliance that we can maintain that reputation and gain even more trust from our customers Thoroughly enhance the compliance awareness of each employee Establish compliance frameworks on a Global Groupwide basis Enhancing our pool of talented professionals, who represent our greatest asset Promoting diversity management Build a full-strength team comprising our diverse human resources in terms of nationality, gender, perspective, etc. Details of Materiality Please see page 12 of Sustainability Report 2018. 016 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Capitals 1 2 3 4 5 Through the global development of a broad range of businesses across a wide variety of industries and value chains, Mitsui has realized unique industrial solutions and value creation. By doing so, Mitsui has amassed the necessary capital to deliver business value across the world through proactive business creation. Going forward, Mitsui will leverage its highly competitive capital aiming for creation of further value. Relation­ Human Capital Diverse, Talented Professionals ship Global Network Capital （As of March 31, 2018） （As of April 1, 2018） EXPERTISE PARTNERSHIPS Product and industrial expertise Clients Regional expertise Suppliers Business development expertise Business partners Frontline management expertise Government bodies and Flexibility to be active on a global stage local governments Local communities 42,304 (Consolidated) Total Number of Offices: 137 5,859 (Non-consolidated) (Japan: 12, Overseas: 125) Geographical Scope of Activities:  66 Countries and Regions Please see pages 024 and 025 for details Please see pages 026 and 027 for details on Mitsui’s human capital. on Mitsui’s relationship capital. Organi­ Financial zational Comprehensive Strengths Capital Financial Base Capital （As of April 1, 2018） （As of March 31, 2018） AXES Assets: ¥11.3 trillion Functional × Product × Regional expertise Shareholders’ Equity*2: ¥4.0 trillion Net DER: 0.78 times Subsidiaries and Associated Companies*1: 472 Core Operating Cash Flow: ¥666.5 billion Headquarter Business Units: 16 (Fiscal year ended March 31, 2018) Overseas Regional Business Units: 3 (Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and Asia Pacific) Credit Rating Business Supporting Units: 11 Moody’s: A3（STABLE） Corporate Units: 18 S&P: A（STABLE） – R&I: AA（STABLE） Please see page 021 for details on Mitsui’s functional expertise and page 071 for details on our product Please also see the CFO Message on pages and regional expertise. 036 to 041. *1. As of March 31, 2018 *2. Total equity attributable to owners of the parent MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 017 Business Model for Growth That Balances  between Trading and Business Management Through our original business of trading, Mitsui has cultivated expansive networks comprising a wide range of clients and has leveraged these networks to carry out business investments. Mitsui gets involved in the management of the projects in which we have invested in an effort to enhance their value. In turn, these projects help Mitsui further promote our trading business and expand our networks. Through the repetition of this cycle, Mitsui has developed our current business structure. Our diverse pool of talented professionals work to combine the sophisticated product expertise that each business unit possesses with our regional expertise, which is supported by local employees who are active in regions around the world, and various functional expertise as a general trading company. In this way, these professionals are leveraging our long-cultivated client base and networks to create new business models and pursue new projects. Unwavering Value Creation and Profit Growth Diverse pool of talented professionals Client base and business partner relationships Business management Trading Sustainable profit growth Business development Functional Product Regional expertise* expertise expertise * Marketing, Logistics, Finance, Risk management, Digital transformation The Diverse Range of Products That General Trading Companies Handle As a general trading company, Mitsui’s bread-and-butter business has always been trading. To leverage the superior trading functions that we possess to the full, Mitsui has naturally formed a business structure for handling an extensive lineup of products through a wide variety of outlets. Our traditional core competencies have been trading activities that link product demand with product supply and the extensive network of clients we have acquired through these trading activities. Additionally, these competencies have included the judgment capabilities, keen awareness, and appropriate conduct of our employees, who have helped us maintain and expand our network. Please see “Mitsui’s Continuing Evolution by Meeting the Changing Needs of the Times” on pages 096 and 097. ◦ Daily necessities ◦ Iron ore ◦ Iron and steel products ◦ Machinery ◦ Chemicals ◦ Automotive and motorcycles ◦ Natural gas ◦ 1950s  2000s 018 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 1 2 3 4 5 T  ruck Leasing and Rental Business CASE The Cameron LNG Project in the U.S. CASE and Logistics Business in the U.S. In 2013, Mitsui invested in the Cameron LNG Project,  Mitsui has long been involved in overseas trading, mainly which is located just north of the Gulf of Mexico in the U.S. in Southeast Asia and the Americas, engaged in automotive state of Louisiana. For this project, liquefaction facilities  manufacturing and assembly, distribution, and retail are currently under construction aiming for production businesses. In the U.S., we have formed a trust-based commencement of three LNG production trains within relationship with the Penske Automotive Group, which 2019. We have secured an annual LNG tolling capacity of operates automotive and commercial dealerships, through four million tons, spanning over 20 years. After production our investment in them in 2001. This trust-based relationbegins, the Cameron LNG Project will utilize seven of our ship provided us with an opportunity to invest in Penske LNG vessels to sell LNG on a global basis. Natural gas and Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL) in 2015, which operates under LNG produce relatively lower amounts of greenhouse gas the umbrella of the Penske Automotive Group. PTL is one of emissions and are expected to increase in global demand the largest truck leasing companies in North America and over the medium to long term. We already own upstream primarily engages in full-service truck leasing, contract shale interests in projects that contribute to natural gas maintenance, and commercial/consumer truck rental production in the U.S. Through the Cameron LNG Project, businesses. In addition, PTL operates a logistics business we will contribute to the stable production of LNG as well that mainly serves North America. Mitsui seeks to fully take as a stable energy supply for Japan and the rest of the world. advantage of its diverse business footprint and become the solution provider of fleet management and supply chain efficiency via PTL’s vast capacities to our business partners and affiliates. Trading Business management Trading Business management Development Leasing LNG and Automotive and rentals production Changes in Mitsui’s Business Portfolio (Total Assets) 1. Expansion in business management beginning with trade ¥ trillion Non-current assets Current assets 2. Increase in non-current assets due to business 2.8 1991 7.0 management expansion 3.2 2005 4.4 3. Maintenance of current asset scale in response 7.1 2018 4.2 to new trade brought about by business management Non-current assets Non-current assets Non-current assets 29% 42% 63% ¥2.8 trillion ¥3.2 trillion ¥7.1 trillion ¥9.8 trillion ¥7.6 trillion ¥11.3 trillion Fiscal year  Fiscal year  Fiscal year  ended March  ended March  ended March  1991 2005 2018 Current assets Current assets Current assets 71% 58% 37% ¥7.0 trillion ¥4.4 trillion ¥4.2 trillion MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 019 Positioning Strategy That Leverages Our Competitiveness In “Core areas,” Mitsui continuously adds assets through bolt-on acquisitions in its areas of strength, thereby further enhancing its strong businesses. In “Growth areas,” Mitsui’s next profit pillars, we develop and evolve our existing businesses, including those in our core areas where we are already competitive. In addition, we allocate our limited capitals in a well-balanced manner through portfolio management, with the aim of building a robust profit base as well as establishing new growth areas. Portfolio management P.022–023 Mobility Growth areas to be developed Nutrition & Retail & Healthcare Agriculture Services Competitive Resources & Energy business Core areas Machinery & Infrastructure lineup Chemicals Existing businesses other than core areas Functional Product Regional expertise expertise expertise Overview Our Competitiveness in Core Areas Value provision Competitiveness Efforts to gain an even greater competitiveness Mineral & Metal • Cost competitiveness • Overwhelming cost competitiveness of owned assets • Strengthen a three-pronged Resources • Stable supply of a consistent level of quality • Ability to supply a consistent level of quality approach of enhancing cost • Financing • Relationships with influential partners (including governments competitiveness, production Energy • Marketing (purchasing power) and local communities) volume, and reserves • Brand and trustworthy reputation Machinery & • Stable over the long-term supply of • Ability to organize and manage projects • Undertake a digital transformation Infrastructure electricity and gas • Know-how in infrastructure development and management for our assets (Infrastructure • Provision of services related to offshore • Ability to negotiate long-term contracts Projects) energy • Long-term, trust-based relationships with important clients • Financing • Relationships with influential partners (including governments and local communities) Machinery & • Establishment and expansion of local  • Trading network • Take initiatives toward the growth Infrastructure value chains • Marketing capabilities area of “Mobility” (Integrated • Sales support and provision of financing • Logistics expertise Transportation • Provision of comprehensive services related • Long-term, trust-based relationships with important clients Systems) to leasing, maintenance, logistics, etc. • Relationships with influential partners Chemicals • Virtual pipeline • Trading network • Take initiatives toward the growth • Cost competitiveness • Marketing capabilities area of “Nutrition & Agriculture” • Stable supply • Know-how in transportation of chemicals that are difficult to • Reinforce trading capabilities transport • Industrial and material expertise (judgment capabilities) • Multilayered relationships with influential partners and clients 020 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 1 2 3 4 5 Establishing Growth Areas Rather than establishing businesses in which we have no experience or track record, we adopt a perspective that considers the overall value chains of our existing businesses, fully utilizing the industrial expertise we have cultivated in these businesses, as well as our established network of clients and partnerships, to create new business models and promote new projects. Product expertise Machinery & Infrastructure Functional expertise × Chemicals Mobility Regional expertise Iron & Steel Products Functional expertise Chemicals × Healthcare Regional expertise Lifestyle Functional expertise Chemicals × Nutrition & Agriculture Regional expertise Lifestyle Functional expertise Lifestyle × Retail & Services Innovation & Corporate Regional expertise Development Overview The Functions We Provide We provide the following functions to our clients, business partners, and investees in every country and region. (1) Create new markets by drawing on sales  Functional Product Regional capabilities developed in extensive experience expertise expertise expertise aligned with various business practices as well  as our powerful information gathering and  analysis expertise (2) Provide optimal logistics solutions in both  transportation and cost efficiency (1) Marketing (4) R isk (3) Offer and advise on various financial functions, management from fund procurement and financial structuring to trade finance (2) Logistics (4) Propose risk reduction and control by utilizing (5) Digital know-how accumulated over many years (3) Finance transformation (5) Optimize business processes and revolutionize business models by utilizing AI and IoT MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 021 Portfolio Management Lifecycle Management of Investments and Practicing  Disciplined Portfolio Management Striving to improve business quality and ensure returns, Mitsui applies its refined risk management capabilities to all stages of business, beginning with selecting investment candidates that we have discovered by leveraging our expansive networks and industrial expertise, and continuing on through the process of making investment decisions, starting up projects, enhancing corporate value, and strategically recycling assets. In addition, through portfolio management, we efficiently allocate our limited capital in a well-balanced manner to areas that are of importance to the Group, to further strengthen our business portfolio with the aim of our sustainable growth and social development. Basic philosophy of portfolio management Strengthening earnings bases of existing businesses and leveraging economies of scale Generating inter-business synergies through strategic positioning in the value chain Acquiring new function platforms Expanding into new business fields and taking on the challenge of creating innovative new business models 03 Final Investment Decision Business Frontline 02 and Execution Business Supporting Unit*1 Investments are decided and executed once it has been determined that they Analysis, Evaluation, 01 and Deliberation meet internal approval standards and that contractual obligations have  Investment decisions are made based been fulfilled. on analysis of qualitative factors as  Project Incubation well as the required profitability ratio Investment Discipline Mitsui develops existing businesses by and other quantitative standards.*2 • Appropriate accounting treatments for leveraging the networks and insights Moreover, a variety of factors are  factors such as investment disparities gained through partnerships and  evaluated in making decisions, includcustomer relationships in various  ing the ability to execute business plans, Mitsui’s functions to be utilized, probability industries and regions while seeking of increasing value, conditions of contracts with other related parties, risk analysis and out and advancing new projects with management measures (including ESG-related risks), value of the business, period  the potential to become promising of project execution, and internal control effectiveness. Investment candidates are businesses in a similar manner. screened and final decisions are made after deliberations by relevant committees. Risk Management Risk Management • Objective self-analysis of the depth of • Appropriateness evaluations and stress checks based on prerequisite conditions our understanding and management related to commodities markets, foreign exchange, interest rates, and costs capabilities regarding the risks of • Contract condition negotiations and due diligence target markets and business models • Deliberations held at every stage by the Council of Individual Proposals, • Necessary measures including partner the Corporate Management Committee, and the Board of Directors regarding involvement and risk hedging factors such as investment, loan, and guarantee amount Quantitative Guidelines of Each Meeting Structure to Select Proposals for Deliberation Meeting Structure Proposals Amount Council of  Investment, loan, and guarantee proposals, project entailing Over ¥5.0 billion *1. P lanning & Administrative Divisions related  Individual Proposals acquisition of business assets or other such project to each business segment and Financial Corporate  Total investment, loan, and guarantee amount on a Over ¥15.0 billion Management & Advisory Divisions (Please see  Management consolidated basis organization chart on page 070 for details.) Committee Among investment, loan, and guarantee proposals,  ー *2. Quantitative standards considered include consolidated internal rate of return, ratio of matters to be resolved by the Board of Directors consolidated investments and loans out­ Board of Directors Disposal and acquisition of important business assets Over ¥40.0 billion standing to guarantees, and risk-return ratio. The risk-return ratio is the ratio between the • In accordance with the Specially Designated Business Management System, amount of risk assets associated with a specific project and the profit for the year projected to separate discussions are held, when necessary, regarding business domains be generated through Mitsui’s equity holdings with high qualitative risks pertaining to ESG and other factors. in the project. Risk assets refer to the maximum amount of anticipated loss on operating Details on the Specially Designated Business Management System receivables and investments, assets such as property, and off-balance-sheet positions such https://www.mitsui.com/jp/en/company/outline/governance/system/index.html as liability on guarantee belonging to the Group, calculated by multiplying internally established risk weight according to latent risks such as credit and market risks. 022 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 1 2 3 4 5 06 Strategic Asset Recycling 05 Businesses we have invested in are continually evaluated based on growth potential, the ability to increase value Value Addition through with Mitsui’s functions, and strategic 04 Operation and Management benefits. If it is deemed that a business’ viability is beginning to peak, we will Mitsui plays a direct role in operating consider new strategies, such as mergbusinesses and managing companies in Project Development order to boost their competitiveness and ing businesses into other companies,  Energy resource and infrastructure or the possibility of asset recycling,  value. Mitsui’s functions are utilized to development projects are advanced and then put these plans into effect. this extent by appointing professionals together with partners. By carefully who are highly specialized in the  Investment Discipline monitoring project progress and flexibly respective business area, dispatching  • Stringent adherence to portfolio responding to unforeseen circumour diverse group of professionals, and management cycle stances, projects are completed within pursuing close coordination between the planned budgets and timeframes. Mitsui and individual businesses. Furthermore, inter-business collaboration  Risk Management is promoted to help Mitsui explore new markets and business models. • Project management (budgets, Risk Management construction period, credit, contracts, • Monitoring of and response to market conditions, competition, and other finances, environmental concerns, etc.) operating environment changes • Tracking of facility operation ratio and income and expenditure trends and responding to any issues • Management of risks related to factors including finances, taxation, labor, legal affairs, credit, and the environment Investment Discipline • Confirmation of effectiveness of internal controls • Appropriate asset value assessments and timely and appropriate accounting treatments FO C U S The Portfolio Management Committee’s Role and Yearly Cycle of Portfolio Management As one of the advisory bodies to the Corporate Management Evaluate results over the year Confirm business strategies, investment Committee, the Company has established the Portfolio and determine issues to be plans, project priorities, and cash flow  addressed in the following year projections of each business unit Management Committee to establish portfolio strategy, formulate investment and loan planning, and provide portfolio monitoring. In addition, this committee reports such information to the Board of Directors on a regular basis. Fiscal • Establishment of a strategy for the overall portfolio Start of year-end of Mitsui fiscal year Specify priority areas and areas of focus, new target areas, and areas that need to be reviewed, in view of the overall Throughout Throughout strategy of Mitsui, the individual strategies of operating fiscal year fiscal year units, market trends and macro analyses, and the allocation Approve and Execute investments and divestitures, of its management resources. implement monitor progress, concrete and manage cash • Establishment of investment and finance policies measures for flows throughout  improving Establish important policies relating to the management  the fiscal year business of the overall portfolio of Mitsui such as guidelines for quality and Mid-fiscal year investment and finance limits, the design of a consolidated recycling assets capital cost structure, etc. • Confirm purpose of all investments • Regular monitoring of Mitsui’s overall portfolio • Determine turnaround plans or exit policies for unprofitable businesses and businesses Review regularly to confirm the significance of all business falling below withdrawal standard cutoffs*3 holdings in addition to confirming the appropriateness of • Estimate market value of businesses and determine emergency liquidation priorities • Follow up on the progress of the business plan asset size in accordance with each business area and country. *3. Withdrawal standard cutoffs include risk-return ratio, core operating cash flow, insolvency indicators, and other profitability standards as well as qualitative standards. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 023 Enhancing Management Capital 1 Human Capital The individual builds the business,  and the business cultivates the individual As the first president of the former Mitsui, Takashi Masuda, stated, “Mitsui has a pool of very talented individuals.  This is Mitsui’s most important asset.” We believe that human resources are our greatest asset. There is an extremely diverse group of talented professionals working at the Group, including at affiliated companies around the world, and continually maintaining and expanding this strong pool of talent will always be a key management focus. Through promoting a level playing field, we aim to strengthen each individual, build a full-strength team of  professionals, and also draw out the latent potential of our professionals to the full. At the same time, we promote optimum talent among our strong pool of human resources. Our employees have the necessary  qualities and capabilities to take the  Diverse pool initiative to create and develop new  of talented businesses and create new value  professionals [2] around the world by leveraging their  various expertise. [2] Through direct  experience in  tumultuous, high-­ pressure, and make-­ or-break situations further enhancing “Strong Individuals” ◦ Comprehensive strengths ◦ Client base and business partner Leveraging our relationships long-cultivated ◦ Financial base and fund procurement management capabilities [1] ◦ Insight, know-how, and judgment capital capabilities ◦ Ability to organize and manage projects [1] Accumulating added value created through  the establishment of  new businesses as  management capital  and investing this capital to further promote the ◦ Strengthening  value creation process existing businesses Sustainably ◦ Improving  Realizing all Creating New Value business value of the above through Proactive ◦ Reinforcing  efforts at a the value chain rapid pace Business Creation ◦ Establishing  new businesses 024 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 1 2 3 4 5 Framework for Encouraging the Active Role of Our Diverse Pool of Talented Professionals Re-allocation of Human Resources Mitsui believes that direct experience in tumultuous, high-pressure, and make-or-break situations is an  essential part of strengthening the individual. We are actively promoting a significant shift in our corporate personnel to the business frontlines as part of our initiatives to have our employees utilize various experiences to the full as well as our efforts to maximize our organizational strengths. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, we transferred over 70 people from administrative units to business units and affiliated companies  with the aim of strengthening our earnings power on a companywide basis. We intend to continue this initiative during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019. At the same time, we are actively pursuing digital transformation on the corporate side, from where we are dispatching these employees, equipping smaller teams to operate with a high degree of sophistication. Training and Transfer to Japan National staff (NS) personnel selected for training as  next-­generation leaders are sent to Japan to learn and  experience a variety of things. They are given opportunities to study the Japanese language and Japanese  business practices and experience Japanese work styles, while learning other aspects of Japan, such as its culture and history. Their training is targeted toward their  development as management personnel who will one day play key roles in Mitsui’s Global Group management. In addition to opportunities to network with people within and beyond Mitsui, the program is also designed to enable participants to build lifelong relationships by inspiring and being inspired by other talented people who are gathered in Japan for the same purpose. A total of 159 people have participated in various training programs in Japan since the fiscal year ended March 2014. Mitsui will continue to implement these programs going forward. Number of NS Employees Transferred between Personnel Sent to Japan Number of NS GMs Overseas Countries Persons Persons Persons 50 75 25 24 22 5 64 40 2 40 60 25 20 38 13 2 19 11 52 2 5 14 46 46 20 13 30 30 30 45 15 13 7 18 18 14 14 38 2 1 4 9 13 22 10 14 13 21 3 20 1 30 10 20 1 10 18 20 18 8 6 9 20 14 10 15 5 6 10 10* 8 4 11 4 4 4 3 3 2 4 8 6 0 0 2 4 0 1 14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 18 As of March 31 As of March 31 As of March 31 Japan Language and Business Program (LBP) Americas Americas Business Integration Program (BIP) EMEA EMEA NS transfers Asia Pacific Asia Pacific *Including one NS transferee accepted by an Other Other affiliated company MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 025 Enhancing Management Capital 2 Relationship Capital Engagement for business creation Through interactive communication with our various stakeholders, each of Mitsui’s employees and officers  Shareholders and Investors is endeavoring to acquire a firm understanding of what We strive for continuous improvement of our corporate value society expects from and requires of Mitsui. Based on and appropriate market recognition by fulfilling transparency this understanding, we strive to respond to changes  and accountability in management with timely and accurate in market environments and contribute to resolving disclosure of information, and by engaging in interactive communication with shareholders and investors. social issues through our business activities. Engagement Methods General meetings of shareholders IR meetings (presentations on financial results, Investor Day, Employees briefings for individual investors) Through promoting working style reforms and a level playing Separate engagement for IR and SR (departments in charge of field for our people globally, we will build a full-strength team exercising voting rights and responsible investment) of professionals and enhance diversity. We aim to draw out Securities Report the latent potential of our professionals to the full. Integrated Report Engagement Methods Intranet Newsletter to Shareholders In-house newsletter of Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co. websites Roundtable Meetings, New Active Talk Wednesday  Surveys from ESG research organizations (dialogue between management and employees, as well as among employees) Timely and accurate Diversity Cafe disclosure of information Training programs and seminars; Opinion surveys Mitsui Environment Month Activities under the Mitsui Global Volunteer Program Strengthening Volunteer Activity Leave of each individual In-house and external whistle-blowing channels Discussions with labor unions Collaboration to meet social needs CASE Mitsui × Partner Going beyond the supply of materials, Mitsui will provide Clients and Business Partners assistance to Gestamp by proposing new materials, promoting a shift to smart factories that leverage IT, expanding We endeavor to acquire a firm understanding of what clients sales to Japanese automotive manufacturers, and helping and business partners expect from and require of Mitsui, to continue to improve efficiency in the distribution of whose businesses are becoming more diverse and complex. materials and components. In addition to contributing to In addition to providing our business partners and associates improvement in Gestamp’s corporate value, these efforts with various functions in a proactive manner, we also work  will help Mitsui expand its ancillary equipment business. to resolve various issues in the supply chain while giving consideration to the end consumer and to ensuring the  Business  safety and security of products and services. areas  Material thus far supply Engagement Methods Pursuing new IoT materials and Engagement that occurs regularly in the ordinary course of components business Steel businesses material Mitsui & Co. websites supply Corporate Brochure / Advertisements / TV commercials Logistics Helping grow sales to Japanese companies Sustainability Report Business cultivation Expanding transactions Activities based on the Supply Chain CSR Policy with companies in Europe and the Americas Supplier questionnaire and on-site surveys 026 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 1 2 3 4 5 CASE Mitsui × Government Bodies Government Bodies Leveraging the solid trust-based relationships we have with local governments and major global companies,  We are committed to compliance with related laws and we have cultivated a competitive edge in resource  regulations formulated by government agencies and local development over many years. By combining this  governments in the countries where we engage in business competitive edge with the experience and knowledge  activities. Furthermore, through cooperation with governwe have gained in the infrastructure domain, we are mental agencies and local governments, we firmly entrench contributing to the economic development of countries ourselves in the local industrial structure. In order to create around the world in such ways as promoting industry, businesses that play a key role in each country and region  establishing infrastructure, and creating jobs. of operation, we aim to contribute to nation building and industrial promotion in a highly unique manner. 1  oatize coal  M 2 E  stablishment  mine project of railways in the  Engagement Methods Nacala Corridor Participation in policy councils Participation in consultation and advisory meetings  with government agencies and offices Training programs for local government bodies Activities through business and industry groups 2  onstruction of terminals  C at the Port of Nacala Engagement that occurs regularly in the ordinary course of business 1 Resource development 2 Rail and port infrastructure Engagement undertaken for a particular purpose, such as Vast reserves and superior Model for stable earnings, large-scale resource development price competitiveness potential for expansion Establishing new profit pillars and Contribution to contributing to nation building nation building Local Communities We contribute to sustainable development through our Coexistence with wide-ranging business activities and societal contribution local communities activities in countries and regions throughout the world.  We also aim to achieve harmonious coexistence with local communities through contributions in such areas as local industry development, creation of employment opportuniC ollaboration to ties, and the establishment of infrastructure, as well as resolve social issues improvements in the daily lives of local residents. Engagement Methods Engagement that occurs regularly in the ordinary course of NPOs and NGOs business We endeavor to establish networks with various NPOs and Engagement undertaken for a particular purpose, such as NGOs and gather opinions regarding environmental and large-scale resource development societal issues. At the same time, we pursue collaboration  with NPOs and NGOs to resolve these issues. Engagement Methods CASE Mitsui × Local Communities Discussions and local visits for cooperation with NPOs  We have invested in ETC Group Limited, which has and NGOs adopted “if farmers grow, we grow too” as one of its Participation in seminars hosted by NPOs and NGOs credos. Through this investment, we will provide farming advice and leverage our crop trading network and other Responses to questionnaires from NPOs and NGOs functions with the aim of reinforcing our profit base in Africa and in nations bordering the Indian Ocean. Provision of functions such as our crop trading network Efforts to grow in the African market MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 027 Efforts to Address Climate Change through Our Business The actions of corporations to address climate change are becoming more and more important for realizing a sustainable society. This importance is highlighted by such factors as the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Agreement by the United Nations as well as the announcement of risk management guidelines by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. Mitsui has adopted the protection of the global environment as one of its material issues, “Protection of the Global Environment,” in recognition of the adverse impact that climate change and other global environmental changes have on the sustainable growth of Mitsui and society as a whole. Meanwhile, the response to climate change provides us with new business opportunities, including low-carbon energy, eco-friendly infrastructure and products, and innovative services that make extensive use of digital technologies. We believe that the sustainable growth of society cannot be realized without economic development and measures to address climate change. Accordingly, we will leverage the comprehensive strengths of the Mitsui’s Global Group to achieve sustainable growth for society through collaboration with our various stakeholders. Governance Accelerating Our Response to Climate Change To serve as an organization that operates under the Corporate pertaining to climate change and monitor the status of  Management Committee, we established the Sustainability our frontline response to climate change. At the same time,  Committee, which comprises directors, executive officers,  the committee promotes activities to respond appropriately  and the general managers of each relevant corporate staff to the demand for information disclosure from external  division. The Sustainability Committee engages in such efforts stakeholders. The details on discussions held at meetings of  as collecting information related to the sustainability of Mitsui’s the Sustainability Committee are reported regularly to the  businesses, conducting monitoring activities, and submitting Corporate Management Committee and the Board of Directors. proposals to the Corporate Management Committee. In  These details are then used to help determine the future addition, the committee collaborates with the Headquarter direction of our management. Business Units to identify business risks and opportunities Strategy Simultaneously Pursuing Economic, Social, and Environmental Value We identify business risks and opportunities by Headquarter we are making concerted efforts to enhance the operational Business Units and formulate strategies for sustainable growth efficiency of our existing businesses and promote the developaccordingly. While working to fulfill important missions for ment of innovative new technologies and business models. Mitsui, such as “Stable Supply of Resources and Materials” and Through these means, we are taking on the challenge of real“Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases and Quality of Life,” izing both economic development and a low-carbon society. Examples of Mitsui & Co.’s Initiatives 1 Natural Gas and LNG Businesses 2 Power Generation Businesses 3 Initiatives toward New Natural gas has a relatively low amount of That Use Renewable Energy Technologies greenhouse gas emissions compared Mitsui’s Company-owned power generatTo respond to the increasing demand for with other fossil fuels. Accordingly, ing capacity is 9.3GW (as of March 31, energy, and to pursue efforts to address demand for natural gas as a clean energy 2018), and renewable energy sources, climate change, we are engaging in a source is increasing around the world. including hydroelectric power, account pilot project in the supply chain for  Since the 1970s, Mitsui has been investfor 16% of this amount. We have adopted hydrogen, which is expected to be  ing in LNG businesses in the Middle East, a target of increasing this percentage to utilized as a form of next-generation Australia, Southeast Asia, and other 30% by 2030. To work in tandem with this energy, and undertaking initiatives regions. Through these investments, we target, we are taking steps to gradually toward new technologies, including have been extensively involved in the lower our percentage of coal-fired  carbon capture and storage technologies. LNG supply chain, from production to thermal power, which has a high  marketing, and have contributed to a environmental impact. sustainable supply of natural gas and LNG. Sakhalin II LNG project Bii Stinu wind project Hydrogen supply chain project Ⓒ Sakhalin Energy Source: Chiyoda Corporation 028 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Risk Management Improving Risk Tolerance and Capturing New Growth Opportunities We have classified businesses with a high level of environmenInternational Energy Agency, and analyze the impact of such tal impact as “specially designated businesses” and are working scenarios on our businesses. Additionally, as we are a company to formulate measures to address the environmental impacts that develops businesses all over the world, the climate that accompany these businesses. We are also making efforts to change-related policies of each country have a significant examine the compliance of the specially designated businesses impact on the profitability and sustainability of each individual with environmental regulations and guidelines and to minimize business. We therefore make full use of the global network  risks starting from the stage of project incubation (Specially we have established through our business activities over many Designated Business Management System). Furthermore,  years to promptly gain an understanding of the policies of  we have established the Environmental & Societal Advisory each country of operation as well as the stakeholder trends that Committee, which functions as an advisory body to the Sustaincould impact such policies. This understanding is then utilized ability Committee. Composed of attorneys and other external in our decision-making process. experts, the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee We undertake initiatives in a broad range of diverse busitakes steps to improve the quality of Mitsui’s projects from an nesses. Accordingly, we are continuously revising our portfolio objective and highly specialized perspective. with an awareness of enhancing our tolerance to climate In the promotion and management of each business, we change-related risks. We are also taking on the challenge of bear in mind the various climate change scenarios that are flexibly capturing business opportunities that leverage our offered by internationally recognized organizations, such as the expansive business development. Major Climate Change-related Risks and Their Impact on Mitsui’s Businesses To address the following climate change-related risks, which have the potential to adversely impact Mitsui’s businesses, we are transitioning to a portfolio with a high risk tolerance in each business field. In addition, we are closely monitoring government policies, laws, and regulations in each country of operation and working to provide new products and services that give consideration to a low-carbon society. Through these means, we are preparing ourselves to respond to potential risks should they occur. Transition Risks Policy and  Decrease in demand for fossil fuels and impairment to Mitsui’s stake in fossil fuel businesses resulting from the transition to using Legal energy with low carbon emissions Adverse impact on the profitability of Company-owned assets resulting from such factors as changes in the energy and power source mix due to government policies in each country and the introduction of new laws or regulations Technology Adverse impact on the supply and demand of existing products and services due to the introduction of new technologies that respond to climate change Market Risks that affect the procurement of funds for business promotion resulting from low-carbon policies of financial institutions and insurance companies Physical Risks Impediment of operations at operating companies in Australia, the U.S., and other regions due to cyclones and hurricanes Efforts Related to Greenhouse Gas Emissions We have been conducting a survey of our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006,  Mitsui’s Forests in Japan and the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, overseas. Passing on an abundance of forests to the next In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, GHG emissions from generation with the aim of realizing a sustainable society the Head Office, Company offices and branches, and domestic/ We own forests in 74 locations that cover a total of 444 km2 overseas subsidiaries came to 0.66 million tons. Further­more, (44,417 hectares), which is roughly 0.1% of Japan’s total GHG emissions from un-incorporated joint ventures in the metal land area. Taking into account the public value offered by resource and energy field totaled 3.32 million tons. As a result, forests, we have maintained and managed our forests total GHG emissions came to 3.99 million tons (see page 035). over many years. In addition, all of our forests have Meanwhile, in addition to owning and maintaining forests obtained the FSC® certification (license number: that accumulate and absorb CO2, we are working to ease our FSC®C057355) and SGEC certification, which are both total GHG emissions in such ways as participating in the Jirau international standards. It is also estimated that Mitsui’s run-of-the-river hydropower project in Brazil, which has forests accumulate and absorb roughly 560,000 tons  received approval from the United Nations for annual carbon of CO2 per year.* These factors demonstrate how we  credits of 6 million tons. contribute to the mitigation of Also, we have adopted a target to reduce the annual climate change-related risks amount of energy consumed by 1% at our Head Office as  through responsible forest well as at our domestic offices and branches and domestic management. subsidiaries. * Based on in-house calculations that For more information on our environmental data, referenced “IPCC Guide­lines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories” Tier 1 please see page 33 of Sustainability Report 2018. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 029 Message from the Chairperson  of the Sustainability Committee Satoshi Tanaka Representative Director,  Executive Vice President Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) Chief Information Officer (CIO) Chief Privacy Officer (CPO) We will drive our business with an increased focus  on ESG (environmental, social, and governance) aspects  in line with our identified Materiality, and embody  our corporate slogan, “360°business innovation.”  By doing so, we will create outstanding business  that benefits Japan and the world. 030 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Mitsui acknowledges companies can only  responses, risk management, and disclosure be sustainable if the societies they operate in  policies, and reported the results to the Corporate are sustainable. We want to fulfill our social Management Committee and the Board of Direcresponsibilities by the sustainable growth of  tors. We will continue to plan, formulate, and  our own company, in order to contribute to the make proposals for advancing management realization of a sustainable society through our more focused on the sustainability of society  business activities. and Mitsui. Mitsui has been accurately identifying society’s Today, problems with the potential to threaten expectations and societal issues through dialogue the sustainability of both the global environment with various stakeholders, and enhancing our and society are occurring on a global scale, capabilities and functions to meet the expectacausing heightened unpredictability and  tions of society. Takashi Masuda, the first  uncertainty in every field of activity. We are now president of the former Mitsui, stated, “Let not in an era in which we must use various options  short-term gains tempt your mind, seek only to search for paths to the future. As manifested  enduring prosperity by embracing grand aspirain the adoption of the Sustainable Development tions.” That commitment to stay focused on the Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Agreement by the future and pursue the sustainability of society United Nations, corporations are expected to and business has remained part of our heritage enhance corporate value and maintain a strong down to the present day. As a company engaged focus on long-term perspectives and social  in business operations on a global scale, we sustainability. Because of these changes, we believe that it is our mission to contribute to the believe that we need to sharpen the sensitivity  creation of a sustainable society through our of the antenna that we have developed, in order business activities. to fulfill our corporate mission of contributing  In 2004, the Company made a declaration  to the creation of a sustainable society through to the inter­national community of its commitour business activities. ment to put these concepts into practice by Mitsui will contribute, through its wide-ranging signing and pledging its support for the UN global business activities, to solutions to global Global Compact, a charter of voluntary principles issues, such as economic and social development for businesses and institutions concerning  in various countries and regions and climate human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-­ change. We will work to promote a better undercorruption. We strive to implement the provisions standing of our business activities by informing the of the Global Compact and are committed to stay world about our strengths and vision, so that we focused on the future. In 2015, we identified five can earn the trust of all our stakeholders, including material issues which are relevant to all aspects our customers, business partners, and governof our business activities. Based on a mediumments and local communities in the countries and long-term perspective, we assess potential where we do business, as well as our investors. risks and opportunities that arise from the  While we continue to strive not only to fulfill our influences brought by those identified five  social responsibilities, we will drive our business material issues.  with an increased focus on ESG (environmental, In 2017, the Company established the Sustainsocial, and governance) aspects in line with our ability Committee under the Corporate Manageidentified Materiality, and embody our corporate ment Committee with the aim of ensuring that slogan, “360°business innovation.” By doing so, these ideas are deeply reflected in the activities of we will create outstanding business that benefits Mitsui. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, Japan and the world and enhances our corporate we held discussions mainly on climate change, value, and contribute to the realization of a covering a wide range of topics including the sustainable future where the aspirations of  direction of Mitsui’s future initiatives and people can be fulfilled. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 031 CHAPTER 2 Our Progress 032 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 034 Performance Highlights 036 CFO Message 042 Progress of Medium-term Management Plan 046 Results of Initiatives 046 Case 1: Establishing Selected  New Growth Areas 048 Case 2: Promoting the Digital  Transformation Strategy 050 Case 3: Main Results of Our Efforts  toward Sustainability MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 033 Performance Highlights Profit (Loss) for the Year Attributable Core Operating Cash Flow*  13 to Owners of the Parent / ROE  123 ¥ billion % ¥ billion 500 25 700 661.6 666.5 418.5 608.9 400 20 600 350.1 300 306.5 306.1 15 500 494.8 471.7 200 10.9 10 400 9.7 7.7 8.6 100 5 300 0 0 200 ‒2.2 ‒100 ‒5 100 ‒83.4 ‒200 ‒10 0 14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 18 Years ended March 31 Years ended March 31 Profit (loss) for the year attributable to owners of the parent * Cash flows from operating activities minus cash flows from changes in  ROE (right scale) working capital Total Assets / Net DER  2 Total Shareholder Return Amount / Total Shareholder Returns as a Percentage of Core Operating Cash Flow*  3 ¥ trillion Times ¥ billion % 14 1.4 175 35 172.5 160.0 12 1.2 150 30 4.7 145.0 4.5 4.5 4.2 4.3 29 10 1.0 125 26 26 25 24 0.95 115.0 0.88 115.0 0.83 8 0.82 0.8 100 20 0.78 7.5 7.0 7.0 7.1 17 6 6.6 0.6 75 15 4 0.4 50 10 2 0.2 25 5 0 0 0 0 14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 18 As of March 31 Years ended March 31 Current assets Non-current assets Net DER (right scale) Total shareholder return amount Total shareholder returns as a percentage of core operating cash flow (right scale) * Amount of shareholder returns divided by Core operating cash flow 034 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Maintain robust, sustainable earnings growth  1 Boost asset and capital efficiency  2 Continually increase shareholder value  3 Create social and environmental value  4 Improve human resource capabilities  5 Equity Share of Production  14 Crude Oil & Gas Iron Ore KBoE/day Mt/year 63 64 300 60 57.4 60.9 56.8 168.0 177 183 200 173.1 172.6 40 100 20 90.1 79 70.1 71.2 74 0 0 16 17 18 19 20 Years ended / 16 17 18 19 20 Years ended / (Forecast) (Forecast) ending March 31 (Forecast) (Forecast) ending March 31 Crude oil Gas Coal Copper Mt/year Kt/year 159 15 150 150 14 124.6 127.6 3.8 11 117.8 3.6 3.5 10 100 9.5 8.8 9.3 5 50 0 0 16 17 18 19 20 Years ended / 16 17 18 19 20 Years ended / (Forecast) (Forecast) ending March 31 (Forecast) (Forecast) ending March 31 Coking coal Thermal coal Power Generating Female Managerial Staff *1 / Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Capacity (Gross)  14 Female Employees Dispatched Emissions  4 Overseas*2  45 GW Persons 1,000t-CO2 40 200 200 4,000 3,985 38 38 3,321 34 168 Added the 30 150 3,000 Un-Incorporated  J/V in Mineral & 126 Metal Resources  and Energy sectors since the fiscal  20 100 2,000 year ended  March 31, 2018 61 58 10 50 50 1,000 622 642 664 0 0 0 16 17 18 15/16 16/17 17/18 16 17 18 Years ended March 31 Female managerial staff Scope: Greenhouse gas emissions of the Company,  consolidated subsidiaries, and un-incorporated joint Female employees dispatched overseas ventures in Mineral & Metal Resources and Energy *1. Non-consolidated, as of July 1 (2015–2017) sectors (Scope 1 and Scope 2, includes gas generated *2. Overseas trading subsidiaries, as of April 1 at times of production) (2016–2018) The Company and subsidiaries Un-incorporated joint ventures in Mineral & Metal Resources and Energy sectors MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 035 CFO Message Results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 Looking back on the business environment during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the global economy saw ongoing gradual growth in both devel­ oped countries and emerging countries supported by firm spending and investment. In this favorable environment, we achieved strong earnings in ­Resources & Energy and also saw steady growth in non-resource areas such as Iron & Steel Products and Machinery & Infrastructure. Furthermore, we made good progress on the key initiatives, and overall we made a solid start along the road to achieving the targets of our medium-term management plan for the year ending March 31, 2020. Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent was ¥418.5 billion, and compared with the previous fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, we had a large increase in earnings by ¥112.4 billion. Along with this growth in profit, ROE reached 10.9%, exceeding the 10% target of our mediumterm management plan. Core operating cash flow was the highest ever at ¥666.5 billion (an increase of ¥171.7 billion year on year), supported by strong business results and an increase in  dividends from equity-method affiliates. In addition to increasing the annual dividend  Cash flow focused for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 to ¥70 management is  per share (an increase of ¥15 year on year), we also implemented share buybacks totaling ¥50.0 progressing extremely  billion. Together, these initiatives represented a well. In light of this,  total return to shareholders of approximately ¥172.5 billion Chart 1 . Please also note that in we will continue efforts  April 2018 we canceled approximately 54 million to further improve our  shares, equivalent to around 3% of issued shares. For the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019, we financial base. forecast our dividend at ¥70 per share, but our policy is to continue initiatives to improve our business performance and achieve sustained Takakazu Uchida dividend increases and ROE of 10% in the fiscal Representative Director, Executive Managing Officer, year ending March 31, 2020. Chief Financial Officer (CFO) The global economy is expected to follow a trend of gentle recovery going forward. However, there are several factors that careful watch 036 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 continues to be needed as we exert all our efforts from government financial agencies or multilatto manage Mitsui’s business. These include the eral agencies so that our projects are recognized escalation of geopolitical risk surrounding the at the intergovernmental level. This is particularly Middle East, the future prospects for the European evident in how we closely address country risks in and U.S. economies, which have shown signs of emerging markets. maturity in some parts, the impact of the Federal Furthermore, we operate a global cash manageReserve Board’s monetary tightening on the ment system (CMS) aimed at maximizing funding economies of emerging countries, and trends  efficiency throughout our consolidated group. In in U.S. trade policy. this system, funding procurement is in principle centered on the Company or its financial subsidBasic Approach to Financial Strategy iaries, creating an in-house banking process in which funding can be procured and surpluses Mitsui’s basic financial policy is to secure the deployed in each region according to need. liquidity and maintain the sound financial base Currently our CMS encompasses more than  needed to support the growth strategy for our 200 companies. diverse business portfolio centered on core areas. In funding, we focus particularly on liquidity and Progress of Cash Flow Focused stability. For this reason, in principle our funding Management procurement is based on funding periods of 10 years plus using long-term borrowings or bond During our previous medium-term management issues, aiming to minimize refinancing risk. plan, we introduced a cash flow allocation frameWe also work to reduce risk in large-scale  work. Our purpose was to drive the implementaprojects, actively using financial programs provided tion of our growth strategy while maintaining and by the export credit agencies of various countries strengthening our financial foundation by making and project finance. We place critical importance a balanced allocation of cash, gained from operaton planning risk prevention from the outset, ing cash flow and asset recycling, to both growth which we can achieve by seeking participation investments and shareholder returns. As a result, Chart 1 Shareholder Returns (¥ billion) 666.5 Dividend Share buyback 630.0 Core operating cash flow* 494.8 570.0 172.5 145.0 50.0 47.5 Minimum total dividend amount ¥100bn/year 122.5 122.5 97.5 100.0 2017 2018 2019 (forecast) 2020 (forecast) Years ended / ending March 31 Annual dividend per share ¥55 ¥70 ¥70 (plan) Medium-term management plan * Cash flows from operating activities minus cash flows from changes in working capital MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 037 CFO Message we achieved positive free cash flow during  of ¥172.5 billion, total cash-out was ¥732.5 billion. the previous medium-term management plan, As a result, free cash flow after shareholder returns and realized shareholder returns totaling  excluding the impact of fluctuations in working ¥375.0 billion, including share buybacks. capital and time deposits was ¥237.5 billion, During the current medium-term management marking very good progress. plan, we are making more progress on cash flow We have updated our three-year cumulative focused management and in strengthening the plan for cash flow allocation based on the results financial base. For shareholder returns, we set a of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 and the minimum dividend and are realizing positive free business plan for the fiscal year ending March 31, cash flow even after shareholder returns. Depend2019 Chart 2 . ing on the business environment, such free cash While the update reflects the increase in core flow will be allocated to additional shareholder operating cash flow and additional shareholder returns, repayment of interest-bearing debt, or returns, we are maintaining our three-year cumulaadditional investment. Meanwhile, we are aiming tive investment and loans amount at between ¥1.7 to maintain a credit rating of A or higher. trillion and ¥1.9 trillion as announced at the launch In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the first of the medium-term management plan, due to year of the current medium-term management continued investment discipline. Likewise, there is plan, core operating cash flow was approximately no change to our forecast for asset recycling. For ¥670.0 billion, reflecting the steady increase in our shareholder returns for the fiscal year ending business performance and an increase in diviMarch 31, 2020, we are drafting a three-year dends from equity-method affiliates. Combined cumulative plan incorporating only the minimum with ¥300.0 billion obtained from progress in dividend payment announced at the launch of the asset recycling, this produced cash-in of ¥970.0 medium-term management plan. Even then, the billion. Furthermore, through strict investment level of shareholder returns will exceed what it discipline, investment and loans were kept to was under the previous medium-term manage¥560.0 billion, and with total shareholder returns ment plan. As a result of the above, we have Chart 2 Outlook for Cash Flow Allocation (FY2018–FY2020) FY March 2018 3-year cumulative 3-year cumulative Unit: ¥ billion Full-year results (Updated in May 2018) (Disclosed in May 2017) Core Operating Cash Flow*1・・・[1] 670.0 1,870.0 1,700.0 Cash-In Asset Recycling・・・[2] 300.0 700.0 700.0 –1,700.0～ –1,700.0～ Investment and Loans・・・[3] –560.0 –1,900.0 –1,900.0 Cash-Out Shareholder Returns*2・・・[4] –172.5 –400.0 –300.0 270.0～ 200.0～ Free Cash Flow*3 after Shareholder Returns*2・ ・ ・[1]+[2]+[3]+[4] 237.5 470.0 400.0 Allocation Repayment of Additional shareholder returns Additional investment interest-bearing debt *1. Cash flows from operating activities minus cash flows from changes in working capital *2. The three-year cumulative (updated in May 2018) column is calculated on a minimum total dividend of ¥100bn for FY March 2020 *3. Free cash flow that excludes the effects of changes in working capital and time deposits 038 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 shifted upward the range of the three-year cumuasset portfolio could produce, and we used this in lative plan for free cash flow after shareholder calculations when establishing our minimum returns to between ¥270 billion and ¥470 billion. dividend policy. Meanwhile, we have been getting positive results from efforts to strengthen our Mitsui’s Earning Power from the earnings foundation in non-resource areas. Perspective of Core Operating Through a combination of further increasing the Cash Flow cost competitiveness of our resource-related portfolio, we have been able to maintain a balWe position core operating cash flow as our most anced earnings structure even when commodity important indicator. Core operating cash flow is prices are below historic trends. the source of funds for both our growth strategy In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, we and the returns we provide to shareholders. achieved a record high for core operating cash From 2005 on, resources and energy prices flow, partly as a result of the rise in coal prices as surged, leading to significant growth in Mitsui’s well as the cash provided by dividends received core operating cash flow Chart 3 . After the global from the past earnings of equity-method affiliates. recession triggered by the Lehman Shock, we Even if we exclude one-off factors, we think we were able to secure around ¥500 billion of cash are on track to maintain core operating cash flow generation annually, though there were some in the range of ¥550 billion to ¥600 billion per fluctuations caused by commodity prices. year throughout the current medium-term manSubsequently, the commodities super-cycle agement plan. ended. The fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 saw crude oil prices fall below $30 a barrel, but even Liquidity and Financial Leverage amid these circumstances, which appear extreme when we look back now, we were still able to Our priority in funding is to maintain liquidity. By maintain cash flow of ¥470 billion. To us, this obtaining stable mediumto long-term funds, our verified the resilient baseline cash flow that our aim is to avoid concentrating debt maturity and to Chart 3 Core Operating Cash Flow* ¥ billion US$ 700 210 600 180 500 150 400 120 300 90 200 60 100 30 0 0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Years ended / (forecast) (forecast) ending March 31 Core operating cash flow Iron ore (right scale) Crude oil (JCC) (right scale) * Cash flows from operating activities minus cash flows from changes in working capital MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 039 CFO Message minimize refinancing risk. Under this strategy, we leverage indicator, it does not reflect changes in aim to keep enough cash in hand to cover around our asset structure. Concomitant with the shift in two years of repayments. As in the financial crisis, business composition from trading to investment, when market liquidity dries up, or if for some our investment assets and fixed assets have been reason we are not able to access the market, we increasing. When you have an increase in business aim to hold ample liquidity on our balance sheet. investments or fixed assets that are relatively high Long-term debt repayment per year is a little risk or take longer to generate returns, leverage under ¥500 billion, which is within our current needs to be reduced, and we have in fact delevercore operating cash flow capacity. From the  aged significantly compared to historic levels. perspective of liquidity we believe that if we can further lift the level of core operating cash flow  Shareholders’ Equity and Risk or enable even longer term stable fund procureManagement ment, our financial base will become even more stable, giving us increased capacity to borrow. When we compare our non-current assets with Conversely, if core operating cash flow decreases, relatively high risk and the equity that ultimately or if funding procurement becomes shorter term, absorbs this risk, we see that there has continued this will put pressure on our financial base and to be gradual improvements Chart 5 . This gap is decrease our capacity to borrow. mainly funded by interest-bearing debt, and if this Net DER temporarily increased in the fiscal  expands, it reduces financial stability. Within the year ended March 31, 2016, but since then it has  current cash flow allocation framework, our aim  continued to improve, aided by hybrid loans is to gradually improve this indicator while  among other things Chart 4 . Although we have  balancing the need for growth investment. not set a specific target level for net DER, by  Also, as well as the risk amount carried by assets maintaining positive free cash flow after returns  on the balance sheet, we assess and periodically to shareholders within the current cash flow monitor the amount of off-balance sheet risk such allocation framework, we expect to see a steady as market risk and guarantees to a set standard. improvement. Although net DER is an important Our risk exposure is being held within a range Chart 4 Net Debt to Equity Ratio* ¥ billion Times 5,000 1.0 4,000 0.8 3,000 0.6 2,000 0.4 1,000 0.2 0 0 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 As of March 31 (forecast) (forecast) Net debt Shareholders’ equity (Attributable to owners of the parent) Net DER (right scale) * Adjusted net DER by including 50% of subordinated syndicated loan (¥550 billion) in capital 040 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 of about 60% of our shareholders’ equity Chart 6 , and maintaining positive free cash flow after and we periodically stress test our risk assets for returns to shareholders. While keeping a close various scenarios, verifying the impact on the risk watch on the business environment, we aim to asset to shareholders’ equity ratio. maintain and improve a stable financial base, For all these indicators we focus on when allocating cash flow to achieve an appropriate considering financial strategy, our policy is to balance between growth investment and returns achieve gradual improvements toward the final to shareholders. year of our medium-term management plan by following our cash flow allocation framework  September 2018 Chart 5 Non-Current Assets / Shareholders’ Equity ¥ billion Times 10,000 2.0 8,000 1.6 6,000 1.2 4,000 0.8 2,000 0.4 0 0 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 As of March 31 (forecast) (forecast) Non-current assets Shareholders’ equity (Attributable to owners of the parent) Non-current assets/Shareholders’ equity (right scale) Chart 6 Risk Assets / Shareholders’ Equity ¥ billion % 5,000 75 4,000 60 3,000 45 2,000 30 1,000 15 0 0 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 As of March 31 (forecast) (forecast) Risk assets Shareholders’ equity (Attributable to owners of the parent) Risk assets/Shareholders’ equity (right scale) MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 041 Progress of Medium-term Management Plan Medium-term Management Plan Driving Value Creation 2018 2019 2020 • Following the end of the global resources super-cycle, a worldwide shift away from an overreliance on volume expansion to a focus on the pursuit External of growth in quality environment • Continued changes at a rapid pace, with shifts such as the move away from a system of global rules led by the U.S. and Europe toward a world in which each region considers what is optimal for them • Establish a profit base resilient to external changes and risks Mitsui’s focus • Dynamic allocation of resources • Strengthening our management foundation 1 Build a robust profit base and thoroughly strengthen existing businesses 2 Establish selected new growth areas Key initiatives 3 Cash flow focused management; Strengthen financial base P.036–041 CFO Message 4 Enhance Governance, Personnel, and Innovation functions Profit for the year*1 Core operating cash flow*2 ROE Quantitative ¥440.0bn ¥630.0bn 10% targets （Year to March 31, 2020） （Year to March 31, 2020） （Year to March 31, 2020） ¥418.5bn ¥666.5bn 10.9% （Year ended March 31, 2018） （Year ended March 31, 2018） （Year ended March 31, 2018） *1. Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent *2. Cash flows from operating activities minus cash flows from changes in working capital 042 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 FY2019 business plan 2018 2019 2020 Profit for the year*1 (for each segment) Core operating cash flow*2 (for each segment) •T argeting steady profit growth in non-resource areas through •T  emporary decline in FY Mar/2019 mainly due to a concentraimprovement of our base profit tion of large dividend payments from equity-method affiliates, •F orecasting profit decline in Resources & Energy in  including early payments, recorded in FY Mar/2018 FY Mar/2019 due to absence of valuation gain for Valepar •S  teady progress from FY Mar/2018 in strengthening cash flow recorded in FY Mar/2018 generation due to increase in base profit （¥ billion） （¥ billion） 666.5 630.0 570.0 440.0 418.5 420.0 416.1 400.0 240.0 380.0 240.0 306.2 90.0 Non158.8 Non105.0 85.0 85.0 NonNonNonresources resources Non50.0 resources resources resources 200.0 233.4 resources 89.6 40.0 55.0 80.0 230.0 117.6 180.0 50.2 180.0 55.0 60.0 24.4 40.0 34.2 ‒6.2 17.0 10.0 45.0 ‒5.3 2018 2019 2020 Years ended / 2018 2019 2020 Years ended / （Results） （Plan） （Plan） ending March 31 （Results） （Plan） （Plan） ending March 31 Medium-term management plan Medium-term management plan Resources & Energy Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Other areas All others / Adjustments and eliminations *1. Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent *2. Cash flows from operating activities minus cash flows from changes in working capital FY2019 action plans • Further strengthen profit base in core areas through steady progress of the initiatives described below • Continue efforts to decrease loss-making companies and grow revenue of existing businesses • Accelerate initiatives in four growth areas and foster the next revenue pillars Mineral & Metal Enhance profit base at existing Australian operations Resources Improve operations at Caserones in Chile Steadily progress toward a final investment decision concerning LNG project in Mozambique Energy Successfully launch Kaikias in U.S. and Tempa Rossa in Italy Integrate Australia-based AWE Limited into the Group Launch new power generation projects (Safi in Morocco, Salalah-2 in Oman) Machinery & A  ccelerate initiatives in next-generation power (Forefront and other distributed power, Infrastructure services businesses) Pursue mobility service initiatives (lease, rental, and sharing businesses) Expand Intercontinental Terminals Company LLC in the U.S. Participate in European coating materials business Chemicals  ursue Novus International Inc. growth strategy in the U.S. (pursue plans to expand  P methionine manufacturing capacity, etc.) MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 043 Progress of Medium-term Management Plan Key initiatives and results of first year of medium-term management plan Initiative 1 Build a robust profit base and thoroughly strengthen existing businesses The three core areas of our medium-term management plan are Resources & Energy, Machinery & Infrastructure, and Chemicals. We aim to generate 90% of our entire core operating cash flow from these three areas. We will continue to add assets through bolt-on acquisitions in these areas of strength, thereby enhancing our strengths. Resources & Energy Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals • Iron Ore • Power generation • Feed additives/Agricultural chemicals • Oil & Gas • Marine energy • Functional materials • Gas distribution • Tank terminals • Automotive • Chemical products manufacture and • Shipping trading • Railroads In addition, we will thoroughly strengthen existing businesses and improve the value through the following initiatives. • Realize latent value (raise value through operational improvement, business revitalization, and industry reorganization) • Pursue business entry and exit coordinated with business cycle • Reinforce trading by upgrading our selling power and value add Results of first year of medium-term management plan 2018 2019 2020 In FY Mar/2018, the first year of the medium-term management plan, we built a robust profit base and thoroughly strengthened existing businesses and grew non-resource area profit to ¥170.0 billion level, excluding valuation gains/losses. Segment Specific achievements Mineral & Ramping up of Moatize/Nacala, entered into project finance in Mozambique Metal Acquired additional equity in Collahuasi copper mine in Chile Resources Energy Start of Kipper contribution in Australia Tender offer for AWE Limited in Australia Machinery & Improved asset quality through IPP asset recycling Infrastructure Commencement of 2 FPSO charter contracts Additional investment in Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. in the U.S. Chemicals Stable operations of methanol business Strengthened trading (Mitsui & Co. Plastics Ltd., European sulphur & sulfuric acid business, etc.) Iron & Steel P  romoted business reform (made Nippon Steel & Sumikin Bussan Corporation an equity-method Products affiliate, sold Champions Cinco Pipe & Supply LLC in the U.S., etc.） Expansion of Gestamp Automoción S.A. business in Spain Lifestyle Decision to withdraw from Multigrain Trading AG in Brazil Panasonic Healthcare Holdings Co., Ltd. (currently PHC Holdings Corporation) contributed to profit Acquired Bigi Holdings Co., Ltd. Innovation & Strengthened profit base of CIM Group, LLC in the U.S. by increasing assets under management Corporate Expanded consumer goods logistics business (Mitsui & Co. Global Logistics, Ltd.) Development 044 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Initiative 2 Establish selected new growth areas Based on the medium-term outlook for the business environment, we have selected four growth areas in which we can excel and allocate business resources to these areas dynamically. Mobility Healthcare Nutrition & Agriculture Retail & Services Multifaceted approach to Build healthcare ecosystem Raise productivity,  Foster next generation  Materials and Mobility & around medical services provide stable supplies  digital/logistics/financial Transportation services based businesses in agriculture/livestock/ functions to meet  on changing social needs in fisheries, enhance added consumer needs the environmental society value of foods The expanding middle class of Asia and growing North American economy are core targets Establish Mitsui’s next profit pillars Results of first year of medium-term management plan 2018 2019 2020 In FY Mar/2018, we accelerated initiatives to establish four new growth areas, mainly in Mobility and Healthcare. Specific achievements Mobility C  ommercial vehicle electrification initiatives starting in Europe (investment in EV bus business, electric vehicle battery business)  xpanded railway-related business (expanded rail network in U.K. passenger rail business,  E started Taiwan train station business) Initiatives in operating lease and rental car business in Chile Healthcare  xpanded hospital infrastructure business in Southeast Asia (additional investment in  E Columbia Asia Group) P.046–047 Took initiatives to address new drug needs in Russia (investment in JSC R-Pharm) Expanded healthcare staffing business (acquisition of Accountable in U.S.) Nutrition &  trengthened network and Africa regional strategy (ETC Group Limited investment agreement) S Agriculture Reinforced food science area (SODA AROMATIC Co., Ltd. tender offer) Retail &  xpanded assets under management (¥1.4 trillion to ¥1.9 trillion） E Services Acquired planning/marketing platform in fashion and retail business Initiative 4 Enhance Governance, Personnel, and Innovation functions Results of first year of medium-term management plan 2018 2019 2020 Specific achievements Strengthen S  trengthened the effectiveness of the Board of Directors governance • Increased diversity and improved skill set balance of Board members • Created more opportunities for discussion on Mitsui’s long-term direction, including its corporate strategies and medium-term management plan Established Sustainability Committee, and promoted management with greater emphasis on the  sustainability of both society and Mitsui Strengthen the  hifted corporate staff to business frontline S individual Introduced staggered working hours at an individual level Launched in-house entrepreneur system, currently preparing to commercialize business plans Strengthen  ppointed CDO and established Digital Transformation (DT) team A innovation Accelerated initiatives of DT, focusing on three areas: reducing costs in existing businesses,  functions increasing sales in existing businesses, and developing new business Please see “Promoting the Digital Transformation Strategy” on pages 048 and 049. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 045 Results of Initiatives  Case 1: Establishing Selected New Growth Areas Mitsui has selected Mobility, Healthcare, Nutrition & Agriculture, and Retail & Services as four areas in which we can leverage our strengths. To establish these areas as its next profit pillars, Mitsui is continuing to push ahead with aggressive initiatives for the strategies formulated under its medium-term management plan. Mobility Basic Strategies Expansion of Passenger Rail Business in the U.K. Mitsui was collectively selected as 1 Respond to innovation in transportation the winning bidder for the West services Midlands Franchise, jointly with •P  rovide comprehensive services in  East Japan Railway Company and passenger and cargo transportation Abellio Transport Group Limited. Through the West Midlands 2 Respond to the “sharing economy” sector Franchise, we will provide safe and • From “owning” to “use,” expand the service quality services cultivated by the rail business in Japan. 3 Create business opportunities that support technological innovations •E  ngage in new businesses in the  Acceleration of Electric Vehicle Business automotive industry Expansion in Europe 4 Contribute to the creation of Mitsui has invested in Foresee next-generation cars Power, a French battery system manufacturer, and CaetanoBus, •E  xpand the automotive components  S.A., a Portuguese electric bus  and materials business manufacturer. By forming organic collaborations between these companies, Mitsui will move forward with the expansion of  the electric vehicle business. Healthcare Basic Strategies Acquisition of Healthcare Staffing Company in the U.S. 1 Strengthen existing businesses Mitsui acquired 100% of the shares • Promote initiatives aimed at improving profitability in Accountable Healthcare Holding 2 Gain operatorship Corporation, the leading provider  of nurse staffing services and other •H  ospitals and hospital ancillary businesses healthcare providers in the U.S. • Manufacture and sale of pharmaceuticals Mitsui intends to expand the scale • Healthcare staffing businesses of human capital businesses, 3 Strengthen collaboration between assets which include the supply of healthcare providers. •M  aximize value of healthcare ecosystems • Formulate and execute business strategies  in new domains Acquisition of an Additional Equity Stake in Columbia Asia Group Mitsui carried out an additional investment in Columbia Asia Group, the largest international hospital group in Asia. By further strengthening the partnership with the founding members, the Baty Family, Mitsui is committed to solving the medical supply-demand gap in Asian countries. 046 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Nutrition & Agriculture Basic Strategies Reinforcement of the Food Science Domain Mitsui completed the delisting of 1 Answer the need for increased food SODA AROMATIC Co., Ltd. through a production tender offer for its common shares. •E  xpand grain trading While drawing on its overseas  • Further develop global logistics network, Mitsui will further acceler• Expand agricultural inputs business  ate the expansion both in Japan  and sulphur business and overseas by leveraging Soda • Enhance the animal nutrition business Aromatic’s expertise related to  manufacturing, quality control, product application  2 Answer the need for foods with high development, and other matters. added value •E  xpand business of value added products  Agreement to Invest in ETC Group that promote health Mitsui agreed to invest in ETC • Accelerate the development of the food  Group Limited, which engages in science business the business involving agricultural products, agricultural supplies, and food manufacturing and sales in East Africa to expand its networks (completed investment in May 2018). Retail & Services Basic Strategies Asset Management Business We were able to increase assets 1 Strengthen and develop existing assets under management to ¥1.9 trillion •S  trengthen collaboration between  over the past year, responding to business assets investors’ diverse needs with asset • Strengthen collaboration with the  management business in Japan Seven & i Group and abroad. • Provide solutions through digital transformation • Develop and enhance the media commerce business 2 Adapt to change • Respond to expansion in the prepared  foods market Acquisition of Bigi Holdings • Further enhance chilled & frozen distribution Mitsui has gained planning and • Expand contact points with consumers sales platforms of fashion and • Develop and deliver food products retail businesses with the acquisi3 Provide attractive investment management tion of Bigi Holdings Co., Ltd. This services will bring us close to consumers and enable us to strengthen our • I ncrease balance of assets under management marketing and sales capabilities. • Enhance sales capabilities aimed at domestic investors MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 047 Results of Initiatives  Case 2: Promoting the Digital Transformation Strategy Digital transformation is a strategy for realizing improved proﬁts through New the utilization of digital power to improve the operational expertise and T technologies at business frontlines (Operational Technology = OT). To this Challenge of new business Business Model end, we will quantify and digitalize various business information and data opportunities at business frontlines and around the globe and use digital power such as AI to categorize, analyze, and control this data. By doing so, we aim to leverage this data in our businesses and society. We are pursuing the digital transformation to reduce costs and increase sales by enhancing S1 S1’ S2 Greater Companywide Greater and optimizing our business operations. We will also take steps to improve efficiency development added value Existing the quality of our existing businesses while moving forward with the creation of new business models. Cut costs Benefits Increased sales S: Solution T: Transformation Strategy 1 Improving the Quality of Existing Businesses We employ ICT at our diverse project sites around the world, as we aim to further improve our business value by increasing sales and improving the efficiency of existing businesses. Business Evolution through Strategic Alliances Solution In March 2016, Mitsui invested in the U.S.-based OSIsoft, LLC, thereby entering into a memorandum of understanding to explore business opportunities. This strategic  alliance was formed in order to transform the conventional business model of a general trading company before the full-scale onset of the IoT era. Through this alliance, we will utilize OSIsoftʼs core product, PI System, to improve the operational eﬃciencies of the Group businesses and pursue cost reductions. Since August 2017, we have been conducting a demonstration experiment that uses PI System to remotely monitor the operating conditions of our owned power plant in Mexico in real time. Going forward, we intend to make use of PI System at our factories and facilities around the world. Active Incorporation of AI Technologies Solution Mitsui has invested in the U.K.-based Sky Futures, a company that leverages drone-gathered data and AI to  resolve issues related to inspection and examination and provide solutions for enhancing business profitability.  For example, through the introduction of drones, Sky Futures can help eliminate the need for periodic  shutdowns at factories, in addition to confirming the safety of factory employees. This in turn  helps to significantly reduce the cost of factory inspections, including opportunity costs  associated with the stoppage of factory operations. Also, we have been deepening our collaboration with our key business partner Komatsu Ltd. Together with LANDLOG Ltd., an IoT specialist company in the  construction industry, we have been moving forward with efforts to introduce digital solutions to improve industrial productivity. As part of these efforts, we have been promoting a fuel supply service business geared toward construction sites. 048 Digital Tran MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Strategy 2 Creating New Business Models Within the Group, we have companies that develop digital solutions and companies that provide data analysis surveys. At the same time, we have formed strategic alliances with a diverse range of business partners. By combining and leveraging the expertise of the Companies and business partners, we will work to create new business models while spurring innovation in our own businesses to respond to the changing times. Partnership with Highly Advanced AI Companies Transformation Mitsui regards securing world-class AI engineers as a priority matter and partnering with a company with highly advanced AI technologies as an integral part of its strategy to enhance its competitiveness through digitalization.  To this end, in December 2017 we invested in Preferred Networks, Inc., which develops and provides AI technologies. In addition to supporting the growth of Preferred Networks, we will use its deep learning technology to solve issues affecting our business partners, customers, and the Group’s global business assets in a wide range of industries. Furthermore, we aim to create businesses under a recurring business model with the use of next-generation  AI technologies. Through our partnership with Preferred Networks, we will gain practical knowledge about  cutting-edge AI technologies and undertake human resource development initiatives to train people to utilize  AI and formulate businesses. Establishment of a Medical Imaging AI Platform Business Transformation In April 2018, Mitsui invested in NOBORI Ltd., a company newly established by TechMatrix Corporation, which  transferred its medical systems business. NOBORI provides cloud service of picture archiving and communication  systems and already has over 800 contracted medical facilities and has accumulated a massive resource of imaging data representing 120 million medical examinations of a total of 22 million patients. While building a data platform based on NOBORI’s accumulated imaging data, we will provide AI-based interpretation and diagnosis support, which  will contribute to more advanced medical care and promote collaboration with medical institutions to develop and introduce services for individual patients. Launch of Dynamic Pricing Business Transformation In June 2018, Mitsui and Yahoo Japan Corporation established Dynamic Plus Co., Ltd., a joint venture that provides dynamic pricing services, which set ﬂexible prices for services based  on current market demand. Dynamic Plus has accepted equity investment from PIA Corporation, one of the largest ticketing agencies in Japan, and signed an alliance to develop a dynamic pricing business. Drawing on PIA’s solid track record in tickets for sporting events, we will expand our dynamic pricing businesses geared toward the hotel, parking, transportation, and other as-a-service industries. sformation MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 049 Results of Initiatives  Case 3: Main Results of Our Efforts toward Sustainability Of our five material issues (Materiality), we aim to realize the “Stable supply of resources & materials,” the “Enhancement of local industrial bases & quality of life,” and the “Protection of the global environment” through our business. This section introduces the main efforts we pursued to address these material issues in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. For more details on the results of our sustainability activities, please refer to Sustainability Report 2018. Stable Supply of Resources & Materials  November 2017 Participation in Floating Storage and Regasification Unit Project in Pakistan In Pakistan, demand for gas is growing while production of indigenous gas is declining. Through a long-term agreement to jointly own a floating storage and regasification unit (FSRU), we provide regasification services for LNG with a low environmental impact. The demand for imported LNG in Pakistan is expected to grow steadily and the FSRU project delivers a key energy infrastructure project of high national importance. FSRU BW Integrity February 2018 Acquisition of Additional Equity in the Collahuasi Copper Mine in Chile Mitsui has owned concessions in the Collahuasi Copper Mine since 1996. With its high-grade and cost competitiveness, the mine is an excellent asset with the potential to further enhancement of its business value through future production expansions. World demand is expected to increase steadily over the mediumto long-term future, in line with infrastructure investment in emerging countries. Through the acquisition of additional equity in the Collahuasi Copper Collahuasi Copper Mine Mine, we contribute to the stable supply of resources going forward. Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases & Quality of Life  April 2017 Execution of Long-term Power Purchase Agreement for New Solar Photovoltaic Project in Jordan Facing an increase in electricity demand due to steady economic growth, the Government of Jordan has decided to promote renewable energy to enhance generation capacity. We will continue to contribute to the stable supply of  growing electricity demand and clean energy development in Jordan by  participating in this project. Solar panels scheduled to be purchased ©JA Solar Holdings 050 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 April 2017 Participation in Russian Pharmaceutical Company JSC R-Pharm In pharmaceutical areas, we have focused in particular on the alleviation of qualitative and quantitative gaps in emerging countries through the expansion of business operations centering on support for new drug development, manufacturing, and sales. Through the investment in JSC R-Pharm, we will contribute to the development of the Russian and CIS pharmaceutical market, where demand for pharmaceuticals is shifting from low-cost generics to new drugs with high added value following the rise in per capita income. JSC R-Pharm Protection of the Global Environment  April 2017 Participation in Land-based Trout Farming Business in Japan Global population growth and the improvement of living standards are reflected in the continuing rise in demand for marine products. As a result, there is an expanding need for products from fish farming systems. Recognizing that areas suitable for sea aquaculture are limited, Mitsui aims to develop land-based aquaculture with an extremely low environmental impact in order to meet the farming industry’s growing demand for marine products in the future. Land-based trout farming system of  October 2017 FRD Japan Co. Participation in The Mobility House for Commercialization of German-based Energy Management Services with Electric Vehicles (EVs) Due to the spread throughout the market of electric vehicles, the electric power industry is faced with an increased burden on power grid systems. To address this issue, Mitsui has invested in The Mobility House AG, which is engaged in  the sale of charging systems for electric vehicles and in the development of stationary energy storage systems built with secondhand electric vehicle  Large energy storage system operated by  batteries. In addition, The Mobility House conducts demonstration projects  The Mobility House for services that connect parked electric vehicles to the power grid to adjust  the supply and demand of electricity. Through the investment in The Mobility House, we will take on the challenge of creating an innovative business model in which electric vehicle owners can obtain supplementary income by using their on-board battery to help stabilize electric power grids. December 2017 Strategic Alliance with Portuguese Electric Bus Manufacturer As a measure against atmospheric pollution and to protect the environment, the bus market is an area where electrification is anticipated to become widespread as large cities in Europe launch a policy to actively promote the electrification of buses. Under these circumstances, Mitsui has formed a strategic alliance with CaetanoBus, S.A. Through this alliance, Mitsui promotes the sales expansion of electric buses produced by CaetanoBus in Europe, Asia, and worldwide, and contributes to the realization of an environmentally friendly society. The CaetanoBus-developed electric bus  “e. City Gold” in operation in Portugal MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 051 CHAPTER 3 Our Business 052 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 054 Results by Operating Segment 056 Review of Segments 056 Iron & Steel Products Segment 058 Mineral & Metal Resources Segment 060 Machinery & Infrastructure Segment 062 Chemicals Segment 064 Energy Segment 066 Lifestyle Segment 068 Innovation & Corporate Development Segment 070 The Structure That Supports Mitsui MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 053 Results by Operating Segment （Year Ended March 31, 2018, IFRS） Iron & Mineral & Machinery & Chemicals Steel Products Metal Resources Infrastructure ¥ billion Ⓒ MODEC Business Unit Iron & Steel Products  Mineral & Metal Resources Infrastructure Projects  Basic Materials Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit Performance Materials  Integrated Transportation Business Unit Systems Business Unit I Nutrition & Agriculture  Integrated Transportation Business Unit Systems Business Unit II Core Operating Cash Flow 14.2 240.8 158.8 50.2 Net Investment Cash Flow (22.7) (2.5) (38.1) (35.4) Investment Cash Flow 15.2 67.6 128.9 0.6 (IN) Investment Cash Flow (37.9) (70.1) (167.0) (36.0) (OUT) Free Cash Flow*1 (8.5) 238.3 120.8 14.7 Gross Profit 41.9 206.8 121.9 136.6 Equity in Earnings (Loss) 13.3 61.8 96.5 11.3 Dividend Income 2.5 16.4 3.4 2.3 Selling, General and (32.1) (44.4) (121.5) (96.6) Administrative Expenses Other (0.9) 17.0 (10.7) (19.4) Profit (Loss) for the Year  Attributable to Owners  24.7 257.6 89.6 34.2 of the Parent Assets 654.7 2,092.9 2,255.7 1,186.3 Non-current Assets 341.8 1,530.7 1,543.9 503.6 Property, Plant and 10.9 381.7 199.4 201.5 Equipment Investments Accounted for Using the Equity 217.8 431.7 880.2 117.4 Method Other Investments 101.8 542.9 119.1 103.1 Other Non-current 11.3 174.4 345.2 81.6 Assets*2 Number of Employees 349 291 851 676 (Non-consolidated) Number of Employees 1,873 599 15,613 5,107 (Consolidated) Composition by Operating Segment Innovation & Corporate Innovation & Corporate Development Development 1% Innovation & Corporate 2% Lifestyle Iron & Steel Products Development Iron & Steel Products Iron & Steel Products 2% Lifestyle 1% 6% 5% 6% Mineral & 10% Mineral & Mineral & Metal Resources Energy Metal Resources Metal Resources Lifestyle Energy 18% 26% 10% 26% 37% 27% Core Equity in Chemicals Operating Gross Profit Earnings Cash Flow Energy 5% (Loss) Chemicals 12% 8% Machinery & Infrastructure Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals 17 % Machinery & Infrastructure 16% 24% 41% 054 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Others / Innovation & Corporate Energy Lifestyle Adjustments and Development Eliminations Company Total Ⓒ Sakhalin Energy Energy Business Unit I Food Business Unit IT & Communication  Energy Business Unit II Food & Retail Management Business Unit Business Unit Corporate Development Healthcare & Service  Business Unit Business Unit Consumer Business Unit 175.3 7.1 3.1 17.0 666.5 (62.6) (69.1) (3.3) (22.8) (256.6) 34.6 38.4 15.2 4.2 304.8 (97.3) (107.5) (18.6) (27.1) (561.4) 112.7 (62.0) (0.2) (5.8) 409.9 96.8 139.5 45.1 2.1 790.7 24.5 22.8 5.0 (0.5) 234.9 51.9 4.3 2.7 1.3 84.8 (42.1) (153.0) (50.8) (31.1) (571.7) (82.5) (39.9) (6.6) 22.9 (120.2) 48.6 (26.3) (4.6) (5.3) 418.5 1,917.7 1,901.8 622.7 674.9 11,306.7 1,396.9 1,128.1 409.6 225.9 7,080.5 628.4 170.0 36.4 101.6 1,729.9 254.3 452.9 151.4 (2.6) 2,503.0 387.7 291.3 201.1 78.0 1,825.0 126.5 213.9 20.7 48.9 1,022.6 403 936 439 1,914 5,859 803 11,195 3,575 3,539 42,304 Note: The horizontal and vertical totals may not match as a result of differences that occurred due to the rounding of figures. *1. “Free cash flow” is calculated from core operating cash flow and differs from free cash flow calculated using conventional accounting methods. *2. “Other non-current assets” includes non-current receivables, investment property, intangible assets, and deferred tax assets. Innovation & Corporate Innovation & Corporate Development Iron & Steel Products Development Iron & Steel Products 6% 6% 6% 5% Mineral & Mineral & Metal Resources Lifestyle Metal Resources Lifestyle 22% 18% 20% 17% Non- Assets current Assets Energy Energy Machinery & Infrastructure 20% 18% Machinery & 21% Infrastructure Note: The pie chart for Profit for the Year is not Chemicals 11 % Chemicals 7 % 23% shown as some segments recorded a deficit. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 055 Review of Segments (IFRS) Iron & Steel Products Segment Iron & Steel Products Business Unit Iron & steel products Business Activities business / Gestamp To respond to diverse industrial Automoción S.A. (Spain) needs, we procure, supply, sell, and invest in processing and functional trading businesses of iron and steel products, both in Japan and in various overseas regions. Mitsui’s Competitive Advantages ・ Comprehensive strengths that leverage the extensive customer base and partnerships possessed by our 16 Headquarter Business Units in Japan and overseas ・ Diversified business portfolio with value chains around the world that cover everything from upstream to downstream operations Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer  of Iron & Steel Products Business Unit Shinichi Hori Business Environment Business • Promotion of electric vehicles following the transition to a low-carbon society, diversification and increased  opportunities efficiency of energy consumption, and the trend in renewable energy use • Trend in logistics innovation and a shift toward smart factories as a result of digital transformation Business  • Industrial reorganization and changes to distribution channel against the backdrop of steel overproduction in China (competitive) risks • Impact of trade friction on the supply and demand of products stemming from measures by the U.S. to apply additional tariffs Basic Strategies • Create businesses through synergies between steel trading business and business investments • Provide high-value-added services including component manufacturing and repair and maintenance • Facilitate collaborations between existing businesses, assets with comprehensive strengths, and business partners; further pursue new  business creation centered on industrial businesses Individual Strategies & Progress Area Our Approach Automotive • We are providing support for business expansion in order to contribute to value improvement for Gestamp Automoción S.A. (GA). We are also promoting the establishment of new businesses and peripheral trading businesses for GA, with a focus on the core field of mobility. • We are working to acquire materials and components businesses in response to structural changes in the industry brought about by the shift to electric vehicles. Infrastructure • We are establishing a steel supply structure through the electric furnace business in order to respond to the global demand for infrastructure. • We are developing steel processing and trading businesses on a local basis in response to trends relating to local  production for local consumption of construction steel. Energy • We are improving the quality of our portfolio in the energy domain through the sale of Champions Cinco Pipe &  Supply LLC. • We are pursuing highly functional trading in the oil and gas field and stepping up our efforts in the renewable energy field centered on GRI Renewable Industries, S.L. and GEG Holdings Limited. Steel trading • We are creating steel trading businesses that leverage the respective strengths of Mitsui & Co. Steel Ltd., MM & KENZAI Corporation, and Nippon Steel & Sumikin Bussan Corporation. 056 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Vision Promote electric vehicles and seek to reduce the weight of vehicle frames Contribute to the supply Automotive domain Promote electric furnace of renewable energy and recycling businesses Protecting the Energy domain global environment and Infrastructure domain contributing to the creation of a sustainable society Finance Logistics Strengthening solutions through the use of multi-materials and the promotion Marketing Risk management of digital transformation Business management Multi-materials Digital transformation Major Subsidiaries & Associated Companies Ownership Annual Earnings (¥ billion) Company Name Businesses Interest (%) 16/3 17/3 18/3 Mitsui & Co. Steel Ltd. Sales, export, import of steel products 100.0 3.7 3.7 6.1 (Consolidated) Gestamp companies Manufacture of automotive components Var. 1.4 0.6 3.9 Game Changer Holdings Inc. Investment in steel processing company 100.0 2.4 3.6 6.7 Cash Flow Profit for the Year* Total Assets ¥ billion ¥ billion ¥ billion 15 32 750 600 0 24 450 ‒15 16 300 ‒30 8 150 ‒45 0 0 16 17 18 19 (Forecast) 16 17 18 19 (Forecast) 16 17 18 Years ended/ending March 31 Years ended/ending March 31 As of March 31 Core operating cash flow * Profit for the year attributable to owners  Current assets Non-current assets Investment cash flow (Net) of the parent Free cash flow MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 057 Review of Segments (IFRS) Mineral & Metal Resources Segment Mineral & Metal Resources Business Unit Coal and infrastructure Business Activities businesses / Moatize Through business development, coal mine and Nacala investment and trading of ferrous and infrastructure project nonferrous metals and resources, etc., (Mozambique) we work to develop integrated value chains which deliver a stable supply of resources and materials essential to industrial society. We also take part  in resource recycling, developing industrial solutions that address environmental issues. Mitsui’s Competitive Advantages ・ Profit base supported by the three pillars of cost competitiveness, production volume, and ore reserves ・ Business opportunities born out  of functions, trust, network, and distribution channels we have cultivated in various industries Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer  of Mineral & Metal Resources Business Unit Shinichiro Omachi Business Environment Business opportunities • Increased need for high-quality resources following rapid changes in environmental policies primarily in China • Heightened importance to secure a stable supply of raw materials for secondary batteries in light of the  widespread use of electric vehicles Business (competitive) • Changes in the government policies of each country brought about by the transition to a low-carbon society risks • Impact of technological innovation and other factors on the supply and demand of commodities Basic Strategies Secure competitive mineral and metal resources and contribute to their stable supply • Establish a robust profit base that steadily captures upside potential Create trading and investment businesses to fulfill the needs of our customers and partners • Expand businesses in the mineral and metal resources value chain from raw material supply to recycling Promote businesses that contribute to sustainable economic growth while preserving the global environment • Contribute to the nation building of resource-supplying countries and the development of the global economy, and reduce environmental impact through increased efficiency Individual Strategies & Progress Area Our Approach Iron ore • We are increasing production at Vale Carajas S11D and BHP Jimblebar, working to develop BHP South Flank, and automating operations in Western Australia. Through these and other means, we are promoting the further reinforcement of a profit base supported by the three pillars of cost competitiveness, production volume, and ore reserves. Coal • In Mozambique, we aim to establish a profit base for the Moatize coal mine and the Nacala infrastructure project.  In Australia, we are strengthening the structure of existing businesses through such means as the cost reduction of  coking coal. Also, we are moving forward with efforts to enhance our portfolio by adding highly competitive assets. Furthermore, for thermal coal, we refrain from accumulating new assets while existing assets are under thorough review for divestiture possibilities. Copper and others • We are enhancing the quality of existing businesses through operational improvements at Caserones and Anglo American Sur. We are also promoting efforts in growth areas by working to establish a value chain for raw materials used in secondary batteries. 058 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Chart of Individual Strategies Iron ore Coal Copper Nickel Vale Robe River (Australia) Rio Tinto Mt. Newman / Yandi / Goldsworthy / Jimblebar (Australia) South Walker Creek /  BHP Poitrel (Australia) Kestrel (Australia) Anglo American Mitsui Moatize / Nacala (Mozambique) Moranbah North /  Capcoal / Dawson (Australia) Glencore Collahuasi (Chile) Codelco Anglo American Sur (Chile) Caserones (Chile) Pan Pacific Copper Coral Bay / Taganito (Philippines) Sumitomo Metal Mining Hyuga Smelting (Japan) Major Subsidiaries & Associated Companies Ownership Annual Earnings (¥ billion) Company Name Businesses Interest (%) 16/3 17/3 18/3 (Consolidated) Iron ore mining  Mining and sales of Australian iron ore Var. 74.7 102.9 110.4 operations in Australia (Consolidated) Coal operations in Mining and sale of coal in Australia Var. (26.4) 34.3 46.3 Australia (Consolidated) Coal and rail & port Investment in coal and rail & port infrastructure 100.0 — (1.5) 2.6 infrastructure business in Mozambique business in Mozambique Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. Investment in the Collahuasi copper mine in Chile 91.9 1.4 3.3 6.3 Oriente Copper Netherlands B.V. Investment in the Chile-based copper company 100.0 (99.7) (8.6) 2.6 Inversiones Mineras Acrux SpA Mitsui Bussan Copper Investment & Co., Investment in the Caserones copper mine  100.0 (52.1) (8.9) (22.6) Ltd. in Chile Cash Flow Profit for the Year* Total Assets ¥ billion ¥ billion ¥ billion 240 300 2,400 180 200 1,800 120 100 60 1,200 0 0 600 ‒100 ‒60 ‒120 ‒200 0 16 17 18 19 (Forecast) 16 17 18 19 (Forecast) 16 17 18 Years ended/ending March 31 Years ended/ending March 31 As of March 31 Core operating cash flow * Profit for the year attributable to owners  Current assets Non-current assets Investment cash flow (Net) of the parent Free cash flow MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 059 Review of Segments (IFRS) Machinery & Infrastructure Segment Infrastructure Projects Business Unit Integrated Transportation Systems Business Unit II Integrated Transportation Systems Business Unit I Offshore energy / FPSO Business Activities (Floating, Production, We contribute to the development of Storage, and Offloading countries and the creation of better system) (Brazil) lives through the long-term, reliable supply of indispensable social infrastructure such as power, gas, water, railways and logistics infrastructure. While strengthening contact points with end users including consumers, we provide sales, financing, lease, transportation and logistics, and investment in various areas, including Ⓒ MODEC large-scale plants, marine resource development facilities, ships, aerospace, railways, motor vehicles, and mining/ construction/industrial machinery. Mitsui’s Competitive Advantages ・ Extensive customer base and collaboration with prestigious partners Managing Officer, Executive Managing Officer, Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer  Chief Operating Officer  Chief Operating Officer  ・ Existing infrastructure assets  of Infrastructure Projects of Integrated Transportation of Integrated Transportation supported by stable demand Business Unit Systems Business Unit I Systems Business Unit II ・ Transition to high-quality assets Yoshio Kometani Shingo Sato Takeshi Setozaki through increased productivity Business Environment Business opportunities • Shift to a low-carbon society in response to climate change • Accelerating changes of industrial structure following technological innovation and digital transformation • Expansion of the mobility market • Movement from ownership to usership (leasing, rentals, sharing) Business (competitive) risks • Strengthening of environmental regulations • Entry of competitors from other industries Basic Strategies Thoroughly reinforce a sustainable profit base • Reduce costs and improve management efficiency through the introduction of AI and IoT; steadily complete assets under construction; and expand business through bolt-on investments Implement strategic lifecycle management • Recycle assets at the appropriate time and constantly improve portfolio quality by capitalizing on opportunities Enter new business domains • Take on challenges in the new growth area of mobility as well as challenges in new infrastructure businesses Individual Strategies & Progress Area Our Approach Next-generation electric power • We are stepping up the pace of initiatives geared toward distributed power, energy management services, and renewable energy. Automotive and construction • We are making advancements in upstream businesses, such as electric vehicles, storage batteries, and equipment engineering, as well as downstream businesses, such as services and leasing. Ships, aerospace, and rail • We are bolstering our lease, trading, and maintenance services, while also working to improve the quality of our portfolio to contribute to the shift toward a low-carbon society. 060 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Competitiveness Electric power Automotive •T otal power generating capacity of New business platforms in the mobility approximately 9.3GW field by leveraging our customer base • Project operatorship • Well-balanced power generation portfolio in terms of region and fuel Graph 1, 2 Construction equipment Leveraging of comprehensive strengths Offshore energy in the construction/mining equipment, •R  obust structure for collaboration  machine tool, and agricultural equipment 160 affiliated companies with MODEC Inc. businesses • Abundant project achievements for Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. — Petrobras Ships Ⓒ MODEC • Stable profits from 18 FPSO/FSO •L  everaging of comprehensive sales/ purchasing and owner functions Gas distribution • Diverse range of transportation and •S  trategic partnership with Petrobras sales solutions in the LNG business • Nearly 50% share of Brazil’s gas distribution volume Aerospace •P  roviding solutions for aircraft/engine leasing, and freighter conversion Renewable Africa through various functions energy 7％ 16% • Promoting involvement in aviation/ Middle Americas 34％ space industries East Graph 1 Gas 26％ Graph 2 Rail Coal Fuel Region 62% Providing solutions through a wide 22% range of function in the infrastructure construction, rolling stock leasing, operAsia and Australia atorship, and train station businesses 32％ Major Subsidiaries & Associated Companies Ownership Annual Earnings (¥ billion) Company Name Businesses Interest (%) 16/3 17/3 18/3 (Consolidated) IPP businesses Investment in power generation businesses Var. (41.5) 8.6 46.4 (Consolidated) FPSO/FSO leasing businesses FPSO/FSO leasing Var. 7.6 7.8 9.1 (Consolidated) Gas related businesses Gas distribution businesses in Brazil and Mexico Var. 3.0 8.9 7.7 Penske Automotive Group, Inc. Automotive retailer 15.7 6.7 6.3 11.1 (Consolidated) Truck leasing and rental Truck leasing, rental, and logistics businesses 100.0 2.0 2.2 4.3 businesses (Consolidated) Rolling stock leasing Freight car and locomotive leasing Var. 4.7 3.3 4.5 businesses VLI S.A. Integrated Freight Transportation 20.0 3.1 2.2 2.3 Cash Flow Profit for the Year* Total Assets ¥ billion ¥ billion ¥ billion 160 100 2,500 120 80 2,000 80 60 1,500 40 40 1,000 0 20 500 ‒40 ‒80 0 0 16 17 18 19 (Forecast) 16 17 18 19 (Forecast) 16 17 18 Years ended/ending March 31 Years ended/ending March 31 As of March 31 Core operating cash flow * Profit for the year attributable to owners  Current assets Non-current assets Investment cash flow (Net) of the parent Free cash flow MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 061 Review of Segments (IFRS) Chemicals Segment Basic Materials Business Unit Nutrition & Agriculture Business Unit Performance Materials Business Unit Trading / Mitsui’s  Business Activities sulphur carrier Our chemicals business encompasses trade  Sulphur Guardian and investment in a range of industries, from upstream and midstream chemicals such as basic chemicals and fertilizer and inorganic resources, to downstream chemicals which meet diverse market needs, including functional materials, electronics materials, fertilizers, agrochemicals, feed additives, flavorings, and specialty chemicals. We are also pursuing new initiatives in food science, tank terminals and carbon fiber. Mitsui’s Competitive Advantages ・ Handling of products across a broad range of domains and a robust client base around the globe ・ Business creation through trading that  fully leverages our network and project management ・ High level of investment efficiency by actively Managing Officer, Managing Officer, Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer  Chief Operating Officer  driving business initiatives of Basic Materials of Performance Materials of Nutrition & Agriculture  Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit Sayu Ueno Takeo Kato Kohei Takata Business Environment Business opportunities • Rise in potential businesses where industries intersect following the emergence of increasingly more complex industrial structures • Need for diversification and high performance of chemicals and materials arising from heightened environmental awareness • Need for increased food production due to increasing global populations, and need for high added value  resulting from a rising middle class and a sharper awareness of health Business (competitive) • Deterioration of customer base and the risk of existing business models becoming obsolete due to changes in  risks industrial structures Basic Strategies, Our Approach & Progress Basic Strategies Our Approach & Progress Execute bolt-on We are promoting plans to expand methionine production and specialty businesses with Novus International Inc. investments We are also reinforcing the profit bases of tank terminal businesses in the U.S. and Europe as well as methanol businesses in the Middle East and the U.S., etc. Reinforce trading By combining our regional expertise, which is deeply connected to local business partners and customers, extensive capabilities product expertise, and Mitsui’s functional expertise, we are providing added value to customers and realizing steady business expansion. Engage in new growth We are accelerating initiatives in the domains of performance materials, mobility, IoT, nutrition, and agriculture. opportunities Please see “Establishing Selected New Growth Areas” on pages 046 and 047. ITC Tank Capacity Trading-related Gross Profit Unit: thousand m3 Unit: ¥ billion 2,786 100 87 1,406 80 08/3 19/3 17/3 18/3 20/3 (Forecast) (Forecast) 062 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Engage in New Growth Opportunities IoT Performance materials • Invest in CONNECTEC JAPAN Corporation • Reach agreement to invest in coating material businesses in Europe • Conduct F/S of manufacturing and sale of SOFTANOL® products  Nutrition & Agriculture in Thailand • Complete takeover bid of  Coating SODA AROMATIC Co., Ltd. and Mobility materials subsequently delist the company • Develop high-performance materials Electronics • Invest in evidence-based  Food & and chemical compounding businesses nutraceutical business Agriculture • Promote initiatives toward lighter • Invest in seed business and automobiles Advanced Agricultural expand agricultural inputs  materials inputs distribution business Dental × Digital Healthcare Mobility Performance Human Basic petromaterials nutrition chemicals Consumer Nutrition products Specialty Animal chemicals Tank Methanol / nutrition terminal Ammonia Performance Materials Business Unit Basic Materials Business Unit Nutrition & Agriculture Business Unit Global Network Overseas locations Consolidated global workforce Broad range of product areas 79 countries Approx. 5,000 and customer base Major Subsidiaries & Associated Companies Ownership Annual Earnings (¥ billion) Company Name Businesses Interest (%) 16/3 17/3 18/3 Novus International, Inc. Manufacture and sales of feed additives 80.0 20.9 8.7 0.5 Intercontinental Terminals Company LLC Chemical tank leasing 100.0 5.5 4.8 13.3 MMTX Inc. Investment in methanol producing business 100.0 (2.8) 1.7 2.9 in the U.S. and sale of products MITSUI & CO. PLASTICS LTD. Sales and marketing of plastics and chemicals 100.0 2.8 3.2 3.8 (Consolidated) Mitsui AgriScience International Investments in crop protection businesses in 100.0 1.5 1.6 1.7 Europe and the Americas Cash Flow Profit for the Year* Total Assets ¥ billion ¥ billion ¥ billion 70 50 1,200 40 35 900 30 0 600 20 ‒35 300 10 ‒70 0 0 16 17 18 19 (Forecast) 16 17 18 19 (Forecast) 16 17 18 Years ended/ending March 31 Years ended/ending March 31 As of March 31 Core operating cash flow * Profit for the year attributable to owners  Current assets Non-current assets Investment cash flow (Net) of the parent Free cash flow MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 063 Review of Segments (IFRS) Energy Segment Energy Business Unit I Energy Business Unit II LNG business / Business Activities Sakhalin II LNG project Through upstream development, (Russia) logistics and trading of energy resources such as oil, natural gas/LNG, coal and uranium, we contribute to the stable supply of energy vital to society. In addition, as part of efforts to achieve a low-carbon society, we are actively involved in environmental and renewable energy businesses. Mitsui’s Competitive Advantages ⒸSakhalin Energy ・ Highly competitive, high-quality asset portfolio (growing production volume, reserves, and reinforced LNG production capacity) ・ Quality business opportunities born out of our long-cultivated logistics functions, network, and trust Managing Officer, Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer  Chief Operating Officer  of Energy Business Unit I of Energy Business Unit II Masaharu Okubo Hirotatsu Fujiwara Business Environment Business opportunities • Expansion of LNG and gas businesses that have a relatively low environmental impact • Emergence of opportunities to undertake initiatives in areas related to renewable energy and new energy Business (competitive) • Unexpected long-term stagnation of oil and gas prices risks • Adverse impact on supply and demand stemming from changes to environmental policies in each country due to the shift to a low-carbon society Basic Strategies, Our Approach & Progress Basic Strategies Our Approach Establish a competitive • We are strengthening the competitiveness of existing assets, acquiring new high-quality assets, and promoting the upstream asset expansion of our LNG production capacity (we are also continuously reviewing our cost competitiveness and portfolio carefully selecting new projects for investment). • We are expanding businesses for gas that has relatively low greenhouse gas emissions. Demand for gas is  expected to increase over the long term. • As crude oil demand is expected to plateau between 2030 and 2040 under some scenarios, we are managing the upstream crude oil business bearing in mind cost competitiveness and timeframes. Increase profit in In addition to supplying our customers with energy, we are pursuing a variety of other efforts to develop value midstream and chains. These include promoting trading, and marketing activities that capture opportunities from environmental downstream busichanges such as the shale gas revolution and changes in government policies; acquiring high-quality assets  nesses by leveraging and expanding businesses in the midstream and downstream, including LNG vessels; and developing power Mitsui‘s functions generation and other related businesses. Expand renewable It is expected that the demand from society for non-fossil fuels and renewable energy will grow and that the energy and new reduced cost of these types of fuel and energy will encourage their widespread use going forward. Under such energy businesses circumstances, we are stepping up our efforts toward the biomass power generation project in Tomakomai  and Shimokawacho in Hokkaido, our efforts in domestic and international geothermal business, and the next-­ generation energy businesses such as hydrogen. Furthermore, we have invested in the U.S.-based LanzaTech Inc., which uses microorganisms to develop gas fermentation technology. Through this investment, we are taking steps to convert greenhouse gases into energy sources and chemical products. 064 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Asset Portfolio That Will Contribute to Future Profits ● Oil Gas Sakhalin Ⅱ LNG Third Train Expansion of an additional  Kaikias Tempa Rossa liquefaction train through bolt-on Development of an oil field that  Development of the largest investment that leverages existing is cost competitive and leverages discovered onshore oil fields facilities such as pipelines existing facilities. Production in Western Europe commenced in May 2018 Cameron LNG Browse Steady supply of LNG Project that leverages the existing from the U.S. to the equipment of the NWS project  global market and aims to commercialize highly competitive gas fields Greater Enfield Development of previously  discovered oil fields that leverages existing production facilities Mozambique LNG Waitsia Project with high cost competitiveness Development of one of the largest and an enormous amount of proved  onshore gas fields in Australia that is gas reserves in which Mitsui has been cost competitive, located near involved since the exploration phase demand and existing facilities Major Subsidiaries & Associated Companies Ownership Annual Earnings (¥ billion) Company Name Businesses Interest (%) 16/3 17/3 18/3 Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas 74.3 9.9 6.7 11.5 Mitsui E&P Middle East B.V. Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas 89.7 (15.4) 2.5 3.5 in Middle East Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas 100.0 (5.6) 1.7 3.9 Limited in Oceania Mitsui & Co. Energy Trading International trading of petroleum products and crude oil 100.0 3.6 1.2 (4.4) Singapore Pte. Ltd. Mitsui E&P Mozambique Area Development of LNG project in Mozambique 50.0 (6.6) (3.1) (3.4) 1 Limited Cash Flow Profit for the Year* Total Assets ¥ billion ¥ billion ¥ billion 240 100 2,400 75 120 1,800 50 0 1,200 25 ‒120 600 0 ‒240 ‒25 0 16 17 18 19 (Forecast) 16 17 18 19 (Forecast) 16 17 18 Years ended/ending March 31 Years ended/ending March 31 As of March 31 Core operating cash flow * Profit for the year attributable to owners  Current assets Non-current assets Investment cash flow (Net) of the parent Free cash flow MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 065 Review of Segments (IFRS) Lifestyle Segment Food Business Unit Healthcare & Service Business Unit Food & Retail Management Business Unit Consumer Business Unit Real estate business / Business Activities Elderly housing with Adapting to changes in consumption home-care services in and lifestyles while meeting consumthe U.S. ers’ diverse needs, we provide valueadded products and services, develop businesses and make investments in business fields such as food resources and food products, retail services, healthcare, outsourcing, fashion and textiles, forestry plantation resources, and real estate-related business. Mitsui’s Competitive Advantages ・ Global network for the origination and sale of grains and other products ・ Trust-based relationships with numerous prestigious partners in the value chains of Japan’s foodstuff and food product markets Managing Officer, Managing Officer, Managing Officer, Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer  Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer ・ Extensive contact points with of Food Business Unit of Food & Retail Management of Healthcare & Service of Consumer  consumers Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit Miki Yoshikawa Yoshiki Hirabayashi Koji Nagatomi Reiji Fujita Business Environment Business opportunities • Rising need for securing food resources and securing a sustainable food supply • Increased demand for securing the safety and reliability of food as well as for providing food with high added value due to the emergence of a growing middle class • Heightened need for healthcare services resulting from changes to the pattern of illnesses and the rapidly aging population • Structural changes to the consumer market brought about by technological innovation, higher standards of living, and various lifestyle changes Business (competitive) • Impact of a shift in production areas and other factors caused by import regulations on global logistics risks • Climate change, infectious diseases in livestock and marine products, etc. Individual Strategies & Progress Area Our Approach Food Business Unit • We have established our business domains as proteins, sugars, oils & fats, staple foods, grain and feed networks, and value materials. From a nutrient-oriented perspective, we are establishing a global business foundation in each of these domains. Food & Retail • We are refining our existing functions such as DCM and logistics by utilizing digital transformation, robotics, and Management Business other technologies. Unit • We are also working to enhance the value of existing assets and acquire new assets by equipping ourselves with functions to provide retail solutions. Healthcare & Service • We are strengthening existing business and acquiring operatorships in order to expand healthcare ecosystems that Business Unit combine the five elements of places, people, goods, services, and information. By doing so, we are strengthening healthcare-related assets. Please see “Establishing Selected New Growth Areas” on pages 046 and 047. Consumer Business • We are working continuously to strengthen the functions of existing businesses within the domains of real estate, Unit fashion, textiles, and day-to-day products. To capitalize on business opportunities, we are also promoting efforts to reposition ourselves to target customer segment that can provide larger profit pools. 066 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Examples of Initiatives Initiatives in global food transactions Share of domestic imports • Import, domestic sales, and multinational trade of food materials Fiscal year ended  Domestic  Company share of Position March 31, 2017 import volume domestic imports from major production areas such as the U.S., Brazil, Australia, Corn 15.0 million tons 18% Industry No. 1 Thailand, and Canada; utilization of hedge transactions through Soy beans 3.2 million tons 18% Industry No. 1 futures Flour for milling 5.0 million tons 21% Domestic No. 1 • L ivestock and marine products business that centers on domestic Rapeseed 2.3 million tons 35% Domestic No. 1 livestock and overseas marine product assets; coffee trading that Palm oil and other 0.9 million tons 30% Domestic No. 1 leverages economy of scale; and value ingredients businesses, vegetable oils such as teas, fruit juices, and dairy products, that leverage our Raw sugar 1.3 million tons 25% Domestic No. 1 quality control and product development capabilities Functions provided to 7-Eleven Initiatives in the food and retail management business Function Details • P roviding value to 7-Eleven Inc. by refining our functions for DCM Centralized management of raw materials (food  supply, procurement, logistics, etc. functions* materials for boxed lunches, packaging and containers) • Inventory management and recipe and traceability • A cquiring and understanding consumer data and insight,  management, etc., based on demand forecasts that equipping ourselves with retail solution functions aimed at the give consideration to such factors as order history and diversification of products, services, and sales floors, while campaigns at all 7-Eleven stores improving the quality of existing assets and acquiring new Logistics Store delivery functions •T  op share of delivery in all controlled temperature business assets ranges M  erchandising domains, such as prepared foods, commercial Wholesale Handling of processed foods and liquor foods, and food materials functions R  etail domains such as overseas franchising, “grocerants,”  * Demand chain management (DCM): System that comprehensively manages and home-delivered meals the chain with demand forecast information as the starting point Initiatives in the real estate business • A ccumulation of superior properties, primarily by operating companies, in Japan, the U.S., and Asia • V alue enhancement at the U.S.-based MBK Real Estate LLC, which entered into the business of elderly housing with home-care services in 1990 through improved occupancy rates; entry into the logistics facilities development business following increased e-commerce demand in the U.S. Major Subsidiaries & Associated Companies Ownership Annual Earnings (¥ billion) Company Name Businesses Interest (%) 16/3 17/3 18/3 Multigrain Trading AG Origination and merchandising of agricultural products 100.0 (30.2) (1.2) (47.7) Mitsui Sugar Co., Ltd. Manufacture of refined sugar 32.2 2.0 5.1 3.3 WILSEY FOODS, INC. Investments in edible oil products company 90.0 5.1 3.5 3.4 IHH Healthcare Berhad* Healthcare related business 18.0 4.1 17.3 1.6 AIM SERVICES CO., LTD. Contract food services 50.0 1.6 1.9 2.3 Mitsui & Co. Real Estate Ltd. Real estate sales, leasing, management and consulting 100.0 8.5 2.4 2.8 * IHH Healthcare Berhad became a direct investment through a share transfer from MBK Healthcare Partners Ltd. on January 25, 2018. Cash Flow Profit for the Year* Total Assets ¥ billion ¥ billion ¥ billion 60 30 2,000 20 30 1,600 10 0 1,200 0 ‒30 800 ‒10 ‒60 400 ‒20 ‒90 ‒30 0 16 17 18 19 (Forecast) 16 17 18 19 (Forecast) 16 17 18 Years ended/ending March 31 Years ended/ending March 31 As of March 31 Core operating cash flow * Profit for the year attributable to owners  Current assets Non-current assets Investment cash flow (Net) of the parent Free cash flow MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 067 Review of Segments (IFRS) Innovation & Corporate Development Segment IT & Communication Business Unit Corporate Development Business Unit Owner and operator  Business Activities of real assets in North Through our ICT, finance and logistics America / CIM Group business, we work on a diverse range of projects aimed at developing innovative business and expanding our business field. At the same time, we promote efforts to strengthen our earnings base by exploring strategic projects that lead to new business areas, and providing specialized functions on a global basis. Mitsui’s Competitive Advantages ・ Network with prominent business partners in Japan and overseas and established business models that leverage our customer base ・ Development and fostering of human resources that oversee business management, investment, Managing Officer, Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer  Chief Operating Officer  and digital transformation of IT & Communication of Corporate Development  Business Unit Business Unit Masaki Saito Shinichi Kikuchihara Business Environment Business opportunities • Growing value of data assets due to the evolution of AI, robotics, and IoT; shift of power toward consumers • Global expansion of real estate asset management businesses • Diversification of consumer needs; changes and expansion in the logistics industry due to the heightened awareness of labor shortages and the working environment Business (competitive) • Uncertainty of technological innovations, new services, and business models risks • Impact of decrease in money easing initiatives and interest rate trends in Europe and the Americas on the real estate asset management business Basic Strategies, Our Approach & Progress Basic Strategies Our Approach & Progress Bolster profit base of To bolster the profit base of major domestic affiliated companies, such as MITSUI KNOWLEDGE INDUSTRY CO., LTD., domestic affiliated QVC JAPAN INC., and Relia, Inc., we are enhancing our business promotion capabilities by increasing employee companies in the  capabilities and sharpening our management strengths. ICT domain Provide specialized, We are working to strengthen the wide range of services we offer to both institutional and individual investors. high-value-added These include alternative asset management services that provide Mitsui-owned real estate assets, insurance-linked services and actively securities, and other products; highly sophisticated consumer goods logistics services that are extremely cost drive initiatives competitive; and corporate value improvement services where we invest in other companies to help improve their management. Support efforts to • We provide support for establishing structures to enhance human resources so that they can contribute to  improve corporate achieving companywide digital transformation. value companywide • We offer assistance to large-scale M&A projects of other headquarter business units as well as support and consulting services for existing business turnaround and management improvement. • For investments in next-generation business models, we carefully select new domains to take on challenges and pursue those challenges with a focus on bolt-on investments that leverage Company strengths. 068 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Major Businesses MITSUI KNOWLEDGE INDUSTRY CO., LTD. (MKI) CIM Group (Owner and Operator of Real Assets MKI’s main business domains are the establishment of in North America) corporate systems and networks and the provision of  In 2017, Mitsui invested approximately ¥50 billion in CIM cloud services. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the Group (CIM) and funds operated by CIM. CIM’s unique  company acquired a large number of high-quality projects strategy utilizes its in-house expertise to create value in  from its existing customer base, thereby realizing increases real estate and infrastructure assets, benefiting communiin sales and profits. With its Digital Trans­formation Center ties. As defined by CIM, it has $28.6 billion in assets owned acting as the core, MKI is contributing to the digital  and operated. Mitsui contributes to CIM’s business diversifitransformation of the entire Mitsui Group. cation and expansion of partner and co-investor base, by providing access to Japanese institutional investors. World Hi-Vision Channel, Inc. Since 2007, World Hi-Vision Channel, Inc. has been  Mitsui & Co. Global Logistics, Ltd. (MGL) operating “BS12TwellV,” a 24/7 free-to-air BS channel.  MGL has operated a logistics center operation business  The company has been gradually improving its level of and a real estate leasing business, and added an iron and recognition and steadily increasing its profits. steel machinery and equipment transportation business through a business merger with Mitsui’s other logistics service QVC JAPAN INC. (QVC Japan) subsidiary, which has strengthened its sales capabilities.  QVC Japan is a television shopping company in Japan  The company possesses 20 offices in seven major cities that operates under the U.S.-based Qurate Retail Group. across Japan and a group network that spans 150 cities in  While reinforcing its customer base with a high percentage 35 countries around the world. In addition, the company of repeat sales, QVC Japan has been achieving a solid  operates a warehouse that covers 700,000 m2 (roughly the business performance year after year. The company aims to  size of 15 Tokyo Domes), which is the largest of its kind in further expand profits through Japan. Due primarily to the steady operations of its logistics various measures, including 4K center and acquisition of new projects, MGL achieved an broadcasts that are slated to increase in profits in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. begin in December 2018. ⒸQVC JAPAN, INC. Major Subsidiaries & Associated Companies Ownership Annual Earnings (¥ billion) Company Name Businesses Interest (%) 16/3 17/3 18/3 Asia Pacific Mobile Pte. Ltd. Investment in high-speed mobile service  100.0 (2.2) (2.6) (5.0) business in Indonesia QVC JAPAN INC. TV shopping using a 24-hour dedicated channel 40.0 4.2 4.4 5.2 MITSUI KNOWLEDGE INDUSTRY CO., LTD. Planning, development and sales of informa100.0 0.6 1.3 2.1 tion and communication systems JA Mitsui Leasing, Ltd. Leasing and financing business 31.4 4.1 3.3 4.0 Mitsui & Co. Global Logistics, Ltd. Domestic warehousing transportation and 100.0 1.4 1.9 2.3 customs clearance, and real estate leasing, globally integrated transportation services Mitsui & Co. Asset Management Holdings LTD. Real estate asset management 100.0 0.0 1.7 2.0 Cash Flow Profit for the Year* Total Assets ¥ billion ¥ billion ¥ billion 15 15 600 0 10 450 ‒15 5 300 ‒30 0 150 ‒45 ‒5 0 16 17 18 19 (Forecast) 16 17 18 19 (Forecast) 16 17 18 Years ended/ending March 31 Years ended/ending March 31 As of March 31 Core operating cash flow * Profit for the year attributable to owners  Current assets Non-current assets Investment cash flow (Net) of the parent Free cash flow MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 069 The Structure That Supports Mitsui Organization Chart (As of April 1, 2018) General Meeting of Shareholders Audit & Supervisory Board Members Audit & Supervisory Board Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Member Div. President and Chief Executive Officer Corporate Management Committee Internal Auditing Div. Headquarter Business Units Secretariat Iron & Steel Products Business Unit Human Resources & General Affairs Div. Mineral & Metal Resources Business Unit Legal Div. Infrastructure Projects Business Unit Corporate Logistics Development Div. Integrated Transportation Systems Business Unit I New Head Office Building Development Dept. Integrated Transportation Systems Business Unit II Corporate Planning & Strategy Div. Basic Materials Business Unit Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute Performance Materials Business Unit Investment Administrative Div. Nutrition & Agriculture Business Unit Information Technology Promotion Div. Energy Business Unit I Regional Business Promotion Div. Energy Business Unit II Corporate Communications Div. Food Business Unit Environmental • Social Contribution Div. Food & Retail Management Business Unit CFO Planning & Administrative Div. Healthcare & Service Business Unit Global Controller Div. Consumer Business Unit Finance Div. IT & Communication Business Unit Risk Management Div. Corporate Development Business Unit Investor Relations Div. Business Supporting Unit Planning & Administrative Div. (Metals) Regional Business Units Planning & Administrative Div. (Machinery & Infrastructure) Americas Business Unit Planning & Administrative Div. (Chemicals) EMEA Business Unit Planning & Administrative Div. (Energy) Asia Pacific Business Unit Planning & Administrative Div. (Food & Services) Planning & Administrative Div. (Consumer & Healthcare) Planning & Administrative Div. (Innovation & Corporate Development) Financial Management & Advisory Div. I Financial Management & Advisory Div. II Financial Management & Advisory Div. III Financial Management & Advisory Div. IV Total Number of Overseas Offices: 125 Overseas Trading Subsidiaries • Head Offices : 34 Total Number of Offices in Japan : 12 • Others : 59 • Head Office : 1 Overseas Offices • Offices : 6 • Branches : 2 • Branches : 5 • Others : 30  (66 countries and regions) 070 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Product and Regional Expertise Mitsui has a unique operational organization that is built  Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific—and upon the two axes of product and regional expertise. Under have put into place a trilateral structure that provides indepenthis organization, we engage in its business activities while dence to each region. Acting as a cornerstone for our regional leveraging the respective strengths provided by these two  strategies, each Overseas Regional Business Unit is entrusted axes and pursuing collaboration between them. with the business operations in their respective area of responOne strength provided by our product expertise is our  sibility. While collaborating with our Headquarter Business 16 Headquarter Business Units. Each Headquarter Business  Units, the Overseas Regional Business Units manage a diverse Unit formulates comprehensive strategies for each product it  array of businesses together with affiliated companies that is responsible for, and these strategies integrate our domestic operate under their jurisdiction. Furthermore, the Overseas and overseas operations. Guided by such strategies, our HeadRegional Business Units function as expert organizations that quarter Business Units promote business activities around the have thorough knowledge of information pertaining to their globe. Furthermore, we are working to deepen the horizontal respective area of responsibility, and this knowledge is leverconnections between each unit in order to leverage our aged to form close relationships with prominent local compacomprehensive strengths. By doing so, we are promoting nies. In these ways, the Overseas Regional Business Units groupwide businesses through collaborative initiatives  provide the foundation for our global strategies. between each Headquarter Business Unit. By combining the product strategies of the 16 Headquarter One strength provided by our regional expertise is our three Business Units and the regional strategies of the three Overseas Overseas Regional Business Units. We have divided the overseas Regional Business Units, which are implemented under a tri­- markets on which we focus into three regions—the Americas; lateral structure, we are able to realize an organic global network. Iron & Steel Products Business Unit Mineral & Metal Resources Business Unit Infrastructure Projects Business Unit Integrated Transportation Systems Business Unit I Integrated Transportation Systems Business Unit II Basic Materials Business Unit Americas Business Unit Asia Paciﬁc Business Unit EMEA Business Unit Performance Materials Business Unit Nutrition & Agriculture Business Unit President & Chief Executive Oﬃcer Energy Business Unit I Energy Business Unit II Food Business Unit Food & Retail Management Business Unit Iron & Steel Products Healthcare & Service Business Unit Mineral & Metal Resources Machinery & Infrastructure Consumer Business Unit Chemicals IT & Communication Business Unit Energy Corporate Development Business Unit Lifestyle Corporate Staﬀ Unit Innovation & Corporate Development * China, Taiwan, South Korea, and CIS are regions under the direct jurisdiction of the Head Office. * The Headquarter Business Units and the Overseas Regional Business Units have thus far been organized into product segments and regional segments. However, from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, these units are organized under seven product segments in consideration of decision making pertaining to management resource allocation as well as the evaluation process for business performance. Chief Operating Officers of the Overseas Regional Business Units Executive Managing Officer, Senior Executive Managing Officer, Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Operating Officer  Chief Operating Officer of EMEA (Europe, Chief Operating Officer  of Americas Business Unit the Middle East and Africa) Business Unit of Asia Pacific Business Unit Katsurao Yoshimori Yasuyuki Fujitani Taku Morimoto MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 071 CHAPTER 4 Corporate Governance 072 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 074 External Directors Panel Discussion 078 Mitsui’s Corporate Governance 086 Execution of Business Activities and Internal Controls 090 Board of Directors and Independent Directors 092 Full-time and Independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members 093 Executive Officers MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 073 Mitsui & Co. Investor Day 2018 June 12, 2018 External Directors Panel Discussion External Director: Ms. Izumi Kobayashi External Director: Mr. Samuel Walsh Facilitator: Mr. Leo Lewis (Financial Times) Izumi Kobayashi Samuel Walsh External Director External Director Profile Profile 1981/4 J oined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries, Ltd. 1972/2 Joined General Motors Holden’s Limited (currently Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation) 1987/6 Joined Nissan Motor Australia 1985/6 Joined Merrill Lynch Futures Japan Inc. 1991/9 Joined Rio Tinto Limited 2001/12 President, Merrill Lynch Japan Securities Co., Ltd. 2013/1 Chief Executive Officer, Rio Tinto Limited 2008/11 E  xecutive Vice President, Multilateral Investment 2017/2  hairman, The Accenture Global Mining C Guarantee Agency, World Bank Group Executive Council (current position) 2014/6  xternal Director, Mitsui & Co., Ltd.  E 2017/6 E  xternal Director, Mitsui & Co., Ltd.  (current position) (current position) 074 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 for me at the Board meetings, and so rapidly, and it’s very important that Facilitator: How do you understand the Chairman Iijima mentioned that all of Mitsui has a sense of urgency that it is principal role and responsibilities, and the Board’s materials would also be in responding when necessary to the targets of being an external director  English. So that helps me to be a very changes in the environment. And I at the Company? active participant on the Board. But I think that Mitsui is doing exactly that. think coming in as a former CEO and  a member of two boards, that of Rio Kobayashi: While I think that, of course, Tinto and of Seven West Media, the Facilitator: How are you measuring, in each independent director has their largest media company in Australia, has your own mind, the success of the own aim on how to contribute to taught me that the board members, as Board meetings at the Company and Mitsui, I believe that the value of Kobayashi-san said, play a different role. on the basis of those measurements, independent directors lies in their We’re there to represent shareholders. what progress are you looking for? ability to convey the views of the We’re there to ensure that appropriate various stakeholders to management decision making is carried out—for and reflect these views in the decisionexample, in terms of cash allocations Walsh: I think it’s the ability of the making process. I think that in any between investments and returns to independent directors to speak their corporation, the internal discussions shareholders. These are the sorts of mind and for that to be accepted and tend to be based on “internal” common priorities that today’s shareholders are acknowledged by the chairman. The sense, instead of “entire” common addressing. Growth, environmental chair is looking for consensus. Obvisense, which sometimes is different performance, innovation, cyber secuously, if there was a majority decision, from an outside perspective. So as an rity, and so on. All of these issues are there are far more executive directors independent director, I try to bring a very important, and we need to look  than non-executive directors. Chairman different view to the discussions and at all such projects and report on them Iijima is looking for consensus in the the decision-making process. Each in light of today’s priorities. views, and he strongly considers the director comes from a different backPersonally, I think governance is very views of the non-executive directors. ground and has a different profession, strong at the Company. Remember, we The process is very healthy. The day so it is important to be able to leverage have five independent directors, but we before a Board meeting, we have a those different experiences in order to also have the Audit & Supervisory pre-Board briefing. And that enables us contribute to better decision making Board. Together, we’re a very noisy to inquire deeply into the issues. It also and management oversight. group and we are truly able to express enables us to raise the critical questions Since the introduction of the  our views, which may be strongly that we are likely to ask at the Board corporate governance code, I have supportive or perhaps opposing meetings and also give management a seen more open discussion on the depending on the issue—and I think view as to whether they support it or Board as well as independent Board that’s a very healthy process. Also, I’ve not. To me, it’s a very healthy process members having a bigger voice in the got to say that bringing me onto the because it gives management the time decision-making process. In fact, I have Board was a big step by Mitsui and I to draw a breath and to understand  even seen decisions made by internal think that I play a very active role. the type of questioning or the type  management changed as a result of of issues that will be raised at the  the influence of the independent Board Board meetings the next day. The  members. Also, the advisory bodies to Facilitator: How have you used your Board meetings move very quickly,  the Board, including the Nomination global experiences to the advantage of so it’s important to have the scene set  Committee and Remuneration  the Board? in advance. Committee, have benefited from great change. For example, the Nomination Kobayashi: After Mr. Walsh joined  Committee is not only engaged in the Walsh: You know, certainly, I can offer the Board, I think that the dynamics of nomination of senior management  what I’ve learned from my experiences the discussions have further improved. but is also involved in developing the dealing with a number of issues in a The internal common sense that I future of senior management. whole range of countries, particularly mentioned earlier is not only within  with resource projects, but also in terms the Company but also within Japanese Walsh: Let me just grab some reference of understanding the dynamics, the society, as its standards sometimes here in terms of my coming on the risks, and the areas of focus required of differ from what the global standards Board as the only non-Japanese speaker. a global company. Today, the world is a are. Mr. Walsh always shares his global Simultaneous translation is provided very dynamic place. It’s changing ever perspective, conveying how the global MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 075 External Directors Panel Discussion market sees a particular trend, which forward. Strategy, compliance, govercan permeate the overall atmosphere gives us both a fresh outlook on the nance, monitoring—these are the types of the Board? world and very important input into of roles that the Board plays and I think management’s decision making, the key role is actually ensuring that the because Mitsui is a global company strategy provides sustainable growth  Kobayashi: One of the collective and as such we have to be globally as you go forward. It’s important that thoughts on the Board is that the competitive. Mitsui has a very clear view of its business of a trading company is not long-term strategy but also that it easy for investors to understand. When enables employees and management we talk about global competitiveness, it Facilitator: When strategy comes up as to work in that direction. is easy to explain competitiveness in an issue for the Board to discuss, what terms of one specific product or induscan you do in those strategy discustry area. However, it is very difficult to sions to really make your views known Facilitator: Where do you see the compare a trading company with a and to have impact on the discussions? external director’s role in keeping an competitor in one specific field. So what eye on mistakes or risks? I expect of management is to make the global market understand the value of Kobayashi: I think that compared to the the trading company’s business model time when I joined the Board, the time Walsh: Accountability is an important and clearly communicate our story to spent on strategy has been increasing issue and it’s something that Mitsui is investors as well as the value and at the request of the independent strengthening before our eyes, but differences of the trading company’s directors. The issue, though, is not the more importantly, recognizing that business model compared with those actual time spent on the Board discussthere will be some mistakes along the of each industry’s specialized compaing strategy. What’s more important is line. And most importantly, to learn nies. So in this regard, I feel that manthat once we develop a strategy and from our mistakes. In the discussions agement has started to talk more about growth story, we have to then think that we have about impairment, yes, the storyline of Mitsui. The challenge about each investment and day-to-day we express disappointment that the now is to figure out how to link our management under that strategy and events have taken place, but we’re more financial results with our own story. I follow it closely. To put it simply, it is focused on what we’ve learned so that think that is one way in which the very easy to develop a good strategy to we can ensure that such a situation unique business model of a trading engage with investors, but what’s doesn’t happen again. But on the Board, company can illustrate the competitiveimportant is to follow through on that you tend to compartmentalize the ness in the global market, which entails strategy. So I think that the role of the business. And there are a lot of really being able to compete against different independent directors can be defined seriously good things happening. business models. as once we develop a strategy, we have Sometimes on the Board, though, you to ensure that every proposal is perthink, “All we’re talking about is impairfectly aligned with that strategy and ment.” But that’s not really true—there Facilitator: How honest, how trans­parent also determine what kind of value to are a lot of very good things happening. are the discussions on the weaknesses create based on that strategy. that every company must have? Walsh: By every nature in long-term Facilitator: What would you say are  business, strategy is important in terms your experiences in terms of being  Kobayashi: The weaknesses are in of setting our vision, setting our direcable to hold the Board accountable for various areas. Even though Mitsui is a tion, setting the scene for our 42,000 improvements in competitiveness and Japanese company, we have a big employees as we take the business also in regard to ways that your advice franchise all over the world. How we So I think we need to have a better mix of regional and Tokyo personnel even with regard to our Japanese business. Mobility within our organization will be the key to improving our global position. Izumi Kobayashi 076 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Together, we’re a very noisy group and we are truly able to express our views. I think that I play a very active role. Samuel Walsh leverage the diverse human resources set the scene; the Board’s role is to Kobayashi: I think the area where we outside of Japan to make Mitsui a truly identify the sort of challenges that the need to do more is how we can better global company is the area in which business is facing and ensuring that utilize our foreign regional personnel in Mitsui can further improve. Mitsui is responding to that. each field of global business. Our regional personnel contributes a lot.  Walsh: I think that probably the biggest But unfortunately, we don’t see much challenge that we have, along with Facilitator: Kobayashi-san mentioned influence from regional personnel at every company in the world, is the that there is a distinct difference bethe senior management level. So I think changing nature of the business envitween simply being global and having we need to have a better mix of regional ronment and the need to be responsive. a global mind-set. The question is, what and Tokyo personnel even with regard I think in Mitsui’s case, we do a very can you do to see that a global mindto our Japanese business. This will  good job in communicating, engaging, set is instilled, and where would you give voice to a greater majority of our and involving employees. Because, at say Mitsui is along that path? global workforce. For example, we can the end of the day, it’s the people that mobilize our talent in global locations are going to implement the strategy; to better serve areas around the world they need to be aware of how they as Walsh: I think the key issue is the people where help is needed. Mobility within individuals add value. Sometimes at Mitsui. Our people are one of the key our organization will be the key to people get tied up in “busy work,” in  strengths of the businesses and we must improving our global position. the number of e-mails they have, ensure that we make good use and take whatever the case may be. Without advantage of the skills and experience Walsh: I think that if you look at me as actually realizing how they physically that our 42,000 employees bring. Half of an example, the Company has gone add to the value of Mitsui and improve our workforce are Japanese and half are through a great deal to ensure that I’m its efficiency, every single employee is non-Japanese. And we must ensure that effective, to ensure that I’m adding at risk in terms of how they do their job we’ve got the balance right, that we’re value. And I hope in some small way and how they can improve on how they taking the most advantage of the skills that I’m providing a leadership role for do their job. And most importantly, how that our people bring. Reviewing our HR the foreign nationals in a situation Mitsui uses innovation and technology systems is right on our agenda. We need where they can see, well, that “There  to take leaps in terms of the efficiency to ensure that we are modern in the is a gaijin (foreign national) on the in what it does. approach that we are taking, particuBoard, that he is contributing, that he  larly when dealing with millennials. is opening the door for me.” I hope that’s how people see it. Facilitator: Do you feel that you’re flying too high above the day-to-day activities Facilitator: You’ve seen companies all to make a difference or do you think around the world. What is your take on Facilitator: So you wouldn’t say that that there is a difference you can make the Company’s progress in governance? you’ve reached the peak level of noise from your position? as of yet? Walsh: In my opinion, I think goverWalsh: Clearly, the Board needs to be nance is very strong. As I have said,  Walsh: Oh, no. I’m very noisy. up above looking at the overall busiI think the external directors’ oversight, ness rather than getting directly inplus the checks and balances that the Kobayashi: Yeah, I think that the intervolved in the management’s job to any Audit & Supervisory Board provides, nal Board members are having a very degree. But the Board’s role is there to works very effectively from where I sit. tough time because we are so noisy! MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 077 Mitsui’s Corporate Governance In terms of strengthening corporate governance, the Company worked to improve diversity among members of the Board of Directors. At the same time, an even greater number of discussions were held at Board of Directors’ meetings regarding Mitsui’s future direction and business strategies. In these ways, the Company has been moving forward with efforts to enhance the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. Corporate Governance Framework Organizational Format Number of Directors Number of Audit & Ratio of Female Directors / Company with Audit Supervisory Board Members Audit & Supervisory Board Members 14 5 15.8 & Supervisory Board % Ratio of Foreign Directors /  umber of Internal Audit & N Audit & Supervisory Board Members 10.5 Supervisory Board Members 2 Number of Internal Directors 9 N  umber of External Audit & Number of External Directors 5 Supervisory Board Members 3 % General Meeting of Shareholders Election / Dismissal Election / Dismissal Election / Dismissal 1 Governance Committee Reporting Auditing Advice Audit & Supervisory Board Independent Auditors Board of Directors 2 Nomination Committee Members / Audit & Supervisory Board Coordination 3 Remuneration Committee Appointment and dismissal; Placing important items Accounting Coordination surveillance of selection, on the agenda, reporting audits Auditing dismissal and conduct of duties on business execution Coordination Internal Auditing Division Framework for Execution of Business Advisory bodies 1 Governance Committee 2 Nomination Committee 3 Remuneration Committee Committee chair Chairman of the Board of Directors External Director External Director Chairman of the Board of Directors  Chairman of the Board of Directors President and Chief Executive Officer President and Chief Executive Officer President and Chief Executive Officer 2 Internal Directors Composition 1 Internal Director 2 External Directors 2 External Directors (including committee chair) 3 External Directors 1 External Audit & Supervisory Board 1 External Audit & Supervisory Board 1 External Audit & Supervisory Board Member Member Member To study the state and future vision of the To study the selection standards and To study the system and decision-­making Company’s corporate governance with processes to be applied in nominating process related to remuneration and the viewpoints of External Directors and Directors and Managing Officers,  bonuses for Directors and Managing Role External Audit & Supervisory Board establish succession planning for the Officers as well as to evaluate the  Members. President and Chief Executive Officer  remuneration proposals for Directors. and other top executives, and evaluate the proposals of Director nomination. The Governance Committee was held The Nomination Committee was held The Remuneration Committee was held three times in the year ended March 31, twice in the year ended March 31, 2018, three times in the year ended March 31, Results in the 2018 and carried out studying the  and carried out establishing the selection 2018 and carried out a review of the  fiscal year ended state and future vision of the Company’s  standards and process to be applied in remuneration system for Directors and March 31, 2018 corporate governance while taking  nominating Directors and Managing Managing Officers, and evaluated  into consideration the viewpoints of Officers and evaluating proposals of compensation proposals. External Officers. Director nomination. 078 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Term of  Diversity Governance Nomination Remuneration Name Position at the Company Office Committee* Committee* Committee* Female Foreigner Stipulated Representative Director,  Masami Iijima ◎ ○ Chairman of the Board of Directors Representative Director,  Tatsuo Yasunaga ○ ○ ○ President and Chief Executive Officer Representative Director,  Makoto Suzuki ○ Executive Vice President Representative Director,  Satoshi Tanaka ○ Executive Vice President Representative Director,  Shinsuke Fujii Executive Vice President Representative Director,  Nobuaki Kitamori Senior Executive Managing Officer Directors 1 year Representative Director,  Yukio Takebe Senior Executive Managing Officer Representative Director,  Takakazu Uchida ○ Executive Managing Officer Representative Director,  Kenichi Hori Executive Managing Officer Toshiro Muto Director (External) ○ ◎ Izumi Kobayashi Director (External) ◎ ○ ○ Jenifer Rogers Director (External) ○ ○ ○ Hirotaka Takeuchi Director (External) ○ Samuel Walsh Director (External) ○ ○ Joji Okada Full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Takashi Yamauchi Full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Haruka Matsuyama Audit & Supervisory Board Member (External) 4 years ○ ○ Board Members Hiroshi Ozu Audit & Supervisory Board Member (External) ○ Kimitaka Mori Audit & Supervisory Board Member (External) ○ * ◎ : Committee chair for the respective advisory committees History of the Governance System 1994 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Separation of Management Reduced the number of directors to a number that can participate in deliberations, introduced the Managing Officer System and Execution 1 2 External Directors 3 4 5 External Audit & 1 Supervisory Board Members* 3 Governance Committee Advisory Bodies to the Nomination Committee Board of Directors Remuneration Committee Corporate Governance and Internal Control Principles * The number of External Audit & Supervisory Board Members (number appointed / upper limit according to the Articles of Incorporation), was temporarily 4/7 and  is currently 3/5. Initiatives to Further Improve the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors Year to March 31, 2017 Year to March 31, 2018 Further plans to enhance governance • E nsured time to review agenda items • Increased diversity and improved skill set balance  1 C  onstantly examine the most appropriate structure • Improved the quality of materials provided to of Board members for the Board of Directors external directors to assist in decision making • Created more opportunities for discussion on 2 Continually assess the meeting agenda based on • Enhanced coordination between the external Mitsui’s long-term direction, including its corporate matters such as current companywide initiatives members as well as between the accounting strategies and medium-term management plan (themes) and market trends auditors and the Internal Auditing Division • Board materials improved to identify points that 3 Reevaluate deliberation method including  • Enhanced discussions regarding the direction  have been discussed up to the stage of referral to opportunities for free discussion of management the Board and include a list of key discussion points, 4 Revise the management of the advisory risks, and countermeasures committee MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 079 Mitsui’s Corporate Governance Basic View on Corporate Governance In structuring the corporate governance framework, the Company places emphasis on “improved transparency and accountability” and “the clarification of the division of roles between the oversight activities and the executive activities of management.” For  “improved transparency and accountability,” the Company ensures sound supervision and monitoring of management with the viewpoints of External Directors and External Audit & Supervisory Board Members. The Company has also established an internal control system for disclosure so that all executives and employees fulfill their accountability to stakeholders under the principle of fair disclosure. For “the clarification of the division of roles between the oversight activities and the executive activities of management,” the Company delegates execution of business to Managing Officers substantially while the Board of Directors retains a supervisory role over Managing Officers’ business activities. Chief Operating Officers of the 16 Headquarter Business Units and the 3 Overseas Regional Business Units serve concurrently as Managing Officers and engage in business operations for the consolidated Group in  a responsive and flexible manner. While increasing the effectiveness of supervisory functions by having Audit & Supervisory Board Members, the Company implements corporate governance by maintaining an Audit & Supervisory Board system because it believes that having internal Directors who are familiar with its business practices and operations is essential to the business of a general trading company. By adopting a Committee System in which External Directors and External Audit & Supervisory Board Members participate, the Company achieves highly effective corporate governance to secure “improved transparency and accountability” and “the clarification of the division of roles between the oversight activities and the executive activities of management.” Board of Directors The Board of Directors is the highest authority for execution of business and supervision, and in order to secure this function,  the Company has limited the number of Directors to the maximum to enable substantial discussions and gives priority to the  appointment of new External Directors in the case of increasing the number of board members in order to enhance the division  of roles between management oversight and execution. In addition, the Company has established the Governance Committee, the Nomination Committee, and the Remuneration Committee to serve as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors. These committees comprise mainly external members. At Board of Directors’ meetings, matters that are deliberated or reported on abide by the Company’s internal regulations. In addition to matters concerning fundamental policies related to management, important business execution and matters authorized by resolutions of the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Company passes resolutions on matters determined by law and company statute. We also receive reports regarding matters determined by law and the status of important business operations. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors are held once every month in principle and extraordinary meetings are held from time to time at any time if deemed necessary. Audit & Supervisory Board The Audit & Supervisory Board Members supervise the Directors’ execution of duties as an independent institution with the mandate of the shareholders. For this purpose, Audit & Supervisory Board Members carry out multifaceted, effective audit activities such as attending important internal meetings, verifying reports and investigating our business, and take necessary measures in a timely manner. Audit & Supervisory Board meetings are held periodically and precede meetings of the Board of Directors. Moreover, additional meetings are held on an as-needed basis. The Audit & Supervisory Board Members attend meetings of the Board of Directors to monitor how the proceedings of the meetings are managed and the content of the decisions made. These members also actively express their opinions. Auditing by the Audit & Supervisory Board Members covers a variety of areas, among which are execution of duties by Directors, decision-making processes at the meetings of the Board of Directors and others, status of construction and operation of the internal control system, independence of the Independent Auditors, system of financial reporting, accounting policies and processing of financial information, audit of financial statements, reports from the Independent Auditors, and the system of disclosure. 080 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, the Company carried out questionnaires regarding the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. Based on the results of these questionnaires, the Board of Directors and its secretariat implemented the following initiatives in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, to further improve Board effectiveness. Recognition of issues based on evaluation Evaluations of questionnaire Initiatives results carried out on carried out on March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Composition of the During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the Company achieved A significant majority of the external Board of Directors improvements with respect to striking a balance in diversifying the members responding to the 2018 questioncomposition of its Board of Directors, having appointed Director Walsh, naire provided favorable assessment who has experience being the CEO of a global corporation, and Audit & concerning the composition of the Board of Supervisory Board Member Mori, who has expertise in accounting and Directors, and a majority of the respondents auditing. overall feel the situation has improved in comparison with the previous year. Discussion topics During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the Board of Directors A significant majority of the external engaged in deliberations regarding business plans for the fiscal year, members responding to the 2018 questiongiven the notion that more opportunities should be arranged for discussnaire provided favorable assessment ing Mitsui’s overall direction on matters such as corporate strategy and the concerning the matter of discussions medium-term management plan. The Board of Directors also engaged in regarding Mitsui’s overall direction  deliberations with respect to the new medium-term management plan, at meetings of the Board of Directors, and a subsequent to deliberations of the External Member Meetings. Moreover, majority of the respondents overall feel the at External Member Meetings, opportunities were arranged to discuss situation has improved in comparison with topics that included “matters of concern regarding the capital market and the previous year. the Company’s IR activities” and “Mitsui’s digital transformation.” Operation of the With respect to matters that are to be referred and reported to the Board A significant majority of the external Board meetings of Directors, beginning in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, materials members responding to the 2018 questionfor meetings of the Board of Directors now clearly state points that are to naire provided a favorable assessment be discussed up to the stage of referral and reporting to the Board of concerning the notion that there is greater Directors, including bodies such as the Council on Individual Proposals clarity with respect to points of internal and the Corporate Management Committee. The materials for meetings Company discussion, which have been  of the Board of Directors now contain content that is appropriate with the basis of discussions of the Board of respect to deliberating on such points, and tables listing major points of Directors, and a majority of the respondents discussion, risks, and countermeasures in that regard. overall feel the situation has improved in comparison with the previous year. Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors for the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2018 In light of the results of the questionnaires, the resolution was passed at a Board of Directors’ meeting held in March 2018 after discussions were held at an External Members Meeting and at meetings of the Governance Committee, which took place in February 2018. Further plans to Questionnaire Summary of evaluation results enhance governance Carried out in  ① Many commented that improvement has been achieved in addressing ① Composition:  January 2018 the three challenges stated last year with respect to (1) composition of the Make continuous effort to manage the 14 directors,  Board of Directors, (2) discussion topics, and (3) revamping meeting organizational structure according to 5 outside directors management. corporate governance policies in order  ② Meetings of the Board of Directors have been operating smoothly, to maintain Board effectiveness Each question had five grades underpinned by adequate support of the Board of Directors Secretariat in ② Considerations:  that could be assigned and areas such as preparing materials for meetings of the Board of Directors, Continually assess the meeting agenda room was available for yearproviding information, and scheduling. based on matters such as current on-year evaluations and ③ The Board of Directors has been securing sufficient time for deliberations companywide initiatives (themes)  comments. and engaging in constructive discussions and exchanges of opinion. and market trends ④ At meetings of the Board of Directors, reports are given on results of risk ③ Method of deliberation:  analysis from Companywide and multiple angles, based on which the Reevaluate deliberation method Board of Directors discusses and reviews such risks drawing on knowledge including opportunities for free furnished by respective Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. discussions With respect to carrying  ⑤ The respective Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, upon out the above evaluation ④ Advisory committees:  understanding the Board of Directors’ duty to carry out oversight and method, at a Governance Periodically report discussion content, auditing of management, have all been devoting sufficient time and effort Committee meeting held in increase frequency of meetings, revise in fulfilling their responsibilities as Directors or Audit & Supervisory Board November 2017, the decision the management of the advisory Members from an objective standpoint separate from business execution. was made, as the current committees format’s effectiveness was ⑥ The Company adequately ensures the availability of opportunities and recognized, to persist with funds for enabling Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members to the current self-evaluation acquire knowledge necessary to fulfill their roles and duties, and also on format involving the the whole the Company has ensured availability of frameworks for evaluation of effectiveness of collaboration involving external members, management, the Independent the Board of Directors for the Auditor, and the Internal Auditing Division. fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, upon having verified the adequacy of processes that encompass methods of evaluating the effectiveness Based on the details summarized above, the Company’s Board of of the Board of Directors Directors concludes that it has adequately maintained its effectiveness carried out by a third party. during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 081 Mitsui’s Corporate Governance Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Structure of Remuneration Incentive for medium and long term Stock option scheme as stock-based  Stock option compensation with stock price conditions (Upper limit of total amount paid: ¥500 million per year) Incentive for  Performance-related  short term Performance-related bonus based on  profit and core operating cash flow bonuses  For Directors (Upper limit of total amount paid: ¥700 million per year) Required to purchase the Company’s shares in an amount equivalent to at least 10% of his or Purchasing share For External Directors her fixed basic remuneration Fixed basic and Audit & Supervisory  remuneration Board Members (Upper limit of total amount paid: ¥1,000 million per year) (Upper limit of total amount paid: Fixed basic remuneration ¥240 million per year) Remuneration of Directors following day of such forfeiture, they are no longer able to Taking into consideration the result of the deliberation at the exercise their subscription rights to shares. Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by an External Director, the remuneration of Directors (excluding External • ‌Each Director (excluding External Directors) is required to Directors) is determined as the sum of fixed basic remunerapurchase the Company’s shares in an amount equivalent to at tion, performance-related bonuses based on important KPI set least 10% of his or her monthly remuneration but less than ¥1 by management and stock-based compensation stock options mil­lion through the Mitsui Executives’ Shareholding Association. with stock price conditions as medium and long-term incentive compensation and limited to within the amounts resolved at The remuneration for External Directors is limited to a fixed the General Meetings of Shareholders. Retirement compensaremuneration that does not include a performance-related tion is not paid to Directors. portion, and there is no obligation of share purchasing for the External Directors. • The performance-related bonuses paid to directors are calculated based on the following formula, which has been Remuneration of Audit & Supervisory Board Members deemed appropriate by the Remuneration Committee and Remuneration of the Audit & Supervisory Board Members is subsequently approved by the Board of Directors. determined through deliberation among the Audit & SuperviTotal payment amount = (consolidated profit for the year sory Board Members, the total of which should not exceed the [attributable to owners of the parent] × 50% × 0.1%) + (core amount determined at the General Meeting of Shareholders. operating cash flow × 50% × 0.1%) Audit & Supervisory Board Members receive only monthly fixed remuneration, which is not related to the performance of The upper limit for the total amount is set at ¥700 million and Mitsui. Retirement compensation is not paid to the Audit & individual payment amounts are proportionally distributed Supervisory Board Members. based on a point system determined by director position. In the event that consolidated profit for the year (attributable to Remuneration of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board owners of the parent) is negative, i.e., a loss, or if the core Members in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 operating cash flow is negative, i.e., a net cash outflow, the (¥ million) items are calculated as zero. Number of Basic Stock  Total Category of Position Recipients*1 Remuneration Bonus Option Remuneration*2 Directors • The stock option scheme is granted to directors in order to (Excluding External have them share the benefits and risks of stock price fluctuaDirectors) 11 733 542 129 1,405 Audit & Supervisory tions with the Company’s shareholders and to give them Board Members greater incentive to make contributions to improvements in (Excluding External Audit & Supervisory mediumand long-term business performance and corporate Board Members) 2 132 — — 132 value. Under the stock option scheme, subscription rights to External Directors shares, up to annual amounts of ¥500 million and 500,000 and External Audit & Supervisory Board shares, are assigned to all Directors. The period for the right to Members 10 151 — — 151 exercise subscription rights to shares is 27 years from the day Total 23 1,016 542 129 1,688 following the passage of three years from the allotment date. *1. The above includes Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members who The exercise price is set at ¥1. In the case eligible recipients retired from office in the fiscal year to March 2018. *2. In addition to the above amounts, a total of ¥559 million was paid to 119 lose their Director and/or Managing Officer, and/or Audit & retired Directors, and ¥62 million to 17 retired Audit & Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Member status, and 10 years pass from the Members, as pensions (representing payments determined prior to the abolition of those systems). 082 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 External Directors / External Audit & Supervisory Board Members Selection Criteria External Directors • The prospective person’s extensive business experience and knowledge are required to deliberate and knowledge of his or her  particular area of business should be used. • The Company puts great value on ensuring independence of External Directors from Mitsui in the pursuit of their management oversight functions. • With a view to overseeing business operations in a way that reflects the perspectives of our diverse stakeholders, Mitsui shall take into consideration the fields from which candidates originate, along with their gender. Reasons for Appointing Each External Director / Major Activities in the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2018 Attendance at  Meetings in FY2018 Independent Significant Concurrent Positions  Name Reasons for Appointment (Number of Meetings Director* (As of June 21, 2018) Attended / Total Number of Meetings) Toshiro 〇 Mr. Muto has deep insight into fiscal and monetary affairs, as well as in  (13/15) Chairman, Daiwa Institute  Muto economics in general, gained at the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of of Research Ltd. Japan. At the Board of Directors’ meetings, he uses his specialist knowledge  CEO (Chief Executive to speak out actively, making a significant contribution to deepening the Officer) and Director discussion. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, he served as the  General, the Tokyo committee chair of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Organising Committee  Governance Committee, contributing to the study, revision and so forth of of the Olympic and the remuneration system for Directors, which helped to further strengthen Paralympic Games Mitsui’s corporate governance. The Company has reappointed him as an External Director so that he may continue to advise and supervise its management. Izumi 〇 Ms. Kobayashi has advanced expertise in organizational management and (15/15) External Director,  Kobayashi risk management for generating innovation, which she has accumulated ANA HOLDINGS INC. through her experience working as the representative of private sector  Governor,  financial institutions and a multilateral development bank. She speaks  Japan Broadcasting out actively from diverse perspectives at the Board of Directors’ meetings, Corporation making a significant contribution to deepening the discussion. During the External Director, fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, Ms. Kobayashi served as a member of the Mizuho Financial Group, Remuneration Committee and exercised strong leadership as chair of the Inc. Nomination Committee in examining the composition of the Board of Directors, the selection process for Directors and Managing Officers, and related matters. In view of these points, the Company has reappointed her  as an External Director so that she may continue to advise and supervise its management. Jenifer 〇 Ms. Rogers has a global perspective and advanced expertise in risk  (15/15) General Counsel Asia,  Rogers management cultivated through her experience working for international Asurion Japan Holdings G.K. financial institutions and her experience in legal work as in-house counsel. She makes many useful comments concerning risk control at the Board of Directors’ meetings, making a significant contribution to enhancing the supervisory function of the Board of Directors. Since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, she has served as a member of the Governance Committee, actively stating her opinions on the building of a highly transparent  governance system. In view of these points, the Company has reappointed her as an External Director so that she may continue to advise and supervise its management. Hirotaka 〇 Mr. Takeuchi has deep insight related to management gained as an expert  (14/15) Professor Emeritus,  Takeuchi in international corporate strategy. At the Board of Directors’ meetings, he Hitotsubashi University makes thought-provoking proposals on Mitsui’s management strategies, Professor,  making a significant contribution to enhancing the supervisory function  Harvard Business School of the Board of Directors. Since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, he  External Director,  has served as a member of the Nomination Committee, helping to improve Daiwa Securities Group Inc. the transparency of the Company’s officers’ nominations. The Company has reappointed him as an External Director so that he may continue to advise External Director,  and supervise its management. BrightPath Biotherapeutics Co., Ltd. Samuel 〇 Mr. Walsh has global expertise and excellent management skills cultivated (11/11) ― Walsh through his long years working in upper management within the automo(Since his tive industry and as chief executive officer of an international mining and appointment in resources company. At the Board of Directors’ meetings, he makes proposals June 2017) and suggestions from a broad-minded standpoint based on his experience of managing a global company, and makes significant contributions to active discussions at the meetings of the Board of Directors, and to improving the effectiveness of said meetings. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, Mr. Walsh served as a member of the Governance Committee and actively provided his opinions on building of a highly transparent governance system. The Company has selected him as an External Director so that he may continue to advise and supervise its management. * An External Director who is unlikely to have conflicts of interest with general shareholders, as stipulated by the stock exchange MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 083 Mitsui’s Corporate Governance External Audit & Supervisory Board Members The External Audit & Supervisory Board Members shall be selected with the objective of further heightening the neutrality and independence of the auditing system, and, in particular, it is expected that the External Audit & Supervisory Board Members will give an objective voice to their auditing opinions from the standpoint of neutrality, building on such factors as independence. When selecting candidates for External Audit & Supervisory Board Members, the Audit & Supervisory Board shall confirm that no issues with independence arise by taking into consideration such factors as relations with the Company, management and important staff members. Reasons for Appointing Each External Audit & Supervisory Board Member / Major Activities in the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2018 Independent Attendance at Meetings Audit & in FY2018 (Number of Significant Concurrent Positions Name Supervisory Reasons for Appointment Meetings Attended / (As of June 21, 2018) Board Total Number of Member* Meetings) Haruka 〇 Ms. Matsuyama is appointed as an External Audit & Supervisory Meetings of Board Attorney at law Board Member in expectation of the expression of her objective of Directors External Director,  Matsuyama audit opinions from an independent and neutral standpoint, (15/15) T&D Holdings, Inc. with advanced insight into corporate governance and risk Meetings of Audit & External Director, Mitsubishi management cultivated through her many years of experience Supervisory Board UFJ Financial Group, Inc. in legal affairs as a judge and as an attorney at law. (21/21) External Director,  VITEC HOLDINGS CO., LTD. Hiroshi 〇 Mr. Ozu is appointed as an External Audit & Supervisory Board Meetings of Board Attorney at law Member in expectation of the expression of his objective audit of Directors External Audit & Supervisory Ozu opinions from an independent and neutral standpoint, from the (15/15) Board Member, TOYOTA many years of experience and perspective he has gained, mainly Meetings of Audit & MOTOR CORPORATION as a prosecutor. Supervisory Board External Audit & Supervisory (21/21) Board Member,  Shiseido Company, Limited Kimitaka 〇 Mr. Mori is appointed as an External Audit & Supervisory Board Meetings of Board Certified public accountant Member because the Company deems him capable of clearly of Directors External Director,  Mori expressing an opinion as External Audit & Supervisory Board (10/11) Japan Exchange Group, Inc. Member from a neutral and objective perspective based on his Meetings of Audit & External Audit & Supervisory advanced expertise in corporate accounting cultivated through Supervisory Board Board Member, East Japan his many years of experience as a certified public accountant. (15/16) Railway Company (Appointed in  External Director, Sumitomo June 2017) Life Insurance Company * An External Audit & Supervisory Board Member who is unlikely to have conflicts of interest with general shareholders, as stipulated by the stock exchange Criteria for Independence of External Officers (7) Person or the executing person of a corporation who (Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members) received the annual total of ¥10 million or more of donaExternal Directors or External Audit & Supervisory Board  tions or aid funds from the Company or its consolidated Members of the Company who do not fall under any of the subsidiary in the most recent fiscal year following items are to be judged to have independence. (8) Person who has fallen under any of (2) to (7) above in  the past three years (1) Person who is currently or was in the past 10 years an (9) Spouse or relative within the second degree of kinship executive director, executive officer, managing officer, (hereinafter referred to as “close relatives”) of the person manager, employee, administrative officer, etc. (hereinafwho is currently or has been recently the important  ter referred to as “executing person”) of the Company or its executing person of the Company or its consolidated consolidated subsidiaries subsidiary (including director who is not the executing (2) Person or the executing person of a corporation holding person in the case of External Audit & Supervisory  either directly or indirectly 10% or more of the total Board Member) number of the voting rights of the Company (10) Close relatives of the person who currently falls or has (3) Person whose major business partner is the Company or fallen recently under any of (2) to (7) above (excluding  its consolidated subsidiaries*1 or the executing person of  the one who is not important) the same *1. I f the relevant business partner received from the Company or its consolidated (4) Major business partner of the Company or its consolidated subsidiary the payment equivalent to 5% or more of its annual transaction volume (non-consolidated) in the most recent fiscal year or the relevant subsidiary*2 or the executing person of the same business partner obtained from the Company or its consolidated subsidiary (5) Independent auditor of the Company or its consolidated the money loans equivalent to 5% or more of its consolidated total assets in subsidiary or employee, etc. of the same the most recent fiscal year, the relevant business partner is deemed to be the person whose major business partner is the Company or its consolidated (6) Person providing professional services such as consultant, subsidiary. lawyer and certified public accountant who received from *2. If the Company or its consolidated subsidiary received from the relevant business partner the payment equivalent to 2% or more of Mitsui’s annual the Company monetary payment or other property  consolidated transaction volume in the most recent fiscal year or the relevant benefits exceeding ¥10 million in total other than officer business partner provided the Company or its consolidated subsidiary with the money loans equivalent to 2% or more of Mitsui’s consolidated total remuneration in the most recent fiscal year (referring to assets, the relevant business partner is deemed to be the major business the person belonging to the organization if the one who partner of the Company or its consolidated subsidiary. received the relevant property is an organization such as corporation and association) 084 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Support Systems External Members Meetings were held six times in the fiscal For External Directors, before regular and extraordinary meetyear ended March 31, 2018, where External Directors, External ings of the Board of Directors, materials on the proposals are Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Internal Directors,  provided and advance explanations are given. For External Full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members, in addition to the timely Auditors, and Managing Officers exchanged information and provision of corporate information by the Full-time Audit & opinions regarding matters such as the corporate management Supervisory Board Members and staff in the Audit & Supervipolicy, audits, and the operation of operating segments. sory Board Member Division, the essence of the meetings between Full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Members and  Cooperation among External Directors and External the Audit & Supervisory Board Member Division is provided Audit & Supervisory Board Members in Audits, periodically. When necessary, advance distribution of materials Internal Audits, Corporate Audits, and Independent and advance explanations are conducted regarding regular and Audits, as well as Their Relationship with Internal extraordinary meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board and of Control Departments the Board of Directors. The Company provides its External External Directors and External Audit & Supervisory Board Directors and External Audit & Supervisory Board Members with Members, through the Board of Directors and the Audit & specialized personal computers and distributes materials for Supervisory Board, mutually coordinate with internal audits, meetings of the Board of Directors in a timely manner via auditing by Audit & Supervisory Board Members and accounte-mail. In doing so, the Company ensures that the external ing audits, as well as supervise and audit the internal control members have sufficient time to review agenda items. At the system. Specifically, they periodically receive reports on the same time, the Company has set up a database for storing following at meetings of the Board of Directors and the Audit & information, such as meeting minutes and other materials Supervisory Board, respectively: results of the internal audits from past meetings of the Board of Directors, and the external and internal audit plans, results of auditing by the Audit & members can access this database using their specialized Supervisory Board and audit implementation plans, summary personal computers. of management letters by Independent Auditors, assessment results with regard to the internal control system in accordance External Members Meetings with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan, the The meeting composed of all External Directors and External operational status of compliance programs, and other matters Audit & Supervisory Board Members is held periodically, for the regarding the structure and management of internal controls. purpose of exchanging information and opinions regarding Furthermore, at External Members Meetings, External Directors, important matters in management among External Directors, Corporate Auditors, and Independent Auditors exchange or among External Directors and/or Internal Directors, Audit & opinions and information on auditing policy. Supervisory Board Members, and Managing Officers. The Policy on Training for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Upon assumption, opportunities are given to Directors and may fulfill their duties including the respective roles expected of Audit & Supervisory Board Members for gaining full understandDirectors or Audit & Supervisory Board Members, which are ing of the business, financial affairs, organization, etc., of Mitsui, mandated by the shareholders (fiduciary responsibility) and the Companies Act of Japan and related laws and regulations, each legal responsibility. Furthermore, opportunities are given corporate governance and internal control to ensure that they for keeping them up to date as necessary. Policy Related to Acquisition and Holding of Listed Shares When holding listed shares for any purposes other than purely holding such assets every year in light of mediumto long-term for investment returns, the Company holds such listed shares economic rationale and future outlook, and reports said only in the case where it is judged to be reasonable after strict significance to the Board of Directors. With respect to exercising and comprehensive examination of several factors, including voting rights for listed shares held by the Group, deliberation is the necessity for maintaining or strengthening relationships conducted on a case-by-case basis as to whether or not a with the investee, mediumto long-term economic rationale, proposal should be approved by comprehensively taking into and future outlook. With respect to the Group’s asset portfolio consideration any impact that the relevant proposal may have that includes listed shares, Mitsui reviews the significance of on corporate value of the investee. Independent Auditors The Company appoints certified public accountants belonging secure prompt financial closing and reliability, the auditing to Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC as Independent Auditors to work of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries is in carry out auditing under the Companies Act of Japan and the principle entrusted solely to Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, which Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan as well as belongs to the same network as Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC. auditing of consolidated financial statements in English. To MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 085 Execution of Business Activities and Internal Controls Ultimate responsibility for execution of business operations lies with the President and Chief Executive Officer. The President and Chief Executive Officer delegates authority to the Chief Operating Officers of the business units and regional business units, who, in turn, report to the President and Chief Executive Officer. The Corporate Management Committee is organized for deliberating the basic policies and important matters relating to the overall management. The Committee consists of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer (the committee chair), the Directors in charge of Corporate Staff Units, and Representative Directors or Managing Officers nominated by the President and Chief Executive Officer. The Corporate Management Committee is held weekly in principle. Matters referred to the Corporate Management Committee meeting are determined by the President and Chief Executive Officer, taking into consideration discussions among the Committee members. Mitsui aims to achieve the four objectives listed below in terms of internal controls. In addition, Mitsui views internal controls as a “framework for management to control and supervise its business execution organization” that comprises the six elements of control environment, risk assessment, control activities, information and communication, monitoring, and response to IT. 1 Improvement of effectiveness and efficiency of operations; 2 Ensuring compliance with generally accepted accounting principles and the reliability of financial reporting; 3 Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, along with management principles and in-house rules including various codes of conduct reflecting management principles (hereafter referred to as “laws, regulations and in-house rules”); and 4 Safeguarding of Company assets. The Board of Directors oversees the design of Mitsui’s internal controls and assumes the role and responsibility of monitoring internal control establishment, operation, and assessment. Based on the basic design of internal controls provided for by the Board of Directors, Mitsui’s management assumes the role and responsibility of maintaining, operating, and assessing internal controls. In addition, the Internal Auditing Division, which is under the direct control of the president, verifies the suitability and status of internal control design based on plans approved by Mitsui’s management and from an independent standpoint. The Company has established the following major committees pertaining to the execution of business and implementation of internal controls, and is taking measures to respond to a wide range of risks and forms of businesses, which continue to increase  and diversify. Internal Controls Committee Portfolio Management Committee Information Strategy Committee Sustainability Committee Diversity Promotion Committee Business Innovation Committee Crisis Management Headquarters 086 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Framework for Internal Controls and Execution of Business Activities Business Operating Organization Internal Auditing Division President and CEO (Inside / Outside of Japan) Crisis Management Headquarters Corporate Management Committee Compliance Committee Exercise necessary decision making in place of Deliberate upon basic policies and important Develop, maintain and improve the normal in-house decision mechanisms relating to matters for the execution of groupwide effectiveness of the compliance structure all conceivable matters requiring an extraordinary business operations response Internal Controls Committee*1 Disclosure Committee Chaired by the President and Chief Executive Develop principles and basic policy for Officer, establishes basic policy related to the statutory disclosure and timely disclointernal control system while developing, sure as well as the internal structure, and maintaining, and improving the effectiveness discuss and determine the materiality of the integrated management system and appropriateness of information to be disclosed Portfolio Management Committee*2 J-SOX Committee Establish corporate portfolio strategy as well as investment and loan plans, monitor our Develop, maintain and improve the corporate portfolios, and examine important effectiveness of the system for ensuring individual proposals the reliability of our consolidated financial reporting Information Strategy Committee*2 Plan companywide information strategy and determine and monitor essential policies concerning the establishment of a management platform and promotion of a structure for information strategy Environmental &  Societal Advisory Committee Sustainability Committee*1 Environmental Fund  Plan, design, and propose a management Deliberation Committee approach that focuses on sustainability with regard to Mitsui and society as a whole Diversity Promotion Committee*2 Make proposals regarding basic policy and the plan for diversity promotion, and formulate and implement targets set along with the plan Business Innovation Committee*1 Monitor and analyze new technology trends and potential business innovations, specify our priorities and focuses, and provide advice to the management as well as examine specific measures to support business units in implementing potential new business, aiming at the next generation *1. Sub-committees to the Corporate Management Committee *2. Advisory bodies to the Corporate Management Committee MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 087 Execution of Business Activities and Internal Controls Risk Management Risks arising from Mitsui’s business activities are monitored and Furthermore, organizations such as the Portfolio managed by chief operating officers of business units and Management Committee, the Internal Controls Committee,  regional business units within the authorization delegated to the Sustainability Committee, and the Crisis Management them from Mitsui’s management. Measures taken by each Headquarters establish and develop risk management strucbusiness unit to manage quantitative risks include setting tures on a companywide basis and handle significant risks. position limits and loss-cut limits and conducting monitoring Members of the corporate staff of each committee are responthrough divisions with relevant expertise. For the management sible for surveillance of Mitsui’s position regarding the risks of qualitative risks, the business units are obligated to observe they are in charge of overseeing, as well as the control of risks relevant internal regulations. When a business unit or regional within the prescribed range of their authority and the provision business unit takes on risks that are greater than the scope of of support to relevant directors and managing officers. authority granted to them, it is necessary to obtain approval of the Corporate Management Committee or a relevant representative director or senior managing officer, depending on the importance of the situation, in accordance with the standards of the internal approval system. Internal Controls over Financial Reporting The Company implements the internal controls framework as testing by an independent division concerning the effectivestipulated in the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of ness of accounting and financial closing controls, IT controls Japan. In addition to companywide discipline, Mitsui has been and business process level controls. conducting self-assessment by units subject to evaluation and Global Tax Management Policy The Company is committed to complying with all applicable global tax expenses. The Company does not adopt artificial laws, rules and regulations in meeting its tax compliance and arrangements or structures for the purpose of tax avoidance. reporting responsibilities, whilst simultaneously managing its Internal Controls Related to Information Systems and Information Security The Information Strategy Committee establishes important establishes rules for process of procurement, introduction and policies related to Global Group information strategy. Further, operation of information assets; code of conduct for the system the committee leads Mitsui’s efforts to build and operate inforsupervisory divisions regarding IT security; requirements for mation systems, develop internal rules required for information information risk management systems and the basics of  security, and strengthen the management of risks related to information management; and internal rules relating to the information, including the risk of information leakage. The handling of personal information required in the course of committee ensures the establishment of systems to control risk business operations as well as Cyber Security Countermeasures. associated with information assets appropriately. Specifically, it 088 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Compliance Mitsui has a strong belief that a sound reputation is the foundathird party providing hotline services. The Company made it tion of Mitsui’s business. At Mitsui, we define compliance as clear that a whistle-blower would not be subject to any recrimicomplying with corporate ethics and social norms in addition nation or detrimental treatment by the Company as a result of to laws, regulations, and internal rules of the Company. By whistle-blowing. Additionally, the Company makes sure that its word “compliance”. Mitsui requires its employees and officers to domestic affiliated companies are also able to use the whistleact in accordance with its corporate ethics, based on its manblowing avenues (external attorneys at law and a third party agement philosophy and social norms in addition to laws and providing hotline services). Mitsui’s overseas offices and overregulations as well as internal rules of the Company. To those seas affiliated companies also have whistle-blowing systems ends, we carry out corporate management with emphasis on that were put in place considering applicable local laws and compliance. With the Chief Compliance Officer as a chairperson regional characteristics. and including an external lawyer as an observer, the To maintain and improve its compliance structure, the Compliance Committee develops Mitsui’s compliance system Company consistently conducts activities to raise employee and maintains and enhances its effectiveness. awareness toward compliance and provides as many opportuThe Company has established the “Business Conduct nities as possible for employees to better themselves through Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co., Ltd.” and training and other means. In doing so, the Company shares has equivalent business guidelines in place for its subsidiaries. knowledge and important points of concern related to compliMitsui is striving to improve observance of these guidelines ance. Any cases of violation of compliance are handled strictly, through continuous monitoring and review. In addition, the including disciplinary actions in accordance with the Company has a total of eight whistle-blowing avenues in place, Employment Regulations of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. including those involving an external attorney at law and a Ensuring the Appropriateness of Operations within the Corporate Group The Company has set forth the “Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Corporate encourages the equity-accounted investees to develop and Governance and Internal Control Principles.” In light of other operate similar internal controls. In addition, from its officers laws and regulations, Mitsui requires its subsidiaries to develop and employees, the Company appoints supervising officers to and operate internal controls based on these principles and to each affiliated company and has them conduct management the extent reasonable. For its equity-accounted investees, based on the “Rules on Delegation of Authority for Supervising Mitsui coordinates with other equity participants and Officers of Affiliated Companies.” Internal Audits Based on the order or approval of the President and Chief on risk management, effectiveness of management and operaExecutive Officer, the Internal Auditing Division verifies the tions, compliance and appropriate financial reporting. In addistatus of development and management of internal controls, tion, the following audits are implemented as internal audits: evaluates the suitability and effectiveness of risk management, cross-organizational and cross-functional audits by target and and gives advice and suggestions for improvements. item and extraordinary examinations to get the whole picture During the regular audits that cover the Company, overseas of such events that caused or could cause irregular economic offices, overseas trading subsidiaries, and Japanese and overlosses or that jeopardized or could jeopardize the corporate seas affiliated companies, particularly subsidiaries, Internal trust, in order to identify the responsibility and recommend Auditors carry out independent and objective evaluations, measures to clarify causes and methods to prevent recurrence. pursuant to the rules on internal audits, etc., with an emphasis MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 089 Board of Directors and Independent Directors As of June 21, 2018 Shinsuke Fujii Directors 2 years / 19,589 shares Years as a Director / Number of Company shares held Representative Director, Executive Vice President Masami Iijima 10 years / 95,833 shares Representative Director, Chairman of the Board  1981 Joined Mitsui & Co., Ltd. of Directors 2018 R epresentative Director, Executive Vice President  (current position) Nobuaki Kitamori 1974 Joined Mitsui & Co., Ltd. 1 year / 23,733 shares 2015 Representative Director, Chairman of the Board of Directors  Representative Director, (current position) Senior Executive Managing Officer Chief Digital Officer (CDO) Tatsuo Yasunaga  3 years / 36,100 shares Representative Director, President and Chief Executive 1983 Joined Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Officer 2018 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer, CDO (current position) Yukio Takebe 1983 Joined Mitsui & Co., Ltd. New / 16,204 shares 2015 Representative Director, President and Chief Executive Officer  Representative Director, (current position) Senior Executive Managing Officer Makoto Suzuki 3 years / 57,931 shares Representative Director, Executive Vice President 1983 Joined Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) 2018 Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer  (current position) Takakazu Uchida 1981 Joined Mitsui & Co., Ltd. New / 19,475 shares 2017 Representative Director, Executive Vice President, CCO  Representative Director, (current position) Executive Managing Officer Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Satoshi Tanaka 1 year / 43,292 shares Representative Director, Executive Vice President 1983 Joined Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) 2018 Representative Director, Executive Managing Officer, CFO  (current position) Chief Information Officer (CIO) Chief Privacy Officer (CPO) Kenichi Hori 1981 Joined Mitsui & Co., Ltd. New / 11,729 shares 2017 Representative Director, Executive Vice President, CAO, CIO, CPO  Representative Director, (current position) Executive Managing Officer 1984 Joined Mitsui & Co., Ltd. 2018 Representative Director, Executive Managing Officer  (current position) 090 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Hirotaka Takeuchi Independent Directors 2 years / 0 shares Years as a Director / Number of Company shares held External Director Toshiro Muto 8 years / 12,928 shares External Director 1969 Joined McCann-Erickson Hakuhodo Co., Ltd.  (currently McCann Erikson Japan Inc.) 1976 Lecturer, Harvard Business School 1977 Associate Professor, Harvard Business School 1983 Associate Professor, Hitotsubashi University-Faculty of Commerce and Management 1987 Professor, Hitotsubashi University-Faculty of Commerce and 1966 Entered the Ministry of Finance Management 1999 Director-General of the Budget Bureau, Ministry of Finance 1998 Dean of The Graduate School of International Corporate Strategy, 2000 Administrative Vice Minister, Ministry of Finance Hitotsubashi University 2003 Special Advisor, Ministry of Finance 2010 Professor Emeritus, Hitotsubashi University (current position) Deputy Governor, Bank of Japan Professor, Harvard Business School (current position) 2008 Chairman, Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. (current position) 2016 External Director, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (current position) 2010 External Director, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (current position) Samuel Walsh 1 year / 2,700 shares External Director Izumi Kobayashi 4 years / 2,820 shares External Director 1972 Joined General Motors Holden’s Limited 1987 Joined Nissan Motor Australia 1991 Joined Rio Tinto Limited 2013 Chief Executive Officer, Rio Tinto Limited 1981 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries, Ltd. (currently Mitsubishi 2016 Global President, The Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply Chemical Corporation) (current position) 1985 Joined Merrill Lynch Futures Japan Inc. 2017 Chairman, The Accenture Global Mining Executive Council  2001 President, Merrill Lynch Japan Securities Co., Ltd. (current position) 2002 External Director, Osaka Securities Exchange Co., Ltd. Chairman, Royal Flying Doctor Service (WA) (current position) 2008 Executive Vice President, Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, External Director, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (current position) World Bank Group 2014 External Director, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (current position) 2015 Vice Chairperson, Japan Association of Corporate Executives  (current position) Jenifer Rogers 3 years / 3,565 shares External Director 1989 Joined Haight Gardner Poor & Havens  (currently Holland & Knight LLP) 1990 Registered as Attorney at Law, admitted in New York 1991 Joined Industrial Bank of Japan Limited, New York Branch  (currently Mizuho Bank) 1994 Joined Merrill Lynch Japan Securities Co., Ltd. 2000 Merrill Lynch Europe Plc 2006 Bank of America Merrill Lynch (Hong Kong) 2012 General Counsel Asia, NEW Asurion Asia Pacific Japan LLC  (currently Asurion Japan Holdings G.K.) (current position) 2015 External Director, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (current position) MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 091 Full-time and Independent Audit & Supervisory  Board Members As of June 21, 2018 Audit & Supervisory Board Members Independent Audit & Supervisory Years as an Audit & Supervisory Board Member / Number of Company Board Members shares held Years as an Audit & Supervisory Board Member / Number of Company shares held Joji Okada 3 years / 44,371 shares Full-time Audit & Supervisory Haruka Matsuyama Board Member 4 years / 1,411 shares External Audit & Supervisory Board Member 1974 Joined Mitsui & Co., Ltd. 2015 Full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Member (current position) 1995 Appointed Assistant Judge at Tokyo District Court 2000 Registered as Attorney at Law. Joined Hibiya Park Law Offices 2002 Partner at Hibiya Park Law Offices (current position) 2014 External Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Mitsui & Co., Ltd.  (current position) Takashi Yamauchi 3 years / 60,511 shares Full-time Audit & Supervisory Hiroshi Ozu Board Member 3 years / 1,052 shares External Audit & Supervisory Board Member 1976 Joined Mitsui & Co., Ltd. 2015 Full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Member (current position) 1974 Appointed Public Prosecutor 2007 Vice Minister of Justice 2012 Attorney General 2014 Registered as Attorney at Law 2015 External Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (current position) Kimitaka Mori 1 year / 1,812 shares External Audit & Supervisory Board Member 1980 Joined Shinwa Accountants (currently KPMG AZSA LLC) 2000 Representative Partner 2004 Director of Financial Services 2006 Board Member 2011 Chairman, KPMG FS Japan 2013 Established Mori Certified Public Accountant Office Chairman and President, The Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants 2016 Senior Advisor, The Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (current position) 2017 External Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Mitsui & Co., Ltd.  (current position) 092 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Executive Officers As of June 21, 2018 Executive Officers * Corporate officer also serving as a director. President Tatsuo Yasunaga* President and Chief Executive Officer; Chairman, Internal Controls Committee; Head of Crisis Management Headquarters Executive Vice Presidents Makoto Suzuki* Satoshi Tanaka* Shinsuke Fujii* Chief Compliance Officer; Corporate Staff Unit Chief Administrative Officer; Chief Information Officer; Healthcare & Service Business Unit; Consumer (Secretariat, Audit & Supervisory Board Member Chief Privacy Officer; Corporate Staff Unit (Corporate Business Unit; Corporate Development Business Unit; Division, Human Resources & General Affairs Division, Planning & Strategy Division, Investment Chairman, Portfolio Management Committee Legal Division, Corporate Logistics Division, New Administrative Division, Information Technology Head Office Building Development Department); Promotion Division, Regional Business Promotion Business Continuity Management; New Headquarter Division, Corporate Communications Division, Project; Chairman, Compliance Committee; Environmental·Social Contribution Division, Business Chairman, Diversity Promotion Committee;  Supporting Unit (Each Planning & Administrative Head of Emergency Management Headquarter Division)), Domestic Offices and Branches;  HQ Overseen Region; Business Innovation & Incubation; Environmental Matters; Chairman, Information Strategy Committee; Chairman, Sustainability Committee; Chairman, Business Innovation Committee Senior Executive Managing Officers Nobuaki Kitamori* Yukio Takebe* Yasuyuki Fujitani Chief Digital Officer, Infrastructure Projects Business Iron & Steel Products Business Unit; Mineral & Metal Chief Operating Officer of EMEA (Europe, the Middle Unit; Integrated Transportation Systems Business Unit I; Resources Business Unit; Energy Business Unit I; East and Africa) Business Unit Integrated Transportation Systems Business Unit II; IT & Energy Business Unit II Communication Business Unit; Digital Transformation Motoo Ono Taku Morimoto Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in China Chief Operating Officer of Asia Pacific Business Unit Executive Managing Officers Takakazu Uchida* Noboru Katsu Shingo Sato Chief Financial Officer; Corporate Staff Unit (CFO Chairman & CEO of Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. Chief Operating Officer of Integrated Transportation Planning & Administrative Division, Global Controller Systems Business Unit I Division, Finance Division, Risk Management Division, Hiromichi Yagi Investor Relations Division, Business Supporting Unit Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in South West Katsurao Yoshimori (Financial Management & Advisory Division I, II, III, IV)); Asia; Managing Director, Mitsui & Co., India Pvt. Ltd. Chief Operating Officer of Americas Business Unit Chairman, Disclosure Committee; Chairman, J-SOX Committee Shinichiro Omachi Osamu Toriumi Chief Operating Officer of Mineral & Metal Resources General Manager of Internal Auditing Division Kenichi Hori* Business Unit Basic Materials Business Unit; Performance Materials Shinji Tsuchiya Business Unit; Nutrition & Agriculture Business Unit; Hiroyuki Tsurugi President of Mitsui & Co. (Brasil) S.A. Food Business Unit; Food & Retail Management Representative Director, President & CEO of Mitsui Oil Business Unit Exploration Co., Ltd. Shinsuke Kitagawa General Manager of Osaka Office Hirotatsu Fujiwara Chief Operating Officer of Energy Business Unit II Managing Officers Shin Hatori Kohei Takata Yuki Kodera General Manager of Nagoya Office Chief Operating Officer of Nutrition & Agriculture General Manager of Planning & Administrative Business Unit Division (Metals) Hiroshi Meguro Deputy Chief Administrative Officer (HQ Overseen Sayu Ueno Hirohiko Miyata Region) Chief Operating Officer of Basic Materials Business General Manager of Investment Administrative Unit Division Kimiro Shiotani General Manager of Global Controller Division Yumi Yamaguchi Yoshiki Hirabayashi President & CEO, Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Chief Operating Officer of Food & Retail Management Miki Yoshikawa Institute Business Unit Chief Operating Officer of Food Business Unit Masaki Saito Yoshiaki Takemasu Yoshio Kometani Chief Operating Officer of IT & Communication General Manager of Human Resources & General Chief Operating Officer of Infrastructure Projects Business Unit Affairs Division Business Unit Takeshi Setozaki Yoshimitsu Gushiken Toshiaki Maruoka Chief Operating Officer of Integrated Transportation General Manager of Finance Division Chief Representative of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. in CIS; Systems Business Unit II General Director of Mitsui & Co. Moscow LLC Shinichi Hori Reiji Fujita Chief Operating Officer of Iron & Steel Products Motoaki Uno Chief Operating Officer of Consumer Business Unit; Business Unit President & CEO of P.T. Mitsui Indonesia General Manager of New Head Office Building Development Department Shinichi Kikuchihara Koji Nagatomi Chief Operating Officer of Corporate Development Chief Operating Officer of Healthcare & Service Takeo Kato Business Unit Business Unit Chief Operating Officer of Performance Materials Business Unit Masaharu Okubo Chief Operating Officer of Energy Business Unit I MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 093 CHAPTER 5 Fact Data 094 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 096 Mitsui’s Continuing Evolution by Meeting the Changing Needs of the Times 098 10-Year Financial Data 100 Participation in Initiatives 101 Evaluation by Society 102 Operating Environment Analysis 104 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 108 Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income 110 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 112 Segment Information 115 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 116 Risk Information 123 Major Risk Exposure by Country and Fund Operation 124 Investor Information Financial information listed in the Fact Data section was taken from the  Annual Securities Report. Please refer to this report for more detailed financial information and the Independent Auditor’s Report. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 095 Mitsui’s Continuing Evolution by Meeting the Changing Needs of the Times ©‌Sakhalin Energy ① Daiichi Bussan Kaisha, Ltd. (Tokyo) ② The Abu Dhabi LNG project (UAE) ③ Sakhalin Ⅱ projects (Russia) 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 Contributed to the As the driving force of high Challenges as the pioneer of the era, recovery of the postwar economic growth responding to the rapid structural Japanese economy change of society ‌ Daiichi Bussan imported ‌ In view of Japan’s high dependence  ‌ Further strengthened functions,  daily necessities into on overseas sources for key materials,  including IT (information technology),  postwar Japan and  Mitsui invested in the development of  FT (financial technology) and  promoted exports  our own sources of mineral resources  LT (logistics technology) as postwar controls  and energy with the aim of ensuring  • In 1989, Japan Communications Satellite, in which were lifted. their stable supply to Japan the Company invested, successfully launched a  communications satellite • ‌In 1947, Daiichi Bussan Kaisha, • In 1963, participated in the development of the Moura Ltd. established …… ① coal mine in Australia (currently the Dawson coal mine) • Provided supply chain management for the ItoYokado Group (currently Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd.) • ‌In 1959, Daiichi Bussan Kaisha, • In 1967, established an iron ore joint venture business Ltd. integrated with other trading with BHP Billiton in Australia  companies (Mitsui & Co.’s great • In 1969, established Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., Ltd. amalgamation) and changed its ‌ Accelerated the planning and  • In 1970, established Mitsui Iron Ore Development name to Mitsui & Co., Ltd. development of large-scale  (MIOD) in Australia (Robe River iron ore joint venture) LNG projects in accordance  • In 1971, signed a basic contract for the development of an LNG facility on Das Island in Abu Dhabi …… ② with efforts to diversify  Japan’s energy supply sources  • In 1985, participated in the Western Australia  ‌ Supported overseas business  LNG project development of Japanese products • In 1989, participated in the Qatar LNG project • Promoted export sales of iron and steel products, • In 1994, signed development contracts for the machinery and chemicals Sakhalin II petroleum and natural gas projects …… ③ • Invested in overseas production and sales operations of  Japanese automotive and motorcycle makers (Toyota Motor Group, Hino Motor Group, Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd.) ‌ Acquired and developed  in such countries as Thailand, Canada, Peru and the U.K. large-scale businesses overseas  • In 1991, acquired feed additive business (currently Novus International, Inc.) from Monsanto Company, ‌ Introduced overseas technologies  of the U.S. and business models to Japan • In 1994, established P.T. PAITON ENERGY, an electric • ‌In 1958, established Nippon Remington Univac Kaisha, power company in Indonesia Ltd. (currently Nihon Unisys, Ltd.) and shortly after helped lay the groundwork for the computerization  of Japan • In 1976, established AIM SERVICES CO., LTD. with major U.S. contract food service company ARA (currently Aramark Corporation) 096 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 ©‌Photo: Dario Zalis / Vale ④ Vale’s Carajás iron ore mine (Brazil) ⑤ Mount Elizabeth Novena Hospital, an IHH hospital (Singapore) ⑥ 432 Park Avenue, owned by CIM Group (New York) 2000 2005 2010 2015 Development of various businesses with world class partners in response to the rapid growth of emerging economies and the evolving global industrial structure ‌ Long-term initiatives in developing resources and energy businesses to enhance our ability to provide sustainable supply • In 2003, purchased ownership interest in Valepar S.A., the holding company of Vale S.A., the Brazilian diversified resource development company …… ④ • In 2010, acquired working interest in shale gas in the Marcellus area and, in the following year, in shale oil in the Eagle Ford area, both in the U.S. • In 2012, established a strategic partnership with Corporación Nacional del Cobre de Chile and acquired copper interests • In 2013, acquired interest in the Jimblebar Iron Ore mine in Western Australia • In 2015, completed second phase of expansion of Robe River J/V mine and port • In 2016, acquired working interest in Kipper gas and condensate field in Australia • In 2016, acquired stake in oil and gas development project in the Gulf of Mexico • In 2018, acquired AWE Limited, an oil and gas company in Australia  ‌ Response to new needs for enhancing industry and enriching lifestyles • In 2001, launched 24-hour shopping channel in Japan with QVC network • In 2001, invested in a major U.S. automotive dealer Penske Automotive Group • In 2007, commenced capital and business alliance with Sogo Medical Co., Ltd. • In 2008, launched chemical tank terminal business at the Port of Antwerp in Europe • In 2011, invested in Asia’s largest private hospital group Integrated Healthcare Holdings (currently IHH Healthcare Bhd.) …… ⑤ • In 2015, invested in a major U.S. truck leasing company Penske Truck Leasing • In 2015, commenced commercial production of methanol at Fairway Methanol LLC in the U.S. • In 2016, invested in Asia’s largest hospital for middle-income patients, Columbia Asia • In 2016, invested in the Spain-based Gestamp Automoción, S.A., the world’s largest automotive press components manufacturer • In 2017, invested in Panasonic Healthcare Holdings Co., Ltd., a medical equipment manufacturer • In 2017, invested in CIM Group, a major real estate asset management company in the U.S. …… ⑥  ‌ D eveloping infrastructure businesses that contribute to nation building and industrial promotion in countries  around the world • In 2004, jointly acquired 13 power generating assets with International Power (currently ENGIE) • In 2006, acquired a gas distribution business in Brazil • In 2006, invested in Thai Tap Water Supply Public Company Limited, a water supply company in Thailand • In 2014, invested in VLI S.A., a Brazilian integrated logistics company owned and operated by Vale S.A. • In 2015, participated in a passenger railway transportation business in Brazil, owned and operated by Odebrecht TransPort S.A. • In 2017, invested in Moatize coal mine and the Nacala rail and port infrastructure projects in Mozambique MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 097 10-Year Financial Data (Including Sustainability Data) Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries Fiscal years to March 31 U.S. GAAP Billions of Yen 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Consolidated Operating Results (For the Year): Revenues 5,738.9 5,535.2 4,096.4 4,679.4 5,251.6 4,911.6 5,740.7 Gross Profit 988.1 1,016.3 702.0 859.2 878.3 790.4 859.9 Operating Income 374.8 394.7 144.5 317.0 348.4 254.6 275.2 Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies 154.3 84.8 131.5 242.1 232.1 176.2 173.7 Net Income Attributable to Mitsui & Co., Ltd. 410.1 177.6 149.7 306.7 434.5 307.9 422.2 Consolidated Financial Position (At Year-End): Total Assets 9,690.9 8,364.2 8,369.0 8,598.1 9,011.8 10,324.6 11,001.3 Total Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Shareholders’ Equity 2,183.7 1,881.7 2,230.1 2,366.2 2,641.3 3,181.8 3,586.4 Interest-bearing Debt 3,685.6 3,668.6 3,471.7 3,377.5 3,578.0 4,269.3 4,455.1 Net Interest-bearing Debt 2,774.0 2,515.1 2,055.7 1,933.9 2,142.8 2,839.4 3,224.4 Consolidated Cash Flows (For the Year): Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 415.8 582.7 632.4 504.5 381.0 461.4 521.5 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (104.8) (290.9) (180.1) (484.0) (438.2) (753.3) (704.5) Net Cash Provided by (Used in)  (185.1) (9.8) (214.4) 33.8 57.4 221.6 (34.7) Financing Activities Free Cash Flow 311.0 291.8 452.3 20.5 (57.2) (291.9) (183.0) Investments and Loans (710.0) (520.0) (360.0) (690.0) (650.0) (960.0) (1,010.0) Divestitures 610.0 190.0 210.0 190.0 210.0 220.0 305.0 Net Cash Outflow (100.0) (330.0) (150.0) (500.0) (440.0) (740.0) (705.0) Financial Indicators: Return on Equity (ROE) (%) 19.1% 8.7% 7.3% 13.3% 17.4% 10.6% 12.5% Return on Assets (ROA) (%) 4.2% 2.0% 1.8% 3.6% 4.9% 3.2% 4.0% Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio (Net DER) (times) 1.27 1.34 0.92 0.82 0.81 0.89 0.90 Yen Amounts per Share: Net Income Attributable to Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Basic 227.20 97.59 82.12 168.05 238.10 168.72 231.79 Diluted 224.82 97.32 82.11 168.05 — — 231.78 Cash Dividends 46 25 18 47 55 43 59 Consolidated Dividend Payout Ratio (%) 20.2% 25.6% 21.9% 28.0% 23.1% 25.5% 25.5% Shareholders’ Equity 1,202.03 1,033.22 1,222.11 1,296.66 1,447.34 1,743.34 2,000.78 Stock Price: Stock Price (closing stock price on the Tokyo 2,020 986 1,571 1,491 1,357 1,313 1,459 Stock Exchange) (yen) Price Earnings Ratio (PER) (times) 8.89 10.10 19.13 8.87 5.70 7.78 6.29 Price Book-Value Ratio (PBR) (times) 1.68 0.95 1.29 1.15 0.94 0.75 0.73 Sustainability: Number of Employees (Consolidated) 42,621 39,864 41,454 40,026 44,805 45,148 48,090 Ratio of External Directors (%) 30.8% 33.3% 30.8% 30.8% 30.8% 30.8% 30.8% Paper Consumption (thousand sheets; 92,973 85,547 76,049 66,701 59,810 57,833 56,588 A4-size equivalent) Notes: 1. Figures for prior years have not been reclassified in accordance with Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 205-20, “Presentation of Financial Statements– Discontinued Operations.” 2. Operating Income is comprised of “gross profit,” “selling, general and administrative expenses,” and “provision for doubtful receivables.” 3. Tax effects on investments in associated companies which were formerly included in “Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies” are included in “Income Taxes” from the year ended March 2010. Figures for prior years have not been reclassified. 4. Per-share information is calculated based on the number of shares issued at year-end. 5. Diluted net income attributable to Mitsui & Co., Ltd. per share for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2013 are not disclosed because there are no dilutive potential shares. 6. Price earnings ratio (PER) is calculated based on the year-end closing stock price on the Tokyo Stock Exchange divided by basic net income attributable to  Mitsui & Co., Ltd. per share. 7. Price book-value ratio (PBR) is calculated based on the year-end closing stock price on the Tokyo Stock Exchange divided by shareholders’ equity per share. 8. Ratio of external directors is calculated based on director numbers upon the conclusion of the general meeting of shareholders held after the end of the  respective fiscal year. 9. Paper consumption is calculated based on all offices in Japan (Head Office (Tokyo), 6 offices and 5 branches). 098 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 IFRS Millions of Billions of Yen U.S. Dollars 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 Consolidated Operating Results (For the Year): Revenue 4,912.1 5,731.9 5,404.9 4,759.7 4,364.0 4,892.1 46,152 Gross Profit 814.1 880.1 845.8 726.6 719.3 790.7 7,459 Share of Profit (Loss) of Investments 183.1 171.2 144.6 (132.0) 170.6 234.9 2,216 Accounted for Using the Equity Method Profit (Loss) for the Year Attributable to  296.6 350.1 306.5 (83.4) 306.1 418.5 3,948 Owners of the Parent Consolidated Financial Position (At Year-End): Total Assets 10,777.3 11,491.3 12,202.9 10,910.5 11,501.0 11,306.7 106,667 Total Equity Attributable to Owners of the Parent 3,439.1 3,815.8 4,099.8 3,379.7 3,732.2 3,974.7 37,497 Interest-bearing Debt 4,176.4 4,411.1 4,793.9 4,710.5 4,801.6 4,226.9 39,877 Net Interest-bearing Debt 2,739.1 3,178.8 3,382.2 3,215.0 3,282.1 3,089.2 29,144 Consolidated Cash Flows (For the Year): Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 455.3 449.2 640.0 587.0 404.2 553.6 5,223 Core Operating Cash Flow — 608.9 661.6 471.7 494.8 666.5 6,288 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities (754.5) (659.8) (386.4) (408.1) (353.3) (248.2) (2,342) Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities 236.3 (13.2) (126.2) (50.5) (50.3) (652.3) (6,154) Free Cash Flow (299.2) (210.6) 253.6 178.9 50.9 305.4 2,881 Investments and Loans — — (715.0) (600.0) (635.0) (560.0) (5,283) Divestitures — — 340.0 190.0 290.0 300.0 2,830 Net Cash Outflow — — (375.0) (410.0) (345.0) (260.0) (2,453) Financial Indicators: Return on Equity (ROE) (%) 9.4% 9.7% 7.7% (2.2%) 8.6% 10.9% Return on Assets (ROA) (%) 2.9% 3.1% 2.6% (0.7%) 2.7% 3.7% Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio (Net DER) (times) 0.80 0.83 0.82 0.95 0.88 0.78 Yen U.S. Dollars Amounts per Share: Profit (Loss) for the Year Attributable to  Owners of the Parent Basic 162.53 192.22 170.98 (46.53) 171.20 237.67 2.24 Diluted — 192.21 170.95 (46.54) 171.10 237.50 2.24 Cash Dividends 43 59 64 64 55 70 0.63 Consolidated Dividend Payout Ratio (%) 26.5% 30.7% 37.4% — 32.1% 29.5% Total Equity Attributable to Owners of the Parent 1,884.33 2,128.73 2,287.17 1,885.47 2,115.80 2,287.10 21.58 Stock Price: Stock Price (closing stock price on the Tokyo 1,313 1,459 1,612 1,295 1,612.5 1,822.5 Stock Exchange) (yen) Price Earnings Ratio (PER) (times) 8.08 7.59 9.43 — 9.42 7.67 Price Book-Value Ratio (PBR) (times) 0.70 0.69 0.70 0.69 0.76 0.80 Sustainability: Number of Employees (Consolidated) 45,148 48,090 47,118 43,611 42,316 42,304 Ratio of External Directors (%) 30.8% 30.8% 35.7% 35.7% 35.7% 35.7% Paper Consumption (thousand sheets;  57,833 56,588 50,155 50,369 48,529 45,894 A4-size equivalent) Notes: 1.  e do not disclose “Core Operating Cash Flow” for 2013. W 2. Figures calculated in accordance with IFRS standards for investments and loans, divestitures, and net cash outflow are have not been disclosed for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and 2014. 3. Per share information is calculated based on the number of shares issued at year-end. 4. Diluted earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, are not disclosed because there are no dilutive potential shares. 5. Price earnings ratio (PER) is calculated based on the year-end closing stock price divided by basic profit (attributable to owners of the parent) per share. 6. The consolidated dividend payout ratio for 2016 was omitted due to a loss. 7. The price earnings ratio (PER) for 2016 was omitted due to a loss. 8. Price book-value ratio (PBR) is calculated based on the year-end closing stock price divided by equity attributable to owners of the parent per share. 9. The U.S. dollar amounts, except cash dividends, represent translations of the Japanese yen amounts at the rate of ¥106.00=U.S.$1, the approximate rate of exchange on March 31, 2018. 10. The U.S. dollar amounts for cash dividends represent translations of the Japanese yen amounts at the rate in effect on the payment date. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 099 Participation in Initiatives United Nations Global Compact In October 2004, the Company signed and pledged its support for the UN Global Compact. The Company has  been participating as a member of Global Compact Network Japan and is complying with the principles as part  of its own corporate guidelines. Currently the Company conducts a companywide survey every other year in  order to check compliance with the UN Global Compact principles and is working to comply with and practice  the principles on a global group basis. Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights 1. B  usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor 3. B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Mitsui uses its capabilities in the five areas of marketing, financing, logistics, risk management, and IT process configuration to  develop diverse business operations across nations and regions. As such, we believe that we can leverage these capabilities to make a wide-ranging contribution to the achievement of the 17 goals. We will strive to achieve, in particular, the goals related to our identified material issues in partnership with our stakeholders. As a corporate member of Global Compact Network Japan, Mitsui will continue to raise awareness of the SDGs in its business organizations, to reflect the SDGs  in our business strategies, and to ensure that our business activities are always guided by a determination to contribute to the achievement of the SDGs. Please refer to the Sustainability Report for information on the themes of  initiatives Mitsui has determined by material issue as well as the relationship  of these initiatives with the 17 goals and 169 targets laid out in the UN SDGs.  The Sustainability Report also introduces the specific activities that Mitsui is  pursuing to realize the SDGs. Other Initiatives • World Economic Forum • Japan Foreign Trade Council, Inc.: Global Environment Committee, CSR Study Committee • Japan Business Federation (Keidanren): Committee on Corporate Behavior & Social Responsibility, Committee on Gender Diversity, Committee on Environment and Safety, Committee on Nature Conservation • Council for Better Corporate Citizenship (CBCC) • Japan Forum of Business and Society (JFBS) • Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership • Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) • Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) 100 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Evaluation by Society Major Selection and Certification (Year to March 31, 2018) Top Award for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure The Company has been selected for the top award in the commerce industry category at the 2017 Awards for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure. Organized by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan, this was the 23th holding of the awards. The Company received the highest scores in all five of the above criteria in the commerce industry category. Dow Jones Sustainability Indices The Dow Jones Sustainability Indices is a global stock index developed jointly by Dow Jones & Company in the U.S. and RobecoSAM AG in Switzerland. Major corporations around the world are evaluated in terms of their economic, environmental, and social performance. The Company was selected for both the World Index and Asia Pacific Index in 2017. RobecoSAM Sustainability Award RobecoSAM carries out surveys and analyses for the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. From each industry, it recommends companies that have undertaken outstanding environmental, social, and economic initiatives. In the Trading Companies & Distributors category, the Company was selected  as one of the companies to be ranked Gold Class, which is awarded to companies that are within a  1% range of the score of the industry leaders. FTSE4Good Index Series The FTSE4Good Index Series is a stock index developed by FTSE Russell, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of the London Stock Exchange. FTSE Russell evaluates major corporations around the world from the aspects of environmental, social, and governance criteria, including the labor standards applied throughout their supply chains, as well as on the basis of corporate sustainability. It selects companies that satisfy its standards as constituents of the index. The Company fulfilled the criteria of the index and was selected in the FTSE4Good Index Series. FTSE Blossom Japan Index The FTSE Blossom Japan Index is designed to measure the performance of Japanese companies  that demonstrate strong environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices. The index uses FTSE Russell’s ESG Ratings data model, which draws on existing international ESG standards such as the  UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Company fulfilled the criteria of the index and was selected in the FTSE Blossom Japan Index in 2017. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) CDP is a London-based non-profit organization operated collaboratively by institutional investors.  Its purpose is to urge leading companies (in terms of aggregate value) in major countries to disclose their environmental strategies and greenhouse gas emissions; the Company has continued to answer the questionnaire since 2012. In 2017, Mitsui was granted the rating “Management Level B” in relation to both climate change and water. Inclusion in the 2018 Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock Selection The Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock Selection is designated by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) on the basis of outstanding IT utilization initiatives. The Company has been selected for four years in a row since the launch of the award in 2015. Nadeshiko Brand The Nadeshiko Brand is a designation jointly awarded by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) to companies listed in all TSE sections that have shown excellence in promoting career advancement for women. In the fiscal year ended March 2018, the Company was selected as a Nadeshiko Brand company for its proactive efforts to support women to play more active roles in the workplace. Including being selected as a Semi-Nadeshiko Brand last year, this is the fourth year running that the Company has been recognized as a Nadeshiko Brand. Eruboshi (L Star) Eruboshi status is awarded to companies that have submitted notifications under the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace (Promotion of Women’s Career Activities Act) promulgated on April 1, 2016. Requirements for certification include the fulfillment of specific standards and the implementation of outstanding initiatives to promote the advancement of women in the workplace. In September 2016, the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare certified the Company as having achieved the second of three levels under the Eruboshi system. 最小サイズ 101 ヨコ 12.8 ミリまで MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Operating Environment Analysis Operating Environment tightened due to supply limitations resulting from the limited Note: The following describes the understanding of the ecoavailability of high-quality undeveloped projects, in addition to nomic environments as of May 2018. Descriptions included rising development and production costs, depletion of reserves, herein may differ from our current understanding. and deterioration of quality minerals from existing mines. The In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the global economy segment believes the mineral and metal resources business will saw ongoing gradual growth in both developed countries and continue to be an important aspect of its operations. emerging countries supported by firm spending and investment. In the U.S., consumer spending continues to be resilient supMachinery & Infrastructure ported by a favorable environment for employment and In emerging countries, where economies and populations employee income. At the same time, tax reform is expected to continue to grow markedly, demand is rising for the developdrive capital investment. As such, economic recovery is expected ment of basic infrastructure, including electrical, water-related to continue for the time being. In Europe, though the economy and logistical infrastructure. As for industrialized countries, aging has been resilient following growth in spending and investment, infrastructure is leading to increased demand for repairs. The this growth is expected to weaken going forward as corporate efforts to create a low-carbon society are also boosting demand business confidence plateaus. In Japan, gradual economic recovfor related infrastructure investment, such as a rapid expansion ery is expected to continue as a result of consumer spending of environmentally friendly renewable energy. Moreover, as continuing to be resilient following improvement in the employfacilities and equipment for energy resource development ment environment, and because of increases in both investment become more advanced, larger, and more complex, developrelated to the Olympic and Paralympic Games, and in capital ment demand is rising overall. In the U.S., the progress of shale investment focused on labor-saving initiatives. In emerging oil and gas development is heightening demand, not only for countries, while stable growth continues in China, this growth is infrastructure development but also for pipeline transportation, expected to weaken following an environment of excess capacity downstream chemical manufacturing, gas-fired power generaand adjustments of debts. At the same time, future growth is tion, and LNG shipping facilities. On the other hand, policy expected in India due to the progress of economic reform such as interest rates have reached a historical low level backed by the the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax. Also, the trend of implementation of quantitative easing policies by central banks gradual recovery is expected to continue in Brazil with consumpprimarily in industrialized countries, and greater attention is tion and investment picking up. However, limited growth is being paid to infrastructure projects from which stable earnings expected to continue in Russia due in part to ongoing sanctions are expected, following an increase in the amount of investmentfrom the U.S. and other nations. ready cash. The segment believes the infrastructure business will The global economy is expected to follow a trend of gentle continue to be an important aspect of its operations. recovery going forward. However, careful watch continues to As demand for resource and energy is seen to rise over be needed on the escalation of geopolitical risk surrounding the medium to long term with growth in emerging countries, the Middle East, the future prospects for the European and U.S. demand for mining machinery should recover and market economies, which have shown signs of maturity in some parts, conditions are expected to pick up due to an increase in landthe impact of the Federal Reserve Board’s monetary tightening and-sea-based logistics. In the U.S., the manufacturing industry is on the economies of emerging countries, and trends in U.S. undergoing a revival, and the underlying trend of improvement trade policy. in U.S. business conditions is having a favorable effect on our automotive, truck, machine tool, and construction machinery Business Environment by Segment businesses. Economic expansion in emerging economies has Iron & Steel Products fostered growing concern about associated environmental Global steel output for 2017 increased by 5.3% year-on-year to problems, and a shift to public transportation has been encourapproximately 1.7 billion tons, reflecting steel demand not only aged as a solution to traffic congestion. As a result, demand for in emerging markets such as China and India but also in North passenger and freight railway facilities is expected to increase. America and the EU. On the other hand, due to continued excesDue to ongoing global economic growth, the number of airline sive steel supply mainly from Chinese steel manufacturers, which passengers is expected to increase over the medium to long account for almost half of the global steel output, the difficult term, and consequently, demand for airframes and engines is business environment is expected to persist. Under this situation, also expected to rise. Meanwhile, as global warming, population amid the integration in the steel industry even more intensified growth, urbanization, and the aging of society have progressed, reorganization could occur among steel distributors. various technological innovations for materials, engines, selfOver the medium to long term, the domestic iron and steel driving cars using artificial intelligence, and so on, have been market is expected to shrink gradually due to population decline, developed and are soon to be put into practical use. In response among other factors. However, we anticipate that the Americas to this, user awareness has changed including a heightening and Asia will drive a global economic recovery, resulting in of safety and environmental consciousness and a progressive increased demand overseas for iron and steel products. Many shift from ownership of transport to use of transport. Against business opportunities are expected to arise from this this backdrop, diverse and innovative business models that go development. beyond industry customs are appearing across industries, and many business opportunities are expected to Mineral & Metal Resources arise from this trend. In the short term, there is a risk that economic growth in China and emerging countries could slow down, which may lead to a Chemicals weaker commodity market, however, steel and non-ferrous Due to the shale revolution, the petrochemical industry in North metals are core industrial materials, and demand for these mateAmerica has regained its competitiveness, and North America is rials is likely to grow over the long term. On the other hand, over becoming a supply region comparable with the Middle East, the medium to long term, supply and demand is expected to be which has led to changes in the trade flow of petrochemicals. 102 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Also due to restriction of capital and the environment in China cost reduction by rapid technological innovation. Depending on and geographical risk in the Middle East, more volatility in the the growth rate, it could significantly affect the composition of petrochemicals market could occur. primary energy sources. In the areas of performance and advanced materials as well By assessing the trends in the energy business from a longas specialty chemicals, growth areas are garnering in a global term perspective, we intend to promote the establishment of a macro environment consisting of a higher awareness toward the well-balanced energy portfolio for the future, and to contribute to environment, improved quality of life, and advances in technothe sustainable growth of society through comprehensive stable logical innovations. These growth areas are automobiles, where energy supply. efforts to make vehicles lighter and electric powered such as electric vehicles and fuel cell vehicles, are progressing; consumer Lifestyle products, such as foods, detergents, and personal care products; As the global population and economy grow, food demand and ICT and new industries, which include electronic materials, is expected to increase constantly. Meanwhile, against a in addition to robotics and healthcare. background of decreasing agricultural population primarily in In the agricultural chemicals and food and nutrition science industrialized countries and changes to suitable agricultural areas, the need for increased food production and the demand land due to climate change, the uneven distribution of food-­ for high-value-added food are increasing significantly with producing regions is progressing and the need to secure food population and economic growth in global and the increase in resources and stable food supplies is expected to become more middle income earners and an improved awareness toward pressing. The global increase of the middle-income class leads to health, which has led to market expansion. the sophistication of food demand, such as preferences for taste, animal protein, and so on. Additionally, the aging of society led Energy food demand to diversify in areas such as health improvement, Energy demand is expected to increase along with population disease prevention, safety, security, and so on. The segment and economic growth around the world, and oil, natural gas, coal, believes that it is also necessary to address the demand for and nuclear fuel are expected to continue as main sources of high-value-added food. primary energy over the medium to long term. However, due to In Japan’s mature consumer market, consumption is expected the introduction of new policies to tackle climate change, there to decline at a moderate pace due to a declining birthrate and a are analysis and scenarios that show a plateau in the energy population that is contracting and aging. The changes are not demand for fossil fuel from around 2030 to 2040, and it is only quantitative. Against a backdrop of changing lifestyles important for us to build a strong portfolio of cost competitive accompanying the increase in the elderly population, and assets that can thrive under that environment. increases in dual-income households and small families due to As oil demand is expected to increase in the medium to long more women having jobs, there are substantial changes in the term, the crude oil market is expected to follow a gentle uptrend, quality and contents of services required, such as an emphasis mainly due to the effect of slowed-down development by on medical and healthcare services and the pursuit of safety, restrained new upstream investment and the necessity to security, and convenience. develop higher cost fields. On the other hand, we are aware of In emerging countries, mainly in Asia, the growth of the rapid growth in sales of EVs and compounded with the effect medical expenditures is accelerating alongside changes in of environmental regulations, the potential decrease in the disease patterns, such as an increase in chronic disease demand for oil needs to be carefully monitored. patients, accompanying population growth, an aging society, The LNG market is expected to remain as an oversupply situaan increasing middle-income class, and economic development. tion for the time being, because the pace of LNG demand On the other hand, due to a shortage in the supply of medical increase will not match with the supply increase by start-up of services, demand-supply gaps regarding medical services are new large-scale LNG projects in Australia, the U.S., and so on. expected to expand further. The segment believes that it is However, in the medium and long term, the oversupply situation necessary to address the difficult issues of increasing the supply is expected to be resolved around the early 2020s due to the firm of high-quality medical services and curtailing medical demand increase mainly resulting from market expansion in expenditures. emerging countries and an environmental consideration. In the upstream business, including E&P and LNG projects, Innovation & Corporate Development we are working to improve profitability by promoting proactive In the ICT business area, with the evolution of AI, robotics and IoT, initiatives and taking advantage of lower development costs the value of digital data is increasing drastically and it has given caused by lower commodity prices. We are also promoting the more power of influence to consumers. Business environments development of undeveloped reserves and acquisition of good are changing rapidly, and as a result, there is a need to take swift quality assets, which will establish a more stable earnings base. action as technological innovation, as well as new services and In addition, we will enhance our presence by reinforcing global business models, leads the way toward a next-generation society business and trading structure, and we will develop business in which advanced ICT technologies and the real economy are through our energy value chain from upstream to midstream closely linked. to downstream, further enhancing our earnings base and In the Corporate Development business area, real estate asset improving the sustainable value-creating capabilities of our management business, combining the knowledge of the real business portfolio by capturing new demand arising in emerging estate and finance businesses, is expanding in both developed countries and opportunities in infrastructure business such as and emerging economies around the world, however, more power generation plants and terminals. attention on the decrease of monetary easing initiatives and the As a response to climate change, there has been a need for increase of policy interest rates should be paid. Furthermore, a shift to cleaner energy and action taken toward contributing to buyout funds and other private equity funds, which provide a low-carbon society. The growth rate of renewable energies, management know-how and funding, are playing an increasingly centered primarily on solar power and wind power, is high due to important role in supporting corporate growth. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 103 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries March 31, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 Millions of yen (Assets) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Current Assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,226,317 1,400,770 1,490,775 1,503,820 1,131,380 Trade and other receivables 2,040,855 1,949,837 1,607,885 1,739,402 1,766,017 Other financial assets 271,288 384,156 295,064 267,680 243,915 Inventories 625,328 671,164 533,697 589,539 550,699 Advance payments to suppliers 183,576 188,545 220,711 225,442 307,339 Assets held for sale — — — — 108,920 Other current assets 118,049 136,051 138,563 148,865 117,886 Total current assets 4,465,413 4,730,523 4,286,695 4,474,748 4,226,156 Non-current Assets I nvestments accounted for using the 2,448,848 2,791,341 2,515,340 2,741,741 2,502,994 equity method Other investments 1,554,673 1,529,767 1,179,696 1,337,164 1,825,026 Trade and other receivables 470,880 425,136 382,176 477,103 400,079 Other financial assets 116,298 130,974 159,384 145,319 153,149 Property, plant and equipment 2,007,452 2,148,142 1,938,448 1,823,492 1,729,897 Investment property 139,334 147,757 147,756 179,789 188,953 Intangible assets 144,153 162,951 157,450 168,677 173,207 Deferred tax assets 74,419 78,746 92,231 92,593 49,474 Other non-current assets 69,849 57,584 51,335 60,387 57,725 Total non-current assets 7,025,906 7,472,398 6,623,816 7,026,265 7,080,504 Total assets 11,491,319 12,202,921 10,910,511 11,501,013 11,306,660 104 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Analysis of Changes in Assets Billions of yen 2017 2018 Increase or decrease Total current assets 4,474.7 4,226.2 –248.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1,503.8 1,131.4 –372.4 Trade and other receivables 1,739.4 1,766.0 +26.6 Advance payments to suppliers 225.4 307.3 +81.9 Assets held for sale — 108.9 +108.9 Current Assets ◦ Cash and cash equivalents declined by ¥372.4 billion, mainly due to repayment of debt. ◦ Trade and other receivables increased by ¥26.6 billion, mainly because trading volume increased in the Energy Segment, prices and trading volume increased and March 31, 2018 fell under the financial institutions’ holiday in the Chemical Segment, despite the decrease due to the transfer to Assets held for sale. ◦ Advance payments to suppliers increased by ¥81.9 billion, mainly due to an increase in trading volume in the Machinery & Infrastructure Segment. ◦ Assets held for sale increased by ¥108.9 billion, because assets expected to be transferred from the Company and Mitsui & Co. Steel Ltd. to NIPPON STEEL & SUMIKIN BUSSAN CORPORATION are presented as a single line item as of March 31, 2018. Billions of yen 2017 2018 Increase or decrease Total non-current assets 7,026.3 7,080.5 +54.2 I nvestments accounted for using the 2,741.7 2,503.0 –238.7 equity method Other investments 1,337.2 1,825.0 +487.8 Trade and other receivables 477.1 400.1 –77.0 Property, plant and equipment 1,823.5 1,729.9 –93.6 Investment property 179.8 189.0 +9.2 Deferred tax assets 92.6 49.5 –43.1 Non-current Assets ◦ Investments accounted for using the equity method declined by ¥238.7 billion, mainly due to the following factors: A decline of ¥250.8 billion corresponding to the incorporation of Valepar S.A. by Vale S.A.; A decline of ¥73.6 billion resulting from foreign currency exchange fluctuations; An increase of ¥234.9 billion corresponding to the profit of equity method investments for the current year, despite a decline of ¥285.9 billion due to dividends received from equity accounted investees; An increase of ¥48.3 billion due to an additional acquisition of a stake in Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P., which is engaged in truck leasing and rental business in North America; An increase of ¥16.9 billion due to an investment in Cameron LNG Holdings, LLC, which is engaged in the natural gas liquefaction business in the U.S.; and An increase of ¥15.1 billion due to an additional acquisition of a stake in International Columbia U.S. LLC, the holding company for Asia’s largest hospital group for middle-income patients. ◦ Other investments increased by ¥487.8 billion, mainly due to the following factors: An increase of ¥307.1 billion corresponding to the incorporation of Valepar S.A. by Vale S.A.; Fair value on financial assets measured at FVTOCI increased by ¥159.5 billion mainly due to higher share prices; An increase of ¥14.2 billion due to an investment in the Russian pharmaceutical company JSC R-Pharm; and An increase of ¥10.2 billion due to an additional acquisition of shares in NIPPON STEEL & SUMIKIN BUSSAN CORPORATION. ◦ Trade and other receivables (non-current) declined by ¥77.0 billion, mainly due to the following factors: A decline of ¥28.0 billion due to collection of loan to the IPP business in Indonesia; A decline of ¥19.4 billion due to collection of loan to SUMIC Nickel Netherlands, an investment company for overseas Nickel businesses; A decline of ¥16.9 billion mainly due to reclassification of partial subsidiaries under Mitsui Rail Capital Participações Ltda., the holding company for freightcar leasing and management business in Brazil, to equity accounted investees; A decline of ¥13.6 billion due to recording allowance for doubtful receivables against the loan to SCM Minera Lumina Copper Chile, the project company for the Caserones Copper Mine; An increase of ¥19.3 billion due to execution of loan to Gestamp Automoción S.A.’s North American operations; and An increase of ¥13.4 billion due to execution of loan to the offshore energy business. ◦ Property, plant and equipment declined by ¥93.6 billion, mainly due to the following factors: A decline of ¥34.0 billion at U.S. shale gas and oil producing operations mainly due to partial sale of interest in the Marcellus Shale Gas Project (including a foreign exchange translation loss of ¥8.1 billion); A decline of ¥30.5 billion (including a foreign exchange translation loss of ¥16.3 billion) at iron ore mining operations in Australia; A decline of ¥30.1 billion (including a foreign exchange translation loss of ¥15.3 billion) at oil and gas operations other than U.S. shale gas and oil producing operations; and An increase of ¥10.5 billion for the integrated development project in the 2, Ohtemachi 1-Chome District. ◦ Investment property increased by ¥9.2 billion, mainly due to an increase of ¥13.8 billion for the integrated development project in the 2, Ohtemachi 1-Chome District. ◦ Deferred tax assets declined by ¥43.1 billion, mainly due to a reduction in the corporate tax rate following the U.S. tax reform. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 105 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Millions of yen (Liabilities and Equity) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Current Liabilities Short-term debt 436,869 290,641 353,203 304,563 201,556 Current portion of long-term debt 505,946 472,718 519,161 388,347 482,550 Trade and other payables 1,473,834 1,384,039 1,107,238 1,203,707 1,264,285 Other financial liabilities 301,047 414,011 298,329 315,986 300,284 Income tax payables 42,857 41,877 22,309 52,177 62,546 Advances from customers 165,124 177,432 207,419 212,142 287,779 Provisions 17,491 25,523 14,959 13,873 28,036  iabilities directly associated with L — — — — 40,344 assets held for sale Other current liabilities 41,486 34,900 40,161 33,172 31,392 Total current liabilities 2,984,654 2,841,141 2,562,779 2,523,967 2,698,772 Non-current Liabilities Long-term debt, less current portion 3,468,301 4,030,598 3,838,156 4,108,674 3,542,829 Other financial liabilities 95,541 147,289 109,520 111,289 103,162 Retirement benefit liabilities 69,558 46,211 78,176 60,358 50,872 Provisions 174,855 228,540 219,330 196,718 200,649 Deferred tax liabilities 567,281 482,141 409,695 481,358 467,003 Other non-current liabilities 30,825 29,627 26,319 28,487 25,250 Total non-current liabilities 4,406,361 4,964,406 4,681,196 4,986,884 4,389,765 Total liabilities 7,391,015 7,805,547 7,243,975 7,510,851 7,088,537 Equity Common stock 341,482 341,482 341,482 341,482 341,482 Capital surplus 418,004 411,881 412,064 409,528 386,165 Retained earnings 2,345,790 2,537,815 2,314,185 2,550,124 2,903,432 Other components of equity 766,631 814,563 317,955 485,447 448,035 Treasury stock (56,140) (5,946) (5,961) (54,402) (104,399) T  otal equity attributable to owners 3,815,767 4,099,795 3,379,725 3,732,179 3,974,715 of the parent Non-controlling interests 284,537 297,579 286,811 257,983 243,408 Total equity 4,100,304 4,397,374 3,666,536 3,990,162 4,218,123 Total liabilities and equity 11,491,319 12,202,921 10,910,511 11,501,013 11,306,660 106 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Analysis of Changes in Liabilities Billions of yen 2017 2018 Increase or decrease Total current liabilities 2,524.0 2,698.8 +174.8 Short-term debt 304.6 201.6 –103.0 Current portion of long-term debt 388.3 482.6 +94.3 Trade and other payables 1,203.7 1,264.3 +60.6 Advances from customers 212.1 287.8 +75.7  iabilities directly associated with assets L — 40.3 +40.3 held for sale Current Liabilities ◦ Short-term debt declined by ¥103.0 billion, mainly due to repayment of debt. Meanwhile, the current portion of long-term debt increased by ¥94.3 billion, mainly due to reclassification to current maturities, despite repayment of debt. ◦ Trade and other payables increased by ¥60.6 billion, corresponding to the increase in trade and other receivables. Furthermore, advances from customers increased by ¥75.7 billion, corresponding to the increase in advance payments to suppliers. ◦ Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale increased by ¥40.3 billion, because liabilities expected to be transferred from the Company and Mitsui & Co. Steel Ltd. to NIPPON STEEL & SUMIKIN BUSSAN CORPORATION are presented as a single line item as of March 31, 2018. Billions of yen 2017 2018 Increase or decrease Total non-current liabilities 4,986.9 4,389.8 –597.1 Long-term debt, less current portion 4,108.7 3,542.8 –565.9 Provisions 196.7 200.6 +3.9 Deferred tax liabilities 481.4 467.0 –14.4 Non-current Liabilities ◦ Long-term debt, less the current portion, declined by ¥565.9 billion, mainly due to reclassification to current maturities, repayment of debt and reclassification of partial subsidiaries under Mitsui Rail Capital Participações Ltda., the holding company for freightcar leasing and management in Brazil, to equity accounted investees. ◦ Provisions increased by ¥3.9 billion, mainly due to recording of a provision related to Multigrain business, despite the decrease of the asset retirement obligation by ¥19.0 billion at oil and gas operations other than U.S. shale gas and oil producing operations. ◦ Deferred tax liabilities declined by ¥14.4 billion, mainly due to the reversal of deferred tax liability for the retained earnings of Valepar S.A. corresponding to the incorporation of Valepar S.A. by Vale S.A., the reversal of deferred tax liability on undistributed profits corresponding to receipt of dividends from the equity accounted investees which are engaged in the IPP business, and a reduction in the corporate tax rate following the U.S. tax reform, despite the increase in financial assets measured at FVTOCI corresponding to higher share prices. Analysis of Changes in Equity Billions of yen 2017 2018 Increase or decrease Total equity 3,990.2 4,218.1 +227.9 Capital surplus 409.5 386.2 –23.3 Retained earnings 2,550.1 2,903.4 +353.3 Other components of equity 485.4 448.0 –37.4 Treasury stock (54.4) (104.4) –50.0 Non-controlling interests 258.0 243.4 –14.6 ◦ Capital surplus declined by ¥23.3 billion mainly due to the decrease corresponding to an additional acquisition of a stake in Japan Collahuasi Resources, the holding company for Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi, which is a copper mining company in Chile. ◦ Retained earnings increased by ¥353.3 billion. ◦ Other components of equity declined by ¥37.4 billion, mainly due to the following factors: Financial assets measured at FVTOCI increased by ¥102.8 billion, mainly due to higher share prices. Foreign currency translation adjustments declined by ¥146.6 billion, mainly reflecting the appreciation of the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar, the Australian dollar, and the Brazilian real. ◦ Treasury stock, which is a subtraction item in shareholders’ equity, increased by ¥50.0 billion due to share buyback. ◦ Non-controlling interests declined by ¥14.6 billion mainly due to an additional acquisition of a stake in Japan Collahuasi Resources, the holding company for Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi, which is a copper mining company in Chile. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 107 Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 Millions of yen 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Revenue: Sale of products 5,206,772 4,815,162 4,202,593 3,833,564 4,330,823 Rendering of services 415,395 432,112 399,937 405,893 436,606 Other revenue 109,751 157,656 157,164 124,512 124,720 Total revenue 5,731,918 5,404,930 4,759,694 4,363,969 4,892,149 Cost: Cost of products sold (4,627,572) (4,310,657) (3,807,456) (3,418,437) (3,856,008) Cost of services rendered (162,690) (181,528) (161,910) (171,741) (186,093) Cost of other revenue (61,550) (66,905) (63,706) (54,496) (59,343) Total cost (4,851,812) (4,559,090) (4,033,072) (3,644,674) (4,101,444) Gross profit 880,106 845,840 726,622 719,295 790,705 Other Income (Expenses): Selling, general and administrative expenses (574,871) (584,608) (566,014) (538,975) (571,703)  ain (loss) on securities and other G 30,816 42,458 93,168 64,962 55,146 investments–net Impairment reversal (loss) of fixed assets–net (59,966) (79,948) (88,964) (5,732) (25,454)  ain (loss) on disposal or sales of fixed G 16,419 1,446 (11,684) 11,013 15,108 assets–net Provision related to Multigrain business — — — — (25,006) Other income (expense)–net (21,720) (34,918) (32,092) 9,877 15,826 Total other income (expenses) (609,322) (655,570) (605,586) (458,855) (536,083) Finance Income (Costs): Interest income 33,644 33,120 31,612 34,905 36,516 Dividend income 124,026 114,070 54,675 51,874 84,793 Interest expense (49,176) (50,229) (50,961) (56,997) (66,488)  Total finance income 108,494 96,961 35,326 29,782 54,821 Share of Profit (Loss) of Investments Accounted 171,239 144,596 (132,033) 170,569 234,941 for Using the Equity Method Profit before Income Taxes 550,517 431,827 24,329 460,791 544,384 Income Taxes (176,654) (104,903) (91,243) (134,641) (103,082) Profit (Loss) for the Year 373,863 326,924 (66,914) 326,150 441,302 Profit (Loss) for the Year Attributable to: Owners of the parent 350,093 306,490 (83,410) 306,136 418,479 Non-controlling interests 23,770 20,434 16,496 20,014 22,823 Comprehensive Income: Profit (loss) for the year 373,863 326,924 (66,914) 326,150 441,302 Other Comprehensive Income: Items That Will Not Be Reclassified to Profit or Loss: Financial assets measured at FVTOCI 76,202 (57,039) (315,232) 198,971 174,983  emeasurements of defined benefit R (9,676) 20,045 (33,191) 16,379 14,242 pension plans Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for using the equity 622 (3,612) (1,739) (3,132) 4,372 method Income tax relating to items not reclassified (12,915) 42,045 81,316 (54,549) (48,857) Items That May Be Reclassified Subsequently to Profit or Loss: Foreign currency translation adjustments 19,961 32,509 (118,214) 25,787 (82,590) Cash flow hedges 9,623 (15,889) 1,347 14,985 6,184  hare of other comprehensive income of S investments accounted for using the equity 103,182 74,115 (153,984) (6,528) (42,390) method Income tax relating to items that may be (3,889) 20,174 (5,490) 7,094 (32,649) reclassified Total other comprehensive income 183,110 112,348 (545,187) 199,007 (6,705) Comprehensive Income for the Year 556,973 439,272 (612,101) 525,157 434,597 Comprehensive Income for the Year Attributable to: Owners of the parent 521,457 406,583 (607,490) 503,025 416,113 Non-controlling interests 35,516 32,689 (4,611) 22,132 18,484 108 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Analysis of Changes in Profit for the Year Attributable to Owners of the Parent Billions of yen 2017 2018 Increase or decrease Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 306.1 418.5 +112.4 Gross profit 719.3 790.7 +71.4 S  hare of profit (loss) of investments accounted for 170.6 234.9 +64.3 using the equity method Dividend income 51.9 84.8 +32.9 Selling, general and administrative expenses (539.0) (571.7) –32.7 Others (96.7) (120.2) –23.5 Gross profit Mainly the Energy Segment and the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment reported an increase in gross profit, while the Chemicals Segment recorded a decline. ◦ Energy +32.9 (MOECO +17.1, MEPUSA +9.7, MEPTX +4.9, MEPME +4.5, MEPAU +4.4, WPI –3.7) ◦ Mineral & Metal Resources +30.0 (Iron ore in Australia +13.6, Coal in Australia +12.3) ◦ Chemicals –9.0 (Novus –16.9) Share of profit (loss) of investments accounted for using the equity method Mainly the Machinery & Infrastructure Segment, the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment, the Energy Segment, and the Chemicals Segment recorded an increase. ◦ Machinery & Infrastructure +32.2 (IPP +37.8 (Sales of the interests in UK IPP +20.3, Refinance of IPP +3.9, Improvement of MtM +2.6, Mar-17: Impairment loss on intangible asset, Loss on closure of a power plant in Australia, Decline of tax burden, etc.), PAG +4.8, Deterioration of overseas project, Reserve for Latin America loan –5.1, Impairment loss on overseas rail business, etc.) ◦ Mineral & Metal Resources +13.3 (Acrux +11.7, Collahuasi +5.1, Valepar –9.6, etc.) ◦ Energy +7.4 (JALMIMI, etc.) ◦ Chemicals +7.4 (Miscellaneous) Dividend income Mainly the Energy Segment and the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment reported an increase. ◦ Energy +19.3 (Six LNG projects +19.7) ◦ Mineral & Metal Resources +14.4 (Vale +8.7) Selling, general and administrative expenses Primarily increases in personnel expenses and provision for doubtful receivables Others ◦ The following table shows the details of Gain (loss) on securities and other investments–net, Impairment reversal (loss) of fixed assets–net, Gain (loss) on disposal or sales of fixed assets–net, Other income (expense)–net, and Provision related to Multigrain business. Billions of yen Increase or 2017 2018 2017 breakdown 2018 breakdown decrease Gain (loss) on 65.0 55.1 –9.9 Mineral & Metal Resources: Mineral & Metal Resources: securities and other Gain on deconsolidation of Sims +26.9 Incorporation of Valepar +56.3 investments–net Lifestyle: Machinery & Infrastructure: Partial sale of IHH shares +14.6 Gain on sale of an equity accounted Machinery & Infrastructure: investment, UK IPP holding Sale of wind power generation company –3.5 business in Australia +5.8 Lifestyle: Sale of a stake in aviation business +4.1 Impairment [DaVita] –5.9 Innovation & Corporate Development: Innovation & Corporate Development: Valuation gain on Hutchison China Impairment [Naaptol] –3.1 MediTech +4.8 Impairment (5.7) (25.5) –19.8 Miscellaneous Lifestyle: reversal (loss) of Impairment at Xingu –11.3 fixed assets–net Machinery & Infrastructure: Container terminal –5.4 Energy: Exploration expenses –4.9 Gain (loss) on 11.0 15.1 +4.1 Lifestyle: Lifestyle: disposal or sales of Sales of buildings in Japan Sales of buildings in Japan fixed assets–net Innovation & Corporate Development: Sales of warehouses in Japan Other income 9.9 15.8 +5.9 Machinery & Infrastructure: Iron & Steel Products: (expense)–net Receipt of IPP adjustment fees Gestamp price adjustment clause +4.8 Energy/Mineral and Metal Resources: Energy/Mineral and Metal Resources: Exploration expenses –8.7 Exploration expenses –3.5 Provision related to — (25.0) –25.0 Lifestyle: Multigrain business Loss related to Multigrain ◦ The reasons for changes in income tax amounts are as follows. For the current year, deferred tax liabilities on the investment into Valepar S.A. were reversed. Furthermore, deferred tax liabilities on equity accounted investments were reversed upon receiving dividends from those investees, and deferred tax liabilities were reversed due to the U.S. tax reform. On the other hand, income taxes for the current year increased as profit before income taxes for the current year increased by ¥83.6 billion, and deferred tax assets on equity accounted investments as well as Multigrain Trading AG were reversed. The effective tax rate for the current year was 18.9%, a decline of 10.3% from 29.2% for the previous year. The aforementioned reversal of deferred tax liabilities resulted in the decline, while the reversal of deferred tax assets caused an increase. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 109 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 Millions of yen 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Operating Activities: Profit (loss) for the year 373,863 326,924 (66,914) 326,150 441,302 A  djustments to reconcile profit for the year to cash flows from operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 219,147 268,367 253,168 193,329 192,587 Change in retirement benefit liabilities 1,121 (3,787) 336 (637) 4,326 Provision for doubtful receivables 10,215 17,041 9,916 9,172 20,331 Provision related to Multigrain business — — — — 25,006 ( Gain) loss on securities and other (30,816) (42,458) (93,168) (64,962) (55,146) investments–net Impairment (reversal) loss of fixed 59,966 79,948 88,964 5,732 25,454 assets–net (Gain) loss on disposal or sales of fixed (16,419) (1,446) 11,684 (11,013) (15,108) assets–net Finance (income) costs (101,451) (86,694) (26,571) (22,967) (50,911) Income taxes 176,654 104,903 91,243 134,641 103,082  hare of (profit) loss of investments S (171,239) (144,596) 132,033 (170,569) (234,941) accounted for using the equity method Valuation (gain) loss related to contingent — — — — (5,230) considerations and others Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Change in trade and other receivables (44,457) 151,918 338,168 (121,022) (198,407) Change in inventories (13,508) (161) 107,124 (60,272) 9,813 Change in trade and other payables (51,883) (52,092) (228,258) 111,917 99,814 Other–net (49,831) (121,317) (101,746) (21,298) (24,062) Interest received 26,817 38,291 34,395 30,085 33,935 Interest paid (51,283) (49,906) (51,232) (65,352) (69,935) Dividends received 277,305 291,593 220,160 194,698 376,422 Income taxes paid (164,958) (136,561) (132,311) (63,461) (124,687) Cash flows from operating activities 449,243 639,967 586,991 404,171 553,645 Investing Activities: Change in time deposits 707 (4,736) 369 (8,936) 8,368 N  et change in investments in and advances — — — (155,423) (114,955) to equity accounted investees* Net change in investments to equity (204,757) (155,355) (126,378) — — accounted investees* Net change in other investments (96,918) 60,075 (23,424) 72,167 (23,523) Net change in loan receivables* — — — (109,069) 25,731 Net change in long-term loan receivables* (1,963) 60,046 14,097 — — Net change in property, plant, and equipment* — — — (149,568) (135,714) Net change in investment property* — — — (2,470) (8,078) N  et change in property, plant, and equipment (356,887) (346,427) (272,723) — — and investment property* Cash flows from investing activities (659,818) (386,397) (408,059) (353,299) (248,211) Financing Activities: Net change in short-term debt (85,141) (181,841) 79,839 (48,983) (99,045) Net change in long-term debt 208,986 197,233 (15,211) 196,801 (351,218) Purchase and sales of treasury stock–net (50,216) (23) (14) (48,647) (49,992) Dividends paid (83,970) (118,323) (114,737) (102,187) (105,844)  ransactions with non-controlling interest T (2,896) (23,239) (425) (47,249) (46,193) shareholders Cash flows from financing activities (13,237) (126,193) (50,548) (50,265) (652,292) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash 17,595 47,076 (38,379) 12,438 (24,529) equivalents Effect of cash and cash equivalents included in assets — — — — (1,053) held for sale Change in cash and cash equivalents (206,217) 174,453 90,005 13,045 (372,440) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,432,534 1,226,317 1,400,770 1,490,775 1,503,820 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1,226,317 1,400,770 1,490,775 1,503,820 1,131,380 Certain reclassifications and format changes have been made to amounts of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 to conform to the current period’s presentation. Certain reclassifications and format changes have not been made to amounts for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014, 2015, and 2016. 110 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Analysis of Changes in Cash Flows from Operating Activities Billions of yen 2017 2018 Increase or decrease Cash flows from operating activities a 404.2 553.6 +149.4 Cash flows from change in working capital b (90.6) (112.9) –22.3 Core operating cash flow a–b 494.8 666.5 +171.7 ◦ Net cash from an increase or a decrease in working capital, or changes in operating assets and liabilities for the current year was ¥112.9 billion of net cash outflow mainly due to the effects of Other–net. Core operating cash flow, cash flows from operating activities without the net cash flow from an increase or a decrease in working capital, for the current year amounted to ¥666.5 billion. Net cash inflow from dividend income, including dividends received from equity accounted investees, for the current year totaled ¥376.4 billion, an increase of ¥181.7 billion from ¥194.7 billion for the previous year. Depreciation and amortization for the current year was ¥192.6 billion, a decline of ¥0.7 billion from ¥193.3 billion for the previous year. The following table shows core operating cash flow by operating segment. Billions of yen 2017 2018 Increase or decrease Iron & Steel Products 8.6 14.2 +5.6 Mineral & Metal Resources 202.1 240.8 +38.7 Machinery & Infrastructure 74.4 158.8 +84.4 Chemicals 53.8 50.2 –3.6 Energy 134.1 175.3 +41.2 Lifestyle 8.4 7.1 –1.3 Innovation & Corporate Development 6.1 3.1 –3.0 All other and adjustments and eliminations 7.3 17.0 +9.7 Consolidated total 494.8 666.5 +171.7 Cash Flows from Investing Activities for the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2018 ◦ Net cash outflows that corresponded to investments in equity accounted investees (net of sales of investments in equity accounted investees) were ¥115.0 billion, mainly due to the following factors: An additional acquisition of a stake in Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P., which is engaged in the truck leasing and rental business in North America, for ¥48.3 billion; An investment in Cameron LNG Holdings, LLC, which is engaged in the natural gas liquefaction business in the U.S., for ¥16.9 billion; An investment in CIM Group, LLC for ¥10.1 billion; A sale of a stake in relation to the water concession business in Czech Republic; and A partial sale of an equity accounted investment for ¥10.9 billion. ◦ Net cash outflows that corresponded to other investments (net of sales and maturities of other investments) were ¥23.5 billion, mainly due to the following factors: An investment in the Russian pharmaceutical company JSC R-Pharm for ¥22.0 billion; An acquisition of a healthcare staffing project in the U.S. for ¥13.3 billion; An additional acquisition of shares in NIPPON STEEL & SUMIKIN BUSSAN CORPORATION for ¥10.2 billion; and A sale of a stake in Champions Cinco Pipe & Supply LLC, oil and gas well tubular business. ◦ Net cash inflows that corresponded to collections of loan receivables (net of increases in loan receivables) were ¥25.7 billion, mainly due to the following factors: Collection of loan to the IPP business in Indonesia for ¥28.0 billion; Collection of loan to SUMIC Nickel Netherlands, an investment company for overseas Nickel businesses for ¥19.4 billion; Collection of loan corresponding to the sales of the interest in UK First Hydro power assets for ¥18.4 billion; Execution of loan to Gestamp Automoción S.A.’s North American operations for ¥19.3 billion; and Execution of loan to the offshore energy business for ¥13.4 billion. ◦ Net cash outflows that corresponded to purchases of property, plant, and equipment (net of sales of those assets) were ¥135.7 billion, mainly due to the following factors: An expenditure for the oil and gas projects other than the U.S. shale gas and oil projects for a total of ¥64.1 billion; An expenditure for iron ore mining operations in Australia for ¥15.0 billion; An expenditure for coal mining operations in Australia for ¥13.9 billion; An expenditure for the U.S. shale gas and oil projects for ¥11.5 billion; An expenditure for the integrated development project in the 2, Ohtemachi 1-Chome District for ¥10.5 billion; and A partial sale of interest in the Marcellus Shale Gas Project for ¥15.8 billion. ◦ Net cash outflows that corresponded to sales of investment property (net of purchases of investment property) were ¥8.1 billion, mainly due to the following factors: An expenditure for the integrated development project in the 2, Ohtemachi 1-Chome District for ¥13.8 billion; and A sale of buildings in Japan by Mitsui & Co. Real Estate Ltd. for ¥10.5 billion. Cash Flows from Financing Activities for the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2018 ◦ Net cash outflows from net change in short-term debt and long-term debt were ¥99.0 billion and ¥351.2 billion, respectively, mainly due to the repayment of debt. ◦ The cash outflow from the purchases of treasury stock was ¥50.0 billion. ◦ The cash outflow from payments of cash dividends was ¥105.8 billion. ◦ The cash outflow from transactions with non-controlling interest shareholders was ¥46.2 billion, mainly due to an additional acquisition of a stake in Japan Collahuasi Resources, the holding company for Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi, which is a copper mining company in Chile. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 111 Segment Information Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 Year ended March 31, 2014 (April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014) Millions of yen Innovation Iron & Steel Mineral & Metal Machinery & Chemicals Energy Lifestyle & Corporate Products Resources Infrastructure Development Revenue 220,068 791,197 410,155 943,198 1,454,254 890,587 103,215 Gross profit 51,130 200,892 114,743 80,527 199,834 113,979 22,579 Share of profit (loss) of investments 5,395 37,990 24,400 8,606 60,087 19,289 4,879 accounted for using the equity method Profit (loss) for the year 14,583 88,052 17,146 8,370 188,441 12,096 (12,258) EBITDA 21,839 241,785 35,642 28,514 416,106 20,203 (23,614) Total Assets at March 31, 2014 567,741 1,970,858 1,872,585 765,751 2,478,158 1,495,387 496,533 Adjustments Consolidated Americas EMEA Asia Pacific Total All Other and Total Eliminations Revenue 699,622 108,663 109,079 5,730,038 1,884 (4) 5,731,918 Gross profit 78,725 18,752 12,469 893,630 794 (14,318) 880,106 Share of profit (loss) of investments 4,039 1,384 4,525 170,594 365 280 171,239 accounted for using the equity method Profit (loss) for the year 13,668 397 30,682 361,177 11,004 (22,088) 350,093 EBITDA 26,334 499 (347) 766,961 7,756 44,930 819,647 Total Assets at March 31, 2014 568,772 105,907 345,074 10,666,766 5,037,172 (4,212,619) 11,491,319 Year ended March 31, 2015 (April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015) Millions of yen Innovation Iron & Steel Mineral & Metal Machinery & Chemicals Energy Lifestyle & Corporate Products Resources Infrastructure Development Revenue 151,442 791,211 443,946 888,222 991,247 975,991 120,167 Gross profit 37,970 146,125 130,131 70,134 202,739 116,242 37,420 Share of profit (loss) of investments 7,641 913 32,988 7,225 56,610 21,642 5,748 accounted for using the equity method Profit (loss) for the year 8,460 60,857 45,680 3,702 119,674 (2,695) 6,006 EBITDA 12,909 155,530 54,977 18,074 439,849 16,156 (4,991) Total Assets at March 31, 2015 493,961 1,955,957 2,112,645 838,894 2,610,367 1,658,188 550,339 Adjustments Consolidated Americas EMEA Asia Pacific Total All Other and Total Eliminations Revenue 828,521 110,161 102,179 5,403,087 1,843 — 5,404,930 Gross profit 92,589 19,317 12,223 864,890 701 (19,751) 845,840 Share of profit (loss) of investments 7,450 574 4,518 145,309 — (713) 144,596 accounted for using the equity method Profit (loss) for the year 25,757 3,408 30,535 301,384 8,947 (3,841) 306,490 EBITDA 41,297 (541) (2,528) 730,732 3,221 54,312 788,265 Total Assets at March 31, 2015 584,086 104,646 382,495 11,291,578 5,135,246 (4,223,903) 12,202,921 Year ended March 31, 2016 (April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016) Millions of yen Innovation Iron & Steel Mineral & Metal Machinery & Chemicals Energy Lifestyle & Corporate Products Resources Infrastructure Development Revenue 111,082 685,557 415,198 787,370 672,638 990,438 139,473 Gross profit 31,951 98,672 127,085 76,453 108,952 116,506 52,884 Share of profit (loss) of investments 4,842 (204,064) 8,045 7,956 (22,257) 18,547 7,825 accounted for using the equity method Profit (loss) for the year 6,328 (162,480) 18,308 17,711 (3,885) (13,996) 16,128 EBITDA 10,945 (93,802) 29,239 30,089 210,119 9,938 12,491 Total Assets at March 31, 2016 392,174 1,591,364 2,009,812 732,483 1,973,464 1,523,795 510,529 Adjustments Consolidated Americas EMEA Asia Pacific Total All Other and Total Eliminations Revenue 785,574 105,267 111,402 4,803,999 2,606 (46,911) 4,759,694 Gross profit 114,831 20,530 23,259 771,123 1,664 (46,165) 726,622 Share of profit (loss) of investments 8,215 3,700 35,493 (131,698) 57 (392) (132,033) accounted for using the equity method Profit (loss) for the year 28,301 3,474 11,552 (78,559) 7,429 (12,280) (83,410) EBITDA 69,371 5,262 40,850 324,502 (490) 12,406 336,418 Total Assets at March 31, 2016 648,787 151,328 402,889 9,936,625 5,590,315 (4,616,429) 10,910,511 112 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Year ended March 31, 2017 (April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017) Millions of yen Innovation Iron & Steel Mineral & Metal Machinery & Chemicals Energy Lifestyle & Corporate Products Resources Infrastructure Development Revenue 202,406 746,406 408,504 1,037,284 463,601 1,378,263 125,226 Gross profit 36,724 176,786 114,452 145,611 63,885 136,179 44,988 Share of profit (loss) of investments 11,129 48,468 64,341 3,880 17,090 24,085 2,077 accounted for using the equity method Profit (loss) for the year 10,853 144,314 66,806 32,653 31,679 25,382 10,975 Core operating cash flow 8,617 202,136 74,432 53,771 134,109 8,378 6,109 Total Assets at March 31, 2017 612,632 1,962,236 2,238,142 1,175,205 1,905,252 1,723,399 611,395 Adjustments Consolidated Total All Other and Total Eliminations Revenue 4,361,690 1,908 371 4,363,969 Gross profit 718,625 299 371 719,295 Share of profit (loss) of investments 171,070 (106) (395) 170,569 accounted for using the equity method Profit (loss) for the year 322,662 (2,888) (13,638) 306,136 Core operating cash flow 487,552 16,394 (9,100) 494,846 Total Assets at March 31, 2017 10,228,261 5,798,648 (4,525,896) 11,501,013 Year ended March 31, 2018 (April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018) Millions of yen Innovation Iron & Steel Mineral & Metal Machinery & Chemicals Energy Lifestyle & Corporate Products Resources Infrastructure Development Revenue 238,240 946,369 447,088 1,186,673 534,293 1,409,378 127,326 Gross profit 41,874 206,767 121,943 136,573 96,808 139,533 45,084 Share of profit (loss) of investments 13,349 61,806 96,525 11,318 24,544 22,842 5,040 accounted for using the equity method Profit (loss) for the year 24,728 257,617 89,617 34,235 48,601 (26,340) (4,637) Core operating cash flow 14,179 240,829 158,846 50,174 175,282 7,118 3,061 Total Assets at March 31, 2018 654,725 2,092,908 2,255,650 1,186,254 1,917,687 1,901,822 622,709 Adjustments Consolidated Total All Other and Total Eliminations Revenue 4,889,367 1,937 845 4,892,149 Gross profit 788,582 1,278 845 790,705 Share of profit (loss) of investments 235,424 (116) (367) 234,941 accounted for using the equity method Profit (loss) for the year 423,821 2,469 (7,811) 418,479 Core operating cash flow 649,489 8,558 8,440 666,487 Total Assets at March 31, 2018 10,631,755 6,239,888 (5,564,983) 11,306,660 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 113 Segment Information Notes: 1. “All Other” principally consisted of the Corporate Staff Unit, which provides financing services and operations services to external customers and/or to the Company and affiliated companies. Total assets of “All Other” at March 31, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 consisted primarily of cash and cash equivalents and time deposits related to financing activities, and assets of the Corporate Staff Unit and certain subsidiaries related to the above services. 2. Transfers between reportable segments are made at cost plus a markup. 3. The amounts in “Adjustments and Eliminations” for Profit (Loss) for the Year Attributable to Owners of the Parent include income and expense items that are not allocated to specific reportable segments, and eliminations of intersegment transactions. 4. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, we introduced EBITDA as a measure of underlying earnings power in addition to profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent as a base indicator to measure performance. However, due to the fact that EBITDA includes impairment losses recorded by major equity accounted investees, we determined that core operating cash flow was a more appropriate indicator for measuring our ability to generate cash flow. Accordingly, as of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, we no longer use EBITDA to measure performance and instead use core operating cash flow. 5. Segment information for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014, 2015, and 2016 has not been revised and restated in relation to paragraph 29 of IFRS 8. Also, the profit and loss results for the fiscal years below have been revised and restated in compliance with legal disclosure requirements. • No revisions and restatements were made for results between the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 and the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. • Revisions and restatements were made for results between the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 and the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 to reflect the following changes. Previously, profit of the jointly invested subsidiaries by several Company segments was allocated from the main segment to sub-segments using profit attributable to non-controlling interests. However, in order to disclose each operating segment’s EBITDA more appropriately, since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, profits and losses associated with EBITDA have been allocated by using share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method. In order to disclose each operating segment’s total assets more appropriately, since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, total assets of the jointly invested subsidiaries have been allocated based on internal profit share as of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. • Revisions and restatements were made for results between the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 and the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 to reflect the following changes. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, the Food Science Business was transferred from the Lifestyle Segment to the Chemicals Segment in conjunction with the establishment of the Nutrition & Agriculture Business Unit. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, the United Grain Corporation of Oregon, which was formerly included in the Americas Segment, was transferred to the Lifestyle Segment with the aim of optimizing the Group’s global grain trading strategy. 6. In accordance with the changes below, the segment information for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 has been restated to conform to the current period’s presentation. • Since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the previous 10 reportable segments that include 7 product segments of “Iron & Steel Products,” “Mineral & Metal Resources,” “Machinery & Infrastructure,” “Chemicals,” “Energy,” “Lifestyle” and “Innovation & Corporate Development” along with 3 regional segments of “Americas”, “Europe, the Middle East and Africa” and “Asia Pacific,” have been changed to 7 reportable segments of “Iron & Steel Products,” “Mineral & Metal Resources,” “Machinery & Infrastructure,” “Chemicals,” “Energy,” “Lifestyle” and “Innovation & Corporate Development,” where the regional segments were consolidated by product segment. In addition, part of each of the regional segments have been consolidated into “All Other.” • Previously, there was a difference between the Company’s actual income taxes and the reportable segments’ income taxes that were calculated using the internal tax rate, and the difference was included in “Adjustments and Eliminations.” Since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the internal tax rate has been made the same as the external tax rate. In addition, since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the scope of allocation of expenses incurred at the Corporate Staff Unit to reportable segments was reviewed, and part of the expenses which were previously allocated to the reportable segments have been excluded from the scope of allocation. • Previously, the profit and loss of consolidated subsidiaries that are jointly held by numerous operating segments were allocated from the supervising to the non-supervising operating segments based on the profit share of each of the segments using the Share of Profit (Loss) of Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method and Income for the Period Attributable to Non-controlling Interests. Since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, these allocations have been made based on the profit share of each of the segments in each of the accounts disclosed in the segment information to reflect the performance of the operating segments more properly. 114 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 Millions of yen 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Attributable to owners of the parent Common stock Balance at beginning of year 341,482 341,482 341,482 341,482 341,482 Balance at end of year 341,482 341,482 341,482 341,482 341,482 Capital surplus Balance at beginning of year 428,552 418,004 411,881 412,064 409,528 E  quity transactions with non-controlling (10,548) (6,338) 2 (2,700) (23,581) interest shareholders C  ompensation costs related to stock — 215 181 164 247 options Sale of treasury stock — — — — (29) Balance at end of year 418,004 411,881 412,064 409,528 386,165 Retained earnings Balance at beginning of year 2,060,298 2,345,790 2,537,815 2,314,185 2,550,124  rofit (loss) for the year attributable to P 350,093 306,490 (83,410) 306,136 418,479 owners of the parent T  ransfer from other components 19,356 54,031 (25,498) 31,990 40,703 of equity  ividends paid to the owners D (83,957) (118,305) (114,722) (102,187) (105,844) of the parent Sale of treasury stock 0 0 (0) (0) (30) Cancellation of treasury stock — (50,191) — — — Balance at end of year 2,345,790 2,537,815 2,314,185 2,550,124 2,903,432 Other components of equity Balance at beginning of year 614,783 766,631 814,563 317,955 485,447 O  ther comprehensive income for the 171,364 100,093 (524,080) 196,889 (2,366) year Transfer to retained earnings (19,356) (54,031) 25,498 (31,990) (40,703) E  quity transactions with non-controlling (160) 1,870 1,974 2,593 5,657 interest shareholders Balance at end of year 766,631 814,563 317,955 485,447 448,035 Treasury stock Balance at beginning of year (5,974) (56,140) (5,946) (5,961) (54,402) Acquisition of treasury stock (50,217) (25) (16) (48,648) (50,057) Sale of treasury stock 51 28 1 207 60 Cancellation of treasury stock — 50,191 — — — Balance at end of year (56,140) (5,946) (5,961) (54,402) (104,399) Total balance at end of year 3,815,767 4,099,795 3,379,725 3,732,179 3,974,715 Non-controlling interests Balance at beginning of year 245,848 284,537 297,579 286,811 257,983 P  rofit (loss) for the year attributable to 23,770 20,434 16,496 20,014 22,823 non-controlling interests Other comprehensive income for the year 11,746 12,255 (21,107) 2,118 (4,339) D  ividends paid to non-controlling interest (18,981) (13,900) (18,387) (52,706) (24,098) shareholders  quity transactions with non-controlling E 22,154 (5,747) 12,230 1,746 (8,961) interest shareholders Balance at end of year 284,537 297,579 286,811 257,983 243,408 Total equity 4,100,304 4,397,374 3,666,536 3,990,162 4,218,123 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 115 Risk Information Risk Factors ② Foreign Currency Risk (1) Risks of Changes in Global Macroeconomic Factors We are exposed to risk of exchange rate fluctuations and Our global business activities are affected by economic condiexchange rate fluctuations may have an adverse effect on our tions both globally and regionally. Among other locations, we are operating results. Although our reporting currency is the particularly vulnerable to downward economic trends in Europe, Japanese yen, a significant portion of our business operations, Japan, China, the U.S., and emerging countries. An economic consolidated revenues, and operating expenses is denominated downturn may cause a reduction in the flow of goods and materiin currencies other than the Japanese yen. As a result, appreciaals, a decline in consumer spending and capital investment, and tion or depreciation in the value of other currencies as compared subsequently a decline in demand from our customers for our to the Japanese yen could result in material transactional gains or products and services, which may have an adverse impact on our losses. As most of revenues, costs of revenues, and selling, genbusiness, operating results, and financial condition. eral and administrative expenses incurred from regular business activities at overseas subsidiaries and associated companies are (2) Market Risk quoted in the U.S. dollar, the Australian dollar, the Brazilian real, or ① Commodity Market Risk other currencies, our profit for the year may be affected by the We are engaged in the trade in and, as the case may be, the fluctuations of these currencies and we are exposed to translaproduction of a variety of commodities in the global commodition risk in our assets and liabilities denominated in foreign ties market including mineral resources and energy products. currencies. In addition, exchange rate fluctuations may reduce Among others, operating results from our mineral resources and the value of investments in overseas subsidiaries and associated energy producing activities account for a significant portion in companies as well as in FVTOCI, and adversely affect our accumuour overall operating results. These commodity markets can be lated other comprehensive income. volatile in a short period or seasonally fluctuate by various factors such as imbalance of supply and demand, economic fluctuation, ③ Interest Rate Risk inventory adjustment, and exchange rate fluctuations. These We are exposed to risks associated with interest rate fluctuations, factors are beyond our control. The unexpected market fluctuawhich may affect our overall operational costs and the value of tions may adversely affect our business, operating results, and our financial assets and liabilities, particularly our debt obligafinancial condition, as follows. tions from the capital markets and borrowings from financial ◦ At businesses such as mineral resources and/or energy institutions, including ¥201.6 billion in short-term debt and development projects, in which large amounts of investment ¥4,025.4 billion in long-term debt as of March 31, 2018. An have been made, it may occur that the invested amount is not increase in interest rates, especially in Japan and the U.S., may recoverable through sales of the produced products due to adversely affect our operating results. a fall in price, or we may have difficulty in divesting our proprietary equity at a reasonable price. ④ Stock Price Risk ◦ A decline in the value of our investments in LNG projects and A significant portion of our investment portfolio consists of other investments which are recognized to designate as at fair marketable equity financial assets. At March 31, 2018, our marvalue through other comprehensive income (“FVTOCI”), could ketable equity financial assets recognized to designate as FVTOCI adversely affect our operating results and financial condition were carried at a fair value of ¥1,046.6 billion, representing 9.3% due to the decline of other comprehensive income. of our total assets. While we periodically review our investment ◦ In trading of commodities or derivative instruments losses may portfolio, a decline in the equity securities market could negaoccur as a result of unexpected fluctuations. tively impact the value of our investment portfolio and operating ◦ Fluctuations in a commodity market may cause a reduction of results and financial condition due to the decline of other comtrading transactions in which we act as a principal or an agent. prehensive income. ⑤ Risks Regarding Pension Cost and Projected Benefit Obligations Declines in the market value of domestic and foreign government bonds, other debt securities, and marketable equity securities would reduce the value of our pension plan assets. A decline in the value of our pension plan assets or an increase in our unfunded defined benefit obligation could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition due to the decline of other comprehensive income and retained earnings. 116 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 (3) Credit Risks (7) Concentrated Risk Exposures We are exposed to large-scale counterparty credit risks, including Various types of businesses worldwide sometimes expose us to the following: risks associated with regional political and economic instabilities, ◦ While many of our customers purchase products and services in addition to aspects of the global economic environment such from us on credit, we may also provide financing programs or as commodity market conditions, demand and supply for comdebt guarantees for customers associated with sales contracts. modities, currency exchange rates, and interest rates. At March 31, 2018, our current trade receivables (less allowFurthermore, some of our business activities may be exposed to ance for doubtful receivables － current) were ¥1,766.0 billion, concentration risk in particular industries located in specific representing 15.6% of our total assets. The balance of the regions or countries. For example: allowance for doubtful receivables － current for the year ◦ In Brazil, Chile and Russia, we have significant interests in the ended March 31, 2018 was ¥8.6 billion. exploration, development, and production of mineral ◦ We engage in significant project financing activities as a lender resources and energy. or guarantor whereby we assume repayment risk. ◦ In Indonesia, we actively participate in infrastructure projects, ◦ We have counterparty payment risk from various derivative including the operation of power plants, and maintain a transactions we enter into as part of our hedging activities. nationwide motorcycle retail finance business. It is not possible for our credit risk management policy to ◦ In Mozambique, we have significant interests in the rail and eliminate risks completely relating to the deterioration of the port infrastructure business and the exploration, development, financial positions of our counterparties. Furthermore, factors and production of mineral resources. such as insolvencies among our customers caused by liquidity As a result, declining levels of trading activities or asset volcrises, sudden falls in real estate market or stock market prices, or umes in specific sectors or in certain regions or countries, or increases in company bankruptcies may make it difficult for us to unexpected political or economic instabilities could have a collect receivables. disproportionately negative effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. (4) Risks Regarding Impairment Loss on Fixed Assets Assets for our own use and/or rental to third parties, such as (8) Business Investment Risk equipment and fixtures, land and buildings are exposed to As of March 31, 2018, we had 265 consolidated subsidiaries and potential significant impairment losses due to the decline in the 207 equity accounted investees. We have been continuously value of these assets. The total of the carrying amounts of proprestructuring underperforming businesses of our consolidated erty, plant and equipment, investment property, and intangible subsidiaries and associated companies using a process we have assets was ¥2,092.1 billion, as of March 31, 2018. The carrying introduced to assess their profitability. If we fail to successfully amounts of assets for our own use and/or rental to third parties restructure or eliminate our underperforming subsidiaries and are affected by certain factors, which are beyond our control such associated companies in a timely manner, or if these efforts fail to as changes in price, sales volume, production volume, and cost improve our business operations as contemplated, our business based on global or local supply and demand. When impairment operations may become less efficient and our operating results losses on these assets occur, impairment losses may have an and financial condition may be adversely affected. adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, we participate in various businesses directly or indirectly through joint ventures or by making strategic invest(5) Risks Regarding Fund Procurement ments in other companies and business enterprises. The outTurmoil in financial markets, a downgrade in our credit ratings or come of these joint ventures and strategic investments is significant changes in the lending or investment policies of our unpredictable because: lenders or institutional investors could result in constraints on our ◦ operational success is critically dependent on factors that are fund procurement and an increase in funding costs, and could beyond our control such as the financial condition and perforhave an adverse effect on our financial position and liquidity. mance of the partner companies or the strategic investees; or ◦ with respect to certain associated companies, we may be (6) Risks Regarding Deferred Tax Assets unable to exercise adequate control over the management, We determine the recoverability of deferred tax assets based on operations, and assets of the companies in which we invested all currently available information, including tax deductibility of or may be unable to make major decisions without the conaccounting losses, their timing as well as future taxable income at sent of other shareholders or participants due to lack of Mitsui and the subsidiaries. Deferred tax assets are recognized common business goals and strategic objectives with our except for cases where such deferred tax assets are not recoveralliance partners. able, while the amount of recoverable net deferred tax assets Any occurrence of these events could have an adverse effect may change if estimates of future taxable income are changed or on our operating results and financial condition. if tax laws and regulations including statutory tax rates are revised. A worsening of our operating environment could negatively affect our ability to achieve the goals set in our business plan, and future taxable income may decrease compared to the amount anticipated in the current tax planning strategies. In such cases, decrease in deferred tax assets due to the changes in assessment for recoverability of deferred tax assets may adversely affect our operating results and financial conditions. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 117 Risk Information (9) Risks Regarding Exploration, Development, and Production of (12) Environmental Risks Mineral Resources and Oil and Gas Various projects and business transactions worldwide we are Exploration, development, and production activities of mineral involved in are subject to extensive environmental laws and resources and oil and gas projects are becoming more significant regulations. In particular, the Mineral & Metal Resources Segment to our operating results and financial condition. Mining and oil and Energy Segment may be adversely affected by present or and gas projects involve risks, as follows: future environmental regulations or enforcement in connection ◦ development of projects may face schedule delays or cost with our exploration, development, and production activities. For overruns than originally planned, due to difficulties in techniexample, we are subject to complex sets of environmental cal conditions, procurement of materials, financial conditions regulations in Australia, Brazil, Chile, Russia, and the Middle East. and government regulations including environmental aspect; These laws and regulations may require us to perform site clean◦ reserves are estimated based on available geological, techniups; require us to curtail or cease certain operations; impose fines cal, contractual and economic information, and thus actual and payments for significant environmental damage; require us development and production may significantly differ from to install costly pollution control equipment; and require us to originally estimated reserves; and modify our operations. Newly enacted environmental laws and ◦ exploration activities may not produce successful results and regulations or changes therein, criticism by stakeholders such thus it is possible that reserve replacement cannot be achieved as NPOs & NGOs, advice from institutional shareholder service as per assumed cost and time schedule. providers and ratings by the ESG/SRI research company may We participate as a non-operator in many of these projects. materially impact the progress of these projects. Once an Under these circumstances, we carefully consider the business environmental accident occurs, as the owner of mineral resource potential and profitability of projects based on the information and energy interests, regardless of the degree of our contribution and data provided by operators, who have the discretion to control to such accidents or acts of negligence, we may be imposed to operations of such projects, including decision-making for devel­ bear fines or payments for compensation from environmental opment and production. In addition to the above-mentioned authorities or other concerned parties, even in situations risks, an operator’s failure in managing those projects may where we have no involvement at all in actual operations as adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. a non-operator. These fines and/or compensation payments may include clean-up costs, compensation for environmental (10) Risks Due to Competition damages, compensation for health hazards and/or property Products and services we provide are generally under competidamage to those affected by the accident, compensation for tion. Other Japanese general trading companies as well as other absence from work, and/or for loss of earnings. competitors which engage in similar business activities in various fields may have stronger business associations and relationships with our customers, suppliers, and business partners in both domestic and global markets; or stronger global networks and regional expertise, diversified global customer bases, greater financial engineering skills, and market insights. Unless we can successfully continue to meet the changing needs of our customers by providing them with innovative and integrated services in a cost effective manner, we may lose our market share or relationships with our existing customers, and we may have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. (11) Risk Regarding Limitation of Resources on Business In new businesses, we are investing in human resources that are capable of planning and evaluating business, executing projects, and managing and supervising a workforce. However, in certain business areas, we may have a shortage of required human resources, which could cause a loss of opportunities to start new businesses, which in turn may adversely affect our future business, operating results, and financial condition. 118 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 (13) Risks Associated with Laws and Regulations (15) Risks Regarding Internal Control Our business operations are subject to extensive laws and regulaWe are engaged in business activities in a variety of products and tions in Japan and other countries throughout the world. Our services worldwide and thus our internal control over financial operations are subject to laws and regulations governing, among reporting needs to be established for numerous transaction other things, commodities, consumer protection, business and patterns. We may be unable to maintain adequate internal investment approvals, environmental protection, currency control over financial reporting, and thus not be able to assert exchange control, import and export (including restrictions from that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This the viewpoint of national and international security), taxation, could adversely affect the capital market’s perception of us and and antitrust. For instance, many of our infrastructure projects in may cause negative market reactions. developing countries are subject to less developed legal systems. As a result, our costs may increase due to factors such as the lack (16) Risks Regarding Climate Changes and Natural Disasters of a comprehensive set of laws and regulations, an unpredictable Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gases, which are said to be the judicial system based on inconsistent application and interpretaroot cause of climate change and global warming, are undertion of laws and regulations, and changing practices of regulatory taken globally, such as adoption and ratification of “Paris and administrative bodies. For example, we are subject to sudden Agreement” at the 21st Conference of Parties (COP21) in United and unpredictable changes to: tariffs for products and services Nations’ U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change. that we provide; technical specifications with respect to environWe recognize the significance of Climate Change. Transition mental regulations; income tax and duty rates; and foreign risks related to transition to low carbon emission economy (Policy currency exchange controls with respect to repatriation of investand Legal Risks, Technology Risk, and Market Risk) and physical ments and dividends. risks resulting from climate change could adversely affect the Furthermore, while we are involved in the exploration, developerating results of our businesses. opment, and production activities through various contractual As transition risks related to policy and legal risks, the intro­ arrangements for concessions, the contracts may not be honored duction of government-imposed greenhouse gas emission or extended when they expire. Moreover, the regulatory bodies restrictions including imposition of carbon tax, and cap-and-trade of these areas may unilaterally intervene or even alter the conschemes of emissions credit could adversely affect the operating tractual terms of our oil and gas as well as mineral resource results of our businesses that use fossil fuels and emit a large producing operations involving production rates, pricing formuamount of greenhouse gases, such as overseas power producing las, royalties, environmental protection cost, land tenure, or businesses, and that produce coal, oil, and gas, where we have otherwise. If these regulatory bodies unilaterally alter such minority share holdings. contractual terms, or if the cost of complying with revised or As physical risks, among extreme weather conditions which newly established laws and regulations increases, our business, have been increasing recently due to climate change, intense operating results, and financial condition could be adversely storms, especially hurricanes and cyclones, which are strong affected. In order to comply with laws and regulations, we may tropical depressions in the Atlantic and South Pacific oceans, bear considerable additional costs. respectively, may have an adverse impact on production and shipments of our mineral resources, oil and gas, and salt produc(14) Risks Regarding Employees’ Compliance with Laws, tion operations, leading to increased costs and/or decreased Regulations, and Internal Policies revenues. In the case that production sites, production facilities, Due to our size, as well as the operational and geographic and infrastructure used for shipments such as roads, railways, and breadth of our activities, our day-to-day operations are necessarports are seriously damaged by extreme weather conditions, ily decentralized. As a result, we cannot fully ensure that our operations and shipments could stop for indeterminate periods employees comply with all applicable laws and regulations as until restoration work is completed. Extreme weather conditions well as our internal policies. For example, our employees may such as drought could also adversely affect foods raw material engage in unauthorized trading activities and exceed the allotted producing activities in which we have investments. market risk exposure for various commodities or extend an Furthermore, natural disasters, such as earthquakes, heavy rain unauthorized amount of credit to a client, which, in either case, or floods, that affect our employees and damage our offices or may result in unknown losses or unmanageable risks. Moreover, facilities, may adversely hinder our business. We have impleour employees could engage in various unauthorized activities mented measures such as developing a disaster contingency prohibited under the laws of Japan or other jurisdictions to which manual, creating a Business Continuity Plan (BCP), introducing a we are subject, including export regulations, anticorruption laws, safety confirmation system for employees, reinforcing earthantitrust laws, and tax regulations. The efforts we undertake to quake resistance, and conducting emergency drills. However, ensure employees’ compliance with applicable laws and reguladespite these measures, there is no assurance that damage from tions as well as our internal policies may not succeed in preventdisasters can be completely avoided. ing misconduct by our employees. Depending on its nature, employees’ misconduct could have negative effects on our operating results and reputation. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 119 Risk Information (17) R isks Regarding Information Systems and Information The shareholders of record may sell shares after the March 31 Securities record date with the anticipation of receiving a certain dividend As for the worldwide operation of our global communication payment. However, the declaration of year-end dividends is network, it is important to properly operate the IT system, grasp approved by our shareholders only in June, usually based upon a information value, and handle it properly. We enhance the safety proposal submitted by our Board of Directors. As such, we may and security of information systems by internal control through have announced dividend-related forecasts prior to the record development of related regulations to secure properly confidendate; but, in making a decision on the year-end dividend declaratiality, integrity, and availability on information and information tion, neither our shareholders nor our Board of Directors is legally systems for us and our consolidated subsidiaries. We reduce bound by such forecast. Moreover, where our profit for the year risks on data breaches by improved guidelines for better risk turns out to be lower than we originally forecast, we may not management, and tackle external threats with various measures, submit any year-end dividend proposal to the annual general including the security monitoring of our IT networks. However, meeting of shareholders. we cannot eliminate all the possibilities of distraction or leakages of confidential business information triggered by unexpected (20) P ossibility of Restriction to Sell Our Common Stock Because serious IT system troubles, and unforeseeable threats against of Daily Price Range Limitations under Japanese Stock our IT system infrastructure or communications networks. Such Exchange Rules situations could seriously reduce our operational efficiency or Stock prices on Japanese stock exchanges are determined on a jeopardize our ability to maintain or expand our business activireal-time basis by the equilibrium between bids and offers. These ties, which may have an adverse impact on our business, operatexchanges are order-driven markets without specialists or market ing results and financial condition. makers to guide price formation. To prevent excessive volatility, these exchanges set daily upward and downward price range (18) Risks Relating to Terrorists and Violent Groups limitations for each stock, based on the previous day’s closing We conduct business operations globally, and these conditions price. Although transactions may continue at the upward or are therefore exposed to risk from unexpected situations relating downward limit price if the limit price is reached on a particular to terrorists and violent groups, as well as trends in politics and trading day, no transactions may take place outside these limits social factors. The materialization of such risks may have an on these exchanges. Consequently, an investor wishing to sell at adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial a price above or below the relevant daily limit on these condition. exchanges may not be able to effect a sale at such price on a particular trading day, or at all. (19) P ossibility of Difference between the Actual Dividend Amount and the Forecasts Announced Prior to the Record (21) N ecessity of Depositary to Exercise the Rights of Date Shareholders The customary dividend payout practice of publicly listed compaThe rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take actions, nies in Japan may significantly differ from the practice widely including exercising voting rights, receiving dividends and followed in other markets. Our dividend payout practice is no distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining our accountexception. ing books and records and exercising appraisal rights are availWe ordinarily announce a certain dividend payout policy at the able only to holders recorded on our register of shareholders. beginning of each fiscal year and also provide guidance for Because the depositary, through its custodian agents, is the annual dividends based on the forecast of our financial results recorded holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, only the including profit for the year. Interim dividends are paid to sharedepositary can exercise those rights in connection with the holders of record on September 30 of each fiscal year after deposited shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the reviewing our financial results during the first six months of each shares underlying your ADSs as instructed by you and will pay to fiscal year as well as our forecast of our financial results during you the dividends and distributions collected from us. However, the last six months of the same fiscal year. The decision of declaas ADS holders, you will not be able to bring a derivative action, ration and payment is solely a matter of discretion of our Board of examine our accounting books and records or exercise appraisal Directors, and such a decision may be made after the September rights except through and with the consent of the depositary. 30 record date, and thus may differ from our guidance provided prior to such record date. The amount and payment of the year-end dividend are determined by our Board of Directors based on the actual financial results including profit for the year. It also requires the approval of shareholders at the annual general meeting held in June of each year, if we propose to declare the year-end dividend. Our Board of Directors decides and submits a proposal for the year-end dividend declaration a few weeks before the annual general meeting. If the shareholders’ approval is given, dividend payments are made to shareholders of record. 120 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Risk Management (3) Market Risks (1) Credit Risk The Companies are subject to market risks associated with With regard to the contingent characteristics of credit risks fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, included in derivative instruments, some of the derivative instrucommodity prices, and stock prices that arise in the course of the ments used by the Company and certain subsidiaries such as Company’s operating and other activities. commodity futures, commodity forwards, commodity swaps, and The Companies have formulated market risk management commodity options may include clauses that prescribe changes policies and have established management systems at several in the minimum required collateral (margins) or early terminalevels. In particular, regarding foreign currency exchange risks tion in accordance with the credit ratings of the Company. If the and commodity price risks, Chief Operating Officers have the credit ratings of the Company are downgraded, the counterparty primary responsibility of establishing risk management policies will require additional collateral from the Company and certain that prescribe the setting of limits on positions and losses, as well subsidiaries to cover the whole or part of the amount of the as prescribing management systems at each business unit. They relevant derivative obligations in accordance with such clauses. also have the responsibility of obtaining the approval of our Concentration of credit risk in specific regions or customers is executive officers in charge of risk management, and carrying out minimized as the companies carry out a wide variety of transacmanagement and reporting in accordance with such approval. In tions with various customers all over the world. The companies addition, risk management sections, which are independent also minimize credit risks of derivative instruments associated from trading sections, monitor, analyze and evaluate market risks with, for example, counterparty defaults by entering into these and periodically report to the executive officers in charge. transactions mainly with reputable international financial instituRegarding interest rate risks, the environment surrounding tions with high credit ratings. Therefore, the companies believe financial markets, the Companies’ ratio of assets and liabilities, that a significant loss arising from these transactions is extremely and the risks of interest rate fluctuations are regularly reported to unlikely. The companies manage credit risks through the manthe executive officers, by whom the risk management policies for agement of commitment lines of credit approved by an executive interest rate were approved. Stock price risk is managed by officer and through counterparty monitoring conducted on an analyzing factors of stock price fluctuations. ongoing basis. In addition, the companies require collateral and/ or other forms of security from counterparties as necessary. ① Interest Rate Risk The Companies are exposed to interest rate risk arising from (2) Liquidity Risk floating-rate assets and liabilities. An increase in interest rates Turmoil in financial markets, a downgrade in our credit ratings or may adversely affect the operating results. The Companies have significant changes in the lender or investment policies of our entered into interest rate derivative transactions which consist lenders or institutional investors could result in constraints on our mainly of interest rate swap agreements and interest rate and fund procurement and an increase in funding costs, and could currency swap agreements to hedge exposures of certain assets have an adverse effect on our financial position and liquidity. The and liabilities. companies secure the liquidity required for our smooth operaThe impacts on profit before income taxes for the fiscal years tions and maintain the strength and soundness of our balance ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, assuming a 100 basis point rise sheet by holding sufficient cash and cash equivalents, maintainin interest rates as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, were ¥(24,686) ing lines of credit with banks, procuring mainly long-term funds, million and ¥(28,353) million, respectively. These are calculated utilizing financing programs provided by government financing by multiplying the balance of floating-rate financial instruments agencies and/or project financing and such so that the compaheld by the Companies as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 by 100 nies decrease liquidity risk. The unused lines of credit that the basis points without considering future changes in the balance, companies can access to meet liquidity needs as of March 31, the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, the diversification effect 2018 and 2017 were ¥1,237,812 million and ¥1,107,863 million, of the timing of refinancing/interest rate revisions of floating-rate respectively. debts, etc., and assuming that all other variables are constant. The items that are considered to be instruments affected by interest rate fluctuations for the purpose of calculating the sensitivity include floating-rate interest-bearing debts/loans, fixed-rate interest-bearing debts/loans that are effectively converted to floating-rate instruments under interest rate swap agreements, deposits, and other instruments. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 121 ② Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk ③ Commodity Price Risk The Companies are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate As the Companies carry out business activities pertaining to risk on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencommodities such as non-ferrous metals, crude oil and gas, and cies arising from transactions such as purchases and sales of foods, they are exposed to risks associated with commodity commodities and financial transactions. The Companies hedge prices. these risks with forward exchange contracts and currency swaps. The Companies measure the risk of market commodities for For significant long and short net positions denominated in which historical price fluctuations have been relatively significant foreign currencies as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, assuming a 1% along with actively traded derivatives by using Value at Risk (VaR), appreciation of the Japanese yen, the impacts on profit before which is a statistical measure of the potential maximum loss in income taxes would have been ¥(1,101) million from USD, ¥(17) the fair value of a given portfolio over a certain holding period million from BRL, and ¥(23) million from AUD as of March 31, and within a certain confidential level. VaR is calculated by mainly 2018 and ¥(612) million from USD, ¥(37) million from BRL, and using a 10-day holding period and a confidence level of 99%. In ¥59 million from AUD as of March 31, 2017. Based on the same addition, the figures do not necessarily take into account correlaassumption, the impacts on other comprehensive income would tions between all commodities. VaRs as of March 31, 2018 and be ¥(245) million from USD and ¥(3,884) million from BRL, as of 2017 were ¥6,604 million and ¥10,445 million, respectively. The March 31, 2018 and ¥(260) million from USD as of March 31, actual results may differ significantly from VaR above as VaR is 2017. The increase of impact on other comprehensive income calculated by using historical fluctuations of each risk from BRL is due to the Company’s acquisition of Vale shares component. resulted from the incorporation in Valepar by Vale. The long and short positions denominated in foreign currencies indicate that ④ Stock Price Risk they are in currencies other than that of the functional currency of The Companies invest in listed companies to strengthen ties with each company. In this context, the long positions represent the customers, suppliers and others, as well as to make various types condition in which certain losses occur due to a decline in the of propositions to the companies in which the Companies invest, value of the currency, and the short positions represent the to pursue operating revenue. These investments are exposed to condition in which certain gains occur due to an increase in the stock price risks. value of the currency. Foreign currency translation adjustments For investments held as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, the are not included in the scope of this analysis. In addition, this impacts on other comprehensive income arising from changes in analysis assumes that all other variables are constant. the fair values assuming a 10% change in the stock index representative of the markets on which the individual stocks are traded were ¥97,061 million and ¥52,203 million, respectively. The impact on profit before taxes is immaterial. 122 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Major Risk Exposure by Country and Fund Operation Investments, Loans, and Guarantees (As of March 31, 2018) (Sum of Mitsui & Co., Ltd., Trading Subsidiaries, and some investment vehicles and subsidiaries) Billions of yen Hedged Investments Loans Guarantees Total Net Position (ex. Insurance) Brazil 792.7 62.2 206.3 1,061.2 63.9 997.3 Chile 13.7 33.0 265.6 312.3 0.0 312.3 Mozambique 121.9 0.0 155.0 276.9 0.0 276.9 Italy 61.6 0.0 129.8 191.4 0.0 191.4 Indonesia 119.6 2.4 50.0 172.0 7.7 164.3 Malaysia 129.3 0.0 17.7 147.0 0.0 147.0 China 129.5 0.4 4.7 134.6 0.2 134.4 Mexico 68.8 0.0 47.7 116.5 0.1 116.4 Thailand 68.8 0.7 44.5 114.0 0.4 113.6 Russia 103.0 0.0 2.8 105.8 0.0 105.8 Qatar 100.8 0.0 2.3 103.1 0.0 103.1 India 26.0 0.6 17.4 44.0 0.0 44.0 Notes: 1. Among the countries subject to country risk reporting, we disclose countries with significance as to the balance. 2. “Hedged” represents the amounts by which credit risk is hedged by such as investment insurance and third-party guarantees. 3. “Investment” represents book value for accounting purposes on the basis of Japanese GAAP, not reflecting the effects of applying net investment hedging relationships. 4. From the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the balance of “China” in the above table includes Hong Kong. Trade Receivables (As of March 31, 2018) (Sum of Mitsui & Co., Ltd., Trading Subsidiaries, and some investment vehicles and subsidiaries) Billions of yen Hedged Gross Net Position (ex. Insurance) Brazil 21.4 0.9 20.5 Chile 14.8 0.3 14.5 Mozambique 0.2 0.0 0.2 Italy 17.6 2.2 15.4 Indonesia 22.5 0.1 22.4 Malaysia 12.4 0.2 12.2 China 223.1 4.8 218.3 Mexico 8.0 1.1 6.9 Thailand 38.2 1.5 36.7 Russia 1.4 0.0 1.4 Qatar 1.3 0.0 1.3 India 39.1 3.8 35.3 5. Among the countries subject to country risk reporting, we disclose countries with significance as to the balance. 6. “Hedged” represents the amounts by which credit risk is hedged by such as trade insurance and Confirmed L/C. 7. From the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the balance of “China” in the above table includes Hong Kong. MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 123 Investor Information As of April 1, 2018 As of March 31, 2018 Securities Identification Code Unit Share 8031 100 shares Stock Exchange Listings Number of Shareholders Tokyo, Nagoya, Sapporo, Fukuoka 319,600 shareholders Fiscal Year Number of Shares Issued From April 1 to March 31 1,796,514,127 shares (including 58,602,512 treasury shares) General Shareholders’ Meeting June Number of Shares Authorized 2,500,000,000 shares Administrator of the Register of Shareholders Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Major Shareholders 4-1, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 100-0005 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) Contact Information for Above Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 9) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Nippon Life Insurance Company Stock Transfer Agency Business Planning Department Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 5) 8-4, Izumi 2-chome, Suginami-ku, Tokyo 168-0063 STATE STREET BANK WEST CLIENT – TREATY 505234 American Depository Receipts Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Ratio: 1ADR = 20 common shares Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 7) Exchange: OTC (Over-the-Counter) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 1) Symbol: MITSY CUSIP Number: 606827202 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 2) Depository and Registrar Citibank, N.A. Shareholder Services Composition of Shareholders P.O. Box 43077, Providence, (%) Rhode Island 02940-3077, U.S.A. 26.05 0.00 37.07 3.92 4.86 28.08 Tel: 1-877-248-4237 (Toll free in the U.S.) Mar. 2018 25.70 0.00 36.72 4.08 4.92 28.55 1-781-575-4555 (Overseas Dial-In) Mar. 2017 30.64 0.00 37.32 4.07 5.07 22.90 E-mail: citibank@shareholders-online.com Mar. 2016 URL: www.citi.com/adr 24.03 0.00 36.12 4.10 5.15 30.60 Mar. 2015 20.61 0.00 37.48 3.97 5.04 32.90 Mar. 2014 Individuals and others Government / Regional public bodies Financial institutions Securities firms Other corporate shareholders Foreign shareholders Note: The figures in the above graph reflect all shareholders and shares held but exclude shareholders who own less than one trading unit. 124 MITSUI & CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2018 Mitsui & Co., Ltd. As of March 31, 2018 Trade Name MITSUI & CO., LTD. Date of Establishment July 25, 1947 Common Stock ¥341,481,648,946 Number of Employees The Company and subsidiaries: 42,304 Non-consolidated: 5,859 Number of Affiliated Companies for Consolidation Subsidiaries: 265 Equity accounted investees: 207 Address 1-3, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8631, Japan (registered head office location) Nippon Life Marunouchi Garden Tower JA Building, 3-1, Ohtemachi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8631, Japan Tel: 81 (3) 3285-1111 Facsimile: 81 (3) 3285-9819 URL: https://www.mitsui.com/jp/en/ Corporate site https://www.mitsui.com/jp/ en/index.html IR site https://www.mitsui.com/jp/ en/ir/index.html Sustainability site https://www.mitsui.com/jp/ en/sustainability/index.html MITSUI & CO., LTD. Printed in Japan
