20 YEARS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2017 THE GROUP CEO’S STATEMENT Action expresses priorities Welcome to our OVERVIEW OVERVIEW HEALTH AND SAFETY Welcome to our Sustainability Report, which marks Polymetal’s 20th year of conducting business responsibly: At a glance 06 Safety risks management 48 Sustainability two decades in which we have achieved tremendous Where we operate 08 Safety performance 50 success. We currently employ around 12,000 people at eight Business model 10 operations covering three countries and seven time zones. Report 2017 Our approach 12 COMMUNITIES Of our employees, 20% are under 30, and more than 500 come from families who have worked at Polymetal for years. How we manage sustainability 14 Community engagement 55 Materiality 17 Social investment 56 Altogether we have produced almost 16.6 Moz of gold, and over 350 Moz of silver. We have discovered 20 mineral Stakeholder engagement 18 Impact assessment 58 ENVIRONMENT deposits, performed 2,200 km of exploration drilling, and Sustainable development goals 20 developed over 550 km underground. Our current licensed Our performance 21 ECONOMIC area is the size of 1,000,000 football pitches. We were the Financial assistance 63 first company in the former Soviet Union to use pressure ENVIRONMENT oxidation technology (POX) for extracting gold from refractory Local employment 63 concentrates, and the first in post-Soviet states to establish Water 26 Supply chain 63 an in-house engineering and design centre. When our environment and society ABOUT THIS REPORT Waste 27 R&D 64 Energy and carbon 29 Markets served 64 flourish, our business can flourish. Our achievements spread beyond Polymetal to the benefit Polymetal International’s Sustainability Report 2017 covers of the wider community. We have repaired and equipped Group-wide policies and activities at our operations in Air quality 30 When they falter, our business will falter. 20 hospitals, 39 sports facilities, and 126 schools and EMPLOYEES Russia, Kazakhstan and Armenia and presents information on our performance for the reporting period 1 January 2017 Mine closures 31 APPENDICES Only by working in harmony with our kindergartens for over 18,000 children. We have planted more than 7,000 trees and 11,000 flowers, released to 31 December 2017, plus comparative data for prior years. Biodiversity 32 External assurance report 65 surroundings can we thrive together. 825,000 fish spawn and cleaned 15 water bodies. The report follows Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Key sustainability data 67 Sustainability Reporting Standards. PwC has assured the EMPLOYEES We believe that our ethos of giving to our people and local GRI disclosures 71 performance data relating to our most material economic, surroundings while creating value to shareholders has been social and environmental impacts. Diversity 38 Other information 75 central to our business success and is the only way forward. Human capital development 39 We are deeply committed to sustainability and continuous Please read more at www.polymetalinternational.com and improvement, which translates into safer working conditions get in touch at sustainability@polymetalinternational.com. Labour practice 42 for people, responsible environmental management, support for our local communities, and growing economic value for COMMUNITIES our stakeholders. And for nine years, we have been a member of the UN Global Compact, which helps us to implement universal sustainability principles and take steps to support UN Sustainable Development Goals. As Mahatma Gandhi said, “Action expresses priorities”. We don’t simply talk about the importance of sustainability – in this report, we are proud to illustrate how we have turned our priorities into action over the past two decades. We also highlight our most recent action and achievements from 2017. ECONOMIC The Board and I are devoting considerable time and effort into making our business even more sustainable, and we are involved in sustainability issues across the Group. We cannot achieve our goals alone, and I would like to express our sincere thanks to our people, for their tireless commitment and dedication to making Polymetal the success that it is today. We would also like to thank our investors for their ongoing support, confidence, and invaluable feedback. Looking forward to the next 20 years of sustainable business, APPENDICES Vitaly Nesis Group Chief Executive Officer POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 01 20 YEARS OF CREATING VALUE OVERVIEW OPERATIONAL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EMPLOYEES Built Produced 16.6 Moz Polymetal was the Polymetal repaired and equipped: Polymetal planted 12 of gold, equal to 1st 20 > 7,000 plants and updated 450,000 company on the territory of hospitals trees 3 plants medals if they were the former USSR to use the made of pure gold technology of pressure oxidation 11,000 > 500 ENVIRONMENT for refractory gold-bearing concentrates. flowers mining families work in Polymetal 126 Today in Polymetal schools and kindergarten (>18,000 children attend them) 20% EMPLOYEES Produced 350 Moz of staff members of silver, equal to are under 30 73 20 2,200 km Released 825,000 More than 39 Belaz trucks with load fields (mineral deposits) of boreholes were drilled capacity of 136 tonnes were discovered fish spawn 286 sports facilities continuous improvement proposals were offered by workers and Cleaned COMMUNITIES 15 186 were implemented water bodies Every year Polymetal was the 553,742 m of underground Today the company has 100 licences. GEOGRAPHY 1,500 ECONOMIC development, which equals almost Licensed area is 7,500 km2 which 1st workers take part 5 equals more than We operate in in cleaning events In the company there are company in CIS to establish its own engineering and design centre St Petersburg subways 1,000,000 3 around 12,000 football pitches countries: Russia, Kazakhstan, people Armenia across 7 APPENDICES time zones 02 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 03 THE SAFETY AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE CHAIR’S STATEMENT reducing risks, and our commitment to the ultimate goal OVERVIEW of zero fatalities at our operations. RECOGNITIONS OF OUR EFFORTS 20 years protecting the environment Achievements For the past 20 years, Polymetal We are committed to the protection of life, health and the >>1st place in environmental responsibility rating for metals and mining companies in Russia by WWF environment for present and future generations. At every stage has been pioneering in the industry, of the mining life cycle, we work to avoid, reduce or mitigate and UNDP prioritising safety, protecting the any negative environmental impacts. In 2017, we completed >>1st for labour productivity among biggest Russian our energy study, with pilot projects on solar and wind sources metals and mining companies by Vedomosti environment, valuing our employees, to be launched in 2018. Our energy management system has >>Polymetal became an ACCA approved employer and supporting communities wherever been developed in accordance with ISO standards, and our ENVIRONMENT we operate. When I look forward to the climate change and carbon management system is currently under development. We have also expanded our water and Awards next 20 years, I am extremely optimistic. waste management programmes. >>Best Technology Award at the Russian Mining Excellence Awards at the MINEX Russia 2017 Forum 20 years valuing employees >>Polymetal was shortlisted in the Best Remuneration Our people are our greatest and most valued asset, working Report category of the ICSA Awards 2017 with enormous commitment to execute our strategy. In human >>Polymetal was shortlisted for Best ESG resource management, we focus on increasing diversity and Communications at the IR Magazine Awards – equal opportunities for women, decreasing labour turnover, Europe 2017 and providing training and career development opportunities >>Okhotsk hub operations received the Best Industrial for employees. In 2017, collective bargaining agreements at EMPLOYEES 20 years of discovering Polymetal were extended where needed for a further three Safety Award in the Okhotsk Region from local OUR VALUES government bodies For the past two decades, Polymetal International has been years, and we incorporated our Company’s standards at exploring, doing and discovering. The journey hasn’t always >>Omolon hub operations ranked 2nd for our measures newly acquired operations. Furthermore, we significantly to decrease injury and occupational diseases rate in Stewardship been easy, but we are fulfilling our vision, continuing to build improved our career development system and people the Magadan region We work to protect the environment, maximise a thriving and responsible mining business. We attribute programmes. Health initiatives, such as our HIV programmes, the health, safety and well-being of employees, our success to our focus on what is right – conducting were also launched at the most exposed operations. 2018 is >>Polymetal awarded Best Social Partnership at business while prioritising health and safety, minimising ‘Sponsor of the year in city of Magadan’ contest and respect the rights of all stakeholders the 70th anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights and affected by our operations. our environmental impact, treating our employees fairly, we will mark this year with a widespread training programme >>Varvara awarded Best Environmental Development and supporting local communities and the economy. for our employees on the importance of human rights. in Annual Paryz CSR business contest >>Kyzyl awarded best social partner in the Zharmin Dialogue We were delighted to have our work in 2017 recognised 20 years supporting local communities COMMUNITIES region and Best Socially Responsible Company We promote stakeholder dialogue based externally. We were ranked first among environmentally of the year in East Kazakhstan responsible metals and mining companies in Russia by WWF Our vision is to generate wealth through responsible mining for on openness, honesty and transparency. and the UNDP. We were proud to be shortlisted in the British the countries and communities where we operate. We want to IR Magazine Awards for Best ESG Communications, and to increase our positive impact on society. In 2017, we organised Fairness and held inaugural annual meetings with local residents in our Partnerships win the award for Best Technology at the MINEX conference >>Voro supported conference on green tech for We show fairness, equality and respect for our sustainable environment-friendly electrical vehicles. new regions of operation (Armenia and Yakutia). We signed sustainable development (InnoProm exhibition 2017) to our employees and local communities. In addition, Sustainalytics positioned Polymetal in the 93rd four additional socio-economic community agreements in three new regions of operation. Significant progress in developing our >>Polymetal supported Vacancies market conference percentile as an outperformer in the industry, ranking us first corporate volunteering activities resulted in increased employee as part of the Abilympics 2017 professional contest Compliance among our peers and fourth globally out of the 44 mining for people with disabilities in the Khabarovsk region companies included in the report. involvement in charity events. In addition, we implemented our We meet all legal obligations at local, Community Engagement Standards at all our operations, and >>Polymetal supported International Donor Day by ECONOMIC national and international levels. 20 years prioritising safety updated our Social investments and Donations Policy. funding a blood testing station Nothing is more important to us than the safety, health and Ethical conduct The next 20 years well-being of our employees and their families. No ounce of Our people We expect employees, contractors and business gold is worth risking a life or injury, and of all our company Sustainability is a journey – we have made good progress, >>6 employees received Mine Pioneer Award for partners to display the highest standards of values, none is more important than this. Our commitment, and are continuously looking at ways we can improve discovering Viksha deposit by Ministry of Natural ethical conduct, with zero tolerance for above anything else, is to have no fatalities. Despite some and grow our operations. Looking forwards, as we work Resources and Environment corruption, bribery and fraud. improvements over previous years, we regrettably failed towards our priority areas, we will continue to engage all our stakeholders – whether they are investors, NGOs, or local, >>Our Chief Sustainability Officer included in Top 50 in that objective in 2017, with two fatalities, and it is clear best CSR managers by RBC we have more work to do in this area. Safety begins with regional or national authorities – and listen to their feedback. Effectiveness preparation: anticipating incidents before they happen, >>Our legal director included in Top 100 GC Powerlist In the years to come, we will continue our journey of by The Legal 500 APPENDICES We aim to be effective in everything that we do. and improving ongoing training to identify risks and continuous growth and improvement, building a thriving respond appropriately when the unexpected happens. and responsible business. Nevertheless, we have seen a visible improvement in our Letters of gratitude health and safety performance, with a 21% reduction in >>We received 105 letters of gratitude from local LTIFR compared to 2016, and a decrease in the number community groups, NGOs, IMN groups and local authorities in the regions where we operate of fatalities from four to two. The Company believes these Len Homeniuk improvements are attributable to our efforts such as the Chair of the Safety and Sustainability Committee implementation of our Critical Risks Management System, 04 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 05 AT A GLANCE Polymetal International plc is a leading precious Sustainability is a vital component of our business OVERVIEW metals mining group operating in Russia, strategy. For us, it represents an investment in SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS 2017 Kazakhstan and Armenia. Listed on the London society and the environment, as well as in the Stock Exchange, Polymetal has a portfolio of eight long-term future of our Company. > Over 100 social service > Stakeholder engagement > Empowering women: 50% of key producing mines, an impressive pipeline of future and child-care institutions improved: materiality future managers awarded at the growth projects, and is a major employer in the constructed, renovated or assessment and personnel Polymetal scientific conference regions where we operate. upgraded in host communities satisfaction studies conducted are female ENVIRONMENT KEY FACTS 2017 Operating assets Employees Community investment (US$) 8 11,919 11.7m > Employee turnover rate > Developed climate strategy > LTIFR decreased by 21% and EMPLOYEES Gold equivalent production LTIFR Environmental incidents decreased to 5.4% and energy management critical risk management system 1.43 Moz 0.15 0 system and started to use renewable energy implemented Sales revenue (US$) Employee turnover Environmental investments (US$) COMMUNITIES 1,815m 5.4% 25m INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS ECONOMIC We comply with leading international codes and standards to ensure our > Top rating in environmental > Supply chain: new long-term > Improved corporate charity operations follow sustainability best responsibility by WWF and UNDP partnerships and scoring system and volunteering practice wherever possible. APPENDICES 06 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 07 WHERE WE OPERATE Kindergarten repairs Bringing significant investment 5 OVERVIEW Head office Operating mines Pevek and support to our regional +12 1 DUKAT HUB City/town Growth projects: communities and remote Climate and economic context Seaport 11 Nezhda locations. • No railways; accessible by sea and Time zone (GMT) Further growth opportunities: auto transport 2 • Severe climate, with long, cold winters 12 Prognoz (-40˚C) and short and humid summers Workforce (+25˚C). The surrounding area is very 13 Viksha 1 sparsely populated and mostly covered Female employees with tundra forests. Magadan ENVIRONMENT GHG emissions 13 +11 12 +3 11 6 Okhotsk St Petersburg +10 1,936 22% 194 Kt Support for children’s Moscow Russia Eco agriculture sports teams project Pomidorro +3 4 7 3 EMPLOYEES Ekaterinburg Khabarovsk +5 +10 7 VORO 2 OMOLON HUB Kostanay Climate and economic context Climate and economic context 8 • Railway connection with a Group-owned +6 • Located in remote, unpopulated areas spur located 18 km from the site. The site mostly covered with taiga forest and has access to a power grid station. with only seasonal access available. • Very humid and cool summers (400–550 • Land transportation between production mm of rain) and cold winters with the 10 sites is only possible during winter. In average temperature -20˚C (to -50˚C). summer, access is available only by light 9 COMMUNITIES aircraft or helicopter. Kazakhstan Armenia +4 830 29% 52 Kt 1,012 13% 50 Kt Construction of Cleaning of river bed Provision of equipment Construction of city Support for reindeer Construction of sports grounds and for medical ambulance sports arena herders and sports and play ECONOMIC support of a local station minorities’ language grounds sports contest conservation 8 VARVARA 9 KAPAN 10 KYZYL 6 OKHOTSK HUB 5 MAYSKOYE 3 4 AMURSK/ALBAZINO Climate and economic context Climate and economic context Climate and economic context Climate and economic context Climate and economic context Climate and economic context • 13 km railway spur to facilitate bulk • Located 320 km from the capital city • Located in a traditional mining region with • Located in a very sparsely populated • Accessible all year round via 187 km of • Albazino is located in a remote area transportation of ores from other deposits of Yerevan. good infrastructure including easy access area covered with taiga forest. improved unpaved road from the town covered with taiga forest, at times to the Varvara processing plant. • The climate is highland continental, to power and rail; 75 km west of the • The seaport of Okhotsk is 118 km to of Pevek (major seaport operating from accessible only by ferry (summer period) mining and metallurgical industry centre July to early November). or helicopter. Electricity is generated APPENDICES • Unpredictable weather with 24h changes dry with four seasons. Temperatures the south and can be accessed by from +10˚C to -5˚C, very windy and cold can vary considerably: +25˚C in summer of Oskemen. an unpaved road. • Harsh climate: -18˚C to -42˚C (-60˚C) on-site by diesel-powered generators. winters (-45˚C) and very hot and dry to -5˚C in winter. • ESIA completed in 2016. Our first in winter, wind up to 40–80 m/sec. • Amursk POX is located in the city. summers (+40˚C). resettlement experience was successful. • Climate is very humid with -40˚C in winter and +30˚C in summer. 1,261 41% 204 Kt 1,043 14% 14 Kt 691 17% 18 Kt 1,209 34% 45 Kt 1,029 14% 82 Kt 1,570 21% 112 Kt 08 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 09 BUSINESS MODEL OUR STRATEGY > Deliver robust operating and financial 1. Pay significant performance at existing mines through Our business model achieves positive outcomes and sustainable cost control and reserve replacement OVERVIEW for our stakeholders: the strength of our capital, dividends through > Deliver medium-term growth through how we manage our assets and the differentiators the cycle building and ramping up Kyzyl that make us successful. > Build and advance long-term growth 2. Continue to grow pipeline through opportunistic M&A and our business without greenfield exploration diluting its quality > Maintain high standards of corporate governance and sustainable development ENVIRONMENT OUR CAPITAL OUR BUSINESS WHAT MAKES US DIFFERENT VALUE CREATED Financial Focus on high-grade assets Shareholders Dividends (US$) Strong balance sheet and a large Return on investment in the precious metals industry We deliver a sustainable dividend portfolio of available undrawn credit facilities; access to international is reliant on grades and mining conditions. We achieve better returns and lower risks from our project portfolio by stream. 189m equity markets and use of shares setting appropriate thresholds on head grades and largely proposed for 2017 as acquisition currency. Exploration Mining closure and focusing on open-pit mines. EMPLOYEES Business rehabilitation Other capital providers Average cost of debt in Strong capital discipline We have an excellent credit history 2017 (%) Key competencies in refractory gold We engender a strong focus on capital discipline 3.96 concentrate trading; sustainable throughout the business; maximising risk-adjusted return and strong partnerships within relationships with contractors and on capital is our priority in all investment decisions. We financial markets. suppliers. do not retain excess cash and we return free cash flow to shareholders through substantial dividend payments Intellectual while retaining a safe leverage level. Employees Investing in skills and expertise, use of leading technologies in refractory gold Investing in exploration We provide competitive remuneration, which is above the 11,919 COMMUNITIES processing (POX), selective mining, Investment in both greenfield and near-mine exploration regional average, and comfortable development of know-how. Development Selling provides us with a cost-effective increase in our reserve working conditions, as well as base and, along with successful acquisitions, is the key stimulating career development Natural source of our long-term growth. opportunities. Portfolio of high-grade reserves; water, energy and fuel to run our operations. Hub-based system Human Our centralised hub-based system handles ores from different sources, achieving economies of scale by Suppliers We provide fair terms and have Over 4,500 minimising processing and logistics costs, as well as established long-term and mutually 11,919 employees; attracting and potential contractors reducing capital spending per ounce. This facilitates beneficial partnerships, while retaining high-potential employees audited for ethical principles ensuring suppliers’ integrity and ECONOMIC across Russia, Kazakhstan and production at otherwise uneconomical mediumand and anti-corruption policies small-sized near-plant deposits. ESG compliance. Armenia; nurturing young leaders to manage further growth. Exemplary governance Local communities Investments in social Social and relationship We believe that good corporate governance is key We invest in our local communities, projects (US$) Mining ore Logistics/ to the ongoing success of the business and value 11.7m Constructive relationships with local providing employment opportunities governments and communities; Transporting ore creation for our shareholders. We are compliant with and improving infrastructure, and transparent and productive dialogue all regulatory requirements and are recognised as engage with them to achieve their with stakeholders. sustainability leaders in the countries in which we support for the projects that we operate, adopting best practice in nurturing relationships undertake. with all our stakeholders in government, industry and the APPENDICES communities. Operational excellence State authorities Taxes paid (US$) We pride ourselves on our operational excellence and delivering on our promises to shareholders. Despite We contribute to the national wealth and are a significant tax payer in the regions of operation, 143m difficult trading conditions, we beat our production Processing guidance for the fourth consecutive year. supporting local government’s social projects. 10 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 11 OUR APPROACH Our approach to sustainability is based on complying We identify focus areas by consulting with our stakeholders OVERVIEW with international standards and best practice, about issues they care about, and by assessing risks. As a A WORD FROM OUR CHIEF SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER result, we have highlighted six areas where we focus our rigorous risk management, regular consultation sustainability efforts. These include health and safety, with all our stakeholders, and responding to the community relations, employee relations, protecting the most material issues for our business. environment, transparency in our partnerships, and specific water and energy efficiency programmes. It is rewarding to see all of our efforts and commitment being In 2017, we were delighted that the FTSE4Good Index awarded Polymetal with the highest score (5/5) for Corporate recognised, among others by Governance and Anti-Corruption, while our overall ESG the FTSE4Good Index and WWF. Rating ICB Supersector Relative Percentile further improved ENVIRONMENT to 84/100 (2016: 77/100). We aim for the highest standards in all that we do. HOW WE IDENTIFY FOCUS AREAS Stakeholder engagement Governance EMPLOYEES Materiality After two decades of doing business, I am proud that These are agreed by central management and implemented framework Polymetal continues to be a leading player in the industry, Groupwide, and we benchmark our performance against both in terms of business results and sustainability. We take the most up-to-date regulatory requirements through regular Risk assessment a responsible approach to all areas of our work, frequently monitoring and auditing. engaging all our stakeholder groups, minimising risks, and monitoring our policies, practices and performance to ensure We also comply with other leading international codes and we continue to follow the highest standards. standards, and uphold our own internal policies and standards. We communicate these across the Group, so our people It is rewarding to see all of our efforts and commitment being know what is expected of them in every area of their work. recognised, most recently by the FTSE4Good Index and ICB. SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS We aim for the highest standards in all that we do. That is In the following pages, you can read about how we manage COMMUNITIES why we signed up to the UN’s Global Compact (UNGC) sustainability, risks, materiality and stakeholder engagement, Following our materiality analysis and stakeholder engagement voluntarily back in 2009. In fact, our sustainability strategy and how our work supports the UN’s Sustainable processes, we have defined core focus areas. These are: is designed to meet the principles of the UNGC. We comply Development Goals. 20 years from now, we want to be able with the Ten Principles relating to the environment, labour, to look back on our contribution to society and be as proud human rights and anti-corruption, and participate in the of our commitment to sustainability as we are today. UN Global Compact Network Russia. 1 2 3 Alongside our corporate values of dialogue, compliance, ethical conduct, fairness, stewardship and effectiveness, Daria Goncharova Chief Sustainability Officer the Ten Principles help inform our sustainability policies. Improving health and safety for Maintaining positive working Attracting and retaining more ECONOMIC our employees and contractors relationships with local government, high-quality people, creating NGOs and the communities where an even better place to work SUSTAINABILITY STANDARDS (see Health and Safety section) we operate (see Employees section) INTERNAL STANDARDS EXTERNAL STANDARDS (see Economic and Communities sections) • Safety and Sustainability • Anti-Bribery and Corruption • UN Global Compact • UK Corporate Governance Committee terms of reference Policy Code 4 5 6 • EBRD Environmental and APPENDICES • Sustainability values • Human Rights Policy Social Policy (ESP) • International Cyanide Management Code • Code of Conduct • Health and Safety Policy • GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards • ISO 14001:2001 • Political and Charitable • Environmental Management Continuously upgrading our Enhancing transparency in our Further developing water and Donations Policy Policy • OHSAS 18001 technologies and approach communications with suppliers, energy efficiency programmes • Policy on Social Investment • Carbon Management Policy to environmental protection contractors and partners • Community Engagement • Human Resources policies (see Environment section) System • Employee development (see Environment section) (see Overview) and training standards 12 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 13 HOW WE MANAGE SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability leadership The Committee is supported by the Technical Council, OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Responsibility for sustainability lies with our senior which meets regularly to assess progress on our sustainability management and Board-level committees, reflecting targets. All superintendents report to the Technical Council, its centrality and importance within the Company. giving senior management an opportunity to input on sustainability issues. Board Role of our Board and Group CEO The Board defines business strategy, Remuneration Committee Ultimate responsibility for sustainability lies with our Board assesses risks and monitors performance. of Directors. Our Group CEO, Vitaly Nesis, oversees all local Align values and incentives management decisions and processes, and sustainability The Remuneration Committee determines the framework performance reviews take place at Board meetings several and broad policy for the remuneration of the Chair, Group times a year. The Board approves sustainability strategy Chief Executive, and any other members of the executive ENVIRONMENT initiatives and has final sign-off on our sustainability reports. management team. With sustainable shareholder value creation Safety and Audit and Risk as its guiding principle, the Remuneration Committee works Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee We act in full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance to ensure that Directors and senior managers are fairly Sustainability Committee Committee Code. As of the date of this report’s publication, the Company’s rewarded for responsibilities they successfully undertake. The Remuneration Committee is The Safety and Sustainability The Nomination Committee ensures The Audit and Risk Committee helps Board comprises the non-executive Chair, one executive It ensures pay levels and bonuses are in line with our overall responsible for Group remuneration Committee monitors the Group’s a balance of skills, knowledge, the Board to monitor the integrity of Director and nine non-executive Directors. Excluding the health and safety performance. Focus on safety KPIs within policy, and for setting pay levels and social, ethical, environmental and independence, experience the Group’s financial statements; Chair, six members of the Board are independent nonsenior management remuneration continues to be high. bonuses for senior management safety performance, and oversees and diversity on the Board reviews the effectiveness of the executive Directors. The Chair and non-executive Directors This includes remuneration for the Group CEO, COO, and in line with individual performance. all sustainable development issues and its committees. Group’s system of internal controls Ensures safety KPIs are included on behalf of the Board. and risk management systems. assess the Company’s management and performance, the Managing Directors of Operations and cascades down in remuneration package. review financial information and monitor internal risk throughout the Group. management procedures and controls. The interests of EMPLOYEES Directors are disclosed on an annual basis and any changes Nomination Committee to those interests are made known to the Company Ensure a balance of skills and diversity Secretary. Additional information on our Board is included The Nomination Committee is responsible for making Group CEO in the Governance section of our Annual Report. recommendations on the composition of the Board and its committees. It ensures a balance of skills, knowledge, Safety and Sustainability Committee independence, experience and diversity and promotes Technical Council The Group CEO takes ultimate Chief Sustainability Officer responsibility for delivering on strategy Embed and integrate healthy corporate culture. Regularly reviewing leadership and operating performance. In 2015, we established our Safety and Sustainability needs and priorities, the Nomination Committee ensures The Technical Council agrees The Chief Sustainability Officer coordinates Committee. This provides support to the Board by monitoring the Group can continue to compete effectively in the strategy and tactical implementation sustainability initiatives and activities to ensure the Group’s safety record, sustainability performance and marketplace. It also leads evaluation of the Board and COMMUNITIES across the business. transparency and long-term value for investors and other stakeholders. ethical conduct. The Committee oversees the Company’s non-executive Directors. Define and Agree priorities overall approach to sustainability, developing and implementing review strategy and actions short and long-term policies and standards. It ensures that Audit and Risk Committee we consistently exhibit and promote ethical, transparent and Risk management responsible behaviour, and regularly engage key stakeholders The Audit and Risk Committee is a fully independent body, and communities. comprising independent non-executive Directors with Human Resources Communications Health and Safety Environment To address safety, the Committee has been working hard relevant skills and experience in financial reporting and to implement major improvements to risk management risk management. It actively encourages a commitment procedures to achieve our goal of zero fatalities. The to discipline right across the business, which is very much The Human Resources Director The Communications and PR The Chief Operating Officer, The Chief Operating Officer together Committee measures the impact of our initiatives, and helps in line with Polymetal’s overall approach to governance. ECONOMIC defines and monitors employment Director is responsible for identifying supported by our HSE department, with our HSE department sets The Committee focuses on ensuring the consistent quality contracts and employee and engaging with the majority of sets targets for maintaining health targets and is responsible for the Audit and Risk Committee identify, manage and mitigate performance. external stakeholders, including and safety performance. performance in this area. sustainability risks (see page 16). of reporting, internal control and risk management processes government and regional authorities, that, in turn, warrant the objectivity and transparency of local communities and NGOs. In 2017, the Safety and Sustainability Committee held six the Company’s financial statements. meetings and one additional joint meeting with the Audit and Risk Committee. During Committee meetings it reviewed: circumstances of all accidents that took place; H&S plan implementation and its impact on overall safety; sustainability strategy, progress and plans; use of renewable energy; various policies; and performance, including results Operations of externally facilitated evaluation. Jointly with the Audit APPENDICES Committee, it discussed results of a significant risks review Our operating mines and development properties performed by the Company’s Internal Audit Department, have heads of Operations, Human Resources, and received a tailings storage facility update. Environment and Health and Safety, who implement and monitor corporate systems, supported by specialist PR and engineering teams. 14 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 15 HOW WE MANAGE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGING OUR RISKS MATERIALITY Polymetal has developed a risk management system, underpinned by a bottom-up approach and examined from Stakeholder engagement and materiality In 2017, we explained the GRI process and asked OVERVIEW which is an essential element in creating sustainable value a top-down perspective, ensuring adequate involvement of To select key issues for inclusion in our sustainability strategy, stakeholders to complete a survey about their views on for stakeholders. We are committed to minimising risks to the Board and executive management, and alignment with we must understand our stakeholders’ views. So we engage Polymetal’s and/or our partners’ activities. Results showed our people, local communities and the environment through the Company’s strategy. with all of our stakeholders, including governments, local that internal and external stakeholders care most about accurate and timely risk identification and effective mitigation organisations and communities, our employees, suppliers economic performance. activities. Our management collectively identifies all business risks. Our Board of Directors then takes responsibility for monitoring and contractors, as well as investors and financial institutions. Occupational health and safety and emissions, effluents At Polymetal, we maintain a robust and sustainabilitythese risks and ensuring they are managed effectively. The We conduct stakeholder mapping to identify the stakeholders and waste are high priorities for investors, suppliers and conscious risk management framework, which ensures Board’s Audit and Risk Committee develops and oversees on whom we have the biggest impact. We then identify issues contractors. However, employees and local residents ranked that risks are properly identified, assessed against tolerance implementation of our risk management strategies. These are and concerns they raise, and engage with our shareholders’ these lower. Environmental management and engaging with levels and appropriately managed across the Group. Our informed by our stakeholder engagement – with government CSR teams to inform our decision-making process. local communities were ranked highly by local communities, risk management system is designed to minimise potential agencies, employees, local communities, NGOs, and the investors, customers and employees, while suppliers consider ENVIRONMENT threats to achieving our strategic objectives. The process is financial community, as well as our suppliers and customers. We regularly carry out a ‘materiality assessment’ of these medium priority (their top concern is legal compliance). internal and external stakeholders in accordance with GRI Standards. This helps us prioritise key sustainability risks. In 2018, we will evaluate our assessment and ensure We use a consistent methodology, based on internal and all priorities are being addressed effectively. RISK MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES external data sources, to score against each issue. Material topics are relevant to all parts of our Group. BOARD OF DIRECTORS, GROUP CEO AND INTERNAL AUDIT OPERATIONAL MANAGERS AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE TECHNICAL COUNCIL DEPARTMENT OF THE BOARD MATERIAL TOPICS EMPLOYEES Monitor and control risk Identify risks to the business Define and monitor the risk Identify and evaluate everyday management efficiency, and associated management management process and risks and report them, Higher approve risk management operations mitigation tools and actions, implement risk mitigation Economic performance policies and guidelines, prepare risk reports programmes review risk management Freedom of association Environmental compliance Occupational health strategy and risk reports, and collective bargaining and safety take responsibility for key Compliance risk identification Diversity and Child labour Environmental management equal opportunity Local communities Employment Non-discrimination Water Emissions COMMUNITIES Human rights assessment OUR KEY RISKS Energy Sustainability risk Training and education Sustainability risk management is part of our overall risk management system. The priority for our sustainability framework Resettlement Labour management relations is identifying and managing key risks. Safety and environmental risks are considered to be some of our critical risks. Importance to stakeholders Equal remuneration Materials for women and men ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS SAFETY RISK SOCIAL RISKS ECONOMIC RISKS Products and services Biodiversity Indigenous rights Anti-corruption ECONOMIC Environmental risks include We have a zero target We pay particular attention We also depend on suppliers Transport technological (exceeding for fatalities and strive to to social risks management. and contractors, who can Effluents and wastes emissions, contamination, reduce injuries. We use These include risks related delay deliveries of essential Supplier environmental Public policy assessment spillages or releases into risk assessment cards to communities, employees components and affect the environment, and fails to continuously record and supply chain. Building production terms. We have Procurement practices in processes); natural risks and estimate risks and positive relationships with expanded measures to Material stewardship (temperature change, floods, the measures taken by local communities is essential respond to such risks. Closure planning storms); and regulatory risks management to mitigate them. when implementing largeSecurity practices Please read more in our Forced or compulsory labour (compliance and changes We also have a dedicated scale investment projects and Anti-competitive behaviour to regulations, complying in-house Audit Department getting a licence to operate. Economic section. Grievance mechanisms Indirect economic impact with regulatory bodies, over to monitor the safety There is also the risk of failing Emergency preparedness limit penalties, violation of system, which is certified in to demonstrate shared value Customer health and safety APPENDICES waste disposal rules, and compliance with international or to deliver on commitments. non-compliance with other standards by external Marketing and labelling Market presence conditions). independent auditors. Please read more in our Supplier social assessment Community section Lower Please read more in our Please read more in our Health Customer privacy Environment section. and Safety section. Lower Importance to business Higher A broader discussion of our risk factors and management approach is included in our Annual Report 2017. High material topics (reported in both AR and SR) Material topics (reported in SR) Other important topics (reported through other channels). 16 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 17 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We are committed to regular, OVERVIEW STAKEHOLDERS WHY THEY ARE IMPORTANT TO US WHO IS RESPONSIBLE WITHIN POLYMETAL CHANNELS OF ENGAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES meaningful and transparent stakeholder engagement. Using a range of communication SHAREHOLDERS As a company, Polymetal exists to create • Board • AGM/GM • Financial, operational and sustainable value for shareholders. sustainability performance • Group CEO • Annual and Sustainability Reports channels, we encourage open In turn, our shareholders and investors • Dividends and honest dialogue with our • Chief Financial Officer • Investor conferences and provide us with the capital we need to one-to-one meetings • Regulation, economics and politics stakeholders, building a clear develop and expand our operations. • Chief Sustainability Officer • Presentations/conference calls • Mergers and acquisitions understanding of the issues • IR team • Site visits • Labour that matter to them and how • Direct correspondence • Health and safety ENVIRONMENT we can address them. • Compliance with international environmental standards EMPLOYEES Our people are one of our core strengths • Group CEO • Employee opinion polls and questionnaires • Wages, benefits and social packages and assets; the success of our business • Chief Financial Officer • Workers’ councils • Working and living conditions depends upon their expertise, dedication and skill. • Human Resources team • Internal hotline, website, suggestion boxes • Health and safety and grievance mechanisms We hire the most talented staff and • Health and Safety team • Career progression and opportunities invest significantly in their training and • Meetings and face-to-face communication • Communications team • Social needs development. We also work hard to with management EMPLOYEES provide a safe environment for them. • Operations directors and chief engineers • Training, development and education • Performance reviews • Annual direct line with the Group CEO SUPPLIERS AND Our suppliers and contractors make a • All production departments • Direct correspondence • Financial performance significant contribution to our business. CONTRACTORS We build stable, long-term relationships • Legal team • Contractual relationships • Open and fair relations with them, enabling us to achieve • Polymetal Trading and procurement • Meetings and trainings • Health and safety mutually beneficial terms of contract teams within operations • Compliance audits with Polymetal’s • Regulation and uninterrupted supply. requirements with focus on safety COMMUNITIES • Impact on environment, human rights In collaboration with our contract partners, and society we work to ensure compliance with environmental and safety standards across the Polymetal supply chain. GOVERNMENT AND We maintain good relations with the • Group CEO • Working groups • Regulatory compliance national and local governments under INDUSTRY AUTHORITIES whose jurisdictions we operate. • Managing directors at our operations • Meetings • Taxes • GR team • Direct correspondence • Labour issues We abide by all laws and regulations ECONOMIC that apply to our business, and we enter • Communications team • Industry conferences • Health and safety into open and transparent dialogue with • Legal team • Environmental protection industry authorities. In particular, we engage with authorities on issues relating • Infrastructure and local development to improvements in mining legislation. COMMUNITIES AND NGOS Polymetal depends upon communities and • Communications and PR team • Opinion polls and questionnaires • Investment NGOs for its licence to operate in specific • Public and face-to-face meetings • Employment localities and regions. APPENDICES • Communication with Company managers • Infrastructure development We work with these stakeholders to create mutually beneficial conditions. We also • Press conferences • Environmental and health impacts respect the rights of local and indigenous • Working groups (for NGOs) • Local culture, lifestyle, language communities and invest in those areas that and traditions are important to them. • Grievance mechanisms • Email and telephone 18 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 19 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS OUR PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOALS 2017 OUTCOMES In January 2016, the United Nations launched We provide economic growth by creating processing hubs and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. ensuring further scale-up, and 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we are a significant taxpayer. GOVERNANCE consisting of 169 targets, aim to wipe out Our business activities make a Recognition • Headed rankings of environmentally responsible metals and mining companies by WWF and UNDP poverty, fight inequality and tackle climate significant contribution to the national • Achieved higher scores from Sustainalytics, MSCI and Robecosam (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) and local economies in which we change. We are playing our part, and have operate. We provide economic growth • Reaffirmed as a FTSE4Good and Euronext Vigeo member aligned our business strategy with the SDGs. by creating processing hubs, ensuring further scale-up, providing new jobs Ensure high standards of • Conducted comprehensive materiality assessment together with our stakeholders and by paying high taxes. corporate governance and ENVIRONMENT • Prepared first report for ESAP progress at Kyzyl for EBRD in compliance with IFC requirements sustainable development • Intensified our anti-corruption training, increasing total number of people trained and number of seminars We provide decent work to people by We support life on land by restoring ENVIRONMENT full and productive employment to fight land, planting forests and preventing against poverty, support of local/IMN biodiversity loss. Reduce our environmental • Updated our Environmental Management System in compliance with updated version of ISO communities and charity activities. footprint 14001:2015 and prepared for compliance audit in 2018 In 2017, we held various events devoted We ensure equal employment and to environmental protection and • Developed our Climate Strategy 2020 and carbon management programmes remuneration for local communities. initiatives on biodiversity conservation. • Implemented Energy Management System designed in compliance with ISO • Developed Mine Closure Standard and Tailing Management System with implementation in 2018 EMPLOYEES We build and support infrastructure EMPLOYEES projects. Embed robust safety • Completed implementing Critical Risks Management System, safeguarding employee well-being We are proud of maintaining full gender procedures and safeguard • Continued Group recertification of safety system in compliance with OHSAS 18001 equality and empowering women in Polymetal. This year, we actively employee well-being • Equipped our vehicles and mining fleet with safety tools and devices promoted female employees, and will try to progressively achieve greater equality. • Allocated responsibilities for safety performance to relevant employees and linked remuneration to it We drive efficiency in material use and monitor all production processes. Build a motivated, loyal and • Marginally decreased staff turnover rate from 5.5% to 5.4% capable workforce • Developed new training programmes, procedures and courses; invested US$ 1,474 thousand in professional training COMMUNITIES • Extended collective bargaining agreement at Voro We ensure healthy workplaces and We are aware of climate change and promote well-being as well as creating • Increased budget for employee financial aid in 2017 twofold demonstrate our commitment by safe working environments. implementing our Carbon Management The health and safety of our people Policy and cooperating with the Carbon COMMUNITIES is our top priority. No ounce of gold is Disclosure Project. Maintain strong links and • Started dialogue with communities living close to our new operations and signed four cooperation worth a human life. Our ambition is to agreements with them, in addition to the 26 active agreements currently in place create a workplace without fatalities, relationships in the regions injuries or occupational diseases. where we operate • Invested US$11.7 million in social support and territorial development programmes; provided assistance We promote responsible business to over 100 social care institutions and facilities (schools, kindergartens, health centres, sports and and societies by applying best cultural facilities) ECONOMIC practices in business ethics and • Supported and promoted charity campaigns together with our 1,000 employees, aimed at helping corporate governance. vulnerable groups; provided targeted assistance to over 1,000 people Water is essential to our business and We take measures to reduce our • Increased corporate volunteering, with 54% of personnel willing to participate in events host communities. We are committed impact of waste and air emissions on to minimising the volume and impact of liquid discharged into watercourses the environment and host communities. ECONOMIC in accordance with local legislation and target indicators. Every year Ensure financial stability and • Generated a healthy free cash flow of US$143 million; coupled with a strong balance sheet this we substantially increase water use shareholder returns translated into cash returns for our investors We strive to revitalise global efficiency through our water efficiency partnerships for sustainable Maintain excellent working • Switched to long-term partnerships by using long-term contracts with suppliers selected in transparent and water management programmes. development by supporting the relationships with suppliers and open tenders, including local suppliers UN Global Compact with its Ten APPENDICES • Developed scorecards for supplier assessments to make selection process more targeted and efficient Principles and other international and local organisations and initiatives. Pursue further growth • Secured an option to consolidate 100% in Nezhda, its joint venture in Yakutia (Russia) for development We provide learning opportunities for all We have effective anti-bribery and opportunities of high-grade refractory gold deposit and invest in education of communities anti-corruption policies. By upholding • Acquired 5% share of Prognoz, the largest undeveloped primary silver deposit in Russia and our employees by donating money our commitment to ethical business to schools, cooperating with colleges practices, we seek to maintain our • Acquired Primorskoye mine and universities, providing internships reputation and meet our long-term and training our employees. objectives. 20 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 21 ENVIRONMENT Salt licks for Mayskoye wild deer OVERVIEW In the Chukotka region, nearly 200 km of salt licks were prepared for the wildlife of the tundra forests surrounding the Mayskoye site. Polymetal’s Environmental team designed the salt licks to boost nutrition and local employees volunteered their time to place them along the migration paths used by the region’s wild deer. There are plans to expand this programme in future years. ENVIRONMENT Annual Litter EMPLOYEES Scavenger Hunt For the past four years, we have held an annual Litter Scavenger Hunt. Every Polymetal employee who wants to make a visible improvement to his or her little corner of the world is invited to join in. Participants are challenged not only to pick up litter but also to find something of interest during their town clean up. We also hold a ‘recycled crafts’ contest, where our people have to create a COMMUNITIES work of art using a piece of ‘litter’, an ‘Eco bird feeders’ contest (creating homemade bird feeders), and ‘Eco bird house’ project. 20 years protecting the environment SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Ekaterina Gorohova Laboratory supervisor, Dukat Ekaterina Gorohova (pictured on left) is the ECONOMIC We strive to put the environment at the heart of all our supervisor of a laboratory at the Dukat hub dedicated to environmental control and industrial activities, minimising our environmental impact and sanitation. The laboratory continually evaluates the quality of air and water samples taken from achieving greater efficiencies across the Group. We around the Dukat site. In addition to her work, Ekaterina has also had over two dozen scientific do this through continuous improvement, innovation, papers published in Russian, German and APPENDICES Greek academic journals. and, above all, the tireless efforts of our people. 22 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 23 ENVIRONMENT Our approach Auditing and compliance Environmental grievance mechanism OVERVIEW Central to running a sustainable business is being mindful In addition to complying with relevant legislation and ISO We enable our stakeholders to voice any concerns or of environmental responsibility. Over the past two decades, 14001, we undergo regular audits by state authorities and grievances by complying with rigorous environmental impact our systems have been designed to protect both human hire external service providers to drive our environmental assessment procedures, including public hearings and other health and the environment, and we are continually learning performance. In 2017, six of our mines were inspected by mechanisms. At each of our sites, we document comments and adapting. We ensure that environmental aspects are a government commission, and only seven minor cases from the public in a log book, and deliver a range of taken into consideration when designing, constructing and of non-compliance with environmental regulations were engagement activities to listen to stakeholder feedback. operating our mines and processing facilities. revealed at two of our production sites (Komar and Kyzyl, In 2017, we received no new complaints or grievances both in Kazakhstan). These were related to waste, water and about our environmental impacts. As with all mining companies, our work involves a number air treatment, which resulted in a fine amounting to $9,000. of environmental risks. Our Environment Policy focuses on We implemented all corrective measures right after the check ENVIRONMENT continuous improvement, risk reduction, best practice and and will ensure mistakes will not be repeated. Environmental investments 2017 compliance. It also covers managing key environmental issues, including incident and emergency control and In 2017, we received no other significant fines or non(%) the use of environmentally friendly materials. monetary sanctions for breaches or infringements. In our Waste 43 ■ Water 24 20-year history, we are very proud that we have had no Land and water 29 Our Group-wide Environmental Management System (EMS) moderate, major or catastrophic environmental incidents. ■ Waste 23 Biodiversity 15 helps us manage these risks, driving resource and energy We focus on improving controls to prevent potential ■ Land 18 Air and climate 10 efficiency across the business. We use modern, efficient environmental incidents, and on integrating environmental ■ Natural resources use efficiency 18 We focus on improving controls to equipment and technologies to minimise pollution, and consciousness into core business processes. US$24.8m Other ■ Air 10 3 prevent potential environmental engage employees on environmental issues. In 2017, ■ Other 7 we updated our EMS to the requirements of international Engaging with our stakeholders incidents, and on integrating EMPLOYEES standard ISO 14001:2015. All our production sites are Suppliers and contractors environmental consciousness certified for compliance with ISO 14001:2006, and a We control and minimise risks not only internally within our certification audit of our updated system (since the 2015 into core business processes. version) will be held in 2018. sites, but also externally with our suppliers, by integrating the environment into our procurement practices. In our Training is critical to ensure our people are up-to-date on contractual agreements, we insist on compliance with Environmental protection key environmental issues. We encourage our environmental applicable laws and regulations, our EMS, and all During 2017, our overall investment in environmental Andrey Savchenko managers to participate in courses on topics such as requirements surrounding issues like packaging, noise, protection was US$24.8 million, up from US$14.3 million in HSE Director environmental management, water quality assessment, pollution and emergency preparedness. Equipment suppliers 2016, and a significant increase from US$5.1 million in 2015. hazardous waste, environmental security and land reclamation. must provide guarantees that their hardware operates within These investments include expenditures on the purchase of established limits. In addition, we conduct selective formal environmental facilities at our development projects in 2017. COMMUNITIES supplier assessments and audits for environmental In addition, we make quarterly payments to governments compliance and best practice. in the regions where we operate to offset any negative environmental impact caused by our business. These We communicate our environmental procedures to are governed by environmental law and defined by audits our contractors, and require them to be responsible for conducted at our sites by government agencies. environmental safety and avoiding significant environmental impact. Our contractors must seek to improve their environmental risk management, as well as their Group CEO Environment, Health and Safety performance. ECONOMIC COO CSO OUR AMBITIOUS ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS FOR 2020: HSE Operations Who is responsible? What guidelines Material topics Priorities >> 1. Reuse at least 20% of annual volumes of overburden/ Director Directors Group CEO, Chief Sustainability do we follow? • Carbon management and Maintain ISO 14001 compliance; waste rock. Officer, Chief Operating UN Global Compact, emissions continue tailing dams >> 2. Continuously reduce water consumption and water Officer, HSE Director, Head Group Code of Conduct, inspections; expand application • Energy discharge by effectively using water resources.* of Environment, regional Environmental Policy, ISO of Cyanide Management Code environmental managers, • Water guidelines at all operations; >> 3. Reduce direct impacts on biodiversity. 14001, Carbon Management managing directors, chief certify energy management APPENDICES Regional Policy, Cyanide Code, EBRD • Materials >> 4. Develop and implement our Climate Management Head of engineers and heads of Environmental and Social Policy system; implement detailed environment environmental departments • Biodiversity management standards, System with respect to greenhouse gas (GHG), environment managers at our operations • Land reclamation including tailing storage facilities climate risk and carbon footprint management. management, resources >> 5. Decrease GHG emissions by at least 1%.* • Effluents and waste efficiency, mine closure, water • Supplier environmental use and waste management >> 6. Decrease sulphur dioxide emissions by at least 1%.* Environmental teams at our operation assessment * 2020 compared to 2016. 2016 – baseline year for each mine. • Environmental grievance mechanisms 24 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 25 ENVIRONMENT Water Local and state authorities grant permission for our water OVERVIEW Focus on water withdrawal each year, and as our operations are spread Waste across a wide geographical area, we do not over-exploit As a result of demographics and climate change, people (Mt) any single source. Our usage always remains within are generally concerned about the long-term availability, acceptable limits. We do not withdraw water from surface quality and secure supply of water. This is one of the key Waste rock Waste sources in environmentally sensitive areas, or where water disposed environmental issues that our stakeholders talk to us about. We use water for industrial use, drinking and irrigation, and recognise the importance of efficient water management. is of great importance to local or indigenous communities. We actively source water for our operations, such as the water 117.7 Waste reused 99.7 22% Our processing plants consume the most amount of water that naturally seeps down and collects in our underground Tailings during ore processing. Waste 10.6 mines. We use this water underground, but we also pump it to the surface to be used in our gold processing operations. incinerated ENVIRONMENT Water consumption Fortunately, our production sites are generally located When extra water is needed, we may purchase it from utility suppliers, and as a last resort, we are also allowed a certain level of take-off from rivers, dams, and groundwater aquifers. Other (28 Mt) 9.8 0.1 in regions where there is no water shortage. Despite this, of total waste generated we use a closed water supply system, meaning we strive to use only recycled purified water from the tailing dam and Water quality our sediment ponds. As well as minimising offtake of fresh We take water security and quality seriously, as it’s important water, it also means we reduce the risk of releasing unsafe to the health of our people and stakeholders, the environment water into the surrounding area. and our operations. So we continually monitor any impacts of our work on surface and ground water, and take action to In 2017, at our production site in Armenia, we worked to minimise negative impacts where necessary. We also work determine how we could use recycled mine waste water EMPLOYEES with local governments and stakeholders to protect water in technological processes at the plant. We will implement security in the communities where we operate, often Waste Recycling our waste our solutions in 2018. providing water and infrastructure through our operations. Mining generates significant quantities of mineral waste, as Wherever we can, we reuse the waste that we generate well as some non-mineral and hazardous substances. These within our operations. We have developed systems and Before discharge, water quality is checked for compliance result in impacts on land through the establishment of tailings procedures that enable us to maximise the amounts we with relevant requirements. Discharged water passes through dams and waste rock dumps, and may also result in impacts recycle and minimise waste to landfill. In 2017, we were sewage treatment plants and is cleaned through various on water if not managed effectively. able to recycle 22%. mechanical, physico-chemical and biological cleaning processes. Finally, water measurement is carried out by Reducing our materials and waste We also find uses for our waste outside of Polymetal. meters, flowmeters, and through indirect estimation when For example, we have contracts with waste recycling using meters is not possible. We are firmly committed to the responsible management companies to provide them with waste for incineration of waste materials. In our production processes, we use COMMUNITIES and energy production. Where we can’t recycle or reuse large quantities of ore and energy to produce products materials, we dispose of them at our own waste facilities such as Doré bars, zinc precipitate, and flotation and gravity or outsource waste disposal to external companies. In 2017, concentrates. Overburden and tailings are the most we disposed of 99.7 Mt of waste, compared to 56 Mt in 2016. significant waste streams associated with our operations, accounting for more than 99% of the total waste volume. Overburden is the material that is extracted to uncover ore Strict procedures to prevent contamination deposits, while tailings is a by-product of ore processing. Environmental legislation in countries where we operate sets out strict requirements for the prevention of soil and water In order to minimise our impact, we drive efficiency in material contamination. Our tailings storage facilities (TSF) have been use. For example, we identify the most harmful materials in built in full compliance with these requirements, and they also Water our operational processes – such as explosives, drilling take into account detailed engineering and geological ECONOMIC (thousands of cubic metres) parts and mill balls for grinding – and make efforts to reduce studies. In 2017, we started to develop a corporate TSF volumes of these materials without impacting quality. During management system, which will allow us to enhance control 2017, we mined 12,589 Kt of ore and 114 Mt of waste, and prevent accidents. Surface water External water Watercourses Landscape processed 13,037 Kt of ore and generated 128 Mt of waste. supply (While more than in 2016, when we generated 74 Mt of We also hire external consultants to conduct independent 9,144 716 9,548 252 waste, the volume of mining has increased). audits of our tailings dams, and we will continue this practice in the future. Our audit teams carry out regular internal checks and Ground water Collecting ponds Sewage assess our compliance with national and regional standards, Water recycled 7,822 and reused 825 713 and government agencies conduct regular environmental performance spot-checks at our facilities. We now operate APPENDICES eight tailings dams, and in 2017 there were no significant or 83% major environmental accidents involving tailings facilities at our operations. Total withdrawal Total discharge 17,683 11,339 Share of recycled water equals to the ratio of water recycled and water withdrawal 26 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 27 ENVIRONMENT Cyanide and hazardous waste management Energy and carbon management OVERVIEW Our production methods involve several hazardous Our energy supply Lighting the way with green energy consumables. Among these, the largest is cyanide, which The main sources of energy consumed at Polymetal’s sites generates hazardous waste during the recovery of gold from include electricity, diesel fuel, natural gas and coal. Diesel At our Varvara plant, we needed to light a railway level crossing. the ore we process. Within our process, cyanide can also Our Energy Department had to choose between laying traditional fuel makes up a significant proportion of our total energy exist as a chemical compound found in gas, water and powerlines or installing a new solar power collection plant. consumption. This is due to our sites’ remoteness from The capital costs for both energy sources turned out to be solids, which we later purify. industrial centres and centralised power supply systems. similar, and because the use of ‘green energy’ is one of our In 2017, we consumed a total of 7,010 TJ at all our sites, environmental priorities, we took advantage of this opportunity to We are rigorous in our handling, management and monitoring compared with 7,020 TJ in 2016. start generating environmentally friendly power. particularly low between October and March. To combat this, we of cyanide due to its hazardous potential. Our approach installed additional solar panels and a solar battery – this allows involves identifying all associated hazards, strictly controlling To ensure energy security for our operations, we use In 2017, we installed two solar panels on either side of the level us to light the level crossing using solar power year-round, even ENVIRONMENT all cyanide levels in our tailings, and monitoring air, soil, company-owned diesel generators. Diesel accounts for 50% crossing. These will generate 374 kWh of clean, renewable on cloudy winter days. surface and ground waters. We also provide environmental of total energy consumption. This will decrease slightly in energy every year, reducing our fuel costs. monitoring results to public authorities, and deliver 2018, due to the Kyzyl plant commissioning in Kazakhstan, Following this success, we are now investigating the installation of environmental protection measures. These include the We have discovered that it takes roughly 3,900 sunlight hours a solar flat plate collectors to further boost the use of green energy which is connected to the grid. year to light the level crossing. However, there are only around design, construction and monitoring of tailings dams, at Varvara. 2,500 hours of sun in the region annually. Sunlight levels are and the monitoring of water sources and quality, riverbed changes and associated drainage. Energy consumption In 2016, we became signatories to the International Cyanide (%) Management Code followed by the certification of Amursk Diesel (transport and mobile machinery) 27 POX. At Polymetal, we used 8.9 thousand tonnes of cyanide Electricity purchased 27 Renewable energy generation Greenhouse gas emissions EMPLOYEES in 2017. To ensure there is no waste, we always use 100% Diesel power plant 24 In 2017, we conducted a feasibility study into the use Finding renewable energy sources is a priority if we are to of the volumes of cyanide we purchase. And we also take Electricity generated 13 of alternative energy sources at all our Company sites. lower our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and manage a cautious approach to the transportation of hazardous Coal 6 As a result, two pilot projects have been approved for carbon emissions (see our Carbon Management Policy). materials. In 2017, we did not transport, import or export 7,010 TJ Gas 2 any waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the implementation: a solar power plant with a capacity of Heat and electricity from our diesel generators, as well as Other 1 1 MW at our Svetloye field; and a wind farm at the seaport our mining fleet operations, produce GHG emissions. The Base Convention 2, Annex I, II, III and VIII. In total in 2017, we produced 13.5 Kt of hazardous waste, compared to of Unchi. We aim to launch both in the second half of 2018. burning of natural gas and coal and the use of landfill also 11 Kt in 2016. contribute to our GHG footprint. We measure and monitor our In addition, we have installed heat co-generation systems CO2 emissions using established international methodology. from our diesel power plant operations. These heat recovery Waste intensity systems provide the necessary amount of heat for households To effectively manage our greenhouse gas emissions, Energy efficiency COMMUNITIES and production facilities at full capacity, without additional we conduct an inventory assessment each year and report (tonnes of waste per tonne of ore mined) One of our priorities is to increase energy efficiency at our heating equipment (boiler rooms). both direct and indirect emissions. In 2017, direct GHG 12 production sites. We worked according to an action plan, emissions amounted to 281 Kt, compared to 268 Kt in 2016. 0000 which we developed in early 2017, to reduce energy 10 Energy In 2017, we introduced a number of measures to reduce 10.2 consumption, ensure efficient use of energy resources, GHG emissions, including converting all lighting to LED, and 8 and implement energy-efficient equipment and technologies. 8000 equipping diesel-powered generators with a heat recovery Company-wide inefficient light sources have been replaced 0000 6 7000 system. We also began to develop our Climate Management with LED lighting and frequency converters have been 7,020 7,010 5.5 5.5 6000 System. This will help to: installed on our main technological equipment. When 6,195 4 developing projects and modernising equipment, only 5000 • identify GHG emission sources of three scopes, as well as 5.7 5.4 5.4 2 energy-efficient equipment is used. 4000 climatic risks and opportunities; ECONOMIC 3000 • determine the carbon footprint of producing assets, 0 As a result of our efforts, we have reduced energy used in 2015 2016 2017 2000 and provide a quantitative estimation; ore processing by 0.4%. This has been achieved through careful and effective energy resource planning, and continual 1000 • monitor and report on greenhouse gases; The waste intensity increase is associated with the start of monitoring of energy consumption to ensure we meet energy 0 • develop and implement strategies and plans for the efficiency targets at each site. 2015 2016 2017 operations at Kyzyl, which resulted in a growth in stripping management of GHGs, carbon footprint products and volumes and therefore an increase in waste rock. resistance to risks, as well as measures to reduce GHG In 2017, we conducted energy audits at some of our Intensity (GJ/10 Kt of ore processed) Consumption (terajoules) emissions and the carbon footprint of producing assets; operations, which were carried out by an independent party. Based on the results, energy performance certificates have • prepare scenarios and models to adapt to climate change, been granted, and a set of action plans developed for each and monitor effectiveness. APPENDICES site. In addition, our new Energy Management System has been developed and approved, meeting the requirements of the international standard ISO-50001. This system will be implemented and certified at all operations in 2018. 28 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 29 ENVIRONMENT Air quality Planning for mine closures and land rehabilitation OVERVIEW Many of our core activities, including stripping, mined Reduction in GHG emissions intensity As all sites will eventually deplete their mineral resource and waste storage, ore processing and energy use, generate ore reserves, it is essential that we plan responsibly for the air emissions. These emissions include carbon dioxide end of each mine’s operational life. As a priority, we relocate and nitrogen, sulphur oxides and inorganic dust, the main workers to our other mines which is typically easy, given the type of pollutant emissions produced by our activities. fly-in-fly-out nature of our operations (see Employees section for information about changes to key employment terms). 8% Between 2012 and 2017 we saw an increase in pollutant Our long-term remediation obligations include fulfilling emissions as a result of the expansion of our mining activities decommissioning and restoration liabilities as stipulated and energy usage. In order to minimise future emissions, we by licences and covering suspension or abandonment will continue to ensure that our vehicles and mining equipment costs in compliance with national regulations and legislation. ENVIRONMENT are modern and compliant with European quality standards, Reduction in GHG and feature the most up-to-date technology. To reduce dust emissions We also carry out geological, surveying and repair works to emissions, we use irrigation systems in open areas together ensure that, once a mine is closed, underground operations, with dust separation equipment and shields. As a result, the drilling sites and buildings are not hazardous or dangerous, release of ozone harming substances is not taking place and and that we carry out any environmental rehabilitation. In our organisational efficiency improved overall. 2017, we also started developing our Corporate Mine Closure Standard, which will be implemented in 2018. As of December 31, 2017, Polymetal Group manages 20 million hectares of land, of which 1,271 hectares has been altered either for mineral extraction activities, or EMPLOYEES other industrial or commercial purposes. Of the altered GHG emissions GHG Emissions (total and indirect) Pollutants in air land, 471 hectares has been fully rehabilitated and approved (t) (t) by the relevant regulatory authorities (please see more in 1000000 5000 Key sustainability numbers appendix). 4,973 900000 4,619 4,565 9.1 800000 621 638 4000 592 8.0 700000 736,724 7.5 600000 672,309 771,320 3000 2,983 500000 2,500 400000 2000 2,153 1,823 300000 1,608 COMMUNITIES 1,361 200000 1000 983 847 100000 614 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 GHG emissions intensity (CO2eq. t/10 Kt or ore processed) GHG(t)emissions intensity (CO2eq. t/10 Kt or ore processed) GHG Sulphur dioxide (SOx) Nitrogen oxide + dioxide (NOx) GHG (t) Carbon monoxide (CO) Inorganic dust (solid particles) Intensity (tonnes per 10 Kt of ore mined) ECONOMIC Decreasing coal usage Our sites require a significant amount of hot water, as we work in cold, remote areas with no access to infrastructure. Traditionally, this water has been heated using coal boilers, which negatively affects air quality. However, we know that modern technology can lower our environmental impact, and we have been replacing old coal boilers with more environmentally friendly alternatives. In 2017, we installed two modern boilers to replace an old coal boiler at our Kubaka plant in the Magadan region, where APPENDICES coal consumption has now decreased by 1.5 tonnes. The new boiler house has a powerful cleaning system, which minimises emissions into the atmosphere. At Kyzyl, we implemented a liquid fuel boiler system, which works on used oil that would otherwise have been wasted. The boiler can heat up buildings during the spring and autumn, and the technology also improves air quality. So we’re providing hot water and heating that’s better for the environment. 30 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 31 ENVIRONMENT Our progress in 2017 Our action plan for 2017 was geared towards continuously improving our environmental footprint. OVERVIEW Our targets, and the progress we made against them, are set out below: WE SAID… WE DID… We would develop a corporate system of energy The system has been developed, approved and is currently management based on ISO 50001 standards being implemented at our production sites ENVIRONMENT We would consider the possibility of using renewable The decision was made to construct a solar power plant at our energy sources (wind and solar) at remote sites Svetloye mine, and a wind power plant in the seaport of Unchi We would complete the reconstruction of solid household The construction is underway and industrial waste landfill at our Lunnoye project We would modernise the process of heat recovery to We completed the design stage of the project and increase the proportion of heat generated by the autoclave purchased equipment; this maintenance work is in progress used in heating the overall plant We would implement a programme to preserve biological This programme has been fully implemented EMPLOYEES diversity We would reconstruct the settling tank of waste dump and This work has been completed quarry water at our Albazino project We would amend our Environmental Management System This has been amended and approved, with production to comply with the requirements of ISO 14001: 2015 sites moving to the new requirements. A certification audit of compliance is planned for Q1 2018 Protecting biodiversity animal species. Some of our licence areas are located in See our environmental performance in detail in our key sustainability figures table at the end of this report. these territories, which means we have to be mindful of COMMUNITIES We are committed to treading lightly in the regions where we operate and work hard to minimise our impact on local temporary extraction of land for mining and construction biodiversity. To this end, as a matter of policy we do not of facilities, and temporary change in conditions necessary operate in or adjacent to protected or vulnerable areas. to support flora, fauna, and invertebrates. We respect, and will not encroach upon, land that has particular value – natural, historical or cultural – for Despite this, we implemented the following measures: Plans for 2018 and beyond Indigenous Minorities of the North (IMN). We also engage • Released over 86,000 juvenile fish from fish farms to in comprehensive land rehabilitation once we have finished water streams suitable for fishery use to reproduce working in a particular area, focusing on the reparation of aquatic biological resources; any environmental damage that our operations may have • Established feeding places and salt licks for deer Looking ahead, we plan to: caused. and hares; ECONOMIC Polymetal pays particular attention to the issue of • Installed bird deterrents at tailing dams to prevent birds >>Focus on minimising volumes of withdrawn fresh water >>Plant forests to offset impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity. In 2017, we focused on awareness coming into contact with cyanide and other chemicals; by changing and improving existing technologies, communities. programmes and employee training on biodiversity issues. • Planted more than 500 trees; increasing use of recycled water, ensuring better We also carry out an annual assessment of the status of purification, and using a system to collect and >>Install biodiversity protection tools, such as anti-fish biodiversity, and how it is impacted by activities at our • Equipped roads (which we build for personnel and ore transportation) with signs bringing attention to wild animal use open-pit water for irrigation of ore stockpiles. filters for water pumps, bird-friendly electricity cables, production sites. Our re-assessment in 2017 concluded migration routes and increasing bird populations. that with the exception of just one endangered species – the poiny flower listed in Armenia’s Red Data Book was • Cleaned water streams close to our operations and >>Use the backfill method in underground mines to identified at Kapan mine – there were no other species of decrease volumes of waste rock brought to the surface >>New systems to be developed in 2018: offices; animals or plants in critical and vulnerable conditions. We and stored as stockpiles. >> Tailing storage facilities management • Installed fences along the sides of our pits. APPENDICES are proud to confirm that our production sites do not have a >> Energy management system and energy audit significant impact on biodiversity in or around the sites. All our employees are involved in our biodiversity >> Climate strategy for 3 years conservation programme and help with biodiversity Due to the extreme northern location of most of our sites, monitoring. In addition, we insist that all site staff, including >> Recourse and materials use efficiency system the surrounding territory is low in conservational value. contractors, take part in environmental, health and safety However, some sites are situated in the forest and tundra >> Mine closure standard awareness training to ensure they understand their areas of Russia’s Far East. These provide natural habitats responsibilities to protect biodiversity. for various rare and threatened or vulnerable plant and 32 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 33 EMPLOYEES Tatyana Arkhipova Foreman-technologist at Albazino plant Despite being only 25, Tatyana already manages OVERVIEW 25 people in her team, all men. Earlier she worked as a lawyer and then she switched to metals and mining. She advises, “If you want to achieve success, you have to learn not to put things off until the next day. You must do everything ‘here and now’. I absolutely enjoy doing my work; I can hardly imagine my life without metallurgy!” ENVIRONMENT Olesya Kupolova EMPLOYEES Chief geologist at Magadan Geology is a male-dominated profession, and our Omolon hub in the Magadan region is no exception. To get to the top, Olesya was single minded that this is what she wanted to do from a very young age. As a trainee she had to work a lot in an office, and it was hard to get onthe-field practical experience. However, when opportunities arose she didn’t hesitate: “It was a subconscious choice, which I never COMMUNITIES regretted.” 20 years investing in our employees SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Aglona Nosovskaya Geo technician at Voro Aglona joined Polymetal in 2014. Before starting ECONOMIC The training, development and well-being of our her career at the company she completed a degree in geo-ecology at Tomsk Polytechnic employees has been of paramount importance for the University. For Aglona it is important that the company pays considerable attention to its past two decades. We will continue to invest heavily in social obligations. our people – the future of our company – over the next “I am confident in my future as it is a stable APPENDICES position and I know that I will receive my salary 20 years. on time. Sport also plays a vital role here – the company makes it easy for us to have a healthy lifestyle.” 34 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 35 EMPLOYEES Our approach Anti-corruption Headcount and turnover OVERVIEW We want to attract the best people and ensure they are We work hard to raise awareness of bribery and corruption At the end of 2017, we employed 11,919 people compared motivated to stay and bring their commitment to work. risks, and their potential impact on our business. Across the to 11,261 in 2016. The majority of our people work on a So we strive to create a fair and inclusive environment, pay Group, we have implemented a variety of measures to help ‘fly-in/fly-out’ basis rather than permanent relocations, competitive salaries that benchmark well within the industry, prevent corruption and fraud among our employees, because of the demanding nature of the work and our offer equal terms of employment and reward performance. contractors and suppliers. In 2017, we continued our antiremote site locations. Each year, on average approximately Through training, and skills and leadership development, corruption training. As well as induction and refresher training half of our employees are shift workers. All of our personnel we are creating our future business leaders. for Polymetal employees and contractors, we held more than (100%) are employed on a permanent basis. 101 seminars for high-risk groups, which were attended by Taking guidance from International Labour Organization over 1,760 people. Over the last seven years, we have been steadily reducing Principles and the UN’s Global Compact, our policies and our average employee turnover rate (including fly-in/fly-out ENVIRONMENT procedures are coordinated by our Group Head of Human Instances of corruption identified within our business were operations). In 2011, this rate was 19.6%, and in 2017, the Resources. In addition, our Human Resources Committee limited to minor fraud relating to purchasing, equipment rate was just 5.4%. This achievement is partly attributable and operating subsidiary managing directors ensure inventory, supplier lobbying and the quality of materials and to a difficult macroeconomic environment, but also to our implementation of our policies in collaboration with equipment. This led to no financial loss, and avoided damage efforts to promote internal employee mobility, training and relevant HR teams. worth USD 21,000. Seven managers were sanctioned for development, and favourable working conditions. fraudulent activities and four were dismissed. None of these Business ethics cases had a material impact on our operations or financial We expect all employees to sign up to and comply with our position, and no court cases relating to corruption were Headcount and turnover The success of Polymetal is entirely Company Code of Conduct. This guides ethical behaviour brought against the Company or any of our employees. 12000 down to its people. To keep capabilities, towards colleagues and customers, business partners, 11,261 11,919 Labour rights and equal opportunities 10000 loyalty and motivation high and ensure state authorities and society. It focuses on numerous issues, EMPLOYEES 19.2 including equality, health and safety, government and In accordance with our Human Rights Policy, and as 9,180 9,238 our continued success, we must community relations, environmental protection, transparency, signatories to the United Nations Global Compact, we are 8000 8,998 continue to invest in our employees. competition and data protection. It also sets out our zerocommitted to a zero-tolerance approach to human trafficking 6000 11.4 tolerance approach to drug use, conflicts of interest, bribery and modern slavery. We engage with stakeholders to and bullying. In 2017, there were 12 cases of unethical promote human rights, and seek to influence partners, 4000 8.3 behaviour registered. contractors and suppliers to apply the same rigorous 5.5 5.4 2000 standards. At our operations, we have processes in place Dmitry Razumov Our Code of Conduct is underpinned by our policies, to ensure that we do not employ any under-age or forced 0 Deputy CEO, Human Resources covering a similarly broad range of issues. By ensuring labour. No incidents of employing under-age people or 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 our employees comply with our Code and policies, and forced labour were reported in 2017. Personnel Turnover (%) by listening and responding to their feedback, we are building COMMUNITIES a Company culture based on mutual understanding, respect In addition, we are committed to equal opportunities and and trust. terms of employment. We recruit people on merit and do not discriminate on any grounds, including gender, race, skin colour, religion, nationality, social origin and political opinions. In 2017, we employed 12 people with disabilities or health conditions. We are fully compliant with national and international standards relating to staff and management, ensuring that our working environment is based on fairness and respect. In 2017, no reported cases of discrimination were made within the Group. ECONOMIC Group CEO Who is responsible? What guidelines Material topics Priorities Group CEO, HR Director and do we follow? • Employment • Occupational health and safety Provide safe environment and HR Director HR team, COO, Head of HSE, UNDHR, UN Global Compact, equal opportunities, ensure • Labour/management relations • Non-discrimination communications department, Group Code of Conduct, equal remuneration, promote managing directors and HR • Training and education • Freedom of association and diversity, ensure protection national labour codes, Standard teams at our operations collective bargaining of human rights; recruit and Regulation on Social Conditions • Diversity and equal HR policy retain engaged and motivated APPENDICES Employee and Service Quality Control, opportunities • Human rights and social Training Human Resources policies, employees and interns, engagement HR manager • Equal remuneration for women • Mine closure develop career pathways, development centres collective agreements manager and men improve communications with manager • Labour practices and employees, enhance training grievance mechanisms programmes HR teams at operations 36 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 37 EMPLOYEES Diversity Human capital development OVERVIEW Proportion of male to female Traditionally, the mining industry has been male dominated Group-wide training and development are critical to improving Women in mining qualified personnel due to the physical requirements and nature of the work. skills, keeping employees motivated and ensuring the future We actively promote the inclusion of women in our workforce success of the Company. and leadership teams. In 2017, women occupied 24% of Name: Anna Katsebina our management roles, and represented 22% of our total Above mandatory compliance and induction training, from Position: Research engineer workforce. Women make up 27% of our Board. the moment people join Polymetal, employees are appraised, and a personal training programme is agreed, including Gender discrimination is prevented by the procedures general operational and technical training. At each subsequent controlling candidates’ selection and assessment during the appraisal, we agree further training – both professional and search for candidates to fill an open position. To do that we: managerial – through our network of corporate training ENVIRONMENT • specify qualification requirements centres and guest trainers. Key employees are also given Anna Katsebina joined Polymetal in 2013. She began the opportunity to attend training sessions held by other as a laboratory assistant working at Chukotka, • carry out interviews to assess competencies international mining companies, and we host teams of other moved to a flotation plant operator role, and in 2016 22% 78% Total mining and engineering companies at some of our training. was offered the position of research engineer at our • u  se a pool of assessors to ensure non-biased assessment workforce In 2017, we invested US$1.5 million in personnel training. Central Analytical Laboratory at Mayskoye. She was of candidates. one of the winners at our Scientific and Industrial Our people need to become proficient with our specialised Conference in Magadan in 2017 and won the In 2017, 163 female employees received corporate awards. 24% Mid-level management 76% We held professional competitions in five categories (laboratory assistants, chemists, ecologists, QC controllers, software to be truly integrated into the Company. We use a variety of computer programs and electronic ‘Best Research Project’ award. “I think it was the right way to first get experience and hydrometallurgists-operators). 150 women took part in documentation to make our business processes fast in ‘the field’, and only afterwards to become an 42% Qualified 58% these contests, of which 30 won awards. 16 female workers and effective and to help in the design of mining projects. engineer,” said Anna. “Every day I go to work feeling EMPLOYEES personnel participated in the scientific and industrial conference (33.3% as if I have come home to my ‘big family’. We tackle of the participants), five of whom were winners (50% of the Rather than relying on external training to meet this need, in issues together, and everyone helps each other out. total number of winners). 2012 we developed our own digital training hub – the Mining IT The company’s success depends on all of us.” 12% Workers 88% We promote female work in social media. Throughout the Centre. This enables us to train our people more effectively in all internal IT processes, systems and software, and to explore Name: Anna Bykova year, 77 articles devoted to female workers were published at training opportunities that can meet their individual needs. Position: Chemical engineer our internal corporate data centre. Our corporate newspaper, Severnaya Shirota, published 23 articles focused on women. We also provide continual learning opportunities for Mid-level management includes employees who hold positions as heads of companies In addition, 35 articles were published in regional media, our people. For example, our distance-learning training or business units: directors, chiefs of divisions, managers, experts or supervisors etc.; chief specialists, for example, chief accountant, chief dispatcher, chief engineer, chief highlighting Polymetal’s equal opportunities. complements the work of our training centres and on-site mechanic, chief metallurgist, chief geologist; and deputies to these positions. training facilities. This increases productivity and efficiency COMMUNITIES Qualified personnel are employees who are engaged in engineering and technical, economic and other such positions. In particular accountants, geologists, dispatchers, and helps us provide training to employees in remote engineers, inspectors, mechanics, quantity surveyors, editors, economists, energy locations. In 2017, we developed new distance-learning Anna Bykova is a chemical engineer at Amursk. She specialists, legal advisors etc., and assistants to these positions. It also covers office training courses and will continue to develop this further was one of the winners at the Scientific and Industrial workers in accounting and control and maintenance positions, who are not engaged in manual labour, including clerks, concierge staff, controllers, secretaries. in 2018. Conference 2017. Her project was a zonal analysis Workers include personnel who are directly engaged in the process of value creation, of production risks in order to optimise correctiveas well as those engaged in repair, moving goods, transporting passengers, providing preventative actions. She has always wanted to work material services, and so on. in engineering. “I don’t work for money; I work for knowledge. I absorb new information like a sponge”. ECONOMIC Name: Natalia Gaidarzhi Polymetal best practices to avoid discrimination Practices we try to eliminate Training per person Position: Plant foreman Qualification requirements in job description Request Use of too detailed requirements in the request which reduce the number of prevent gender discrimination preparation potential candidates 66 Award-winning plant foreman Natalia Gaidarzhi has worked in mining for 44 years, 13 at Polymetal. She does not regret a single day spent in the North. hours Use of all available sources to search for and Reject candidates at the CV review stage on “Every time I enter my work place, I feel energy. I like Search and selection APPENDICES select candidates based on requirements the basis of superficial review and personal of the request perception of the HR manager everything here – the people, the mechanisms, the working life… ‘I work’ means to me ‘I live!’. My family motto is ‘go forward and cope with any difficulties on the way’.” Interview to assess competencies Candidate Interview without checking competence, conducted by several managers with by a narrow group of managers and with no results-based assessment assessment results-based assessment Hours of training per trained employee 38 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 39 EMPLOYEES Professional development programmes OVERVIEW Best in profession contest Young Leaders Programme 2017 In addition to remuneration, we believe it’s important to invest in rewarding employees. Every year, for example, we hold This year, Polymetal continued helping young people fulfil their potential through the Young Leaders Programme. As well as ‘Best in profession’ competitions and award ceremonies. helping our young employees, this programme also helps us These are an important tool for identifying and encouraging grow through sustainable succession planning. employees with potential, contributing to skills development and the dissemination of best practices, and increasing the Ekaterina Shlyazhiene – Foreman at Albazino processing plant. The programme trained a diverse team of 12 young managers, profile of particular trades. The competitions test theory and representing our sites in Russia, Kazakhstan and Armenia, and practical skills, as well as Health, Safety and Environment all main production units. Comprising professionals in design and The programme focused on issues such as corporate culture, knowledge. Winners receive diplomas and money prizes. engineering, development and construction, geological surveying world economic trends, changing legislation and so on. At the end ENVIRONMENT and mining operations, and overall project and risk management, of the programme, our young leaders were asked to compile a list Our employee survey shows that at least 80% of our the young leaders received guidance from Board members and of recommendations to tackle challenging issues for the Board and employees believe that these awards are helpful, motivating top management. senior management. and instilling pride in their profession. Each year, we hold around 20 professional competitions at our sites in the Russian Federation, the Republic of Kazakhstan and Armenia. In 2017, 1,050 people took part (including 150 women). Talent Pool Programmes for young people In addition to traditional competitions (for geologists and To help develop the next generation of skilled managers, In 2017, we provided training for those with high potential to mineral surveyors, assayers, drivers, open-pit workers), we created Polymetal’s ‘Talent Pool’. In 2017, we extended prepare them for leadership challenges of the future. This we introduced competitions for welders, mineralogists and EMPLOYEES this to include energy engineering and geologist career included training on subjects such as occupational health scalers. In the Urals, we also held our first trans-regional development programmes. We continued to provide all and safety, production control, construction, mine planning professional skills competition for young geologists, with employees in our Talent Pool with personalised targets, and labour relations. 26 people participating. In 2018, we plan to hold professional assessments and development plans. As a result of skills competitions in accordance with Worldskills Russia’s methodology. comprehensive training, last year we were able to promote 20 Annual scientific and industrial conference for young Talent Pool employees to key positions within the Company. professionals We held a conference of young geologists at Voro. As a Self-Nomination result, ten participants were included in our Talent Pool Comprising an innovative online platform, our Self-Nomination and will follow a career development plan for the positions Programme offers all employees equal opportunities for of ‘chief site geologist’ and ‘chief project geologist’. development and progression within the Company. At the COMMUNITIES same time, it enables us to identify potential future leaders, Internships and ambitious and resourceful young specialists. Hosted on We continue our collaboration with leading universities the Company’s corporate web-portal, the new programme and technical colleges to attract talented young students to encourages young members of staff to put forward their the Company via targeted internships. In 2017, 118 students ideas, achievements and credentials, and make a case for undertook internships at Polymetal (including 30 female accelerating their professional development. students) and we employed 17% of the interns. Strikes or lockouts Talent Pool Programme planning and development 0 ECONOMIC OCTOBER – DECEMBER JANUARY – DECEMBER DECEMBER – JANUARY JANUARY – APRIL APRIL – DECEMBER Planning Training – Training – Training – programme development programme development programme development APPENDICES > Making a list of key positions for > Assessment of potential candidates > Implementing the Individual > A ssessing if the Talent Pool including in Talent Pool Development Programme Programme participant is ready > S electing employees for the Talent for the targeted role/promotion > Appointing supervisors for candidates’ Pool programmes assessments and training > P lanning of the training programmes > Making a list of candidates for for employees’ promotion and skill including in Talent Pool development 40 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 41 EMPLOYEES Labour practice Social support Changes to key employment terms and notice periods Employee satisfaction OVERVIEW Competitive salaries and benefits In addition, we provide social support to our employees. For We communicate any changes in working conditions and Employee satisfaction is important to keep motivation high. We ensure that employees are fairly compensated based those in need, we offer financial aid, and in 2017 doubled our other significant events in a timely and appropriate way. The To measure this, we conduct a survey every two years, on merit. Our salaries are competitive, we offer benefits aid budget compared to 2016. We provide housing support amount of notice given to employees is covered by collective which helps to identify any areas for improvement. In 2017, that exceed regional averages in our areas of operation, and and cover interest payments on employee mortgages. We agreements and complies with appropriate legislation in the employees were asked to assess working conditions, our long-term incentive programme is linked to relative share subsidise kindergarten, after-school activities and a holiday country of employment. In the Russian Federation, the occupational safety, labour remuneration, social conditions, price performance (see our Remuneration Report for more camp for the children of our employees. We also pay holiday minimum notice period for changes in employment terms team communication and the corporate environment. All our details www.polymetalinternational.com). It is critical that we travel costs once every two years for employees working in due to organisational change; changes to operational sites and offices participated, including over 6,000 people provide appropriate remuneration to attract, retain and remote locations and their families. For retiring employees, working conditions; changes in, or introduction or review of through approximately 50 focus groups. We also conducted motivate the right calibre of employee in the regions in which we provide additional severance pay, and for parents we offer worktime standards; or upcoming dismissal due to Company 100 expert interviews with the management at individual sites we operate. parental leave with a paid period of up to three years. In 2017, liquidation is two months before changes come into effect. and offices, as well as our corporate management. The ENVIRONMENT 228 people took maternity (97%) and paternity (3%) leave, In the Republic of Kazakhstan and Republic of Armenia, the survey showed that overall job satisfaction has increased We implement a remuneration framework that is designed and 100% returned to Polymetal following their leave. notice period for these changes is one month. to 82%, compared to 72% in 2015. Social benefits have to reward our employees on the basis of their performance, increased overall employee satisfaction by 10%. giving equal emphasis to delivery and behaviour through Improving working and living conditions In the case of any potential large scale layoffs the Company short-term incentives. Operational workers receive a timedismisses step-by-step, and temporarily suspends In 2017, we organised more than 170 events for employees. In 2017, we continued to improve working and living paid salary, which is set according to the number of hours recruitment. We provide training for workers to enhance their These included sports, leisure, environmental and conditions for employees, particularly those engaged in shift worked and amount of work completed. We also award skills or change professions as needed by the Company, professional events as well as celebrations of important work in remote locations. Our efforts included infrastructure performance-based monthly and annual bonuses, and in continue to pay salaries throughout re-training, and wherever corporate dates. In 2017, 73% of employees said they improvement and development at the mines. 2017 we continued to sustain stable wage growth in line possible, transfer employees to other areas of the business. were satisfied with corporate events. with inflation. At Albazino, we renovated our existing dormitory and built Internal communications At many of our sites, employee stress has significantly a new one for 100 employees. At Khakanja, the canteen EMPLOYEES decreased compared to 2015. Overall, in 2017 this was Equal pay facilities and dormitory were renovated at a cost of around Our internal communication systems enable employees to measured at 9% (a decrease of 17% compared to 2015). We ensure equality in pay and provide equal levels of US$300,000. At Mayskoye, we renovated facilities for engage with each other, at all levels. For example, employees The results of the research showed a high degree of trust remuneration at positions with the same competence women, and opened a new office and canteen building as can contact their manager directly through managers’ team in line managers and site management compared to 2015, requirements for both male and female employees. Under the former ones were located on the site of our expanded meetings or one-on-one meetings, a PBX (private branch with trust assessed at 84%, an increase of 6%. current legislation the company does not have to report on open pit. At Dukat, we renovated an entire housing estate, exchange), a specifically designated email address, and gender pay; however, we are working on getting an accurate while at Kyzyl, we built a new dormitory for our contractors. also through the ‘contact us’ form on the corporate portal. Employees said that working conditions have become picture of gender pay matters, and will take action depending In 2017, we plan to complete construction of a portable more comfortable, compared to conditions in 2015, with on outcomes and conclusions. Within the Group, the sports complex for training and holding team competitions. All issues raised by employees are considered and the company devoting more attention to safety and making difference in remuneration ratio for male and female is 1.27. investigated promptly, involving dedicated experts, and if equipment improvements. In 2017, we carried out overhaul At Polymetal, women are well represented in senior positions Regulated and fair employee relations necessary, site management. The most complex, or Groupand repairs of residential premises for personnel, including wide issues, are submitted to a special committee. The COMMUNITIES with the biggest share of female managers in administrative, We have an excellent track record in regulating employee dining rooms and bathing facilities. We also purchased social and communication professions, although the number employee is always notified of progress and resolution, relations based on equality, consideration of mutual interests, additional sports equipment and simulators, taking into of female seniors is much lower in production, construction and a dedicated manager ensures that all issues or queries strict compliance with local social and labour regulations and account employee needs. and geology. are resolved. constructive dialogue between partners on all social and labour issues. The survey also revealed potential areas for improvement. In 2017, we received 1,001 queries via our various As a result, we developed action plans to introduce changes. communication channels. According to the results of our Polymetal salaries compared to regional wages We support our employees’ rights to freedom of association employee survey, 76% of employees are satisfied with our This involved over 300 corrective actions for 2018 at an and collective agreements. In 2017, 89% of all our employees investment of more than USD 3.2 million. The majority of 150000 feedback system, and meeting with company management worldwide and 100% of personnel at our operating sites in this will go towards constructing new social facilities, and is considered the most effective communication channel. Russia, Armenia and Kazakhstan were covered by collective improving working and living conditions, such as indoor 120000 42 meetings took place in 2017, and 79% of all queries were bargaining agreements. We extended our collective sports halls and gyms at ‘fly-in, fly-out’ camps, offices addressed during these meetings. During the year, we also ECONOMIC agreement at Voro by three years, doubling the financial aid and residential buildings. 90000 had 38 conference calls with company representatives. available. In 2018, we plan to increase managers’ team meetings 60000 At each site, we have established Labour Relations to receive prompt feedback from employees. Commissions to facilitate discussions between our 30000 employees and the Company. We have also created Workers’ Councils and set up a system of formal feedback Employee feedback mechanism 0 Russia Kazakhstan Armenia sessions. We provide employees with opportunities to feed back any concerns – including anonymously – through our Enquiries from employees Internal Communication System. In 2017, we received 1,001 Labour practice 101 Email Regional minimum Regional average enquiries (1,269 in 2016). So far, we have responded to Remuneration 165 Internal Telephone communications APPENDICES Polymetal minimum (men) Polymetal average (men) Polymetal minimum (women) Polymetal average (women) 100% of these, mostly at meetings and through our hotline. Social benefits 171 Health and safety 151 department Surveys Polymetal’s 1,001 Training and development 58 Polymetal minimum salaries are 260% (347% for men and 260% for women) and higher than the regional minimum. Living conditions 214 Intranet response/actions Corporate events, professional contests and sport 21 Corporate meetings Employees and management relations, enquiries corporate communications 56 Media Other 64 42 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 43 EMPLOYEES Our progress in 2017 OVERVIEW Charity and volunteering We involve our employees across our sites – including new operations – in our charity initiatives. In 2017, for WE SAID… WE DID… example, 1,000 employees participated in charity events, helping more than 600 children in need. We have structured our corporate volunteering activities and We would implement more education programmes on We developed and implemented an education plan. This conducted information campaigns about them. 54% industrial safety and risk assessment. included a distance-learning course to enhance employee of employees say they would like to participate in charity risk management skills, complete with annual testing. events, so we are now launching a corporate website specifically dedicated to Polymetal’s charity projects. We also introduced induction assessment cards for We are also seeing increasing interest of our employees performance estimation. ENVIRONMENT towards engagement in volunteering. We would hold a meeting of young geologists, involving We held a conference of young geologists at Voro. As a training on our Company standards. result, 10 participants were included in our Talent Pool list and will follow a career development plan for the positions of ‘chief site geologist’ and ‘chief project geologist’. We would create multimedia materials for courses in our We launched seven electronic textbooks for distance training centres. learning. We would expand the Talent Pool. We launched target programmes for energy engineering and geologist career development. EMPLOYEES COMMUNITIES Plans for 2018 and beyond Looking ahead, our key objectives for 2018 and beyond are as follows: ECONOMIC >>To develop direct communication between management >>To continue our training programme on geomechanics and employees, and enhance frequency and (rock mass stability) in mining operations, especially effectiveness of communications. on identifying safety risks. >>To implement our HSE communications programme, >>To further increase share of in-house training. supporting key targets – leadership and safety culture among employees. >>To develop distance-learning training. >>To engage young employees using motivation, targeted APPENDICES events, career development programmes and training. Olesya Fomenkova – Analytical laboratory assistant at Amursk POX 44 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 45 HEALTH AND SAFETY Improving metal safety at Dukat OVERVIEW At the Dukat underground mine, metal reinforcement is used to support deep underground works. However, if metal fragments remain in the ore when it’s sent for grinding, this can result in damage to conveyor belts or low grinding quality. Powerful magnets have now been installed at Dukat to separate any metal fragments from the ore, reducing shutdowns, increasing grinding quality, and improving safety. ENVIRONMENT New safety goggles at Voro EMPLOYEES Seven employees from various divisions at our Voro site were asked to test a few different models of safety goggles. All provide comfort, excellent visibility and eye protection, but we wanted to find the most suitable ones for their work to protect against workplace hazards. Our employees’ opinions are crucial, and their feedback will help us to decide which goggles to purchase. COMMUNITIES 20 years prioritising health and safety SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Zara Harutyunyan Mine rescuer at Kapan Former nurse, Zara Harutyunyan, has worked ECONOMIC Above everything else, safety is our number one priority at Kapan in Armenia for the past two years. She is the only female mine rescuer in the entire and we aim for a zero-harm work culture. We won’t Syunik region. To succeed at work, she had to overcome her fear of heights, which she did compromise on making sure all our people are safe as a result of constant training and with the help of her colleagues. at the end of the day. We invest heavily in proactively APPENDICES “So many faithful knights ready to support identifying risks, providing safety training for our staff, and come to the rescue, it is great!” she says. “If you have motivation, you can adapt to any and meeting the most stringent international health and physical activity.” safety standards. 46 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 47 HEALTH AND SAFETY OVERVIEW Our approach We work hard to create a ‘zero harm’ mindset and culture. Improving safety through This means every employee taking personal responsibility not only for their own safety, but also for that of the people drone technology around them. We continually promote safety behaviours to Our Geomechanics teams need to collect spatial data about ensure all our people and contractors work in a safe our sites. Traditionally, this has been done manually, and we environment. know that working from heights is a critical safety risk. To improve safety, in 2017 we adopted drone technology to reduce working We comply fully with Health and Safety (H&S) legislation from heights. A video camera on the drone allowed our people to wherever we operate, and strive to meet all relevant assess the current state of a pit at Albazino, which is 1.5km in size. international requirements. We communicate our Health and ENVIRONMENT “The drone flew around the pit, took photographs along its Safety Policy (available at www.polymetalinternational.com) perimeter, and afterwards the photos were processed,” said to our employees and stakeholders through information German Zlobin, one of our leading geomechanical engineers. boards, our internal newspaper, and weekly Safety Day “This makes it possible to create a 3D model, which will help us meetings. Every year, we work hard to ensure that our analyse the current situation and take appropriate measures.” compliance with external certification OHSAS 18001 is reaffirmed for our Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS). As our business grows and we increase Our OHSMS guides us in detecting, assessing and mitigating our underground operations and risks, safeguarding employee health and workplace safety, In 2017, we implemented our new Critical Risks Management Workplace accidents (CRM) system, identifying critical risks for 2018. While the Even when complying with the most stringent international headcount, safety can become even and making sure equipment, buildings and other structures EMPLOYEES greatest hazards at our sites are from falling rock, road standards and regulations as well as our safety management are used safely. It also ensures that supervision measures are transportation accidents and falling (slipping), we have seen more challenging. We take our carefully controlled, and that we conduct internal audits systems, unfortunately accidents can still happen. reduced exposure in the past year from these categories. responsibility to keep our people safe effectively. Additionally, we conduct monthly meetings of the We have upgraded one risk to ‘critical’, which is fire, and Over the past few years, the number of our underground Employee Council at our operations, where management very seriously, and are committed to together with workers discuss production and H&S issues. controlling measures for flammable materials is a particular mining operations has increased, with more complex and area of focus. challenging geomechanical conditions. Despite more maintaining rigorous safety processes All corporate H&S priorities, procedures and management employees working in these conditions, and the increased processes are the part of collective agreements. at all times and across our entire To reduce the potential impact of critical risks at all our number of production sites, we are encouraged that our Lost operations, our CRM includes a health and safety action organisation. Identifying risk management focus areas plan for all critical risks, and for each risk we have identified Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) has declined from 0.19 to 0.15. While we are also encouraged that the overall number Each year, we identify and assess health and safety risks five main directions of impact, and at least two preventative of fatalities in our operations has reduced by 50% in the past COMMUNITIES across the Group and create risk maps for all our working actions for each direction of impact. year, any fatality at Polymetal is one too many. processes and locations. We then develop detailed Vitaly Savchenko programmes to help us reduce these risks. We follow a Shift Risk Assessment (SRA) model to raise We are deeply concerned with the loss of two colleagues Chief Operating Officer employee awareness of workplace dangers, manage risks in 2017. Ms Lebedeva tragically lost her life from a fire in a We recognise risks associated with each of our sites – promptly, and control the accuracy of our risk assessments. laboratory at Varvara, which was caused by a concentration in Russia, Kazakhstan and Armenia. Individual units across We implement SRA most rigorously in hazardous operational of flammable substances, and Mr Vasilyev was fatally injured our production facilities, plants and mines that have been areas, for example automobile transport, mines, and plant by an unstable rock mass falling during an inspection at classified as ‘hazardous’ are fully insured. That is why our and power supply. Omolon. We pay sincere tribute to these colleagues’ hard Group CEO primary focus is on reducing the level of the most significant work and dedication, and offer our utmost condolences to risks at our 12 underground operations. We carry out an their families and friends. We will continue to financially annual qualitative hazardous risk assessment, and inform support their families going forwards, and most importantly, ECONOMIC employees of the results through a range of communication will do everything possible to return to our previous record of channels. zero fatalities across all our operations. Directors of HR Director COO operations As a response, we have reviewed our internal safety guidelines and procedures regarding chemicals storage and Who is responsible? What guidelines Material topics Priorities checked our electrical equipment to ensure no further faults. Group CEO, Chief Operating do we follow? • Types of injury To achieve zero harm, reduce We are helping our employees to better identify risks and Officer, HSE Director, Head of and effectively manage critical UN Global Compact, ICMC • Rates of injury effectively prevent any incidents in the future. HR managers Health and Safety, managing guideline, Group Code of risks, and maintain a safe at operation HSE Director directors, chief engineers and • Occupational diseases working environment for all Conduct, Health and Safety In 2017, there were also 14 other accidents in total across the sites health and safety managers at Policy, Corporate Occupational • Lost days and absenteeism employees; promote safe our operations, HR department conduct; prevent workplace Group. This compares to 15 accidents in 2016 and 10 in APPENDICES Health and Safety Management 2015. Our goal is for a zero-harm work culture and we will • Total number of work-related accidents and work-related System, OHSAS 18001, and implement additional measures and devote significant accidents illnesses; comply with relevant national occupational safety • Risk assessment and regulations and standards resources to do all we can to prevent future accidents. H&S standards management and embed responsible safety Most of these injuries occurred at sites where our safety managers behaviour across every aspect system has not yet been fully implemented. This will be Head of H&S • Emergency preparedness at operation of our operations an urgent priority going forwards. sites 48 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 49 HEALTH AND SAFETY Health and safety performance OVERVIEW Company Contractors ‘A right not to work’ 20 15 3 0.22 4 Irina Kozlova became a deputy chief engineer of Process 0.19 12 0.37 Safety and Occupational Safety and Health at our Komar 15 6 1 2 12 site in 2016. Prior to that, she had worked at Polymetal for 14 2 0.28 0.15 9 a number of years in different roles. Her main concern is 12 10 1 to ensure that all work is carried out safely, and she follows 2 6 3 7 two principles: leading by example, and safety first. 14 5 0.12 5.4 3 4 5.4 “I always say to my workers that you have a right not to ENVIRONMENT do your work if there are any hazards to your health or if 0 0 it puts your life and health in danger,” says Irina. “My final 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 rule is: anyone who witnesses an incident should report it.” Fatalities Severe injuries Minor injuries LTIFR Fatalities Accidents LTIFR Our progress in 2017 Analysis and response Occupational diseases To help us understand any weaknesses in our safety Three cases of occupational diseases and health difficulties WE SAID… WE DID… EMPLOYEES performance, we always investigate and analyse all were recorded in 2017 (two cases of silicosis and one of workplace accidents. We apply the ‘5 Whys?’ principle hearing loss) at our Dukat mine. Both employees had more to internal investigations, which we undertake in addition than 15 years’ experience working in hazardous conditions, We would use our Critical Risks Management (CRM) In 2017, we implemented our new CRM system, which to investigations by state authorities. This process involves including chemicals, cold climate, noise, vibration, dust and system and expand the number of risks. focuses on key critical risks. evaluating all possible health and safety risks – from hard physical work. Following these cases, one changed his We would continue safety training for all our employees at We continued safety training for our employees at all technological and technical liabilities to employees’ occupation at Polymetal, and another left the Company. all our operations, provided by our newly trained coaches. operational sites. psychological and emotional influences. We would improve existing visualisation of hazards and We categorised hazards visualisation tools and developed After thorough research and analysis, we draw comprehensive implement it at our new mines to prevent employees guidelines for their use. conclusions and implement measures to help prevent entering dangerous areas. re-occurrence. We inform all employees and contractors COMMUNITIES of our findings and incorporate new measures into our We would install speed control tools in all of our vehicles We completed this and now are able to monitor the speed health and safety action plan. In addition, we implement and those of our contractors. of any vehicle online. all recommendations by state authorities. (See our SWOT analysis below analysing accidents in 2017). We would continue replacing more manual work with We purchased a significant quantity of safety equipment equipment in underground mining to improve safety. and equipped our mining fleet. By implementing our health and safety action plan, we have been able to successfully transfer to our new CRM system. We would update our OHSMS in terms of allocating We identified key responsible managers at our operations Overall, this new system has reduced injury risk and we hope responsibilities and KPIs to managers to promote safety and linked their performance to remuneration. SWOT analysis of safety at Polymetal leadership. it will prevent repeat of past accidents in the future. Engaging and training employees on safety Strength Weaknesses > E mployees are motivated to > Fatalities and unconvincing ECONOMIC Training and engaging employees and contractors is comply with safety rules safety results essential to achieving our zero-harm goal. Polymetal’s Human Resources Management System sets out our > S upport of safer choice > High risks Plans for 2018 and beyond procedures for recruitment and assigning employees with > U ser-friendly application of > Complex geomechanical safety tools environment specific skills, as well as for providing training. We clarify competence requirements for each relevant job description > F ormal aspects of safety > Some employees see safety are well-managed as necessity and heads of business units identify training needs. We S W We are focused on decreasing the number of incidents and promoting additional safety measures by: provide training in occupational health, and industrial, electric and fire safety. We also provide refresher training and training O T >>Paying extra attention to working areas with critical risks; for specific purposes. Opportunities Threats > Good vertical subordinate > S ome divisions lag behind >>Ensuring a safer environment at our newly acquired mines; APPENDICES In 2017, our employees and contractors attended refresher relationships safety trends safety courses and some of those involved in dangerous > Clear direction about future > L imited alignment between >>Developing our Geomechanical Management System; works underwent mandatory safety training. To motivate safety staff groups employees about the importance of safety, we hold contests > Easy estimation of safety > Increasing share on >>Adjusting OHSMS with respect to risk assessment improvement at auxiliary departments; and and reward departments that achieve zero occurrences and impacts underground mining with incidents. We also publish our ‘safety barometer’ in our higher risks corporate newspaper, and on information desks and portals. > Better future results after >>Further enhancing safety training, behaviours and a safety mindset in all employees and contractors. longer use of OHSMS >N  ew demands for staff competencies 50 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 51 COMMUNITIES Nanay folk tale competition in Khabarovsk OVERVIEW Every year, Polymetal holds Nanay narrating competitions in the village of Juen. These are called ‘Ningmanchigoar’, which translates as ‘tell a fairy tale’. Old Nanay tales, tonguetwisters and riddles were presented by representatives from IMN communities of the Khabarovsk region during the competition. ENVIRONMENT Healthy environment EMPLOYEES As a part of Polymetal’s ‘Healthy Environment’ community engagement programme and year devoted to Environment, we launched and supported more than 35 events engaging local residents. These initiatives included municipal clean-up days, environmental contests and tree-planting events. During summer 2017 Polymetal employees together with community representatives planted more than 2,500 trees and 11,000 flowers. We actively support all youth eco-volunteering in our regions COMMUNITIES of operations and are aimed at enhancing environmental awareness and responsibility. 20 years supporting local communities SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Employing people from local communities ECONOMIC Nadezhda Suy is the senior technical interpreter Wherever we operate, we ensure that we work closely at Amursk POX. Before taking this position, she had worked at a linguistic school as a teacher. It with local communities, support local development, took Nadezhda a while and hard work to become fluent in mining English. The key to success in and have a positive impact. her field is to understand everything including complex technical processes and professional slang. “We constantly learn something new and this APPENDICES makes the work interesting. I am happy that I have an exciting job which is also a good incentive to broaden my professional horizon. The main thing is to believe in yourself and never give up on your own self-development. There will always be opportunities for you!” 52 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 53 COMMUNITIES Our local stakeholders are key to our business success. OVERVIEW In fact, we believe our achievements over the past 20 years Stakeholder engagement at all stages of mine life have been made possible by working hand-in-hand with our local communities. By building strong, trusted relationships Exploration Design and construction Operation Mine closure through regular engagement, we are able to respond to their needs. > We define and estimate > We engage representatives >W  e develop cooperation > We consult and inform risks of stakeholder groups agreements communities While each of our sites is different, we do see some common > We inspect communities > We meet communities and >W  e deliver value, providing help > We carefully monitor concerns that are raised. For example, local communities in the region open dialogue and assistance and fulfilling our impacts agreed social obligations may worry that our operations will impact local businesses or > We define communities’ > We plan long-term cooperation air quality. We do everything we can to ensure that our work expectations and needs tools >W  e implement feedback systems and respond to any concerns does not negatively impact our local communities, and that > We agree on communication ENVIRONMENT in fact we have a positive impact on them. channels, plan social investments, >W  e consider communities’ needs and analyse their needs when carrying out work By ensuring that our success is passed on to the community, > We develop plans with >W  e pay taxes we help to protect our reputation and keep our operations minimum negative impact >W  e continuously monitor running smoothly. This approach ensures that human rights > We employ local residents our impacts and the local environment are respected, and that our success is reflected in the local economy and society. Continuous engagement of local Community engagement Our management approach communities is necessary to ensure We follow international standards and conventions on Our dedicated teams oversee our community investment Corporate volunteering the quality of our social responsibility. and engagement programmes. And each time we invest in and charity EMPLOYEES community relations, such as the UN Declaration on the a new mining site or project, as a priority we assess the For the purpose of sustainable Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the UN Global Compact. social and economic risks and impacts that our activities We strive to develop and update our corporate standards Five years ago, at Magadan, we began development, it is very important for us and policies in line with international best practice. We also may have at local and regional level. We develop long-term our corporate charity project, ‘Mandarin’, strategies and engage with local communities, institutions, to communicate with locals, develop use our Community Engagement System, which ensures authorities and organisations to ensure we deliver maximum providing support to vulnerable groups. a universal approach to all our community engagement feedback mechanisms, and plan our and feedback from locals. value to local people. The project soon expanded to another seven sites with a total of 900 employees involved in social investments, considering the real Resettlement in communities making gifts for 350 children. needs of communities and analysing how Human rights In 2016, we adopted our policy on human rights, In 2017 we marginally expanded resettlement at Kyzyl. In 2017, we went even further, launching the effective they think our programs are. which reaffirms our commitment to respecting human This meant we needed to move 15 families from the old project in three countries and nine regions of COMMUNITIES rights and preserving the cultural heritage of the building, which was too close to the road used by Polymetal operations: Russia (Magadan, Khabarovsk, indigenous communities in the areas where we operate. to transport ore and waste rock. Property owners were Chukotka, Karelia, Yakutia, St Petersburg In 2017, we started our human rights risk assessment on offered cash compensation. As part of this process, we took and the Urals), Kazakhstan and Armenia. the corporate level and will provide training of our employees particular care to identify and provide additional assistance 1,000 employees participated, distributing Yulia Pivovarova in 2018. During the year, there were no recorded violations to vulnerable households. We bought apartments from ‘Mandarin’ gifts to around 630 children from Public Relations Director of the rights of minority groups. them and ensured that everyone affected was provided disadvantaged families and orphanages. with a place to live (all of them purchased property in nearby settlements). We also developed employee volunteering in 2017. In the Ural, around 40 employees took part in several environmental initiatives, such Group CEO as planting apple trees at a boarding school, ECONOMIC and cleaning the Kiva river bank. In addition, Polymetal volunteers put on events together with other volunteer organisations in the city. Deputy CEO Public and for communities government relations In 2018, our volunteer team plans to help and information director Who is responsible? What guidelines Material topics Priorities lonely, elderly people and children. Group CEO, PR Director, do we follow? • Local communities Improving quality of life of Technical Council, subsidiary UN Global Compact, Group communities in our areas of • Public policy managing directors working Code of Conduct, Policy on operation; improving interaction with heads of Finance, • Investment with stakeholders; providing Social Investment, Community Communications Relationship Management • Development and impact of transparency and openness in Head Head our social activities; promoting APPENDICES System infrastructure investments of internal of external sports and cultural activities communications communications • Formal agreements with (including healthcare and indigenous people and local infrastructure projects); communities supporting Indigenous Minorities • Grievance mechanisms for of the North (IMN); improving impacts on society our social policy; and complying Communication teams in our operations with international standards. • Rights of indigenous people • Resettlement 54 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 55 COMMUNITIES OVERVIEW Supporting Indigenous Minorities of Key social investment the North through reindeer herding KEY NUMBERS INVESTMENTS KEY PROJECTS (US$m) In the Russian Arctic, indigenous peoples of the North have created unique cultures that have allowed them to SPORT adapt to very severe geographic and climatic conditions. One of these cultures is tundra reindeer herding. Archaeological findings suggest that this has been Over the past year, we have supported 13 reindeer herding Over 70 projects 3.2 • Construction of city sports arena in the settlement of Okhotsk, Khabarovsk region • Constructed sports grounds and supported a local sports contest, village of Prigorodnyy, practised here for more than two thousand years, helping teams, comprising over 180 local people and 17 national Kazakhstan ENVIRONMENT man to explore, guaranteeing a constant source of food, communities. We have repaired three reindeer camps and providing skins for warmth. • Organised local children’s ice hockey tournament, ‘Zolotaya Kolyma’, Magadan region and arranged regular delivery of essential goods (food, medicines and fuel needed by reindeer herders) to remote EDUCATION Reindeer herders live very close to nature. As part of settlements and nomad camps in the Chaun District of our initiatives to support and establish good relationships with our local communities, we want to help Indigenous Chukotka and Okhotsk District of the Khabarovsk region. Over 85 projects 2.4 • Construction of kindergarten in Vardanidzor, Armenia We have also arranged regular veterinary visits to check • Repairs of kindergarten in Aim, Khabarovsk region Minorities of the North to preserve their ethnic, cultural the health of the reindeer. and national identity. We regularly engage with • Programme of educational grants at Kazakhstan universities for students of Zharma region, representatives of our local communities and hear Kazakhstan In addition, we helped organise 24 national festivals, about the challenges to their way of life. contests and conventions with over 7,000 participants, INFRASTRUCTURE supported 23 groups, ethnic centres and art clubs, As a result, we developed a programme to promote EMPLOYEES reindeer herding as a way of maintaining the communities’ involving over 515 people of various ages (from five to 65 years old), helping them to participate in contests Over 30 projects 2.3 • Infrastructure improvement project, village of Vorontsovka, Urals traditional lifestyle and support livelihoods in the extreme • Upgraded villages’ gas pipeline systems in Kostanay region, Kazakhstan and festivals. We also pay annual scholarships to students North. The programme covers all northern regions where • Funded lighting system in the city centre’s square of Amursk, Khabarovsk region from schools in the Okhotsk district, helping them maintain we operate, and in 2017 we extended it to one more their native Evensk language. HEALTHCARE region – Yakutia. There, we have established contacts with representatives of the community living there. Over 20 projects 2.3 • Repaired and provided equipment for local hospital, village of Auezov, Kazakhstan • ‘Rural doctor’ programme providing medical visits to remote settlements of the Khabarovsk region • Laboratory equipment for regional hospital in the settlement of Seymchan, Magadan region COMMUNITIES CULTURE Our commitment to social investment Over 70 events 0.9 • Supported children and youth ‘Stars of Hope’ art festival, Khabarovsk region • Paid for concert stage for a culture hall, Krasnoturyinsk, Urals Every single one of our sites and facilities provides Social investments in 2017 employment opportunities for local people. As well as paying • Supported local national art contest, Zharma region, Kazakhstan (%) regional taxes, we invest in local communities – funding INDIGENOUS MINORITIES OF THE NORTH education, health, culture and infrastructure. We also work Sport 27 to minimise any negative impact of our business on society, aiming to incorporate local community requests. Education Infrastructure 20 20 Over 45 events and projects 0.3 • Granted young people awards for learning and promoting the Chukchi language, and for developing reindeer breeding skills, Chukotka Healthcare 19 ECONOMIC • Constructed protective fencing for grazing deer, Yakutia We discuss community needs and decide investment Culture 8 priorities with local stakeholders. Our Board of Directors US$11.7m IMN 2 • Supported preservation of Negidal culture and traditional craft courses for young people, and management team review our annual community Khabarovsk region Charity 2 investments and targets to ensure they deliver meaningful Environmental awareness 1 CHARITY change for communities. In 2017, we invested more than US$11million in local Over 60 events and projects 0.3 • Provision of neuro-orthopaedic rehabilitation equipment for children with cerebral palsy, city hospital of Kostanay, Kazakhstan communities. And over the past five years, our investment • Supported swimming section for children with disabilities exceeded US$30 million. We have focused particularly on projects involving sport, healthcare and education, • Supported charity events for older people, school students, vulnerable families and orphans infrastructure, culture and creative potential, Indigenous in all regions of our operations APPENDICES Minorities of the North (IMN), and environmental protection. AWARENESS OF ENVIRONMENT CONSERVATION We also made charitable donations worth US$268,655. In addition to financial contributions, we make ‘in-kind’ Over 25 events and projects 0.1 • Cleaned part of the river Voghji, Kapan, Armenia donations, including humanitarian aid to reindeer herders, • Supported children and youth environmental groups, all regions of our operations with donations of food, fuel and medicines; delivery of • Further development of educational project ‘Pomidorro’, Magadan region food and medicine to remote communities and indigenous minorities; and construction and maintenance of roads in remote areas. 56 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 57 COMMUNITIES Communities’ consultation and grievances Our progress in 2017 OVERVIEW Feedback mechanism We communicate about our activities through our Community Engagement System (CES) and encourage local WE SAID… WE DID… stakeholders to give us their feedback. Local communities in remote areas are important, and we regularly organise field Stakeholder trips and face-to-face consultations with them. We would carry out at least three meetings with local We organised and held our first annual meetings with local In 2017, we received more than 500 enquiries from local residents in our new regions of operation and receive residents in the new regions of operation: Tomponsky communities, mostly relating to employment opportunities, their feedback on implemented social programmes. District (The Sakha Republic), Zhetikara District in Enquiry/Proposal Company impact on the lives of local people, and requests Kazakhstan, and the Kapan community in Armenia. for support for education and health institutions, and sport As a result, we received their first-year implementation ENVIRONMENT and cultural events for young people. During the year, we assessment of our comprehensive social programme, Annual held 37 meetings, public gatherings and hearings for local and our proposals on the establishment of community Email results community members and indigenous people (32 in 2016). interactions and social development for the coming year. meetings We also organised 20 site visits for members of the public and community representatives (15 in 2016). We would continue implementing our CES at all sites, We implemented our Community Engagement System identify any additional stakeholders, establish stakeholder at all sites. We began a dialogue with the community of the Sakha relations, assess their needs, implement a stakeholder Feedback Regular Republic (Yakutia), our new region of operation. We started feedback system, and carry out regular surveys in our boxes on meetings Telephone identifying community stakeholders, including employees, information with local new areas of operation. residents, public organisations and authorities. We created stands population communication channels and provided all stakeholders We would update our Sociable and Charitable Donations An updated version of our Social and Charitable Donations EMPLOYEES with access to these. As with our other operations, all Policy. Policy was approved by Board of Directors in 2017. stakeholders are now able to reach us easily, and are Communications guaranteed to receive a detailed response as soon as We would systemise our charity activities. We systemised planning and reporting processes, and department possible and within 14 days.. identified our main approaches to implementing projects. In 2017, we achieved significant progress in developing Assessing our impact our corporate volunteering activities and more than 1,000 Feedback Designated departments at each of our operations regularly of our employees got involved in charity events. registration collect data relating to our social projects. They conduct We would reach cooperation agreements with the We signed four more community agreements in new areas community polls, and hold annual performance review communities of the new areas of our operations. of our operations. meetings with stakeholders to evaluate the social and economic performance of our projects. This helps us COMMUNITIES respond flexibly to changing situations, adjust investments, Addressing enquiries and eliminate any possibility of funds being inappropriately diverted. They also provide local communities with the opportunity to participate directly in the development Answer/Explanation and monitoring of our social programmes. In 2017, we conducted community polls in 11 districts Annual involving 726 people. Our assessments showed several positive and no negative impacts from our operations. Plans for 2018 and beyond Email results Positive impacts included tax payments, support of meetings infrastructure and auxiliary industries, environmental ECONOMIC protection and ecological projects, regional population increase due to industrial growth, local employment We set the following tasks for 2018 and beyond: opportunities, and social investment and community Regular meetings support. In fact, we received more than 105 letters from >>to update our Social Projects Assessment System; Telephone Media community groups expressing gratitude for our efforts in with local addressing social issues. >>to implement the Community Engagement System at our recently acquired operations, including identifying population It gives us great satisfaction that in 2017 we constructed stakeholders, establishing stakeholder relations, assessing their needs, implementing a stakeholder feedback or upgraded 100 socially significant institutions (50 in 2016). system, and carrying out regular opinion polls; These include kindergartens, schools, health centres, and sport and culture centres in host communities in new and >>to increase the number of social projects and actions preserving local languages, cultural heritage and traditional APPENDICES remote areas. This provides targeted assistance to vulnerable crafts of the Indigenous Minorities of the North; people, including children from poor families and the elderly. >>to engage our employees and local communities’ representatives in volunteering, and to promote their participation in the Company’s environmental and charity projects. 58 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 59 ECONOMIC Cubex low-temperature rig in Dukat OVERVIEW Last autumn, representatives of Kazzinc and Glencore visited our Dukat hub. They came from Kazakhstan to see our unique drilling rig, ‘Cubex’. Dukat is the first in Russia to use the new rig, and we requested that it should be specially built for extremely low temperatures. The launch of the drilling rig will decrease our use of resources when removing overburden, so Cubex represents a major breakthrough in modern geology. ENVIRONMENT Simba S7 long-hole EMPLOYEES rig in Albazino At Albazino, the dream of automatic long-hole drilling became a reality with our modern rig, ‘Simba S7’. The staff in our mining planning department simply need to insert into it a USB drive with the project of drilling works and the machine adapts according to rock condition, to drill with high precision. All information is displayed on the monitor and recorded on a flash-drive, so our workers can see all important indicators for blasting operations. The machine COMMUNITIES has significantly lightened miners’ workloads and improved the quality of our operations. 20 years creating economic value SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Anna Markova Research engineer at Mayskoye Anna Markova is a research engineer who ECONOMIC The long-term sustainability of our business depends has been working at the Mayskoye site since January 2017. Her research investigates the upon economic success. A strong financial performance possibility of introducing high-speed flotation into ore processing at the ore preparation also helps improve local economies and livelihoods in the stage. This would significantly reduce the company’s production costs in the long run. communities where we operate. Anna was a winner at the Scientific-Practical APPENDICES Conference held in 2017. 60 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 61 ECONOMIC Our approach Research, development and innovation In 2017, at MineTech – Russian Contest of Mining Challenges OVERVIEW We deliver long-term value for shareholders, employees, Our scientific and technical department identifies the latest and Solutions, we found a partner for geochemical (rock partners and other stakeholders. Our operations also have innovations, conducts testing and pilot launching and then stability) analysis and we’re now testing innovative multia major positive impact on the economy – we contribute to integrates the best of them into our production processes. element analysis technology. regional sustainable economic progress by paying national In 2017, we focused on digital and green technology projects, In the era of automation, we’re working on digitalisation and local taxes, employing local people wherever possible, among others. processes to increase the efficiency of mineral exploration. and finding local or regional suppliers to buy from. This helps In 2017, we completed implementation of the Geobank to improve standards of living for residents, further boosts Polymetal Engineering, together with our partners, started to test alternative technologies to substitute exploration data system, as well as software to catalogue local economies, and minimises the environmental impact all of our geological samples and accumulate data from of our supply chain. We also make social investments, cyanide in ore processing and precious metals extraction. We have conducted tests with successful results and hope personnel working on-site and in our labs. helping to improve people’s livelihoods and strengthening ENVIRONMENT our relationships with local communities You can read to further develop our cooperation and launch green technologies at our production sites. Local employment more about our commitment to making meaningful voluntary social investments in the regions where Employing locally is a win-win solution for Polymetal and our we operate (see Communities section on page 57). Since 2012, we have implemented our Continuous host regions. As well as helping to strengthen ties between Improvement System (CIS) to foster a culture of operational our business and communities, it lowers costs and our Economic impact efficiency. Not only does this save money, it also helps lower environmental impact by not having to fly employees in and our environmental impact, for example by reducing material out from other areas. It means employees are already We have a positive impact on the regions where we operate consumption or introducing more efficient ways of using dedicated to the well-being of the local community and helps We are a business, so delivering value to through the payment of taxes to Russian, Armenian and equipment. Thus, we implemented the tracking systems for us increase our positive impact on local economies. Kazakhstan state and local authorities. In 2017 alone, our tax our shareholders is our goal. However, as payments across the Group amounted to US$188 million, personnel and mining fleet at our underground operations We actively recruit from local communities, creating (Dukat) as well as at open pits (Kyzyl and Komar). This will a responsible business, we want to have compared to US$272 million in 2016. These payments EMPLOYEES significantly improve safety of personnel and efficiency of ore employment opportunities at our major operational sites. include mandatory contributions to state social funds, a positive impact on the economies including pension funds of the Russian Federation, Armenia and waste haulage operations. In 2017, 95% of our employees were local nationals (Russian, Armenian and Kazakh, depending on the location of the site). where we operate. As well as paying and Kazakhstan. Additionally, as a part of our collective Innovation in exploration We make efforts to support women leadership and promote taxes transparently, ensuring we hire agreements, we hold pension liabilities for retired employees. females, and as a result, in 2017 the share of locally We do not consider these liabilities to be material and In 2017, we started to use small, environmentally friendly, employed female managers was 8% higher than male local employees and use local suppliers disclose them in the ‘other non-current liabilities’ category portable drilling rigs for exploration. These devices can be managers, and the share of locally employed women used in remote areas which are difficult to access, and can is a win-win. We benefit, and the of our Financial report. drill down to a depth of 140 metres. Exploration can be costly was 3% higher in our total Polymetal headcount. economy benefits. We are aware of both risks and opportunities posed by and often involves cutting down forests and building roads to Supply chain climate change, which have the potential to impact our transport a drilling machine to the discovery area. The portable operations, revenue, or expenditure. However, in 2017, rigs are so small that they can be carried by a single person, In our supply chain management, we ensure that our COMMUNITIES we did not anticipate any relevant financial implications so we can protect trees and biodiversity and decrease procedures are transparent, conditions are competitive, for the long term. We assess our risks on an annual basis exploration expenditure. partnerships are fair, goods and services are delivered Maxim Nazimok on time, suppliers are reliable, and all parties are in full Chief Financial Officer and consider qualitative estimations (see our Risk Management section). We also use portable analysers – modern versions of compliance with applicable regulations. To ensure efficiency traditional geological tools. These allow us to make on-field in our supply chain, we use a business-to-business In addition, in the last reporting year we did not incur quality and quantity analyses of rock mass, and therefore e-procurement system, which enables us to expand any significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for make immediate decisions about whether to keep drilling our list of contractors and make our processes more non-compliance with laws and regulations. or change the direction of the borehole. transparent and safe. In 2017, we changed our procurement strategy for longterm planning and strive to build sustainable, long-term ECONOMIC relationships with our partners, who are selected in an open tender process. In 2017, we implemented scorecards, which we use for Who is responsible? What guidelines Material topics Priorities supplier assessment. Furthermore, we conduct audits to ensure we work only with ethical suppliers. In 2017, we Group CEO, CFO, COO, do we follow? • Economic performance Create socio-economic audited over 4,500 potential contractors and rejected Polymetal Trading and UN Global Compact, UK value, maintain all relevant • Market presence partnerships with some of them as they did not fit our procurement teams, operations Corporate Governance Code, tax payments, ensure local managing directors, heads • Procurement practices employment, support local corporate governance principles or anti-corruption policies. Code of Conduct, Procurement of finance, communications, Policy and Guidelines • Indirect economic impact business operations and HR at the Our suppliers – for example those providing construction APPENDICES mine sites • Product responsibility material and equipment for our operations – are often large, global manufacturers, which helps us lower risk and cost. However, wherever we can, we engage local and regional suppliers, helping to stimulate regional and national supply chains and economies. 62 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 63 ECONOMIC INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC In 2017, on average around 47% of our supplier purchases in Financial assistance and payments to governments Our responsibilities OVERVIEW Russia came from the regions where we operate, compared From 1 January 2017, Omolon Gold Mining Company LLC We are responsible for: to a rate of 48% in previous years. This decrease is associated and JSC Magadan Silver are entitled to the decreased statutory with purchasing technical facilities, equipment and mining • planning and performing the engagement to obtain limited income tax rate of 17% (2016: 18%) for our operations held in fleets in other countries for the purpose of upgrade and assurance about whether the Selected Information is free the Special Economic Zone of the Russian Far East, as well improvement, as well as hiring international companies for from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; as the decreased mining tax rate (paying 60% of standard drilling and blasting operations. In Kazakhstan and Armenia, mining tax rates). In return for obtaining this tax relief, • forming an independent conclusion, based on the shares of purchases from local suppliers are 81% and 50% members of the regional free economic zone are obliged Introduction procedures we have performed and the evidence respectively. to invest 50% of their tax savings each year in the Special we have obtained; and We have been engaged by management of Polymetal Relations with regional suppliers are critical, due to the Economic Zone Development Programme, amounting to International plc (hereinafter – the “Company”) to provide • reporting our conclusion to the management of remoteness of many of our sites and their extreme weather US$ 12 million in the reporting year (2016: US$ 14 million). limited assurance on the Selected Information described the Company. ENVIRONMENT conditions. Equipment is often delivered by sea to remote below and included in the Sustainability Report for the year From 1 January 2017 Svetloye LLC has received tax relief as ended 31 December 2017 (hereinafter – the “Sustainability This report, including our conclusions, has been prepared locations during the navigation season, and we are a Regional Investment Project and is entitled to the statutory dependent on regional suppliers. In the Magadan region, Report”). solely for the management of the Company in accordance income tax rate of 0% up to 2021. with the agreement between us, to assist management strong supply chain relationships are critical because of limited transport options, and 8% of regional suppliers We issue a separate annual report on payments to Selected Information in reporting on the Company’s sustainability performance provide 46% of total operation needs. At our Voro mine We assessed the qualitative and quantitative information that and activities. We permit this report to be disclosed in governments by Polymetal International plc and its subsidiary in the Urals region, 38% of supplies are sourced locally. is disclosed in the Sustainability Report and included in the the Company’s Sustainability Report for the year ended undertakings. This report is required by the UK’s Report on Tables of the Global Reporting Initiative for standard 31 December 2017, to assist management in responding to Payments to Governments Regulations 2014 (as amended Customers and markets served disclosures in environmental, workforce, safety and sociotheir governance responsibilities by obtaining an independent in December 2015). These regulations are in line with EU economic areas in the reporting scope of the Sustainability assurance report in connection with the Selected Information. Our products are sold both inside and outside their country Accounting Directive 2013/34/EU. They apply to large To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or EMPLOYEES of manufacture. We sell gold and silver bars mainly to extractive companies whose securities are publicly listed Report (hereinafter – the “Selected Information”). The scope of our assurance procedures was limited to Selected assume responsibility to anyone other than management of Russian banks, while our concentrate is purchased by on a UK-regulated stock market – companies that are Information for year ended 31 December 2017. the Company for our work or this report except where terms off-takers including smelters and manufacturers throughout involved in the exploration, prospection, discovery, are expressly agreed between us in writing and our prior the global market. In 2017, 68% of our total sales were bullion development and extraction of minerals, oil, natural gas consent in writing is obtained. and 32% concentrate. The three regions with the largest deposits or other materials. This report is also intended to Reporting Criteria proportion of sales were Russia (60%), Kazakhstan (17%) satisfy the requirements of the Disclosure and Transparency We assessed the Selected Information using the Professional standards applied and level of assurance and Europe (12%), whereas sales to China, Singapore and Rules of the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Japan accounted for only 7%, 3% and 1% respectively. Initiative (GRI, 2016) (hereinafter – the “GRI Standards”). We performed a limited assurance engagement in When selecting partners, Polymetal considers the potential We believe that these reporting criteria are appropriate accordance with International Standard on Assurance risks associated with facilities for concentrate off-take. Bars given the purpose of our limited assurance engagement. Engagements 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements other are usually sold to large refineries and banks, and all than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information”, COMMUNITIES issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards processes comply with applicable national and international Polymetal International plc responsibilities regulations. Together with our sales and marketing experts, Board. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less Management of the Company is responsible for: in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation we ensure full compliance with international regulations in product quality, shipment and transportation. Since 1998, • designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls to both the risk assessment procedures, including an we have not received any significant fines for non-compliance over information relevant to the preparation of the Selected understanding of internal control, and the procedures with laws and regulations relating to the use and provision Information that is free from material misstatement, performed in response to the assessed risks. of products and services. whether due to fraud or error; • establishing objective Reporting Criteria for preparing the Our Independence and Quality Control Selected Information; We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional • measuring and reporting the Selected Information based Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards ECONOMIC on the Reporting Criteria; and Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental • accuracy, completeness and fair presentation of the principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence Selected Information. and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour, together with the ethical requirements of the Auditor’s Professional Ethics Code and Auditor’s Independence Rules that are relevant to our assurance procedures over Selected Information in the Russian Federation. Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures APPENDICES regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 64 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 65 INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC KEY SUSTAINABILITY FIGURES Work done Reporting and measurement methodologies OVERVIEW Financial results Units 2017 2016 We are required to plan and perform our work in order to There are no globally recognised and established practices Revenue US$m 1,815 1,583 consider the risk of material misstatement of the Selected for evaluating and measuring the Selected Information. Cash operating costs (excluding depreciation, labour costs and mining tax) US$m 639 470 Information. In doing so, we: The range of different, but acceptable, techniques can result in materially different reporting outcomes that may affect Wages and salaries; other payments and benefits for employees US$m 285 222 • made enquiries of the Company’s management, including comparability with other organisations. The reporting criteria Payments to capital providers US$m 65 64 the Sustainability Reporting (SR) team and those with responsibility for SR management and group SR reporting; used as a basis of the Company’s sustainability reporting Payments to shareholders US$m 189 179 should therefore be read in conjunction with the Selected Taxes (excluding payroll taxes included in labour costs) • conducted interviews of personnel responsible for Information and associated statements reported on the Income tax and excess profit tax US$m 89 169 sustainability reporting data collection (interviews were Company’s website1. held in Saint Petersburg); Taxes, other than income tax US$m 11 11 ENVIRONMENT Limited assurance conclusion Mining tax US$m 88 82 • performed analysis of the relevant policies and basic reporting principles, gaining an understanding and Social payments US$m 15 10 Based on the procedures we have performed and the evaluating the design of the key structures, systems, evidence we have obtained: Undistributed economic value retained US$m 434 376 processes and controls for managing, recording and • nothing has come to our attention that causes us to reporting the Selected Information; Operation believe that the Selected Information for the year ended Units 2017 2016 • performed limited substantive testing on a selective basis 31 December 2017 has not been prepared, in all material Waste mined Mt 114 82.1 of the Selected Information to check that data had been respects, in accordance with the requirements of the Underground development km 115.4 92.2 appropriately measured, recorded, collated and reported; GRI Standards; and and Ore mined Kt 12,589 13,380 • nothing has come to our attention that causes us to Open-pit Kt 8,241 9,506 • reviewed the Selected Information for compliance of the believe that the Selected Information does not meet EMPLOYEES Underground Kt 4,347 3,874 disclosures with the requirements of the GRI Standards. the Core requirements in accordance with the Guidelines of the GRI Standards. Ore processed Kt 13,037 11,417 Production Gold Koz 1,075 890 Silver Moz 26.8 29.2 Copper Kt 2.7 1.5 Zinc Kt 4.8 2.9 Gold equivalent1 Koz 1,433 1,269 Sales Gold Koz 1,099 880 COMMUNITIES Silver Moz 26.5 30.7 Copper Kt 2.6 1.6 Zinc Kt 4.7 2.8 Principal consumables Units 2017 2016 Quicklime t 53,898 55,270 Grinding body t 15,871 16,964 Sodium cyanide t 8,918 8,814 Concrete t 10,292 6,710 ECONOMIC Perhydrol t 5,567 6,597 Flotation reagents t 3,410 3,244 Soda t 79 1,124 Caustic soda t 951 720 Flocculant t 214 324 Zinc powder t 342 318 Notes 1 Based on 1:80 Ag/Au, 5:1 Cu/Au and 2:1 Zn/Au conversion ratios. APPENDICES 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website is the responsibility of management; the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the reported Selected Information or Reporting Criteria when presented on the Company’s website. 66 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 67 KEY SUSTAINABILITY FIGURES OVERVIEW Energy Units 2017 2016 Biodiversity Units 2017 2016 Diesel power plant GJ 1,664,018 2,293,803 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with Diesel (transport and mobile machinery) GJ 1,870,004 2,001,618 habitats in areas affected by operations number 1 1 Electricity purchased GJ 1,863,211 1,844,458 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and Coal GJ 401,420 670,278 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas number 0 0 Natural gas GJ 164,984 167,126 Petrol GJ 33,395 43,079 Social Units 2017 2016 Total energy GJ 7,009,970 7,020,362 Total workforce as of 31 Dec number 11,919 11,261 Average headcount number 11,553 10,862 ENVIRONMENT Water Units 2017 2016 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements % 89 88 Withdrawn Turnover rate % 5.4 5.5 Ground water thousand m3 7,822 8,284 Surface water thousand m3 9,144 5,779 Workforce diversity Units 2017 2016 External water supply thousand m3 716 414 Percentage of female employees % 22 21 Total water withdrawn thousand m3 17,683 14,477 Percentage of female managers % 24 22 Total reused or recycled water thousand m3 14,645 12,125 Percentage of female qualified personnel % 42 42 Water percent recycled and reused % 83 84 Total young personnel (under 30) number 2,407 2,566 Discharge Female young personnel (under 30) number 509 613 EMPLOYEES Watercourses thousand m3 8,792 8,478 Male young personnel (under 30) number 1,898 1,953 Collecting ponds thousand m3 825 3,169 Percentage of young personnel (under 30) % 20 24 Landscape thousand m3 252 26 Percentage of female young personnel (under 30) % 21 20 Sewage thousand m3 713 177 Percentage of male young personnel (under 30) % 79 80 Total water discharge thousand m3 11,339 11,850 Disabled personnel number 12 8 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water number 0 0 Taken parental leave number 228 296 Male employees on parental leave % 3 1 Lands Units 2017 2016 Female employees on parental leave % 97 99 Total managed land area hectares 20,101 19,285 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave % 100 100 COMMUNITIES Land disturbed during year hectares 1,271 2,482 Fixed-term employment contract number 10,359 NA Land reclaimed during year hectares 471 261 Men number 8,254 NA Total land disturbed and not yet rehabilitated hectares 11,995 11,411 Women number 2,105 NA Indefinite term employment contract number 1,084 NA Men number 880 NA Emissions Units 2017 2016 Women number 204 NA Total GHG emissions t 771,320 736,724 Full-time number 11,288 NA Scope 1 Greenhouse gas emissions t 280,851 268,093 Men number 9,035 NA Scope 2 Greenhouse gas emissions t 490,468 460,375 Women number 2,253 NA Sulphur dioxide t 983 847 Part-time number 156 NA ECONOMIC Oxides of nitrogen t 2,500 1,608 Men number 100 NA Carbon monoxide t 2,983 2,153 Women number 56 NA Inorganic dust (solid particles) t 4,973 4,565 Ozone depleting (CFC-11 equivalents) substances emitted t 0 0 Training Units 2017 2016 Trained personnel number 14,974 8891 Waste Units 2017 2016 Percentage of employees trained in-house % 63 57 Waste rock t 117,666,813 63,116,390 Percentage of employees trained by external companies % 37 43 Tailings t 10,575,864 10,625,666 Average number of training hours per employee (per year) number 66 60 Hazardous t 13,481 10,610 Average number of training hours per female employee (per year) number 68 NA APPENDICES Non-hazardous t 128,250,317 73,963,349 Average number of training hours per male employee (per year) number 60 NA Percentage of waste reused of total waste generated % 22 20 Total investments in training US$ thousand 1,474 866 Total waste 128,263,798 73,978,959 Environmental expenditures Units 2017 2016 Total environmental expenditures US$ thousand 24,758 14,371 68 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 69 KEY SUSTAINABILITY FIGURES GRI CONTENT INDEX General disclosures OVERVIEW Safety Units 2017 2016 Polymetal GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES SCOPE PAGES/NOTES Accidents number 16 19 ORGANISATION PROFILE Fatalities number 2 4 102-1 The name of the organisation 1 Cover Incidents number 2 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 1 p.8-11 Occurences number 12 46 102-3 Location of headquarters 1 p.8-9 LTIFR rate 0.15 0.19 102-4 Report the number of countries where the organisation operates, and names 1 p.8-9 Occupational diseases and health difficulties number 3 4 of countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are Contractors specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report 102-5 Ownership and legal form 1 Annual report 2017 ENVIRONMENT Accidents number 9 12 102-6 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 1 p.8-9, 64 Fatalities number 1 3 customers and beneficiaries) Incidents number 1 0 102-7 Scale of the organisation 3 p.4-11, 67, 69 Occurrences number 7 50 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 3 p.37-38, 63, 69 LTIFR rate 0.28 0.37 102-9 Supply chain 1 p.11, 18-19, 63 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 1 p.1-5, 8-9, 21, 63, Ethics Annual report 2017 Units 2017 2016 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 1 p.5, Code of conduct violations number 12 5 www.polymetalinternational.com Cases of corruption number 7 4 102-12 External initiatives 1 p.6, 13 EMPLOYEES 102-13 Membership of associations 1 p.6, 13, 56 Product responsibility Units 2017 2016 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 1 p.1 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 1 p.14-16 privacy and losses of customer data number 0 0 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and ETHICS AND INTEGRITY regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services US$ thousand 0 0 102-16 Organisation’s values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 1 p.4-5, 6, 36 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 1 p.36, 43 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services number 0 0 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 1 p.14-16 102-19 Delegating authority 1 p.12-16 Community investment COMMUNITIES Units 2017 2016 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 1 p.14 Sport US$ thousand 3,215 2,000 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 1 p.4-5, 14, 17-19 Healthcare and education US$ thousand 4,671 1,563 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 1 p.14-15 Culture and art US$ thousand 939 751 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 1 p.14-15 Infrastructure of social importance US$ thousand 2,323 461 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Annual report 2017 IMN support US$ thousand 272 208 102-26 Conflict of Interest 1 p.15-16, Annual report 2017 Environmental awareness and education US$ thousand 84 40 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 1 p.15-16 Charitable donations US$ thousand 269 68 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 1 Annual report 2017 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 1 Annual report 2017 Total community investment US$ thousand 11,772 5,023 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 1 p.14-17 Number of partnership agreements number 30 25 ECONOMIC 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 1 p.16 Total value of financial contributions to political parties, politicians, and political 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 1 p.14-15 action committees US$ thousand 0 0 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 1 p.15-17 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 1 p.16, 18-19 Communication Units 2017 2016 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 1 p.43, 58 Employees enquiries number 1,001 1,269 102-35 Remuneration policies 1 Annual report 2017, Responded employees enquiries number 1,001 1,264 Remuneration policy report, www.polymetalinternational.com Communities enquiries number 516 270 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 1 Annual report 2017 Public meetings and gatherings number 37 32 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 1 Annual report 2017 Site visits by external stakeholders number 20 15 APPENDICES STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ANNUAL REPORT 2017 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 1 p.18-19 Compliance Units 2017 2016 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 1 p.42 Significant fines US$ thousand 0 0 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 1 p.18-19, 55 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 1 p.18-19, 55 Non-monetary sanctions US$ thousand 0 0 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 1 p.18-19 Cases brought number 0 0 70 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 71 GRI CONTENT INDEX General disclosures continued OVERVIEW STANDARD DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE TITLES SCOPE PAGES/NOTES NUMBER GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES SCOPE PAGES/NOTES GRI 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and 1 p.32 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES services on biodiversity 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 1 Annual report 2017 G4-MM1 Amount of land disturbed or rehabilitated 2 p.31 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 1 p.12, 17 Emissions GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2 p.29-30 102-47 List of material topics 1 p.17 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2 p.29-30 102-48 Restatements of information 1 In footnotes GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2 p.30 102-49 Changes in reporting 1 p.17 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2 p.29-31 REPORT PROFILE GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX), and 2 p.30 ENVIRONMENT 102-50 Reporting period 1 Inside front cover other significant air emissions 102-51 Date of most recent report 1 March 2017 for FY 2016 Effluents and Waste GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 2 p.26 102-52 Reporting cycle 1 Annual reporting cycle GRI 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 2 p.27 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 1 Inside front cover Disclosure without 102-54 Accordance with the GRI Standards 1 This report has been prepared a breakdown in accordance with the GRI by the following Standards: Core option disposal methods of 102-55 Content index 1 p.71–74 hazardous and non102-56 External assurance 1 p.65-66 hazardous waste GRI 306-3 Total number and volume of significant spills 1 p.25 MANAGEMENT APPROACH GRI 306-4 Weight of transported, imported, exported, 2 p.28 103-1 Report the material aspect boundary within the organisation 1 p.17-19, 71-74, 75 EMPLOYEES or treated waste deemed hazardous 103-2 The management approach and its components 1 In each section of the G4-MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, 2 p.27 Sustainability report and sludges 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 1 p.17-19 Environmental compliance GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 1 p.25 regulations Specific standard disclosures Supplier Environmental GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 1 p.25, 63 Assessment environmental criteria STANDARD DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE TITLES SCOPE PAGES/NOTES SOCIAL NUMBER Employment GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 3 p.37 ECONOMIC GRI 401-3 Parental leave 3 p.69 COMMUNITIES Economic Performance GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 1 p.62-64 Labour/Management G4-MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one 1 p.41 GRI 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 1 p.62 Relations week's duration retirement plans GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 1 p.43 GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 1 p.63 changes Market Presence GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender 3 p.42 Occupational Health and GRI 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint 1 p.48 compared to local minimum wage Safety management–worker health and safety committees GRI 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the 3 p.63 GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 1 p.49-50 local community diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number Disclosure without Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 1 p.56-67 of work-related fatalities a breakdown by Procurement Practices GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 2 p.63 gender and region Anti-Corruption GRI 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption 5 p.37 GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases 1 p.48-50 ECONOMIC policies and procedures related to their occupation GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 1 p.36-37 GRI 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal 1 p.48 agreements with trade unions ENVIRONMENT Training and Education GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 1 p.39 Materials GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 4 p.28 GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 1 p.39-41 GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used 2 p.27 transition assistance programmes Energy GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 2 p.28 Diversity and Equal GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 3 p.38 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 2 p.29 Opportunity Disclosure without GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 2 p.28-29 a breakdown by GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and 2 p.28-29 the following age services groups: under 30 APPENDICES Water GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 2 p.26 years old, 30-50 GRI 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal 1 p.26 years old, over 50 of water years old GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused 2 p.26 GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women 1 42 Biodiversity GRI 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, 1 p.32, 69 to men Disclosure without a or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high breakdown for each biodiversity value outside protected areas employee category 72 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 73 GRI CONTENT INDEX OTHER INFORMATION Specific standard disclosures continued Reportable segments STANDARD DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE TITLES SCOPE PAGES/NOTES REPORTABLE SEGMENT COMPANY NAME SCOPES OVERVIEW NUMBER 1 2 3 4 5 Non-discrimination GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 1 p.37 Polymetal Group taken Voro CJSC Gold of Northern Urals Freedom of Association and GRI 407-1 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 1 p.5, 21, 42 Okhotsk operations Okhotskaya Mining and Exploration Company LLC Collective Bargaining Okhotsk operations Svetloye LLC Child Labour GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 1 Zero operations Dukat CJSC Magadan Silver incidents of child labour and suppliers Omolon Omolon Gold Mining Company LLC Forced or Compulsory Labour GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 1 Zero operations ENVIRONMENT incidents of forced or compulsory labour and suppliers Varvara JSC Varvarinskoye Security Practices GRI 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies 1 All security Varvara Orion Minerals LLC (Komar) or procedures personnel is Amursk-Albazino Albazino Resources Ltd outsourced and Amursk-Albazino Amur Hydrometallurgical Plant LLC receives training in Mayskoye Mayskoye Gold Mining Company LLC the human rights Kyzyl Bakyrchik Mining Venture LLP principles which complies with Kapan Kapan Mining and Processing Company CJSC national regulation Polymetal offices Polymetal Management JSC Rights of Indigenous Peoples GRI 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 1 p.54 Polymetal offices Polymetal Engineering JSC peoples Polymetal offices Polymetal Trading Ltd EMPLOYEES G4-MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or 1 p.32 adjacent to indigenous peoples' territories and formal agreements made Local Communities GRI 413-1 Operations with implemented local community 1 p.8-9, 56-57 engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes GRI 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential 1 None negative impacts on local communities Human rights assessment G4-MM9 Sites where resettlement took place, the number 1 p.55 Abbreviations Units of measurement of households resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. CIS Commonwealth of Independent States g/t gram per tonne Closure Planning G4-MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure 1 p.31 eq equivalent GJ COMMUNITIES gigajoules (one billion joules) plans GE gold equivalent TJ terajoules (one trillion joules) Public Policy GRI 415-1 Political contributions 1 p.70 IMN Indigenous Minorities of the North km kilometres Socio-economic Compliance GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the 1 p.70 NGO non-governmental organisation Koz thousand ounces social and economic area PGM platinum group metal Kt thousand tonnes POX pressure oxidation Ktpa thousand tonnes per annum m metres Moz million ounces Mt million tonnes Mtpa million tonnes per annum ECONOMIC MWh megawatt-hour Oz or oz troy ounce (31.1035 g) t tonne (1,000 kg) tpd tonnes per day APPENDICES 74 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 75 NOTES This report is printed on paper which is FSC certified (the standards for well-managed forests, considering environment, social and economic issues). Designed and produced by Instinctif Partners www.creative.instinctif.com 76 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Polymetal International plc The Esplanade St Helier Jersey JE4 9WG Channel Islands Registered No. 106196 www.polymetalinternational.com
