COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UNGC R e port i ng P er i od : Dece mber 201 6 | Dece mber 201 7 About ITG & UNGC COP CEO Message 1. About ITG 1. Letter of commitment Our CSR strategy 2. Our commitment with the UNGC 2. CEO statement of continued support 3. About this report 2. Labour The 10 principles Recruitment & Selection Far From Discrimination 3. Environment ITG Green Headquarters 1. Human Rights Ensuring Team Growth & Career Development ITG Green Slogan Equal Opportunity Encouraging Our Employees Continuous Education Recycling Initiative Gender Equality Activities Towards Young Generation Environmental Events & Activities Ethical & Protected Work Environment Collaboration With Universities & Employees Involvement Additional Benefits to Employees 4. Anti-Corruption CSR Activities Employee Conduct and Disciplinary Actions Employees Sports Activities Celebrating Team Success ‘ITG Offers’ for Employees ABOUT ITG Information Technology Group (ITG) is a Lebanese holding company. We combine an array of autonomous affiliates dedicated to providing a large portfolio of solutions and services in the MENA region, in the area of hardware, system software, and application software, in addition to building automation and office solutions. Being a highly diversified group, ITG’s professionals are specialized in numerous technological fields and business sectors. Strong with our established reputation, proven track-record, and our solid partnerships with leaders in the ICT industry, we can offer the full spectrum of solutions to most businesses, ranging from office furniture to the full-fledged data center, in addition to cloud based services. Throughout its successful history, ITG has built solid partnerships with leaders in the ICT industry. This enables us to service our varied clientele with state-of-the-art solutions in the areas of hardware, system software, application software and related professional services, in addition to building automation and office solutions. ITG derives additional strength and reach thanks to its affiliation with the HOLCOM group of companies which has a 50 year history in diligently serving clients in the EMEA region with its 5,700 professionals. For more info: www.itgholding.com OUR COMMITMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT WITH THE UNGC Through this ITG second Communication ITG joined the widely embraced corporate on Progress report, our aim is to social responsibility (CSR) initiative of the demonstrate parts of our strategies, dayUnited Nations Global Compact Lebanon to-day operations, culture, and all the (UNGC) on December 2015. As token efforts made to engage in the UNGC of our commitment to make the Global ten principles. We are cognizant that our Compact and its ten principles in the field success in spreading further awareness of Human Rights, Labour, Environment on the uptake of CSR will continue to and Fighting Corruption, we are devoted expand through the years, and confidently to communicate all of our Communication we will be able to achieve our goals and on Progress (COP) to our stakeholders. make a change In fulfillment of our second CEO STATEMENT Communication on Progress, I OF CONTINUED am pleased to reaffirm that ITG supports the Ten Principles of SUPPORT the UNGC. Since our last report, we have taken a leap forward in our endeavor to become a more socially responsible, promoting sustainable living and business in everything we do. LETTER OF We at ITG recognize that our COMMITMENT activities affect our society, employees, customers, environment, business partners, shareholders, and the public sector. Our involvement with the UNGC gives us an important framework for our internal and external policies, based on universal and recognized principles related to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. It is an incentive to achieve more, advance step by step in the area of CSR, in a difficult country and environment, where many internationally accepted values are not respected. But we know that good private initiatives can contribute to a better tomorrow. By taking positive steps, we express our our intent to advance and influence our people, our community and activities encourage other corporates to join this initiative. affect our Claude J. Bahsali society Chairman & CEO ITG s.a.l. (Holding) We at ITG recognize that our activities and those of the private sector have an impact on society: On employees, our CSR customers, environment, partners, community, business shareholders Strategy and the public sector. We know that our decisions can contribute to the social good, to our wealth, and also to the overall society wealth. We are conscious of our Corporate Social Responsibility. We are aware of the necessity to ‘Go Green’, to contribute in protecting the environment One of ITG’s main objectives and saving our country’s is to keep our people natural resources. We try motivated, give them the to identify responsible ways chance to grow and enhance Compliance and transparency to act in our offices to fight their skills, and encourage are key elements when We aim to apply our against waste and massive them to excel in what they dealing with the public commitments for a positive consumption. do. We strive to offer them a institutions. ITG complies influence on society, at In addition, our new flexible working environment with applicable laws and every level of the enterprise, headquarters in the Holcom and a positive and pleasant regulations and expects from strategy, to day-tobuilding are designed with the atmosphere. Values such its directors, executives, day operational practice. latest technologies in mind to as integrity, respect and and employees to conduct And that is a big challenge. ensure energy saving. Also, trust, as well as adherence business in accordance with Our mission statement one of ITG affiliates provides to high moral standards and the letter, spirit, and intent of reflects our commitment to renewable energy solutions, business ethics, far from any all relevant laws, and to refrain our customers, business thus helping promote the discrimination, are part of ITG from any illegal, dishonest, or partners, employees, and the green initiative culture among culture. unethical conduct. environment. our clients and fellow citizens. HUMAN RIGHTS The 10 principles This year marks the third year of our journey towards embedding our corporate social responsibility and sustainability at the core of our business and sustaining our positive impact. environment Before mentioning our activities related to the 10 principles, it is important to mention yet again that we humbly still include our commitment to the UNGC and its 10 principles, in our company handbook, which also outlines the ITG code of conduct, policies and culture. This document is made available to any new employee joining the ITG family, as part of the onboarding sessions. The employees are responsible for reading and understanding its content, and apply the ITG internal rules and policies. Anti-Corruption LABOUR The 10 principles HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GENDER EQUALITY • ITG gives equal chances when hiring people which is clearly •ITG encourages gender •ITG along with the Lebanese Our goal is to achieve a 30% stated in ITG’s Employee Handbook, as our primary objective equality, and makes no League for Women in female representation on is cultivating our human capital and talent: discrimination when hiring as Business (LLWB) have our BOD by 2025 as well as it offers equal opportunities signed the “Women in managerial positions. “ITG is an equal opportunity employer. Religion, age, gender, to women, by giving them Boardroom” which seeks to • 22% of managerial positions national origin, sexual orientation, race, or color does not access to positions that were drive women’s empowerment at ITG are held by women affect hiring, promotion, development opportunities, pay, traditionally perceived for further in Lebanon. This (General Managers and head men based on their merit. initiative encourages diversity of departments at group level) or benefits. ITG is strongly committed to fair treatment of employee based on merit.” & more specifically, gender diversity that rallies support • We held a campaign • ITG has stopped mentioning the religion of its employees in the from businesses to commit “Women at ITG” to identify on hiring and helping women and bring attention to those official papers sent to the National Security Social Funds institution. reach their potential and who are holding a managerial • We try to raise awareness through our social media increase the number of women position and recognize their platforms by posting several ‘Human Rights’ posts. on the Board of Directors, as achievements. well as managerial positions. HUMAN RIGHTS | 9 ETHICAL & PROTECTED WORK ENVIRONMENT Against Discrimination Maintaining Respect & A Smoking Positive Work Environment • ITG is against any form of • “In order to protect and discrimination, as stated in • ITG strives to have a good enhance our indoor air the ITG Employee Handbook: working environment where quality and to contribute to “ITG is committed to providing respect, courtesy, and the health and well-being a work environment that is free positive attitudes prevail, as it of all employees, smoking from all forms of discrimination is stated in the ITG Employee is prohibited in all of the and conduct that can be Handbook: below areas within ITG sites, considered harassing, without exception and at all intimidating, or disruptive. • “ITG strives to maintain a times. This includes common Harassment in the work place positive work environment private offices, open work is a form of discrimination. It is where employees treat areas, conference and unwelcomed and unwanted. It each other with respect and meeting rooms, cafeteria, affects the individual’s ability courtesy, and therefore, hallways, stairs, restrooms, to learn and work. It can also having good etiquette at parking shuttle buses and all be an expression of abuse of the workplace is extremely other enclosed facilities”. This power, authority, or control in important. Sometimes issues is stated in the ITG Employee coercive in nature.” arise when employees are Handbook. unaware that their behavior • ITG’s HR Department has in the workplace may be • ITG dedicates an isolated an open door policy, in which disruptive or annoying to outdoor area for smokers, any employee can address others. ITG encourages all and raised awareness on the any complaint for it to be employees to keep an open above topic by encouraging a solved. mind and graciously accept No Tobacco day. constructive feedback or a request to change behavior that may be affecting another employee’s ability to concentrate and be productive”. HUMAN RIGHTS | 10 The 10 principles LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 1RECRUITMENT & SELECTION FAR FROM 3ENCOURAGING OUR EMPLOYEES CONTINUOUS EDUCATION DISCRIMINATION • Pursuing Advanced Studies at Universities ITG ensures that the required human capital meets its operational and strategic goals. We adopt a strategic ITG strives to establish fruitful collaboration with major universities, signing mutual agreements whereby the universities grant approach for the recruitment and selection process, whereby special discounts for our staff wishing to continue their education. Thus we provide our employees the opportunity to pursue their the right person is matched to the right job based purely on advanced education (MBA and others). his/her inherent qualifications, and disregarding any form of Agreements were signed with the below universities to grant special discounts for undergraduates and graduate studies, varying discrimination whilst recognizing equal opportunities for all. from 10% to 40%: Antonine University • ITG provides job opportunities for fresh graduates as well as American University of Science and Technology AUST senior profiles, in order to ensure diversity in its workforce. Holy Spirit University of Kaslik USEK Institut de Gestion des Entreprises – IGE USJ • In 2017, we recruited a total of 94 employees. Agence Universitaire de la Francophonie AUF Notre Dame University – NDU • The company groups 660 employees, in which 32% are females, this is considered a good ratio for a group in the IT business. • ITG Academy and Staff Training In our continuous efforts to develop the potential of our employees, we provide them with constant training and courses through “ITG Academy” programs in various fields, with the support of major local learning centers. The training programs are delivered internally or externally, depending on the topic, and the graduates are provided with official certifications. Some Women at ITG Men of the training topics: %68 Legal issues course Women Basic IFRS %32 Finance & audit courses Corporate events and exhibitions organization Professional Diploma in Digital Marketing Introduction to Project Management & Project Management Leadership Program Competency based recruitment & interviewing workshop Communication & Connections English course 2ENSURING TEAM GROWTH & CAREER Training courses were delivered to 280 persons, since the establishment of the ITG Academy. DEVELOPMENT In 2017, 124 members have participated in trainings & workshops. One of ITG’s main objectives is to keep our people motivated, give them the chance to grow and enhance their skills, create a sense of ownership in their work and encourage them to excel in what they do. ITG adheres to the principle of promoting from within as the basis for sharing expertise, giving employees new opportunities within the group, and developing their talents throughout the organization. LABOUR | 12 4ACTIVITIES TOWARDS YOUNG GENERATION • Holcom Opens its Doors to the University Students Holcom opened its doors to a group of business students from the Lebanese University (LU), and The Holy Spirit University of Kaslik (USEK), as well as future engineers from Saint Joseph University – ESIB Faculty. The purpose behind such initiatives was to build bridges between Holcom and Universities, to motivate, recruit talents and boost entrepreneurship. • Internship Programs ITG Holding constantly seeks to offer practical work experience through its internship program for undergraduates during their academic studies. ITG’s HR Department, Learning & Development division, provides yearly internships programs set for 2 months or more if needed, and the successful interns are later interviewed by the Recruitment dept. for a possibility to become an ITG member. − 2017: 35 hosted interns − 2016: 50 hosted interns − 2015: 37 hosted interns • Introducing Artificial Intelligence in Educational ITG organized an orientation session for its 2017 summer − 2014: 25 hosted interns Curriculums interns to prepare them for their post internship journey. They were exposed to fundamental recruitment tips and advices on PC DealNet, an ITG company, and a Value Added Distributor of how to prepare themselves for the job hunt. The presentation technology products & solutions has concluded an agreement included three live testimonials of previous interns that are with 3Poli Robotics to introduce Ubtech Robots to their currently employed in different ITG affiliates. The members have educational curriculum. emphasized on one unified point, which is for interns to profit and learn as much as they can from their internship period. 2014 2015 2016 2017 LABOUR | 13 5. COLLABORATION WITH UNIVERSITIES & 6. ADDITIONAL BENEFITS TO EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES INVOLVEMENT • Schooling Allowance ITG signed several Memorandums of Understanding, in 2017, ITG contributes in part to its employee’s children’s tuition fees, as detailed below: with multiple local universities and institutions to promote Nursery and School: Up to 1,000,000 LBP per year per child academic cooperation through ITG (Holding)’s internship University: Up to 1,500,000 LBP per year per child (for the first two years only) program. The signed partnership identifies the mutual benefit of both institutions aiming towards facilitating the exchange • Insurance of expertise among professors and students, in the fields of Medical insurance plan for the employees and their direct dependents (Spouse, children) engineering, management, computer science, IT and business. Life insurance plan The agreement extends the initiative of allowing undergraduates to explore the professional world and gain practical experience • End of Year Bonus in their field of study prior to their graduation through internships. As part of the Employee Benefits Program, ITG and its affiliates may grant their employees an End of Year bonus to reward them for their personal efforts and their contribution in the company’s performance, and for their renewed commitment and involvement • MOU signed in 2017: in the company’s future. IGE – Institut de Gestion des Entreprises USJ LAU – Lebanese American University • Mileage Reimbursement for Sales & Technical positions AUF – Agence Universitaire de la Francophonie Given that some functions within our Holding require the personnel to use their personal cars to visit customers, allowances are NDU – Notre Dame University paid to the entitled employees, based on the number of kilometers covered. • Previous MOU signed: USEK – The Holy Spirit University of Kaslik AUST – American University of Science and Technology 7. CSR ACTIVITIES As previously mentioned, we try our best to enhance awareness on social responsibility by continuously organizing activities that benefit the society. • Marathon 2017: Participation with “Lebanese Autism Society” ITG employees participated in the 2017 marathon, in collaboration with the Lebanese Autism Society, a non-profit organization bringing awareness and enhancing the well-being of Individuals living with Autism in Lebanon. The fees covered by ITG went to the support of LAS. 42 participants enjoyed the 8K Fun Run. LABOUR | 14 • Celebrating the International Day for the that seniors have done to the Elderly at the Maronite society on the International Nursing Home Day of the Elderly, which was ITG organized an activity on October 1st, while offering in which we involved our a kind donation. workforce to visit the elders at ITG aims to involve its the Maronite Nursing Home, employees in the society Furn El Chebbak. A group of and raise awareness on the employees, who represent importance of giving care to ITG’s affiliates spent time with the elders that are left alone the elders at the nursing home, in nursing homes. Clearly, a to uplift their morale while growing moral imperative and sharing with them homemade human rights record within sweets. ITG wanted to the culture of ITG improves appreciate the contributions our business performance. • Organ Donation • Part of the 500 Blood Drive • Awareness Campaign Awareness Campaign with DSC Posts ITG hosted an awareness In 2016, with the partnership We use our social media platcampaign for organ donation of Donner Sang Compter forms to our advantage when in partnership with the (DSC) we hosted a blood we want to increase awareNational Organization for drive at our premises. And in ness towards certain events. Organ & Tissue Donation & 2017, we received from DSC Transplantation (NOD). The the honor of being part of their Arabic Language day presentation was informative 500 Blood drives. Labour day to those attending, NOD Breast Cancer Awareness day representatives defined • Donation of cubilcles to International Men’s day “Brain Death”, and proceeded AEC System Administrator day by informing the attendees TeleSupport International, Programmers day on the process of organ an ITG company has donation from the donor and donated their old contact the receiver side, along with center cubicles to Arcenciel testimonials of a father whose workshop at Corniche Al Nahr. son donated his organs. LABOUR | 15 8. EMPLOYEES SPORTS ACTIVITIES ITG encourages its employees to interact with each other, and to participate to yearly sport tournaments, competing internally within ITG group, or externally with other corporate companies. 9. CELEBRATING TEAM SUCCESS 10. ‘ITG OFFERS’ FOR EMPLOYEES Whenever our affiliates complete a new project at hand, their success story is shared among the ITG initiated the concept of “ITG Offers” in 2016. The idea behind it was to negotiate special internal organization as well as our social media platforms. We encourage and organize events discounts for ITG staff, ranging from 10 to 25%, with several external companies such as in order to increase camaraderie amongst staff to help build a sense of cohesiveness within the shops, restaurants, fitness centers, and other services providers. group, and engage our staff to build new strategies. LABOUR | 16 The 10 principles environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 3. RECYCLING INITIATIVE 1. ITG GREEN HEADQUARTERS ITG commitment towards a greener Lebanon has been continThe Holcom Building (Holcom is ITG mother holding), is an eco-friendly and sustainable uous since 2012 through several activities: headquarters. It was conceived to save energy, and provide the best work conditions. In terms of energy, the green building is centered on Solar Energy, and Lighting Management • Paper Recycling: In cooperation with ‘Terre Liban’, ITG solutions, in addition to other green elements. gathered 49,033 Kg of paper in 6 years, equivalent to • A Solar Photovoltaic system installed on the building rooftop over an area of 1,250m² (113kW), in addition to 100m² (7kW) of Solar Photovoltaic vertical thin film on the façade. Total power of 114 kWp, for a yearly energy production of 159 MWh Providing 25% of the building energy demands 834 planted TREES Savings per year are: 85,995 litres of OIL • The building architecture includes an external skin (metal panels), on all the façades, allowing to manage the sun light, where and how the light enters, while reducing the sun heat 112.7 m³ of LANDFILL space 25 planted TREES impact. In addition, external blinds protect the glass façade from the heat. Co2 emission: 145,000 kg • Lighting Management & Shading solutions with a 1,299,276 litres of WATER strategy to optimize energy usage based on 4 elements: Scheduling/time clock, occupancy sensing, high-end tuning, and daylight harvesting. The lighting level is automatically set according to the natural daylight level, and shadings are automatically adjusted based on solar position. The solutions save 47.6% of the lighting energy consumption of 40,000 litres of OIL 200,000 kWh the building, which represents 506,808 kWh/year. 196,132 kWh • Many greenery plantations for more shading and less heat: 80m² of green wall at the main entrance, in addition to many Bamboo & trees planting. • Other Recycling Initiatives: ITG retail and distribution affiliates replaced their traditional plastic bags with new ---> Take a tour inside our building: http://bit.ly/2fUq0KC environmental-friendly biodegradable plastic bags. • Upcycling event with La Brocante des Artistes: The purpose behind this event was to upcycle ITG old hardware and e-waste & turn it into a piece of art with plants. 2. ITG GREEN SLOGAN To spread the ‘green’ culture among its members. ITG introduced the eco-slogan “ITG = I Think Green”, which is included in the electronic signature of all its employees. ENVIRONMENT | 18 4. ENVIRONMENTAL EVENTS & ACTIVITIES • Joining the ‘Lebanon Climate Act’ initiative (LCA) • Sponsoring ‘Earth Hour Lebanon 2017’ ITG joined the Lebanon Climate Act initiative (LCA), on July 26, 2016, in line with Lebanon’s climate change engagement at the ECOsys, an ITG company, sponsored ‘Earth Hour Lebanon international COP21 conference. LCA encourages companies to reduce their environmental and carbon footprint, deploy • Environmental Awareness 2017’, on March 25. ECOsys contribution transformed Earth more clean energy, and build more sustainable businesses. A Messages: Hour Lebanon into a carbon neutral event, by installing solar Photovoltaic Panels to offset the electricity consumption of the team from ECOsys attends the ongoing workshops, organized by LCA, to learn more about the dangerous effects of Several awareness messages event. ECOsys was able to gather 434 Kg of e-waste, from old climate change. related to the environment laptops, printers, phones… to be recycled through an initiative Check out the list of participants: http://bit.ly/2fN60tx were posted on our social launched by Beeatoona, an NGO with a primary aim to promote media throughout the year of good environmental practices among the Lebanese and Arab The initiative was also announced on our social media 2017. communities, for a sustainable development. platforms by posting the LCA interactive video to raise In this context, Holcom & ITG headquarters were turned off for awareness on climate change: http://bit.ly/2eT2SKp 1 hour, in parallel with public and private institutions. • Signing the green pledge of ‘Lebanon Opportunities’ In October 2016, ITG signed the ‘Green Pledge’ and joined the Green Club created by Lebanon Opportunities. The aim of this initiative is to inform and enable the business community on ways to become environmentally friendly in an economically feasible manner, and to provide them with practical tools and independent support that would have a positive contribution to their profits when engaging in an environmentally sustainable conduct. ENVIRONMENT | 19 The 10 principles Anti-Corruption: Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 1. Employee Conduct and Disciplinary Actions Compliance and transparency are key elements when dealing Our Code of Ethics and Conduct clearly upholds the principle with the public institutions. ITG complies with applicable laws of non-discrimination and of maintaining a violence and and regulations and expects its directors, executives, and harassment-free workplace. employees to conduct business in accordance with the letter, “Our reputation for integrity and excellence requires careful spirit, and intent of all relevant laws, and to refrain from any observance of the spirit and letter of all applicable laws and illegal, dishonest, or unethical conduct. The company works on regulations, as well as meticulous regard for the highest maintaining a high level of transparency and takes action if any standards of conduct and personal integrity, in addition to breach in misconduct takes place. adherence to high moral standards and business ethics, far from any political, religious or any other type of discrimination.” The continued success of ITG is dependent upon our customers’ trust and we are dedicated to preserving that trust, and confidence of the public. ANTI-CORRUPTION | 21 www.itgholding.com www.itgholding.com
