CSR REPORT 2017-2018 2017 REVIEW & 2018 FOCUS Our Purpose “It is no use saying ‘we are CSR Pillars doing our best’. You have got 2017 CSR Review to succeed in doing what is necessary” Winston Churchill 2017 Key Learning & Benefits 2018 CSR Focus & Plan How can you help? CONTENT This annual report highlights our contribution to the social, economic and environmental context despite the challenges our region has been facing. This process allows us to measure our deliverables vs. our goals and recalibrate our 12 months project plan accordingly. Some of our projects are built in house; others are the result of a long term partnership with other private companies and NGOs. Our Purpose As a responsible partner, we aim to integrate viable solutions across our business activities to impact our community in a positive and sustainable way. We care about our community! This is our duty and it is a long term commitment & process. Every human being has the right to live in dignity and What will help our economy and deserves access to food, water, clothing, shelter, safety, community get on track in this education, employment and healthcare. The values era is where and how we use conveyed through our initiatives are intrinsically linked to our efforts. the core values of our company’s culture and DNA. Sticking Together, working in to our principles in such a volatile, complex and ambiguous collaboration with the world is a differentiating capability in itself: these values allowed us to build passion and trust in the past 70 years responsible companies around with our colleagues, partners, consumers & community. us, we can make a difference. OUR CSR PILLARS Everyone at HOLDAL is committed to perpetrating family values and heritage, dedicating time and resources to the 3 pillars which have become an integral part of our company’s strategy: 2017 HOLDAL FOCUS Saving Lives 48% Saving Lives To many, basic needs such as Food, Water, Shelter, Security and Health Empowering have become a luxury. HOLDAL is devoted to combat this paradox by communities partnering with various associations and NGOs that are active in the 30% aforementioned fields. Empowering communities Environmental This pillar is as diverse as the communities around us and includes Sustainability initiatives that aim to improve social care and wellbeing, fight discrimination, promote women & children rights, and nurture 22% entrepreneurship. Education is at the center of this pillar. Sustainable Development HOLDAL is determined to promote a greener Levant and to minimize its These figures represent the allocated time, resources, impact on the environment by 2020, be it through its recycling program brands and financial support & awareness campaigns or through integration of green technologies in its operations and facilities. 2017 CSR REVIEW SAVING LIVES A Tout Coeur AUB Medical Audiology Sciences Autism Awareness Campaign Breast Cancer Awareness Campaign Chance Fighting Cancer (Children) Children’s Cancer Center of Lebanon (CCCL) Donner Sang Compter Blood Donation Lebanese Breast Cancer Foundation Lebanese Food Bank Movember Awareness Campaign (Prostate Cancer) Organ Donation Awareness Campaign – National Organization for Organ & Tissue Donation & Transplantation (NOD) FIGHT AGAINST HUNGER For the 5th consecutive year, HOLDAL thanks to Food & Design offered 1,000 meals to underprivileged families and to the Lebanese Food Bank (LFB). On June 15, we offered a dinner to 15 deprived families (50 people): this event was held in our premises for LFB. Finally, we held a booth at Souk El Tayeb in collaboration with Food & Design: all proceeds were donated to LFB. http://lebanesefoodbank.com/en/ DONATE FOR LIFE For the 4th consecutive year, HOLDAL ran the Donate for Life campaign in all our retail stores in partnership with the Children Cancer Center of Lebanon (CCCL). Thanks to our team’s hard work, we were able to collect 3600$ via 3 campaigns this year. To date, we were able to gather and donate a total of 13,000$ to CCCL. Special thanks to Janine Khalifeh Retail http://www.cccl.org.lb/ SAVE A LIFE: DONATE BLOOD For the 5th consecutive year, 41 volunteers from HOLDAL and from L’Oréal participated in Donner Sang Compter (DSC) Blood Drive: 27 blood units were collected. To date, we have gathered a list of 140 volunteers and we have collected 100 blood units! We also launched a campaign with one of our brands: with every purchase of Nexcare Band-Aids, consumers donated part of the proceeds to DSC. In total, $2,500 were collected. http://www.dsclebanon.org/ PINK RIBBON MONTH For the 5th consecutive year, in October, we have been raising awareness on breast cancer via an internal campaign. A healthy diet & exercise routine can reduce your chance of breast cancer by nearly 40%. When caught early, breast cancer has a 98% survival rate. Nearly 85% of women diagnosed with breast cancer DO NOT have a family history. Over 2 million women in the US have been diagnosed and treated for breast cancer. In Lebanon, Breast Cancer constitutes 35% of all women’s cancers. Breast cancer can’t be prevented, but you can take important steps to help detect it earlier. http://lbcfoundation.org/ “I TOOK THE CUT” HAIR DONATION DAY On October 29th, our colleagues attended L’Oréal “I TOOK THE CUT” hair donation day in collaboration with the Lebanese Breast Cancer Foundation. 1 out of 3 women will be diagnosed with cancer in her lifetime. Nearly 70% of them lose their hair due to the chemotherapy treatment, and often avoid being seen in public. Since 2014, L’Oréal holds a yearly hair donation campaign to support cancer patients and help them regain self-esteem, by offering them free of charge wigs made from donated hair. https://www.facebook.com/events/288287358356412/ MOVEMBER CAMPAIGN OTHER INITIATIVES Special thanks to Rony Chedaide Retail Empowering Communities AFEL Preventing child abuse Al Insan Mahabba Helping underprivileged families Arc en Ciel – Empowering communities Bassma – Empowering families BZ Kids – Supporting children education DAFA – Helping underprivileged families Dar el Amal – Safeguarding children & women rights Dekwaneh Municipality Library Education Endeavor – Mentoring entrepreneurs Family Care Lebanon – Supporting families in need Free Vol Theatre – Supporting families in need Himaya – Preventing child abuse International Women’s Day Les Restaurants Du Coeur – Fighting against children Orphan Welfare Society Paradis d’Enfants – Empowering underprivileged children St Vincent De Paul – Fighting poverty Smile in a Box – Spreading smiles to underprivileged children Spring of Life Empowering underprivileged children Step Together Fiesta School Education Teach for Lebanon Education RUN FOR A CAUSE For the 5th consecutive year, we participated in the Beirut Marathon on November 12. 130 colleagues ran for Teach for Lebanon (TFL) a Lebanese NGO dedicated to improving the quality of education in Lebanon for underprivileged children. BACK TO SCHOOL During the month of September, our clients donated old school bags and new stationary supplies in our Kipling branches to support Teach for Lebanon (TFL) students. DENTAL HYGIENE SESSIONS On October 13th, 70 children were gathered with Teach for Lebanon (TFL), the Colgate Palmolive team and Dr. Lara Nakhoul from Cliniz around a dental hygiene awareness session at Choueifat New Generation School. The same awareness campaign was offered to AFEL, Step Together Fiesta School & Spring of Life. Special thanks to Mirna Doumit – Colgate http://www.teachforlebanon.org/ DONATE! BE THE CHANGE! THE GOOD WILL BOX Since 2011, thanks to our good will boxes, we have been able to help the following NGOs: Les Restaurants du Coeur, Saint Vincent de Paul, Arc En Ciel, Lebanese Food Bank, AFEL, Spring of Life, Bassma, Dar Al Amal, Orphan Welfare Society, Himaya and Paradis d’Enfants. This year in addition to the above NGO’s, we supported: Al Insan Mahabba, Dafa, Ayadina, Family Care Lebanon (FCL), Amour et Partage. We were able to collect and donate 50 boxes filled with clothes, toys, shoes, accessories, bags, canned food and love! To donate please contact us: csr@holdalgroup.com (we welcome donations throughout the year) COOKIES FOR A GREAT CAUSE HOLDAL supported BZ KIDZ students during Valentine by selling fresh baked chocolate chip cookies across our offices. 5% of the proceeds go to students’ school tuition & 95% feed hungry kids. BZ KIDZ is a non-profit youth organization that provides after school programs for Lebanese kids whose families cannot support their academic success. BZ KIDZ began a new initiative this year: feed every kid, every day, in every branch. www.bzkidz.com SMILE IN A BOX Pack a small box with gifts and make a big difference in the life of a child in need. In December, we filled 60 boxes for 60 children in need to spread the joy of Christmas www.smileinabox.org MUNICIPALITY LIBRARY INAUGURATION Dekwaneh Municipality inaugurated a public library. Because our company’s philanthropic pillars revolve around community empowerment and education we offered 160 books (value of 1000$) to children below 12 years old with the help of Librairie Stephan. WOMEN @ HOLDAL The International Women’s day was held on March 8th to celebrate the countless achievements of women and to raise awareness on women’s rights. Women have come a long way in their struggle for justice and equality, but there is still a long way to go! We took this opportunity to focus on the roles and responsibilities of HOLDAL women: the company is equally represented from BOD to Executive Management to nonManagerial roles. 8 women shared their journey at HOLDAL. COMMUNITY SERVICE @ HOLDAL On November 17th, 12 children from AFEL gathered at HOLDAL and enjoyed a painting session offered by our talented Graphic Designer Lea Khalil. http://afel.org.lb/ On the same day, 12 women from BASSMA gathered at HOLDAL and enjoyed a makeup session and a makeover sponsored by Pupa Milano Levant and delivered by our talented Makeup Artist Celine Abdo. https://www.bassma.org/ On December 14, our colleagues spent an unforgettable time with underprivileged elderly people from Amour & Partage. Our volunteers offered a wide range of activities: coloring/singing/puzzle/games/backgammon/cards… . http://www.amouretpartage.com/ Acting Workshop Change Management Team Initiatives @ HOLDAL Dream Catcher Hair styling Karaoke Football Painting Cooking Change Management Team Initiatives @ HOLDAL Movember Wellness Day Happy Monday Outing Day Sustainable Development AFDC – Holdal Social Community Day Arc en Ciel Recycling (Paper, Aluminum, Plastic) Beeatoona Electronic Recycling Lebanon Mountain Trail with Eco-Consulting – Abtal El Bi’a Camp HOLDAL SOCIAL COMMUNITY DAY For the 2nd consecutive year, HOLDAL organized its annual Social Community Day. On October 6, 180 colleagues joined AFDC team in Ramlieh for a beautiful hike and re-forestation mission. 70 pine seedlings were planted on the occasion of HOLDAL 70th anniversary. https://www.facebook.com/AFDCLebanon/ PAPER 8.2 Ton RECYCLING PROGRAM 2016 PLASTIC 1.9 NYLON Holdal Recycling Program has been running for 0.6 7 years at Holdal. Last year, we launched 2 new partnerships with Arc en Ciel (recycling of paper, plastic and aluminum) and with ALUMINUM Beeatoona (electronic waste recycling). 0.1 We will expand our recycling initiatives by These figures represent the volume of recyclable adding organic and glass waste recycling in the wastes gathered at Holdal near future. PAPER 4 PLASTIC Thanks to the Administration & Facility team ELECTRONICS 0.5 100 Pcs. 2017 http://www.arcenciel.org/en/ http://www.beeatoona.org/ ALUMINUM 0.7 Ton LIGHTS OUT: IT IS EARTH HOUR! Every year, HOLDAL joins the Earth Hour a global annual event where millions of people turn their lights off for 1 hour to show how concerned they are towards our planet. Lights in our premises were turned off on Saturday March 25th from 8.30pm to 9.30pm. We continuously encourage our colleagues to save energy throughout the year i.e. lights, heaters, AC… ABTAL EL BI’A CAMPS For the 2nd consecutive year, HOLDAL Group is proud to have taken part in collaboration with Fattal Group in the Environmental Championship Program organized by the Lebanon Mountain Trail Association (LMTA) & ECO Consulting. This unique camp gathered 14 children of Holdal and Fattal employees between June 30th and July 4th in Al Akoura, Hadath el Jebbe and Casa Batroun. A 2nd camp was also offered to 14 underprivileged children on behalf of HOLDAL & Fattal Group. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3OL0jByw0RU https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RT4r4IKoamo&feature=youtu.be http://www.lebanontrail.org/ http://ecoconsulting.net/www/ 7 INITIATIVES TO CELEBRATE HOLDAL 70TH ANNIVERSARY This year our Group celebrated 70 years of passion and trust. On this occasion, we decided to give back to our community via 7 different initiatives implemented within 7 weeks. 1 Dental Hygiene S by Colgate 3 Painting Session for AFEL 4 Hair donation day . . . 2 Goodwill boxes by Kipling . 5 HOLDAL Social Community Day Planting Trees with AFDC . 7 CMT for Amour & Partage 6 Makeup Session by PUPA 1000 meals to Lebanese Food Bank 2017 110 boxes distributed to 16 NGOs vs. 45 boxes to 10 NGO’s last year CSR results 50 Donors 40 Blood Units 70 trees 250+kids planted smiles in a glimpse collected 130 Runners 30+ NGOs supported at the Beirut Marathon Volunteer Program (500 hours of community service) Recyclables (4 Tons papers, 0.5 Ton plastics, 0.7 Ton aluminum and 100 electronic hardware) 2017 Partnerships: $16,000 proceeds collected 2017 Key Learning & Benefits CSR is not a standalone function and it is not a marketing tool: it is at the CORE of HOLDAL Vision, Mission, Strategy and Values. It is at the heart of Make It Happen HOLDAL 2020 transformation goals. Being socially responsible and working towards having a sustainable business model will enable each business unit to drive growth. They go hand in hand. Management should integrate realistic and sustainable solutions across our business activities to impact our community in a positive and in a sustainable way. By coming together, collaborating and working towards the same goals we have the chance to learn best practices from one another and adapt these frameworks to our environment. We will need to set clear ownership per department to show more commitment at Group level. We should also partner with other private companies to have a bigger impact. Corporate volunteer programs drive value: our colleagues are interested in volunteer programs as they provide opportunities to connect with their community. Effective volunteer programs support business development, employee engagement, retention, skills development, and talent development objectives. Dollars alone are not going to solve the problems. It’s going to take people and their expertise to address our challenges. And we have the potential at HOLDAL to make a difference. 2017 Key Learning & Benefits Consumers look to do business with socially responsible companies. We should put more focus on logistics vehicles emissions, production/manufacturing and we need to find ecofriendly solutions feasible for the company and for the environment. We should use more eco-friendly systems in our facilities and premises. 2017 showed more positive support from departments but they are still lagging on proactivity and ownership to lead new initiatives on their own. 2017 saw solid achievements despite limited budget, time and resources. 2017 initiatives were more impactful and rewarding. Deadlines and schedules were not always respected. Lebanon Situation in 2017 Population: 6.082.357 in Nov. 2017 55% of the population is in NEED Source: Lebanon crisis response plan 2017-2020 (United Nations & Lebanese Gov.) Lebanon Situation in 2017 Source: Lebanon crisis response plan 2017-2020 (United Nations & Lebanese Gov.) 40% of the population in need 20% of the population in need 2018 CSR FOCUS Given the key learning from previous years and the diagnostic of Lebanon current situation and needs, we need to prioritize and focus on what will make a humble difference as a social responsible company. This year, we will still be focusing on: Saving Lives & Empowering Communities: relief support (food, water, shelter, and safety), education, healthcare. Fight discrimination, promote women and children rights. Making our Environment Greener & Cleaner: improve our recycling program and increase colleagues awareness and contribution. Our target community: mainly women & children 2018 CSR FOCUS Holdal Group will join the United Nations Global Compact and GLOBAL COMPACT LEBANON as of January 2018. HOLDAL supports the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects, which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the UN Global Compact and annually thereafter. www.globalcompact-lebanon.org https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ 2018 HOLDAL FOCUS AROUND THE SDGs An intrinsic part of Make It Happen HOLDAL 2020 transformation journey Especially to deprived children in primary schools Empower women and girls. Maintain respect, fairness and equity. We will have SDG’s owners (champions) depending on their areas of expertise i.e. BM’s, CCO’s, GM, HRM, IAM, SCM, FM, etc. We will integrate CSR actions in each department with a clear ownership based on each goal (SDG). 2018 CSR PLAN & RECOMMENDATIONS At Group Level Reinforce our corporate culture around community engagement: rally the skills and expertise of our employees to address the issues of hunger, poverty, education and economic prosperity. Launch a corporate volunteer program. Donate 1000 hours of volunteer services to NGO’s and families in need. We will encourage more employee volunteer programs to advance the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The 17 SDGs provide a strategic framework to address the world’s most critical issues including poverty, hunger, quality education, and climate change. We will also inspire employees to volunteer with a local non-profit organization. Stock management and waste reduction: this is a collaborative internal project. Help those in need with a more efficient stock management and re-distribute “returned” items in perfect conditions to underprivileged families & selected NGO’s. CO2 Emissions Reduction: We aim at incorporating best practices across Holdal business units as part of our commitment to environmental stewardship – from our warehouses, factories, offices and retail stores to suppliers. CSR Competitions: we will initiate an internal competition revolving around CSR and giving back to the community. Internal Funding Program: we aim to provide underprivileged colleagues with a decent & solid education – depending on funding and resources in hand. Step 1: focus on colleagues’ children in primary school (the most important years of a child). This project will be a phased approach and we will scale it up and widen its scope depending on success and funding available. THANK YOU…
