C O R P O R A T E S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 2 • Summary CONTENT About Eco Future Materiality Governance Environment Economic Lyreco Strategy Matrix PAGE PAGE PAGE PAGE PAGE PAGE 4 8 10 12 16 22 People Supply Community Supplier Commitments UN SDG Chain Testimonies and Activities (Sustainable Development Goals) and Lyreco CSR Programmes PAGE PAGE PAGE PAGE PAGE PAGE 24 28 32 36 38 40 1 Word from the CEO • 3 A WORD FROM HERVÉ MILCENT, GROUP CEO In 2017, more than 2,500 interested parties, including By signing on to this international corporate citizenship initiative, customers, employees, suppliers, management teams and NGOs Lyreco supports rational, sustainable and responsible business from all over the world, contributed to the definition practices. of the Lyreco Materiality Matrix. In this report, you will find a wide range of programmes This matrix presents issues along two axes: the expectations illustrating this pledge. of the stakeholders & the business needs of Lyreco, so that At a time when our industry and our Group is undergoing a priority is given to the most relevant Sustainability issues. extensive transformation, more than ever, we will continue In 2018, this will be used as support for the definition to evolve and grow while remaining true to our values of the new Lyreco Sustainability strategy. and heritage as we undertake our sustainability journey. In the meantime, our current strategy, Eco Future, remains applicable and fully accurate. For the 14th year in a row, our company is renewing its participation in the United Nations Global Compact and its commitment to the ten universally accepted principles. 4 • About Lyreco THE BUSINESS LYRECO OPERATES IN 42 COUNTRIES CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT IS THE RULE In addition to the 25 extensive markets covered by Lyreco, All subsidiaries contribute to the continuous improvement we have also formed strategic sales alliances with 15 partners : of the group model by sharing new ideas and best practices. These alliances allow us to better serve our international clients Sustainable Development takes advantage of these synergies with a presence in Turkey, Japan, India, China, Argentina, Canada, from all areas of the business and group experts help Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Russia, Taiwan, New Zealand, Australia, by improving the group best practices. Romania, Brazil, the United States and Mexico. Work made easy About Lyreco • 5 LYRECO WORLDMAP & PARTNERS Caption: Lyreco Subsidiaries Lyreco Partners 6 • About Lyreco 17 product families 58,000 orders /day 36% green products 24 distribution centres 1,700 SALES FORCE vans and On-going areas for improvement drivers • Increase communication on Sustainable Development AND CUSTOMER with customers 9,000 employees SERVICE • Reduce environmental impacts due to travelling • Reduce usage of paper printed data: reports or orders 99.3% availability rate 230,000 boxes 7,500 stocked delivered products every day About Lyreco • 7 ORDER PREPARATION AND DELIVERY on-going areas for improvement • Reduce Health & Safety risks • Increase waste recycling • Energy savings initiatives • Reduce environmental impacts due to transportation (route planning) PRODUCT OFFERING On-going areas for improvement • Continue to develop a deeper range of environmentally friendly products • Continue to raise consumer awareness on Sustainable Development and pay special attention to certified suppliers • Define strict and formalised criteria for qualification as a “green product” • Reduce paper invoices (electronic invoicing) 8 • Eco future Strategy ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION • Reduce our ecological footprint • Help our customers and suppliers to do the same ECO FUTURE 2017 RESULTS In early 2012, Lyreco launched a midterm Sustainability strategy named Eco Future. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION KPIs GOAL 2017 RESULT 2017 The strategy consists of: • 3 guiding principles • 10 clearly defined commitments Sales of green products 25 % of Sales (common range products) 42% are made with “green products” • 9 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) The following tables give the latest results for all the Eco Future KPI. CO2 Emissions CO2 Emissions decrease by 20 % from a 2010 base year -18%(1) from Lyreco activities Waste Recycled 90 % of the Waste coming from Lyreco activities 91% is recycled In line with the target (1) -23.20 % considering the CO2 / Delivery. Eco future Strategy • 9 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • Focusing on human relationships and development • Reinforcing our long term relationships SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY KPIs GOAL 2017 RESULT 2017 90 % of all employees responding to the bi-annual Internal Working Conditions(1) Opinion Survey answer positively when asked how 78% they feel about their working conditions. The number of lost working days due to workplace accidents Lost working days due to Injuries has decreased by 10 % based on the 2011 figures. +32% 90 % of all employees responding to the bi-annual Internal Training Level(1) Opinion Survey will answer positively when asked if they 82% consider that they are properly trained to do their job. The internal collection target for the “Lyreco For Education” Charity Contribution charity programme is +4% for 2017 +4% ECONOMIC ECONOMIC SUCCESS SUCCESS KPIs GOAL 2017 RESULT 2017 •B  uild lasting customer relationships by providing Supplier Sustainability Assessment average mark solutions to their sustainability goals Supplier Sustainability Assessment increases by 10 % per year. +9.8% 100 % of the factories producing Lyreco products Supplier Social Audits(2) in the developing countries are subject to Social 98% and Environmental audits. In line with the target (1) 2016 numbers. (2) 100 % for Group, Common Range references. 1 report missing for France (local reference). 10 • Materiality Matrix IN 2017, LYRECO ESTABLISHED ITS MATERIALITY MATRIX. Materiality is a principle used in ‘decision making’ Materiality Matrix highlights issues along two main axes: to define whether an issue is sufficiently important • importance to stakeholders / society to warrant attention and to define priority to manage. • importance to the business. IDENTIFICATION 37 potential relevant issues for Lyreco OF THE ISSUES: have been identified. These issues were gathered in 6 categories. MATERIALITY MATRIX GOVERNANCE (p. 12-15) ECONOMIC (p. 22-23) • Ethical Business Practices • Business performance • Disclosure • Customer satisfaction and Transparency • Customer partnership • Voluntary Standards on sustainability and Certifications • Innovation (products •S  ervice Economy • Regulatory Compliance & services) •B  rand Perception • Products & Services Quality •S  upport start-ups THE GENERAL PROCESS Inspired by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines ENVIRONMENT (p. 16-21) SUPPLY CHAIN (p. 28-31) and International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) framework, • Social standards • Sustainable Products the process is followed by major companies & recommended in the supply chain • Sustainability packaging by CSR agencies: • Human rights • Recycling services • Energy in the supply chain • To establish the list of issues applicable to the company. to customers • Waste • Environmental standards • Survey stakeholders (customers, suppliers, employees, • Eco Conception • Water in the supply chain management, …) to identify their respective priorities vs issues. • Carbon emissions • Logistics • Supply chain Assessment • Air pollution • Buildings and Performance • Close the loop with the Sustainability risks and opportunities. • Land Use and Biodiversity • Movement of People • Build the Materiality Matrix. Materiality Matrix • 11 2,500 contributors The 11 most important issues: 1 • Customer satisfaction 2 • Employee Health & Safety 3 • Human rights in the supply chain 4 • Regulatory Compliance KEY OUTCOMES: 5 • Ethical Business Practices 6 • Product & Service Quality • Our stakeholders shared the same importance for issues relative 7 • Employee Wellbeing to the society and those relative to the business. 8 • Environmental standards in the supply chain PEOPLE (p. 24-27) • All subsidiaries shared the same issues. 9 • Social standards in the supply chain 10 • Human Capital Management •E  mployee Health & Safety • A  ll the 37 issues are mentioned as relevant – including 11 • Customer partnership on sustainability • Employee Wellbeing the lowest score = 6.86 / 10 (Land Use and Biodiversity). • Diversity and inclusion • We focus on the 11 ‘Most Important’ issues mentioned by our • Human Capital stakeholders and scoring 8.5 /10 for both society and business. Management 3 2 1 6 4 7 9 8 5 10 11 3 2 1 Importance to the Society 6 4 COMMUNITY (p. 32-35) 7 9 8 5 10 • Creation of social value 11 where we operate • Support of non-profit organisations and community projects • Promotion of education and growth of communities • Establish partnerships with Social Enterprises Importance to the Business 12 • Governance Transparency, accountability and responsibility; our path to a sustainable future. MARTA FLORES PALLARÈS QSS Manager (Quality, Security & Sustainability) Lyreco Iberia Lyreco Sustainability initiatives are spread throughout operational, management and support processes. They are highlighted below. Only a few of them are subject to a specific focus in this report. RISK 1 IDENTIFICATION 3 PREVENTION 4 PROTECTION 5 6 REACTION 2 EVALUATION MANAGEMENT • Risk assessment scales • Audit • Risk transfer policy Action • Activation of BCP (Business PROCESSES • Risk matrixes • CSR • Conception Continuity Plan) of BCP • Internal control •A  ctivation of crisis •C  onception of crisis OVERVIEW • Procedures management system management system • Ethics Governance • 13 LYRECO’S SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE IS BASED ON SEVERAL PILLARS: • An Integrated Management System • A Risk Management approach AN INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM To ensure a common operating practice for all subsidiaries based on qualitative and environmental matters, Lyreco uses the recognised international standards ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 to which the Integrated Management Systems are certified. This ensures that quality and environmental matters are dealt with at a level trusted by interested parties and understood by employees. Aligned with the Quality & Environmental Management System, Health & Safety management is based on Lyreco’s guidelines referring to the OHSAS 18001 standard and local legislation, applied in the subsidiaries by the Senior Management Teams. In 2012, ISO 26000, the guideline for Corporate Social Responsibility, was adopted to provide structure to the sustainability journey. In addition, some countries have also chosen to obtain further certifications, such as: • OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health & Safety Management System) • ISO 50001 (Energy Management Standard) • FSC CoC Certification (Forest Stewardship Council – Chain of Custody). • AEO (Authorized Economic Operator). The AEO status is an internationally recognised quality mark indicating that the company role in the international supply chain is secure, and that customs controls and procedures are efficient and compliant. 14 • Governance AEO ISO 9001 ISO 14001 IS O 5000 ISO 26000 1 ISO 50001 FORE S TR Y OHSAS 18001 FSC CoC Caption: Worldwide Certification depending certification on the country NB: ISO 26000 is not subject to certification. It provides guidelines. CEO This integrated Management System is coordinated in each subsidiary by a dedicated department: Quality, Security & Sustainability (QSS). Chief The head of the QSS department is included as member Operating of the Senior Management Team, to ensure key business Officer decisions, including Quality, Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability aspects. The Group QSS director monitors all local projects and oversees all local initiatives: to ensure the Group standards are respected; Group Group Group Group Group Group to have a consistent international ecofuture strategy Marketing Customer SMB Corporate & Global Logistics Quality, Security implemented; Experience Accounts & Sustainability to manage international best pratices, action plans and internal communication. Group COO (Chief Operating Officer) organization Governance • 15 Hervé Milcent Nasser Kahil Christophe Chambre Jeroen Van Der Laan CEO Group QSS Director COO Group Customer Director Corporate & Global France Pointier Frank Chauveau Audrey Benedetti Franck Suhit Group Customer Experience Director Group Logistics Director SMB Experience Executive Manager Group Marketing Director A RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH The Lyreco Group Risk Management system is underpinned by a structured approach for identifying, analysing and assessing risks and implementing appropriate prevention and protection action plans. See page 10 : the Lyreco Risk Management Processes 16 • Environment Logistics Activities Customer satisfaction is more than on-time delivery. It is providing sustainable products, minimising packaging to customers and delivering with an environmentally friendly fleet. OLEG NIKKARINEN Delivery man in Finland KEY 77% of Vans equipped 63% of warehouse 55,010 m2 of Roof space 103 Environmentally FIGURES with Tracking / Positioning System space with LED lighting with Solar Panels Friendly Vans Lyreco Sustainability initiatives are spread throughout operational, management and support processes. They are highlighted below. Only a few of them are subject to a specific focus in this report. LOGISTICS ORDERING RECEIVING STORAGE PREPARATION DELIVERY TO SUPPLIERS PROCESSES • Electronic ordering •E  nergy Storage  nergy Storage •E • Voice Picking •E  nd to End p. 17 p. 17 Zero Emissions •R  educe & Reuse OVERVIEW p. 19 • Solar Panels • Solar Panels Packaging • Electronic Signature • Waste Management •G  ood to Person • Adapted Packaging p. 18 • Environmentally Friendly Vans • Vertical Storage •V  an Tracking • Efficient System Lighting Systems Environment Logistics Activities • 17 Lyreco in the UK set up a battery storage system This helps to reduce our own demand on the grid, especially from 13,860 photovoltaic solar panels installed in 2015. in the winter, and therefore reduce our bills. Thanks to its solar Currently, as a company, Lyreco is «encouraged» by our electricity Lyreco is becoming a virtual power plant, and the National Grid panels, the Lyreco suppliers to reduce their electricity consumption during peak can leverage our power reserves to help mitigate peak demand building in the UK periods. for fossil fuel power plants, alongside many other future virtual is now electrically power plants. By installing half a megawatt of Tesla batteries, Lyreco is able carbon neutral to charge the battery system during the day using solar The battery storage technology itself, is quickly recognized photovoltaic and utilizing the electricity stored during these peak as the preferred solution for providing frequency balancing periods. services to the grid, to enable a more reliable power source with less harmful spikes. Battery Storage System at Lyreco NDC in the UK November 2017 LYRECO IS ONE OF THE FIRST COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SITES IN THE UK, TO USE LARGE SCALE BATTERY STORAGE WITH ROOFTOP SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC 18 • Environment Logistics Activities Good to Person solution enabled Lyreco to decrease picking error by -66 %(1) LYRECO STARTS ITS FIRST GOOD TO PERSON Since November 2016, Lyreco in Switzerland has gradually The integrated system guarantees a state of the art warehouse upgraded its logistics process with the integration management minimizing the risk of goods scrapping. Therefore, SOLUTION, BRINGING of a Good-To-Person machine having a capacity Lyreco is clearly improving its sustainability. of about 30,000 containers. On top of this the system allows a much higher stock accuracy A SMARTER, FASTER With a length of 100m, a width of 22m and a height of 16m, this new installation runs 78 fully-automated shuttles, allowing to with a live rolling stock-counting each time a container is emptied. & ERGONOMIC ORDER Through this strategic investment in Switzerland, Lyreco shows reach much better ergonomic standards for employees its customers the long-term vision of the company and a much higher picking accuracy for customers. FULFILLMENT based on an integrated supply chain, adapted to its diversification strategy. (1) With the new system, the picking error rate moved from 3 to 1 mistake for 1,000 prepared order lines. Lyreco NDC in Switzerland February 2018 Overview of the NDC (National Distribution Center) Environment Logistics Activities • 19 Long Distance Electric Truck at the first international fair for Sustainable Logistics in Milan March 2018 END TO END In addition to the existing programmes, Lyreco expects platforms with the possibility of self-powering on energy produced to launch in Italy one step further in its ‘Environmentally from renewable and certified sources. ZERO EMISSIONS Friendly Fleet’ journey. Another magnitude of the project is also to create a partnership The final goal is to ensure end-to-end zero emissions deliveries, with FCA (Fiat Chrysler Automobiles), for the development thanks to an Electric fleet for both the long distance and the final delivery to the customer. of the first full-electric FCA Light Commercial Vehicles (ducato), which will lead FCA to market this product at the beginning DELIVERIES of 2019. In March 2018, Lyreco took part in the first international fair for Sustainable Logistics. If the development of the FCA project is in line with the expected promises, 280 km autonomy and load about 1.3 tons, Lyreco One of the goals was to create a partnership with a new Logistics in Italy will have by 2020: company called “Four Logistics”, that has in its mission a clear • In its own fleet at least 60 full electric vehicles. Sustainable angle. • Thanks to the partnership with Four Logistics a truck with The partnership will give to Four Logistics and Lyreco a load of about 9 tons in every main Italian region from north the opportunity to ensure customer deliveries to central. with Zero Emissions, and this from end-to-end Lyreco will then become in Italy the first avant-garde company, (i.e. including the long distance). using a truly end-to-end green fleet made with zero emissions The heavy goods vehicles used for the long distance will also vehicles. be equipped with a hydraulic tail lift, to share cross docking 20 • Environment Sales Activities For Lyreco, Eco-responsibility is not only a catchword, but an everyday reality. CATHERINE BORTOLIN Sales Manager Deployment in France KEY 121 Environmentally 1,200,000 E-biller 22051 people using FIGURES Friendly Cars for sales people Invoices Skype services Lyreco Sustainability initiatives are spread throughout operational, management and support processes. They are highlighted below. Only a few of them are subject to a specific focus in this report. SALES ACCOUNT DEVELOPMENT CUSTOMER VISITS ACTIVITY FOLLOW-UP PROCESSES • Electronic contracts • Visioconference • Visioconference • Eco driving • Recycling Services OVERVIEW •E  nvironmentally Friendly Fleet: • Green Products Most Ecological Fleet • Customer Sustainability Awards p. 21 • Electronic Invoicing • Company car policy Environment Sales Activities • 21 The first 100% Electric Car in Poland – September 2017 Lyreco Poland Finance Director getting the award – October 2017 THE MOST ECOLOGICAL In order to reduce the environmental impact of vehicles Existing since 1999, Arval was in 2005 one of the founders of the operated by Lyreco, the company aims to develop Polish Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (PZWLP). The main FLEET 2017 its Environmentally Friendly Fleet. goal of PZWLP is to shape and influence the development of the vehicle leasing and leasing industry as well as fleet management. This programme which is applicable to both Delivery Vans and Company Cars started seven years ago in 2009 Key criteria / highlights taken into account by the judges were: when a number of countries introduced natural gas, • The average CO2 level of the Lyreco Car Fleet. electric vehicles or hybrid cars to their fleets. • The introduction of the first 100% Electric Car to the Lyreco Car Fleet. In 2017, Lyreco was awarded ‘The Most Ecological Fleet’ in • CSR on-going activities to reduce the CO2 emissions Poland. and environmental aspects, such as a dedicated business The recognition was given by Arval Service Lease Polska – travel plan, the promotion of carpooling, Health & Safety one of the biggest Car Fleet Management Companies in Poland. programmes around safe and eco-driving. 22 • Economic Our customers know that they can trust Lyreco and our services from start to end, and their satisfaction is what makes it such incredible fun to be out in the field – we deliver on our promises. MICHAELA FLYRIN National Key Account Manager in Scandinavia KEY 1,200,000 printer cartridges 254 customers 42% of sales are FIGURES collected participating in the Sustainability Awards green products Lyreco Sustainability initiatives are spread throughout operational, management and support processes. They are highlighted below. Only a few of them are subject to a specific focus in this report. CUSTOMER LYRECO OFFER ORDERING DELIVERY SUPPORT RELATIONSHIP FOLLOW-UP JOURNEY • Green Products • Webshop • Recycling services • Satisfaction survey • Customer PROCESSES •Q  uality & Environmental • Electronic invoicing • Environmentally friendly fleet • Customer understanding & environmental balance OVERVIEW Certifications satisfaction p. 23 • Customer sustainability awards Economic • 23 Immersive Session with customers, innovative start-up and Lyreco staff (CS, Sales and Marketing delegates) – Lille / Euratechnologies – 2017 FOSTER OUR CUSTOMER UNDERSTANDING & SATISFACTION Referring to the Lyreco Materiality Matrix, The key steps and outcomes of the project are detailed hereafter. Customer Satisfaction is the topic which has the highest importance for Lyreco stakeholders and business. CUSTOMER’S MAPPING & EVALUATION ROADMAP Within this context, a dedicated project was launched in 2017: FOCUS. PROFILING OF CUSTOMERS’ JOURNEY OF PROJECT The core objective is to become more “Customer Centric”. •7  customer profiles identified 1•C  urrent Journey •N  ew projects to improve An approach based on two key concepts driving from: and Paint Points customer experience customer orientation and teams alignment. Data analysis 2 • Immersive session with: • Priorization of projects Cross fuctional workshops The project involved all European countries, Customer interviews Voice of customers with 4 main principles: Benchmarks cross functional workshops 3 • Targeted Customer Journey Collaborative Data driven Up skilling Re-usable 24 • People Lyreco is willing to embrace the digital era and remain people centric. PETRA MAJOVA HR Manager in Slovakia KEY 18.3 Hours of training 78% of employees satisfied 82% of employees satisfied FIGURES per employee with their Working Conditions with Training Level Lyreco Sustainability initiatives are spread throughout operational, management and support processes. They are highlighted below. Only a few of them are subject to a specific focus in this report. HUMAN RECRUITMENT TRAINING PERFORMANCE DEVELOPMENT HEALTH, SAFETY & WELL-BEING HR & SKILLS DEVELOPMENT RESSOURCES •G  raduate Scheme • Graduate Scheme • Lyreco University • Ergonomics • Top Employer PROCESSES p. 27 p. 27 Initiatives p. 25 • Lyreco Campus • Diversity Policy • Digital Learning • H&S Certifications OVERVIEW • Career • Training Plan • Healthy habits p. 27 Management • Integration & • H&S Programmes p. 26 Induction •Q  uality of Work Life p. 26 People • 25 40-75 cm 5° 20-50° 90-105° 90° 90° ERGONOMICS: 60-75 cm ONE OF THE KEYS TO BE EFFICIENT 0-15° AT WORK Example of Ergonomics information on Lyreco Intranet. Ergonomic initiatives are implemented The ergonomics project was divided into activities in three areas: in all the Lyreco countries. Sales Employees, Warehouse Workers and Office Staff. As an extra focus, Poland set up in 2017 Issues concerned ergonomics in the car and behind the desk, an additional programme that involved all the staff. manual transport, safety during holidays, chemical substances, preparation for winter. The objective was to inspire employees to learn about and adhere to the broadly understood principles of ergonomics In addition, a competition on the same subject was held in their everyday work and private life. every month. At least twice a week, employees received information One objective of the programme was to decrease communicated on the Lyreco intranet “My Lyreco 2.0”. the number of accidents at work. The number of accidents in 2017 compared to 2016 decreased by 33%. 26 • People 456 employees in France 305 registered in the conciergerie 99 % services provided a month (fruit baskets, bakery take away, satisfaction dry cleaning…) rate 201 orders over 5 month THE QUALITY OF WORK LIFE (QWL) WEEK One of the activities organised as part of the QWL week October 2017 In 2017 a week focused on the quality of work took place in France. Quality of work life is a vast subject comprised of several themes including working relationships, work conditions, organisation and content of work, personal development and finding a work-life balance. Quality of work life is at the heart of concerns for Lyreco and the social dialogue. For the company it amounts to both an economical and social performance challenge. To kick off the first day, the theme was health and hygiene in your working life : Breakfast was organised for all employees. Baskets of fruit were readily available and there was also soup tasting and baskets of vegetables for sale. The second day saw the start of the company ‘conciergerie’. A range of services available to facilitate work and home life for employees. This is an ongoing project and still proving to be very successful. A conference “Communication in colour” was also organised with the objective being to give employees the key to facilitating communication depending on the various personalities. On the 3rd day a smoothie challenge either individually or in teams was proposed with the idea being to link sport and health while testing a « smoothie bike » Finally some time to relax: Yoga, meditation and even face massages and nail polish application delighted Lyreco employees. People • 27 Graduate scheme session in the UK November 2017 HEALTHY HABITS APP Iberia launched an APP to promote healthy habits for employees. They have the chance to create their personalized goals and focus on different topics: diet, sport, giving up smoking. They can also challenge other colleagues. A GRADUATE SCHEME: Lyreco in WISE started a Graduate scheme to attract fresh new talents, to bring relevant skills that we may be A NEW PROGRAMME missing from in Lyreco business and to give young people the opportunity to obtain senior positions. During the two-year programme, the Graduates will work across every major division in Lyreco, providing them with a well-rounded TO IDENTIFY TALENTS knowledge of how the whole business operates. CAREER As well as mastering the day-to-day tasks of the departments, DAY they have been managing various projects, which will have the potential to make a real impact on the business. The interview process involved 1st stage interviews, a Graduate Assessment Centre and a final stage of one-to-one interviews. To expose Lyreco as an exciting potential future employer, Lyreco in Singapore / Malaysia organized a one day The two graduates have been with us for 6 months now career day at the reputable Sunway University in Malaysia. and are coming to the end of the first of their placements in Marketing and Logistics. Once they’ve completed The idea was to reach out to the next-in-line workforce, these placements they will move onto Sales and Finance. understand and anticipate what they are looking for from a future employer. At the end of the scheme there will be a permanent position for the taking, matched to their skills and natural ability. 28 • Supply chain One of our key assessment factors for all our suppliers is their social, environmental and human standards in the supply chain based on our expectations and KPI. These are the basis of our reliable and trustworthy partnership. THIERRY DE JALRAS Group product Manager KEY 95% Participation rate in the 98% of factories audited in +8.8% improved 106 Factories manufacturing FIGURES Supplier Sustainability Assessment 2017 regarding Social & Environmental standards suppliers sustainability Common Range Lyreco branded products worldwide Lyreco Sustainability initiatives are spread throughout operational, management and support processes. They are highlighted below. Only a few of them are subject to a specific focus in this report. RESPONSIBLE PRODUCT CATEGORY STRATEGY PRODUCT / SUPPLIER SELECTION PRODUCT / SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT MARKETING • New Lyreco Hygiene p.29 • New Lyreco Hygiene p.29 • Supplier Sustainability Assessment PROCESSES •G  reen Products Assessment • Green Products Assessment p.31 • Supplier Social Compliancy Audits •B  usiness Supplier Agreement •B  usiness Supplier Agreement •S  upplier Environmental OVERVIEW Compliancy Audits • EU Ecolabel (Lyreco Pdt) • New Lyreco Cartridges p.30 • Product Testing • Nordic Swan (Lyreco Pdt) • EU Product Environmental Footprint • Product Legal Compliancy • Code of Ethics Supply chain • 29 THE NEW LYRECO HYGIENE RANGE LAUNCHED IN 2018 The new range was developed to better meet the expectations of Lyreco’s customers and to respond to their daily needs in any environment. As always Lyreco pays high attention to sustainability: the products in this new range are certified with the European Eco Label. The label guarantees: • Reduced energy consumption during production. The EU Ecolabel for Tissue Paper • Reduced air emissions of Sulphur and greenhouse gases • Reduced risks for human health, environmental damage during production. or risks related to the use of hazardous chemicals. The official EU mark for Greener Products • Decreased water pollution during production by reducing • Use of recycled fibres or virgin fibres the emissions of chlorine compounds and organic waste. from sustainability managed forest. PRODUCT BENEFITS ECOLABEL CERTIFIED Softness Absorption Eco-friendly manufacturing Brightness Bulk Resistance 30 • Supply chain THE NEW LYRECO TONER CARTRIDGES LAUNCHED IN 2018 The new products were developed to offer Lyreco’s customers the highest level with regards to environment, quality and health, applying at the same time the circular economy to printing. DISTRIBUTION COLLECT The products are certified with the Nordic Swan Label. CIRCULAR The label guarantees: ECONOMY • Reduced waste • Health & Environment: REMANUQUALITY A minimum of 75% of the weight of the cartridge is re-used. Toner cartridges do not contain toner powder or any other CONTROL FACTURED With Lyreco cartridges, we have an average of 89%. materials that are hazardous to health or environment. ONLY An empty cartridge collection programme is in place All waste has to be recycled, meaning no landfill. • Quality has regulatory requirements (1) ISO 17025: General requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories. Complaint quote below 1% (2) ISO 19752 / ISO 19798: Method for the determination of toner cartridge yield Lab analysis according to ISO 17025(1) for monochromatic / colour printers and multi-function devices that contain printer components. Printing quality according to DIN 33870-1 and DIN 33870-2(2) (3) DIN 33870-1 / DIN 33870-2: Requirements and Tests for the preparation of refilled Printing yield according to ISO 19752 and ISO 19798(3) toner modules for electrophotographical printer and printers – Part 1: Monochrome / Part 2: Colour. ISO 14001 is in place Supply chain • 31 CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE EU PRODUCT ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Since 2015, Lyreco is a technical secretariat member of the EU Product Environmental Footprint (PEF) pilot phase, demonstrating its interest in a relevant initiative aiming to develop accurate models to qualify the Environmentally Preferable Products (EPP). In April 2018, Lyreco participated in the Final Conference of the EU Environmental Footprint (EF) Initiative, aiming to move from “Vision to Action”. What’s next with the EU PEF project? As the pilot phase has ended, we are now entering in the so-called ‘Transition Period’ (till April 2020), where the EC (European Commission) will provide a framework for: • monitoring the implementation of existing Product Environmental Footprint Category Rules (PEFCRs); GREEN • developing new PEFCRs; • new methodological developments; PRODUCTS • preparing possible adoption of policies. ASSESSMENT For Lyreco, a couple of development paths are at the same time analyzed with relevant suppliers. AND LABELLING Since 2014, all Lyreco subsidiaries have been using a •T  he system applied is the same for all products in the bespoke and unique in time Green Product Assessment. subsidiary, resulting in consistency of green products labelling across the countries. Why is Lyreco’s approach reliable? •T  he assessment method has been approved by SGS* (the • It is based on the recognized international ISO 14020 standard, worldwide auditing company) who recognize it as “best in class” which is at the highest level of the ISO Environmental Claims in terms of green claims checking. series standards. In 2017, 42 % of the Sales (common range products) were made • It is in line with the International Chamber of Commerce with “green products” versus 36 % in 2016. advertising practices which give recommendations to prevent green washing. METHODOLOGY APPROVED BY* *“The “Lyreco Green Products Assessment” has been reviewed by SGS CTS Sustainability Services and approved as being in general conformance with the SGS Approval Mark principles of the ISO 14020 standard and the ICC Framework for Environmental Claims”. 32 • Community I am really impressed by the involvement of my colleagues with any action we organize in Lyreco to help children. We all know that we can do a lot to help others and we feel proud of it. YAIZA VILLALONGA International Communication Manager in Spain/Portugal Lyreco Sustainability initiatives are spread throughout operational, management and support processes. They are highlighted below. Only a few of them are subject to a specific focus in this report. CHARITY EVALUATE ANALYSIS ENGAGE & ENABLE IMPLEMENT & FOLLOW-UP PROCESSES •L  yreco for Education • Donations to Food Banks •L  yreco for Education action •L  FE field visit project debriefing plans and communication and assessment • Christmas Campaigns OVERVIEW • Collection Campaigns • Relay for Life • Supporting Children • Volunteering Community • 33 HELP ORPHANS SUPPORTING UNIVERSAL AND NEEDY CHILDREN CHILDREN’S DAY In July 2017, Lyreco in Thailand organized a dedicated activity aiming to give time and collect some money for an orphanage located in Bangkok (hosting more than 200 children). This was organized as a lunch and the objective was to have one Lyreco staff member for 2 children. Different volunteering actions have been carried out, which was also a learning experience for Lyreco staff. A GOOD DAY In the Netherlands, more than 4 million people are active in volunteering. The Lyreco transport team in the Netherlands also volunteered in May 2017. After a thorough research, a nursing home in the neighbourhood of Lyreco RDC in Utrecht was selected. RDC Breda and RDC Utrecht were able to provide together a total of 22 volunteers. After a brief introduction to the caretakers and residents of the department, the volunteers started baking pancakes and a bingo was organized in the afternoon for the residents who visibly enjoyed the pancakes, but also the presence of the volunteers. Throughout the day all volunteers also listened to stories from the residents. At the end of the day the residents were very grateful and the volunteers felt good for having done something for others. Lyreco staff volunteering at nursing home – May 2017. Solidarity march – November 2017 United Nations Universal Children’s Day was established of Alovera (city hosting the Lyreco Iberia NDC). in 1954 and is celebrated on November 20th each year Alovera has been recognized as a Child-friendly City for all to promote international togetherness, awareness among the initiatives they promote and they celebrate it with a week children worldwide, and improve children's welfare. dedicated to children. November 20th is an important date as it is the date in 1959 when More than 2,000 students joined the 4th edition of the march the UN General Assembly adopted the Declaration of the Rights and walked through the streets to raise funds for hundreds of the Child. It is also the date in 1989 when the UN General of children in need. assembly adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Children. Lyreco gifted all of them with a bag and supported other activities In November 2017, Lyreco in Spain collaborated with with materials. a solidarity march organized by UNICEF and the council 34 • Community Lyreco ambassadors in Madagascar WHEN A CHILD GOES TO SCHOOL A NATION GROWS! Started in 2008, the Lyreco For Education programme raises funds in the 15 subsidiaries of the group to give children, living in poor conditions, a better access to education. BANGLADESH LYRECO & THE SCHOOLS VIETNAM ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE WORLD VIETNAM ■ Lyreco TOGO Subsidiaries BRAZIL MADAGASCAR ■ Supported Countries by LFE 306,000€ Lyreco For Education funds raised in 2017 10 Community • 35 THE LYRECO ACTIONS CHARITY COMPLETED PROGRAMME BY END 2017 For each project, Lyreco selects an international NGO focusing on children’s education, and a specific action plan is defined Cyclone resistant based on objectives depending on the local context. classrooms built/renovated 28 The final goal of each project is to maintain our actions on a lifelong perspective. For that, a local steering committee, Latrines Built 10 with teachers, parents and heads of the villages , is set up in each village and thus they are responsible for their own education project. Wells and Water pumps 10 MADAGASCAR 2015-2018 Environmental 47 schools TARGET: 1,000,000€ awareness programmes Madagascar is the 6th poorest country in the world and is frequently hit by cyclones. Books and school 393 books supplies provided 284 maths supplies This is why LFE is leading a 4-year project, with the NGO CARE, to give 17,000 children access to education and to support 56 chalkboards 32 schools in the Vatomandry area. The action plan is built around 4 objectives: 185 initial training • to rebuild and renovate school facilities Teachers Trained 269 trained in pedagogy • to improve the quality of education by training teachers 254 trained in French and equipping schools Language • to increase the awareness and involvement of parents regarding the importance of school. Village savings • to focus on disaster prevention for future cyclones and loans associations 115 Management Committees 47 schools BEST FUNDRAISING SUBSIDIARIES • Internal events: breakfast stands, books, cake sales, second hand markets, karaokes, Christmas markets..., employees from all over the subs organise & take part Spending time on events and raising funds are part in local LFE actions. of the company culture and all employees •D  onations: ad hoc or monthly cash donations from employees. are involved in making money in 3 different ways: The sums donated are then matched by Lyreco. • Marketing operations with our customers & suppliers participation, such as: x products bought = 1 € For the 3 best fundraising countries, each in their own category, collected for LFE they have the immense honour of sending an ambassador on the trip. 36 • Suppliers Testimonies SUPPLIERS TESTIMONIES For Lyreco, it is extremely important to build long-term relationships with suppliers to be able to pursue sustainable purchasing. Here are 2 Group Suppliers sharing a few words on their CSR approach and relationships with Lyreco. BI-SILQUE Bi-Silque Strategic Coordinator with Lyreco Group QSS Director – April 2018 Founded in 1979 in Northern Portugal, Bi-silque: price in the market. but also on the process of manufacturing. • has its manufacturing and warehousing activities The cork used in their eco-friendly products range is a well-known Bi-silque and Lyreco have marketed as first in Europe’s (> 40,000 m²) close to Porto; sustainable, non-toxic, recyclable, natural and renewable material. office supplies industry, Cradle To Cradle Certified™ (C2C) • has a production capacity of more than This material can replace other non-renewable materials, the W/BOARD products. 50,000 boards a day; processing involved is reduced, and so the ecological footprint • exports its products to 86 countries on five continents; C2C is a classification program based on five pillars: the use from its extraction until the final product is comparatively smaller. • is certified ISO 9001, ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001. of non-toxic materials; designing with reusable or biodegradable The wood is also responsibly used. Bi-silque’s MDF (Medium materials; the use of renewable energy; using water responsibly; Density Fiberboard) is made from 29 % industrial waste. and manufacturing in a socially responsible manner. Bi-silque makes every effort to keep providing sustainable Other materials used in the Earth range products, such as paper, The C2C certification encourages manufacturers to continually products that enhance productivity, not only by using recycled aluminum and the e3 ceramic steel, are made from recycled improve and is only awarded to products which are considered and recyclable materials, but also by using in the manufacturing materials or industrial waste. safe for human health and the environment, designed process renewable energies. As sustainability doesn’t come only in a package, the whole for future use cycles and created through sustainable That is why Bi-silque has a complete range dedicated process is made having the environment in mind. Bi-silque’s production processes. In Europe, Lyreco sells around 10 different to sustainable products: the EARTH COLLECTION! sustainability starts at the core of design and manufacturing EARTH-IT Boards. which is why Bi-silque make sure to invest in solar energy This eco-friendly product range, which includes dry erase During the latest Supplier Sustainability Assessment, Bi-silque and water stewardship. boards and easels, helps Bi-silque’s customers and partners is one of the suppliers having the highest improvement to achieve their own sustainability goals by choosing to use Certifications like Cradle to Cradle have a highly-regarded of its score, showing its on-going improvement to Sustainability. sustainable products with the same high standard of quality reputation and hold businesses like Bi-silque to uphold rigorously and design that they’re used to from Bi-silque, with a competitive high standards, not only on the materials they use in the products, Suppliers Testimonies • 37 FELLOWES Fellowes is a global manufacturer and market leader of products for improving life at work, at home and on the go, including business machines, sit-stand workstations, Bankers Box records storage solutions, workspace management products, home 50% of people in France 52% of UK employees 80% of Dutch employees 40% do not delete fail to shred sensitive don’t worry about of Dutch employees and commercial air purification. never shred any useless documents(1) information before throwing away documents(3) Sustainability is central at Fellowes, and this can be illustrated discarding it(2) paper documents(3) through the different products and services proposed to the customers. (1) OBSOCO Study for Fellowes 2015. (2) One Poll Research, commissioned by Fellowes 2015. (3) Research Marcommit for Fellowes 2017. This year comes into force the European GDPR: General Data Protection Regulation. WHAT IS THE GDPR? It emphasizes the need for an ethical reflection The European Union (EU) has changed its data Businesses need to implement technical and organisational on the digital environment. protection rules. The changes have been live measures to make sure that data is processed properly. If you While we must welcome innovation and the benefits it brings across the EU from 25 May 2018. are not compliant, you might face fines up to € 20 million us, we should also remain committed to sustainable development, or 4% of your global annual turnover, whichever is higher. These new rules are called the General Data Protection taking into account issues of inequality and privacy. Regulation (GDPR) and apply across the board from GDPR helps to strengthen the Ethics pillar public authorities to small and medium-sized businesses. of Sustainable Development. Anyone who collects or processes personal data must Fellowes has been working together with Lyreco protect it from misuse and comply with a range of legal on sharing with getting businesses up to speed with requirements. The GDPR applies to electronic data the GDPR topic, but also how we can help the customer and to hard copies. be compliant. Research has shown that people need to be made aware of the GDPR and how they need to be compliant. Some companies have already implemented a strong action plan resulting in improving their internal security. Open, a French customer of Lyreco, asserts the need of a strong upgrade to respect the law but also to transform it as a competitive edge. “The installation of shredders remains one of the simplest actions to implement in the control of data security” Facility manager Open. Fellowes Shredder. 38 • Commitments and Activities COMMITMENTS AND ACTIVITIES Because of the variety of activities and operations, UN GLOBAL COMPACT BSCI Lyreco dialogue with organisations on several levels: regional, national, European and international. In 2004, Lyreco was the first company in the Office In 2013, Lyreco selected BSCI as a validated standard Below are just a few of our stakeholders and shared Supplies industry to join the UN Global Compact for the social accountability audits of the factories projects managed at Group level. demonstrating the company’s long-term commitment manufacturing Lyreco branded products. to Sustainability. Additional national and regional initiatives are managed The Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) is a leading by the local Lyreco subsidiaries. Launched in 2000, the United Nations Global Compact is both a supply chain management system that supports companies policy platform and a practical framework for companies that are to drive social compliance and improvements within committed to sustainability and responsible business practices. the factories in their global supply chains. As a multi-stakeholder leadership initiative, it seeks to align BSCI implements the principle international labour standards business operations and strategies with ten universally accepted protecting workers’ rights such as International Labor principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment Organization (ILO) conventions and declarations, the United and anti-corruption, and to catalyse actions in support Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights of broader UN goals. and guidelines for multinational enterprises of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). With 7,000 corporate signatories in 135 countries, it is the world’s largest voluntary corporate sustainability initiative. BEPI In 2016, Lyreco selected BEPI as a validated standard for the environmental audits of the factories UN GLOBAL COMPACT / manufacturing Lyreco branded products. HUMAN RIGHTS CLUB The Business Environmental Performance Initiative (BEPI) is a business-driven service provided by the Foreign Trade In 2017, Lyreco joined the ‘Human Rights’ Club of the Association (FTA) for retailers, importers and brands committed UN Global Compact, strengthening its commitment to improving environmental performance in supplying factories towards Global Compact principles of the United Nations and farms worldwide. BEPI provides a practical framework (six of them directly cover the theme). that can support all product sectors in all countries to reduce their environmental impact, business risks and costs through The ‘Human Rights’ Club is a place of exchange and expertise improved environmental practices. for the members to progress together on this theme. BEPI uses industry best practices alongside practical technical The objectives of the Club will evolve according expertise to support companies in developing supply chain to the needs of the members: visibility and meet the increasing environmental regulatory • Preventing, controlling and managing human rights risks, and stakeholder requirements. The basis of the BEPI Framework • Better mapping the stakeholders, is built on the Global Social Compliance Programme (GSCP), • Supporting companies in their approach to human rights, environmental reference tools, and it is also aligned • Developing appropriate tools, with leading environmental standards such as the Global • Building Collectively a place of influence. Reporting Initiative (GRI). Commitments and Activities • 39 SEDEX EU ECOLABEL FSC In 2013, Lyreco selected SMETA (Sedex Members Ethical Since 2009, Lyreco promotes EU Ecolabel for its own In 2018, Lyreco aims to become a member Trade Audit) as a validated standard for the social branded products. of FSC International. accountability audits of the factories manufacturing EU Ecolabel or EU Flower is a voluntary ecolabel scheme FSC is the world’s strongest certification system, in terms Lyreco branded products. established in 1992 by the European Commission. of global reach, robustness of certification criteria and number Furthermore, in 2017 the 4 pillars of SEDEX were chosen of businesses involved in the system. The EU Ecolabel is part of a broader EU Action Plan on for the social and environmental audits of all factories working Sustainable Consumption and Production and Sustainable Their experience is now more than 20 years old. with the ‘Lyreco Import structure’. Industrial Policy adopted by the European Commission FSC has 28,000 certificate holders in 81 countries worldwide. SEDEX is the world’s largest collaborative platform in July 2008. for sharing responsible sourcing data on supply chains, They work with 150,000 smallholders around the world EU Ecolabel meets the ISO 14020 Type 1 requirements used by more than 43,000 members in over 150 countries. and one of their ‘new focuses’ is the increase of working for ecolabels. The EU Ecolabel criteria are developed with indigenous groups around the world Tens of thousands of companies use Sedex to manage and reviewed in cooperation of experts, industry, consumer their performance around labour rights, health & safety, organisations and environmental NGOs. EU Ecolabel criteria FSC membership shows the company’s commitment the environment and business ethics. have been formulated for more than 30 non-food and nonto improving the management of the world’s forests. medical product groups that are reviewed every 3–5 years. SMETA (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) is a compilation of best practices in ethical audit, established by the Sedex Associate Auditor Group (AAG). It is not a separate standard or certification process, but a set of protocol for high-quality EU PEF NORDIC SWAN audits, to be used in conjunction with current established ethical audit practices. In 2014, Lyreco joined the EU PEF In 2017, Lyreco selected ‘Nordic Swan’ ecolabel SMETA audits use the ETI Base Code, founded on the (Product Environmental Footprint) pilot phase. for its remanufactured toner cartridges. conventions of the International Labour Organization, as well The objective of the Product Environmental Footprint (PEF) The Nordic Ecolabel or Nordic Swan is the official sustainability as relevant local laws. SMETA audits can be conducted initiative is to develop a harmonized methodology for ecolabel for the Nordic countries, introduced by the Nordic against two or four auditing pillars. The two pillars mandatory the calculation of the environmental footprint of products, Council of Ministers in 1989. This is done by a voluntary license for any SMETA audit are Labor Standards and Health & Safety. based on transparent methodology. system where the applicant agrees to follow a certain criteria The two additional pillars of a 4-pillar audit were introduced to set outlined by the Nordic Ecolabelling in cooperation further deepen the social responsibility aspect of SMETA audits. The European Commission, working closely with the Joint with stakeholders. These criteria include environmental, quality Research Centre, has developed a proposed methodology A SMETA 2-pillar audit comprises the following modules: and health arguments. The criteria levels promote products for the calculation of the environmental footprint of products. • Labor Standards and services belonging to the most environmentally sound • Health and Safety The methodology is based on the life-cycle assessment technique and take into account factors such as free trade • Additional Elements: and the International Reference Life Cycle Data System (ILCD) and proportionality (cost vs. benefits). • Management Systems handbook as well as other existing standards and guidance The Nordic Ecolabel now covers 67 different product groups, • Entitlement to Work documents, including ISO 14040-44, PAS 2050, BP X30, WRI/ from hand soap to furniture to hotels. Products compliance must • Subcontracting and Homeworking WBCSD GHG Protocol. be checked using methods such as samples from independent • Environmental assessment (shortened) In total, 14 different impact categories are assessed. In addition, laboratories, certificates and control visits. The label is usually A SMETA 4-pillar audit covers the above elements, plus: rules have been developed for individual product categories valid for three years, after which the criteria are revised • Environmental assessment (extended) to enable specific details at the product level to be taken and the company must reapply for a license. • Business Ethics into account. 40 • UN SDG (Sustainable Development Goals) and Lyreco CSR Programmes LINKING THE UN SDGS WITH THE LYRECO INITIATIVES DEFINITION DEFINITION The United Nations has set 17 Sustainable End poverty in all its forms Ensure healthy lives and Development Goals (SDG) for 2030. everywhere. promote well-being for all at all ages. Lyreco has identified 16 goals LYRECO INITIATIVES LYRECO INITIATIVES to which it contributes. • Lyreco • H&S programmes Community Programmes e.g. Food Bank Donations • H&S certification DEFINITION DEFINITION End hunger, achieve food Ensure inclusive and equitable security and improved quality education and promote nutrition and promote lifelong learning opportunities sustainable agriculture. for all. LYRECO INITIATIVES LYRECO INITIATIVES • Lyreco • Lyreco for Education Community Programmes • Lyreco University e.g. Food Bank Donations • Lyreco Campus • Lyreco for Education UN SDG (Sustainable Development Goals) and Lyreco CSR Programmes • 41 DEFINITION Ensure access to affordable, DEFINITION reliable, sustainable and Achieve gender equality and modern energy for all. empower all women and girls. LYRECO INITIATIVES LYRECO INITIATIVES • Energy Efficiency in • Code of Ethics Buildings Programme e.g. Solar Panels, ISO 50001 • UN Global Compact / Human Rights Club • Renewable Energy Membership. Certificates Purchase DEFINITION Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work DEFINITION for all. Ensure availability and LYRECO INITIATIVES sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. • Supplier Sustainability Assessment LYRECO INITIATIVES • Supplier Audits • Lyreco for Education • Code of Ethics • Code of Ethics • Employee Satisfaction Survey • Customer Satisfaction United Nations Campus – Bonn / COP 23 – November 2017. 42 • UN SDG (Sustainable Development Goals) and Lyreco CSR Programmes DEFINITION Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. DEFINITION Make cities and human LYRECO INITIATIVES settlements inclusive, safe, • Carbon & Environmental resilient and sustainable. Footprint Initiatives LYRECO INITIATIVES • CO² Emissions Reduction target DEFINITION • Lyreco Community Programmes e.g. World Build resilient infrastructure, Environmental Day, Planting promote inclusive and of Staghorn Corals. sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation. • Lyreco for Education • Energy Efficiency in LYRECO INITIATIVES Buildings Programmes • Innovation structure LYRECO INITIATIVES • Renewable Energy • Transformation project Certificates Acquisition • Not Applicable DEFINITION Protect, restore and promote DEFINITION sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably Reduce inequality within and DEFINITION manage forests, combat among countries. desertification, and halt Ensure sustainable LYRECO INITIATIVES consumption and production and reverse land degradation and biodiversity loss. • Lyreco for Education patterns. LYRECO INITIATIVES • Supplier Sustainability LYRECO INITIATIVES Assessment • Lyreco Community • Green Products Programmes e.g. • Supplier Audits • Environmentally Friendly Biodiversity garden, • Code of Ethics Fleet Installation of Beehives UN SDG (Sustainable Development Goals) and Lyreco CSR Programmes • 43 DEFINITION Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. LYRECO INITIATIVES • Code of Ethics • EU PEF (Product Environmental Footprint) Membership • UN Global Compact Membership DEFINITION Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalise the global partnership for sustainable development. LYRECO INITIATIVES • Supplier Sustainability Assessment • Customer Sustainability Awards • UN Global Compact Membership www.lyreco.com Rue du 19 mars 1962 59770 Marly France +33 (0) 3 27 33 64 00
