Communication on Progress Period 2017-2018 Statement of continued support by the Chief Operational Officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Borch Textile Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. In the coming year, we will continue to work with the Global Compact ten principles throughout our daily operations and thereby continue to contribute to the UN Sustainable development goals. Sustainability at Borch begins with our company’s values and conducting our operations responsibly, is a vital part of our values. Doing business responsibly for us means pursuing opportunities to solve societal challenges through innovation and collaboration. Ulrich Mosegaard Chief Executive Officer Statement by the Borch Group management The overall aim of our CSR is to be a responsible company regarding social, ethical and environmental issues. We seek to comply with all relevant legislation in the above areas, uphold internationally recognised standards and respect the rights of persons affected by our operations. We therefore conduct our business responsibly supporting the UN Global Compact principles and thereby contributing to advance the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Responsible business for us means avoiding infringing on human rights, avoiding harm to public and the environment and addressing all adverse impacts associated with our operations and value chain. In practice, this means making sure that a company identifies, prevents, mitigates and accounts for any negative impacts it may have on society and the environment, and establishes a culture of integrity and compliance. Our contribution to the SDGs has become the core of our main aim and we see linkages (direct and indirect) between the principles and their contribution that these can make towards the achievement of the SDGs. In particular SDGs 3, 5, 8 12 and 13 which are closely related to our type of operations. We consider business risks related to SDGs, and adjust our business practices to avoid doing harm and thereby undermining the SDGs. Working responsibly for us occurs through collaboration with our value chain and other stakeholders such as third-party accredited standards and certifications. Human Rights and Labour Policies and goals The Borch Textile Group A/S (BTG) is continuing to work actively regarding human rights and labour issues. The overall aim is to provide a pleasant work environment with proper and safe work conditions which take into account both the physical and psychological needs of all our employees and our suppliers employees. BTG supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO core conventions. Human rights abuses will not be tolerated and BTG will not engage in businesses with any stakeholders where human rights abuses occur. BTG has a number of policies and procedures in place to ensure that all employees are treated fairly, with respect and according to the applicable laws covering our industry. Regarding our supply chain, we engage in constructive dialogue and try to use our position to both influence and require that our suppliers comply with the articles in the UDHR and the ILO core conventions We expect that our suppliers work with labour issues as specified in our code of conduct covering the Global Compact principles and consequently treat their employees with respect and dignity. We expect as a minimum that the country’s rules and legislation covering labour issues are upheld. In the coming year, BTG will continue to work towards ensuring that human rights and labour issues are aligned with UNGC principles. Assessment, Implementation and Measurement of outcomes Assessment of our policies, procedures, working conditions and employee rights occur through:  The annual work environment evaluation (APV in Danish). This is both compulsory and a good tool that enables us to look at the work environment, the ergonomics and the psychological aspects associated to our daily operations  Management meetings where policies, procedures, complaints are reviewed and action plans are formulated.  The weekly meetings where workers rights is an open point on the agenda for all employees  Through the use of external consultants. And regarding our supply chain through  Through the BSCI system and the audits undertaken. Approximately a third of our suppliers are members of BSCI  Through regular visits to our suppliers facilities  Through the BTG questionnaire regarding social and environmental aspects and compliance to both the country’s laws and regulations as well as our stipulated requirements BTG prepares an action plan and implements the actions that are based on employee input, the APV evaluation and input from external consultants. All employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states the terms and conditions including salary rates and overtime arrangements. Employees receive information on the company, the company’s standard terms of employment such as salary, sickness leave, holidays etc., the company’s policies, rules and expectations regarding ethical and social issues such as, smoking, alcohol and mobbing policies etc. and education activities. Externally, we are working with a responsible sourcing programme especially valid for suppliers based in “risk” countries. The programme includes both Borch’s requirements, useful tools as well as a system for improving the performance of the suppliers. Suppliers are mapped and rated according to our classification table and new suppliers undergo our qualification procedure before business can commence. BTG has an excellent reputation both within the industry, with customers and the local society and has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations The employees have access to fresh fruit, coffee/tea and breakfast on Fridays as well as training courses relating to personal and competence development which are available for both men and women. A flexible time system is in place and payment for overtime is defined and applied according to the country’s legislation. Necessary safety measures such as firefighting equipment, first aid kits, machines safety instructions, ladders inspections are in place and fire drills, evacuation procedures, first aid training and so on, are conducted on a regular basis. Awareness about our CSR work has increased both amongst our employees as well as within our supply chain Our suppliers have signed the BTG’s legally binding trade agreement that includes compliance to the chemicals REACH and BTG’s CSR requirements and a large number of our suppliers are either BSCI members and or SA 8000 certified. We work very closely with our suppliers in aligning our activities, policies and procedures according to our own and our customers code of conduct. Locally, we support Danish Hospitals clowns, Cancer children families, Cancer association, Childfrens camp at Langeland, Red cross youth, Childrens foundation as well as thhe Lipela childrens home in Kenya and a number of local sport associations Environment Policy and goals The overall aim is to reduce environmental damage resulting from our operations on a continuous basis. This includes our internal operations that are mainly administrative and such office related as well as our supply chain, which includes the production of raw materials, fabrics and garments. Within this overall aim, BTG has defined specific areas that we are systematically working with and are prioritising yearly as shown in the table below. Area Explanation LCA On specific products using ISO Type 1 Eco-labelling MATERIALS Tracking measuring and documenting the environmental impacts, supplier guidelines, chemical responsibility and impact reduction management and material selection and approval procedures MANUFACTURING Manufacturing program, supplier guidance and continuous improvement, water use and waste water treatment PACKAGING Program, including PRSL TRANSPORTATION Carrier selection, Optimisation and utilisation of transportation assets USE Product care and repair END OD USE Design, recycling possibilities Assessment and Implementation Internally, we are constantly monitoring the market for any new developments that may enhance our environmental performance in the areas of energy use, transport, waste optimisation and use and end of use of resources. Regarding our suppliers, we use third party certifications such as Oekotex and the EU and Nordic Ecolabels as well as our questionnaire to assess the environmental performance. We have mapped almost all of our suppliers and we have gone into dialogue with most of these about various environmental issues such as use of third party certifications, clean water and so on. As a minimum we expect that everyone involved directly or indirectly in our operations and supply chain comply with all National and regional environmental legislation of the country in question. This last reporting period, we have been focussing the life cycle impacts of one of our most used fabrics. In order to achieve this, BTG management decided to apply for the EU Ecolabel.. Measurement of outcomes An application for a licence under the EU Ecolabel scheme had been lodged and we are in the process of correcting some of the documentation relating to the criteria and expect to have the license by the middle of September 2018. The EU Ecolabel documentation that has been collected covers the following: Stage Criteria Explanation Fibre production Covers the environmental production impacts of both natural and manmade fibres such as pesticide use, emissions etc. It also covers fibre content and traceability. Chemicals and Covers chemical use in spinning, fabric production, pre-treatment, Dyeing, printing, finishing and making up as well as energy and water process criteria use/emissions. Fitness to use Covers Dimensional changes during washing and drying, Colour fastness to washing, perspiration, dry/wet rubbing and light. Also covers fabric resistance to pilling and abrasion and durability of function. CSR Covers fundamental principles and rights at work as described in the international labour organisation core labour standards and the UN global compact. This process of documenting compliance to the EU Ecolabel meant that we now have a traceable, well documented product throughout the life cycle. It also meant that in some cases our suppliers had to change procedures, substitute certain chemicals and use other third-party standards, certifications such as GOTS to show organic cotton use. This effort also raised environmental awareness of our suppliers and sub-suppliers which had had to make the types of changes mentioned above. As a minimum all of suppliers are supplying Oekotex standard products. All our suppliers have agreed to comply with our restricted chemicals programme There have been no environmental breaches reported within our operations or within our supply chain. Anti-corruption Policy and goals Our ant-corruption policy states clearly that corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery is not tolerated. Assessment and Implementation Our company and its affiliates are located in Scandinavia which is regarded as one of the least corrupted areas in the world and where corruption is forbidden. Our Bribery is clearly communicated to all our business partners and we try to influence them in realising that corruption is very wrong and that they should refrain from using bribery in any situation what so ever. We are aware of the demand for small facility payments in various countries due to cultural reasons and we have informed our suppliers that we consider this corruption, and preventing this is a key issue for our cooperation, which is why we might carry out unannounced inspections to disclose bribery if we have any such indications what so ever. Measurement of outcomes BTG includes an anti-bribery clause in our staff handbook that forbids all employees to receive any gifts or like from customers, suppliers or other company relations to a value of more than 50 dollars. Until now we have never been involved in any legal cases regarding bribery and we are confident that we comply with all relevant legislation in Denmark regarding corruption and bribery. We have raised awareness about bribery and anti-corruption in our supply chain. We have established a CSR program for suppliers in risk countries where 30% of our production takes place. At the moment our production in risk countries are at A-rated suppliers only. 100% of our suppliers (in buying volume) have signed our Code of Conduct. We will continue to encourage suppliers to organize local training in the areas described in our Code of Conduct which includes anti-corruption and to have external audits done. We have encouraged our suppliers to set up anonymous suggestion boxes in the factories, whereas the most important and biggest of our outsource partners already have done so.
