Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Contents 3 About the Report 19 Material Topics 40 Social 40 Employment 4 General Disclosures 20 Economic 41 Labor/Management Relations 5 Organizational profile 20 Economic performance 42 Occupational Health and Safety 8 Strategy 22 Market presence 45 Training and Education 9 ZF Group Sustainability Program 22 Indirect economic impacts 48 Diversity 14 Ethics and integrity 24 Procurement 50 Non-Discrimination 14 Governance 25 Anti-corruption 50 Supplier Social Assessment 15 Stakeholder engagement 28 Environment 51 Customer Health and Safety 16 Reporting practice 29 Materials 52 Imprint 30 Energy 33 Water 35 Emissions 37 Effluents and waste 38 Environmental compliance 39 Supplier environmental assessment 2 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social About the Report This is the sixth edition of the sustainability report published priorities in reporting and focuses on central elements of the by ZF Friedrichshafen AG and it is based on the fiscal year performance indicators in the fields of economy, environment 2017. Our sustainability report is published annually and was and society. The process for determining the material issues not submitted for an external assurance. is described on pages 15 –17 of the report. The report was submitted for the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service, and GRI Following the integration of TRW Automotive as the Active & confirmed the correctness of the locations of the materiality Passive Safety Technology Division, more processes and nondisclosures (102-40 – 102-49). financial data have been successfully consolidated. There are still a few datapoints for which a complete integration could The report is intended to offer transparency, with a particular not yet be finalized. Wherever data or information provided focus on our sustainability activities and objectives. At the in this report only represent ZF without the Active & Passive same time, the report represents our progress report to the Safety Technology Division, this is marked accordingly. United Nations Global Compact that we joined in May 2012. It addresses customers, employees, suppliers, politicians, auThe following GRI Bilanz is based on the Standards (2016) by thorities and all other target groups that are interested in our the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI Standards recompany and wish to know about our values and principles. quest companies to perform a materiality analysis which sets 3 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI Content Index 102 General Disclosures 4 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Organizational profile GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters GRI 102-1 Friedrichshafen, Germany Name of the organization ZF Friedrichshafen AG GRI 102-4 Location of operations GRI 102-2 As of 2017, ZF has 20 main development locations and Activities, brands, products, and services operates at 230 locations in 40 countries. The Group has an ZF Group is a global leader in the field of driveline and chassis international service network of about 120 service locations technology as well as active and passive safety technology. Its and 650 service points that offer ZF customers an extensive portfolio comprises systems, units and components. With a range of services worldwide. historically strong position, including premium customers and a broad volume customer base, ZF operates in particular in GRI 102-5 the passenger car and commercial vehicle industry. Activities Ownership and legal form also extend to other market segments, such as construction ZF Friedrichshafen AG is a non-listed corporation in acand agricultural machinery, wind power, marine propulsion, cordance with German law. The shareholders of ZF are the aviation technology, rail drives, special drives and test systems Zeppelin Foundation, which is administered by the City of for industry, and transmissions for industrial applications. ZF Friedrichshafen and holds 93.8 percent of the company’s also offers a wide range of services that are marketed mainly shares, and the Dr. Jürgen and Irmgard Ulderup Foundation, by the ZF Aftermarket organization. These services primarily Lemförde (Germany), which holds 6.2 percent of the cominvolve the spare parts business for driveline and chassis techpany’s shares. Employee stocks are not issued. nology as well as maintenance and repair services. GRI 102-6 The most important ZF Aftermarket product brands include: Markets served The main sales markets of the Group are Europe (48%), North • SACHS: clutches, dual mass fly wheels, torque convertAmerica (27%) and the Asia-Pacific region (21%), with China ers and shock absorbers for passenger cars and commercial as the core market. vehicles Cars and light commercial vehicles make up the major share • LEMFÖRDER: steering and suspension systems, rubber(81%) of the sales distribution by sectors, whereas constructo-metal components for passenger cars and commercial tion and agricultural machinery, marine craft, aircraft, special vehicles and rail vehicles, wind power (8%) and commercial vehicles over six tons (11%) account for the minor shares. • TRW: braking systems, steering and suspension systems and shock absorbers for passenger cars and commercial GRI 102-7 vehicles. Brakes, clutches, handle bars, pretensioners, radar, Scale of the organization switches, accessories and footrest systems for motorcycles At the end of 2017, ZF had a workforce of 146,148 employees at approximately 230 locations and 20 main development • BOGE: shock absorbers for passenger cars and commerlocations. ZF has a portfolio of several thousand products, cial vehicles over 6,400 single brands and generated sales of €36,444 million in 2017. For detailed liabilities and equity, please see • OPENMATICS: connectivity solutions for passenger cars, the Consolidated statement of financial position, p. 61 in the trucks, industrial applications, manufacturers, fleets and end 2017 Annual Report. consumers. 5 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 102-8 GRI 102-9 Information on employees and other workers Supply chain On December 31, 2017, ZF employees worldwide numbered Solely for the procurement of production materials, ZF main146,148. This represents a change of 6.8 percent compared to tains a global network consisting of approximately 6500 supthe previous year. pliers, ranging from small family businesses through to large groups. Almost two-thirds of the Group’s employees work in Europe, most of them in Germany, and 97.1 percent of employees The purchasing volume for production materials totaled €19.8 have permanent contracts with the ZF Group. The percentage billion in 2017 and includes directed buy volumes. The value of women employed by the ZF Group is 15.7, with the North of non-production materials amounted to some €5.5 billion. America region showing the highest proportion with 26.6 percent. The Active & Passive Safety Technology Division is not Since ZF manufactures products at 230 locations in 40 included in this data, as gender is currently not being reported countries worldwide, a major part of value creation in producin regards to region or contract type. In 2017, ZF had a total of tion lies in the supply of components. The costs for materials 15,195 temporary workers, most of whom (90.7% or 13,780) purchased from suppliers account for some 69 percent of worked abroad. sales. ZF suppliers are normally contractors who procure the raw materials or basic components for the products ordered, manufacture the products and, in some cases, also design products. Employee structure worldwide Number of people1 2017 2016 2015 ZF Group (total) 146,148 136,820 138,269 Europe 85,294 81,667 82,789 of which Germany 50,618 49,094 50,131 North America 35,885 31,900 31,550 South America 5,470 5,118 5,428 Asia-Pacific 18,367 16,974 17,327 Africa 1,133 1,161 1,176 Employee category2 Direct 77,797 72,109 73,371 Indirect 68,352 64,711 64,898 Work contracts Permanent 141,954 133,802 135,600 Temporary 4,194 3,018 2,669 Full-time 143,513 134,339 135,962 Part-time3 2,635 2,481 2,307 Apprentices and temporary workers Apprentices 2,8564 2,8004 2,300 Temporary workers 15,195 14,137 14,224 1 Number of employees by contracts in accordance with IFRS regulations until the end of the year 2 Direct and indirect participation in value creation processes 3 Data of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division were not collected because of the low numbers of part-time contracts 4 Including students of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division outside Germany 6 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 102-10 GRI 102-12 Significant changes to the organization and its supply External initiatives chain The ZF Group observes the core labor standards of the InterIt was decided by the Board of Management to complement national Labour Organization (ILO), the content of the German the engaged global divisional and business unit management Corporate Governance Code and the OECD Guidelines for with a strong matrixed regional management in China. Beside Multinational Enterprises. other functions, the Regional Materials Management Organization was redefined, effective since January 2018 to drive ZF signed the United Nations Global Compact on May 1, operational synergies and strengthen local supply. 2012, thus committing the Group to observe and promote its ten principles. Since joining, ZF has also become a member GRI 102-11 of the German Global Compact Network and participates in Precautionary principle or approach exchanges between the member companies. A core element of ZF’s environmental management system is the evaluation of environmental risks. In the operation of GRI 102-13 facilities, the precautionary principle based on the result of the Membership of associations risk evaluation is an essential part of the Environment, Health The ZF Group and its companies are committed to a wide and Safety (EHS) management system. All locations conduct range of associations and interest groups. The following list environmental aspect assessments and risk assessments provides a representative selection: for their respective facilities and processes in a local context on a regular basis. Furthermore, internal and external audits • A  ssociation of German Engineers e.V. (VDI) – Lake are conducted. All locations follow the principle “prevention Constance regional association (as a supporting member) before reaction” and therefore use processes to minimize risks. • Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG) Before the introduction of procedures and substances, a risk • Carbon Composites e.V. assessment and evaluation is carried out. • Chamber of Industry and Commerce Hochrhein Bodensee • Chamber of Industry and Commerce Oberschwaben, In preparation for emergencies, every location has an emerWeingarten gency organization in place. Emergency response teams are • Compliance Network e.V. provided with adequate equipment and procedures. Mock • Employers’ Association Südwestmetall emergency drills are carried out on a regular basis. Techni• European Association of Automotive Suppliers (CLEPA) cal installations (e.g. flood or fire protection, collection trays, • Foundation of German Business – Remembrance, redundant installations), as well as behavior-based measures Responsibility, and Future (as a donor) to raise awareness about the prevention of environmental • German Aerospace Industries Association (BDLI) damage, are company standard. (ZF Luftfahrttechnik GmbH, Kassel-Calden is a member) • German Association of Materials Management, Environmental due diligence is conducted as part of the acPurchasing, and Logistics e.V. (BME) quisition process to minimize liability and financial risks. • German Global Compact Network • German Association of the Automotive Industry e.V. (VDA) • German Association of Electrical Engineering and the Electronics Industry (ZVEI) (Member is the Auerbach plant, Electronic Systems business unit) • German Engineering Federation e.V. (VDMA) • German Federation for Motor Trades and Repairs • German Diversity Charter (Charta der Vielfalt e.V.) • Wissenswerkstatt Friedrichshafen e.V. (as a supporting organization) 7 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Strategy GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities GRI 102-14 The context for our sustainability considerations is to a large Statement from the senior decision-maker extent shaped by global megatrends. For instance, progresDear readers, sive globalization has a major impact on ZF’s sales and sourcing markets and therefore requires stronger international While ZF had another successful year in terms of business focus in regard to structures and competencies. In addition, achievements, strategic investments and attracting new demographic change and increasing urbanization are leademployees, we also progressed as one company in terms of ing to changes in consumer behavior – with a fundamentally sustainability. As the integration of TRW goes beyond matchgrowing demand in finite resources, which is leading to ing technology and markets, the complementing sustainability increased conflict. Several trends require a technology shift acitivities also strengthen our company to be ready for the toward efficiency and resource conservation, which ZF is future. Global megatrends such as soaring urbanization, adpushing for by continually reducing CO2 and noise emissions, vancing climate change or an increasing scarcity of resources for example. Megatrends also play a central role when setting are for ZF both a challenge and an opportunity. As a signatory targets for innovation. ZF identifies a need for action, prinof the United Nations Global Compact, we are committed to cipally in the areas of efficiency, advanced driver assistance address these challenges and work on sustainable solutions. systems, autonomous driving and integrated safety. While we continue to implement our proven strategy, our Innovative solutions in these areas are directed towards our Vision Zero shows a clear roadmap for a world with zero acciVision Zero: Zero accidents. Zero emissions. ZF therefore dents and zero emissions. ZF’s unique answer to these global offers solutions for almost all vehicle segments which are challenges is summarized in the concept: see. think. act. But showcased for example by the Vision Zero Vehicle, the ZF our solutions with intelligent interaction of all components and Tractor, the ZF Innovation Truck or the ZF Advanced Urban systems do not only help vehicles to increase their safety. ZF’s Vehicle. In order to take full advantage of these opportunitechnological profile also offers the right tools to help make ties, ZF has invested in companies, creating a close network driving more sustainable in the future. In 2017, we took a big of strategic cooperation. We call this the ZF Vision Zero Eco leap in building our Vision Zero Ecosystem: a close network of System. strategic cooperations. Together with strong partners we are able to increase the speed of research and development as With strong partners and wide-ranging expertise, ZF can well as seizing market opportunities. make this vision real one day: Driver assistance systems and the continuous development of automated and autonomous Nevertheless, we must continue to review tried and tested driving can drastically reduce the number of accidents. At the standards and processes for sustainability. Last year, we same time highly efficient hybrid drives and locally completely focused on aligning key figures, targets and management emission-free electric drives are contributing to emission approaches throughout the Group, following the “best of reduction. both” approach. Building on a comprehensive validation of our materiality analysis in 2018, we will review our action areas This societal long-term goal of Vision Zero complements the and set ourselves ambitious and measurable targets. To think Group strategy: balanced market penetration, innovation the future today and at the same time assume responsibility and cost leadership, and a diversified product portfolio with for the environment and society – that is what acting sustainfinancial independence and a strong position as an attractive ably means for us. employer. Through Vision Zero these strategic priorities are geared towards a specific objective. Yours sincerly, Wolf-Henning Scheider Chief Executive Officer of ZF Friedrichshafen AG 8 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social ZF Group Sustainability Program The strategic framework of our sustainability program is During the process of integrating TRW’s approach into ZF determined to a large extent by the global megatrends which Group’s sustainability program, it was determined that the are continuously altering our business sphere. Taking this into sustainability program required further development, which account, our sustainability management in 2017 was characwill be fully completed during the course of 2018. The terized by the implementation and further development of the development involves harmonizing targets, management sustainability program first published in 2014. As part of this approaches, definitions of nonfinancial key figures as well as program, the company committed to meeting nonfinancial consolidating data and integrating the corresponding internal targets such as reducing specific greenhouse gas emissions reporting processes. A comprehensively updated program will in production, mitigating the environmental impact in logistics be published in 2019. and continuously improving occupational health and safety, diversity and ZF’s appeal as an employer. Strategic Target Actions Status 2017 Date Functional safety Continued commitment to External appraisal and certification of pro▪▪ Examination of the software and electronic Ongoing functional safety cesses relating to product safety processes to ascertain compliance with ISO 26262 and IEC 61508 by TÜV Süd (Technical Monitoring Association) ▪▪ Internal appraisals were conducted Cooperation in national and international bodCooperation in working groups dealing with Ongoing ies dealing with functional safety, safety of the functional safety at ISO, VDA and ZVEI intended function (SoTIF) and Cybersecurity Align functional safety strategy of the Active & Integration of Directive DG 06-16 and FuncCompleted Passive Safety Technology Division with ZF’s tional Safety Team strategy Environmental protection in production 20 percent reduction in Annual review of the key figures and actions ▪▪ Compared to the previous year specific CO2 Completed specific CO2 emissions for target achievement – corrective actions by emissions kept stable relating to sales by 2020, corporate in case of huge deviations, control ▪▪ Target achieved: Reduction by 20 percent compared to the average through the environmental management by the end of 2015 for the years 2006 to 2010 system ▪▪ The achieved reduction reached 32 percent in 2017 compared to the average of the years 2006 to 2010 Installation of CO2 improved machinery for our ▪▪ Construction of combined heat and power Ongoing own production (CHP) plants started in Passau, Germany Reduction of specific Annual review of the key figures and actions ▪▪ Target achieved: Compared to the previous Ongoing energy consumption in for target achievement – corrective actions by year the specific energy consumption in relation to sales, compared corporate in case of huge deviations, control relation to sales reduced by 3 percent to the previous year through the environmental management ▪▪ Since 2015 the specific energy consumpsystem tion decreased by 10 percent Increase in energy efficiency within the Several energy efficiency projects worldwide, Ongoing framework of the environmental managesee GRI 302-4 for further details ment system and energy management system through a broad range of actions at the individual locations 9 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Strategic Target Actions Status 2017 Date Reduction of specific All European locations are to be certified acAll European locations apply the Energy Completed energy consumption in cording to the energy management standard Efficiency Directive (EED) and fulfill national relation to sales, compared ISO 50001 or conduct audits according to requirements to the previous year EN 16247 Large complex locations outside Europe with An international workshop was held with 2018 energy consumption of 10 GWh and higher many participants and experiences were conduct workshops to analyze potential savshared for further actions ings Reduce or stabilize specific Annual review of the key figures and actions ▪▪ Target not achieved: Specific water conOngoing water consumption in relafor target achievement – corrective actions by sumption increased by 1 percent compared tion to sales, compared to corporate in case of huge deviations, control to previous year the previous year through the environmental management ▪▪ Absolute amount of water increased (by system approx. 389,094 m³) compared to previous year Appropriate planning of water-saving projects Several water-saving projects worldwide, see Ongoing (depending on relevance) GRI 303-1 for further details Reduce or stabilize specific Annual review of the key figures and actions ▪▪ Target not achieved: Specific wastewater Ongoing wastewater generation in for target achievement – corrective actions by generation increased by 0.7 percent comrelation to sales, compared corporate in case of huge deviations, control pared to previous year to the previous year through the environmental management ▪▪ Absolute amount of wastewater increased system (by approx. 329,415 m³) compared to previous year Resource-efficient design of operational Several water-saving projects worldwide, see Ongoing processes GRI 303-1 for further details Reduce or stabilize specific Annual review of the key figures and actions Target not achieved: Specific waste generaOngoing waste generation in relafor target achievement – corrective actions by tion increased by 0.6 percent compared to tion to sales, compared to corporate in case of huge deviations, control previous year the previous year through the environmental management system Resource-efficient design of operational Several waste-saving projects worldwide, see Ongoing processes GRI 305-5 for further details Evaluation of hazardous Hazardous substances management at the Several waste reduction projects worldwide, Ongoing substances and substitulocations see GRI 305-5 for further details tion as far as possible Report substitutions according to ZF Work The ZF substance management standard Ongoing Standard ZFN 9003 ZFN 9003 has been updated and Group-wide implementation is ongoing. Further substance regulations have been included Environmental impact of products Product related environIncrease product related environmental pro▪▪ Modular mSTARS axle system provides Ongoing mental protection tection compared to previous generations greater flexibility for hybrid, fuel-cell and battery-powered vehicles, and with conventional all-wheel modules ▪▪ ZF-EcoLife provides city buses with engine stop/start function which significantly reduces fuel consumption in city traffic Further strengthen the electronics fields of Car eWallet – APCOA, IBM and ChargePoint Ongoing competence and their integration into ZF join as new service providers products and systems, as well as the field of Electrification of agricultural tractors with: lightweight design to achieve fuel efficiency as well as reduced CO2 and noise emissions ▪▪ Highand low-voltage generator TERRA+ during the utilization phase ▪▪ Electric single-wheel drive ZF eTRAC ▪▪ Electric drive systems for Zero Emission tractors ▪▪ Continuously variable front axle drive ZF eFAD 10 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Strategic Target Actions Status 2017 Date Environmentally compatFurther development of hybrid technology Vision Zero Vehicle unifies latest technology Ongoing ible product development and e-mobility developments like: ▪▪ electric axle drive system with an output of 150 kW ▪▪ Driver Distraction Assist ▪▪ Wrong-way Inhibitor Unified targets for the AcIn-depth analysis and common workshops Targets for 2018-2020 were set 2018 tive & Passive Safety Technology Division and ZF Ensuring eco friendly Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) for fiber-based LCAs for six variants of two products were Completed product design over entire products successfully calculated and compared life cycle Environmental impact of transport Create transparency about Calculate and take account of emissions in ▪▪ Postponed due to integration process of the 2020 environmental impacts of transport projects (apart from pure cost analyActive & Passive Safety Technology Division transport sis of internal projects in overland freight) ▪▪ Recommencement once common freight cost reporting is in place Introduce a tool to increase transparency Rollout ongoing. Implementation at ZF plants Ongoing within the supply chain (ATM – Active TransSaarbrücken and Passau in 2018 port Management) Ecologically efficient Pool and consolidate inbound freight transExtension of transport consolidation via the Ongoing design of transport port European Consolidation Center (ECC) in networks Bremen Increase full truck load (FTL) share Ongoing identification and implementation of Ongoing FTL lanes Efficient empties management Improved container cleaning processes impleOngoing mented in some plants Shift to alternative modes Use alternative, environmentally friendly Ongoing identification of rail options for preOngoing of transport modes of transport carriage in overseas flows Avoid and reduce air freight Air freight approval process to be extended to Ongoing the entire company Use sustainable logistics Include emission valuation in the tender proPostponed due to integration process of the Ongoing providers cess for land freight (Germany) Active & Passive Safety Technology Division Inquire about sustainability aspects of service Postponed due to integration process of the Ongoing providers (fleet, workload, emissions, empty Active & Passive Safety Technology Division journeys etc.) Employer attractiveness Positioning as a globally Intensify cooperation with international ▪▪ ZF expanded its network of strategic target Ongoing attractive employer universities universities by including TU Darmstadt and ETH Zurich ▪▪ ZF opened its first innovation hub in California's Silicon Valley and announced its research partnership with the University of California, Berkeley Internationalize the trainee program further Regional emphasis was strengthened: trainOngoing ees now take part in three projects in their home country and one project abroad Attractive qualification and personal develop▪▪ The Project “Apprenticeship 4.0” integrated Ongoing ment opportunities: establish and expand new content specifically focused on electechnical academies, global training, promotronics and IT tion programs, LiN (Learning on the Web), ▪▪ Launch of the eCampus as a new, virtual vocational training initiative, university student learning environment and central composupport programs, work-study degree models nent of the ZF Campus concept 11 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Strategic Target Actions Status 2017 Date Positioning as a globally Maintain the good positions we achieved in ▪▪ The trendence Graduate Barometer survey Ongoing attractive employer rankings and be among the top 20 employers places ZF at Rank 17 in Engineering Edition for young engineers in Germany (Rank 16 in 2016) ▪▪ With its ”What’s next?” HR image campaign, ZF won the first prize in the trendence Employer Branding Awards in the category ”Best Career Advertisement” ▪▪ The Universum engineering student Survey ranked ZF at 24 (as in 2016) Family-friendly work structures to reconcile Additional family-friendly minimum standards Ongoing work and family were defined and implemented Childcare places and options for short-term care were expanded throughout the Group Flexible working time models A career component was introduced in the Ongoing (e.g. sabbaticals) form of a social module to cover parental leave, leave to care for relatives and other types of community and family commitments Global Employee Survey (GES) A joint survey for the combined company is 2019 being planned for 2019 360° feedback ▪▪ Implementation was postponed due to the 2018 integration process of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division ▪▪ Decision on further actions to be made in 2018 Increasing the number Increase the proportion of women from 6.3 ▪▪ The targets set for June 30, 2017 (8.4% and 2017 of women in executive percent to 8.4 percent at the first managerial 8.1%, respectively) have been met management positions level below the Board of Management ▪▪ The percentage of women in leadership by 2017 Increase the proportion of women from 6.1 positions in the Group increased from 11.7 percent to 8.1 percent at the second manageto 11.9 rial level Occupational health and safety Preserve and promote our Preventive actions ▪▪ Focus in 2017: prevention of heart and Ongoing employees’ health circulatory diseases ▪▪ Focus in 2018: skin protection Foundation of the Occupational Medicine ▪▪ Participants of the Active & Passive Safety 2018 expert group for hazardous substances and Technology Division were nominated the interdisciplinary Health Management ▪▪ Full integration in 2018 expert group Define and implement minimum medical Completed for ZF and the Active & Pas2018 standards worldwide sive Safety Technology Division will be fully included in 2018 Training courses on leadership and health Rollout completed and implemented for ZF Ongoing with full adaption in the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division in 2018 Active & Passive Safety Technology Division: 2018 ▪▪ Nominate health expert to join the ZF ▪▪ Completed interdisciplinary Health Management expert group ▪▪ Define health management structure ▪▪ Ongoing ▪▪ Nominate Executive Medical Officer to join ▪▪ Completed the ZF Health Committee 12 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Strategic Target Actions Status 2017 Date OHSAS 18001 certificaInclude locations within a centrally managed 74 (in 2016: 54) locations are certified to Ongoing tion: Gradually increase the project with voluntary participation by the OHSAS 18001 share of Group companies locations participating in the matrix ZF: Global accident reducImplementation of accident reduction Ten focus locations were identified and Ongoing tion Program: Reduction programs at affected locations to achieve detailed Safety Improvement plans were of the global accident rate individual reduction targets (between 5 and developed by interdisciplinary teams to less than 5 work-related 15 percent) at each location accidents resulting in one Binding Group key figures and reporting stanCompleted for Safety, with completion for 2017 or more lost work days per dardized throughout the Group Health in 2018 one million working hours by 2025 Accident management with monthly review Action completed, with ongoing monthly Ongoing of the KPIs as a management instrument at reviews Group and location management level Active & Passive Safety Technology Division: ReLocal actions ▪▪ Implementation of the 5 Safety Basics Ongoing duce the accident rate to 3 completed accidents resulting in one ▪▪ Site specific programs ongoing or more lost workdays per Regular safety inspections ▪▪ Safety walks and inspections performed by Ongoing one million working hours management Reduce the number of lost ▪▪ Employee behavior included in workplace work days to 50 or less per inspections one million working hours Safety leadership training Safety Leadership (SL) ▪▪ Roll-out of Module 1 is almost completed Ongoing for executive managers – in Germany (225 workshops reached 91% was extended to: of the management), roll-out in Europe and Safety Excellence Impleother Regions started mentation ▪▪ Module 2 training for SL Coaches was held Employee Involvement ▪▪ Behavior Based Safety program continues Ongoing at about 113 sites. Further sites will be added in 2018 ▪▪ Additional programs such as EHS Kaizen workshops are in place and will be extended in 2018 Continuous Improvement Existing corporate and divisional procedures Ongoing and specific requirements were evaluated and an integrated EHS management system will be launched for the combined company in 2018 13 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Ethics and integrity Correct, responsible and sustainable business management and accepting corporate social responsibility are fundamental GRI 102-16 components of our corporate policy. We reject all forms of Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior human trafficking and support the abolition of slavery, forced A company can only achieve business success in an intact labor and child labor. economic environment. A company’s focus on success must match the development of the surrounding and dependent companies so that sustainable corporate governance is posBusiness Partner Principles sible for all. This principle plays a major role in relationships with business partners, but also in investments in production The ZF Business Partner Principles (BPP) and the Global Supmaterials and capacities. That is why the Group has firmly plier Quality Manual of the Active & Passive Safety Technology anchored sustainable corporate management factors in its Division require all suppliers and service providers to make a Guiding Principles. They are seen not as individual actions, commitment to respect for national and international laws and but as a central aspect of entrepreneurial activity in the daily regulations at their locations worldwide. They should ensure decision-making processes. human rights are respected and human dignity is protected in all business processes. See 3 GRI 204 for more information on the BPP. ZF Charter As an integral part of the ZF Management System, the ZF Charter defines aspects regarded as most important across Governance all our divisions, functions and regions. The Guiding Principles of the ZF Charter are: Innovation Approach, Customer Focus, GRI 102-18 Result Orientation, and Commitment to People. The Guiding Governance structure Principle “Commitment to People” helps us create a corporate ZF Friedrichshafen AG and the ZF Group are led by the Board culture that supports trusting collaboration and motivates top of Management, which manages the company, and by the Superformance. pervisory Board, which monitors the Board of Management. For the most part, the activities of the Board of Management The ZF Management System with its focus on Speed, are strategic in nature and comprise responsibility for the Simplicity, Target Focus and its four principles are at the core corporate functions, the divisions and the regions. In this conof all our activities and actions and represent everything that text, particular importance is placed on close networking and makes ZF special. By concentrating on them, we become cooperation within the Group. Operational topics are mainly stronger, and grow faster and more sustainably. addressed in the divisions and business units. Dr. Stefan Sommer resigned as Chief Executive Officer of Code of Conduct ZF Friedrichshafen AG as of December 7, 2017. CFO Dr. Konstantin Sauer, took interim charge of the company along Our Code of Conduct explicitly states that we do not tolerate with the R&D and Aftermarket Corporate Functions. The Board any discrimination, especially on the grounds of race, gender, of Management thus comprised six members as of year-end religion, age, nationality, social or ethnic origin, pregnancy, 2017. On January 31, 2018, the Supervisory Board appointed disability, belief, sexual orientation, or political and trade Wolf-Henning Scheider as chief executive officer effective as union engagement. These principles apply to all new and of February 1, 2018. existing employees and the collegial relationships between employees, our dealings with business partners and, lastly, how employees are promoted within the organization. 14  ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social The supervision of the Board of Management by the Sube disadvantaged as a consequence of exercising his or her pervisory Board, whose members are appointed with equal rights in this regard. Currently 98 percent of our total employrepresentation, is supported by an Executive Committee and ees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. an Audit Committee which are both composed of members of the Supervisory Board. Following the resignation of the chairGRI 102-42 man of the Supervisory Board of ZF Friedrichshafen AG, Prof. Identifying and selecting stakeholders Dr. Giorgio Behr, on December 2, 2017, Dr.-Ing. Franz-Josef To ensure that a broad and representative range of stakePaefgen was appointed as the new Chairman on December 4, holder groups are involved in the compilation of the material2017. Ms. Dagmar Steinert was elected as a Member of the ity analysis, an international media analysis was performed Supervisory Board on December 15, 2017. The Supervisory in 2014. The objective of this analysis was to filter out the Board comprised 20 members as of year-end 2017. most important stakeholder interests and the main topics and concerns from global social media, trade publications and In light of German legislation governing equal representation press reports on sustainability in the automotive industry. The of women and men in managerial positions in the private findings of this analysis were directly applied to the materiality and public sectors, targets for the relevant managerial levels analysis. have been discussed and set for ZF Friedrichshafen AG to be achieved by June 30, 2022. GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement ZF is in regular contact with its stakeholders through the following channels: the German Global Compact Network, Stakeholder engagement personal contact with residents at company locations, the media, direct discussions with customers and suppliers, as GRI 102-40 well as surveys on topics such as sustainability, and with List of stakeholder groups employees via the works council as well as through internal There are many significant stakeholders at ZF, including emevents and Group media. ployees, customers, suppliers, the company owners, authorities, trade unions, associations, the media and politicians as well as business partners and residents at company locations. Customer satisfaction An increasingly important group includes the next generation of employees, which is why schools, vocational schools, Delivery reliability, the ability to innovate and increasing universities of applied sciences, universities and scientific sustainability expectations are important criteria for custominstitutes can be found at the top of the list of stakeholder ers. Since a large number of vehicle innovations originate from groups to be involved. As a B2B company, ZF has rarely been suppliers, R&D activities are crucial for long-term customer in direct contact with national, non-governmental organizasatisfaction and business success. Every new order should be tions (NGOs) that represent ecological and social issues. perceived as an indicator of customer satisfaction. However, as is the case with local environmental initiatives that are often in direct communication with the location In 2017 we continued our Voice of the Customer (VoC) Surveys managements, these NGOs equally belong to the stakeholder with selected global OEMs. The VoC is an independent assessgroups that we consider important. ment of customer satisfaction carried out by an independent, external, global service provider. This is intended to ensure a GRI 102-41 systematic approach to information definition, collection, and Collective bargaining agreements analysis, and facilitate data comparability over time. The results The company values open communication among its employhave highlighted important areas for improvement that will alees and respects their right – as is consistent with applicable low for the development of precise improvement actions. law – to join or assist a labor union or works council, or refrain from doing so. No employee or employee representative shall 15  ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Employee survey GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Since employees participate in every day collaboration, feedCompanies that act in a sustainable manner should be aware back and recognition are ever-present. Another element of of the interests of their stakeholders. As a first step, a discusemployee engagement is the comprehensive Global Employee sion was initiated with relevant stakeholders in order to idenSurvey (GES). The objective is to sustainably contribute to tify the significance of various sustainability issues from both company goals through increased transparency and by an external and internal perspective. An analysis of the results involving employees on all levels. The first survey took place in from an initial stakeholder survey indicated which topics must 2015 and received over 15,000 suggestions for improvement. be taken into account and what needs to be done in order to One-third of these were put into practice the same year. ZF is retain the lasting trust of customers, employees, suppliers and currently planning its second GES, to take place in 2019. society as a whole. As part of the materiality analysis in 2014, the company also set out to systematically integrate stakeholdTypes of stakeholder communication er interests into defining priorities for the field of sustainability. Groups Media In addition, talks were conducted with customer and association representatives, among others. Apart from product safety, Employees “we>move” employee magazine, Intranet, Interthese issues included the environmental impact of products, net, internal communication campaigns such as the “Year of Energy”, ZF Family Day, ZF hilft, processes and employer attractiveness. Agile@ZF, we>blog Potential Collaborations with universities, Annual Report, The other expectations and requirements presented to ZF are employees “vision” company magazine, ZF website, involvealways broadly similar: They include acting in accordance with ment in trade fairs, social media, advertisements the law and regulations, developing excellent and efficient Former “vision” company magazine, ZF Family Day, Interemployees national Lake Constance Trade Fair, ZF website, products for the customers and demonstrating responsibility ZF pensioner association, Senior Professionals towards employees, the environment and also, increasingly, in Program the supply chain. The requirements of the next generation of Customers Annual Report, “vision” company magazine, ZF employees that are reflected in questions about values, future website, brochures, advertisements, customer days, involvement in trade fairs, key account orientation, development opportunities and working condimanagement tions are also particularly important to the ZF Group. We wish End customers Annual Report, involvement in trade fairs such as to address them in this report. the International Motor Show, North American International Auto Show, CES, Tokyo Motor Show, Auto Shanghai, non-automotive trade fairs, “vision” company magazine, ZF website, brochures, advertisements, social media Reporting practice Suppliers and Annual Report, “vision” company magazine, ZF partners website, involvement in trade shows, advertiseGRI 102-45 ments, supplier days, brochures, key purchasing strategy, ZF Global Supplier Summit Entities included in the financial statement Politics, Annual Report, ZF website, personal discussions, In addition to ZF Friedrichshafen AG, 35 domestic and 254 associations, department “Associations & Politics” foreign subsidiaries controlled by ZF Friedrichshafen AG are interest groups included in the consolidated financial statements. Educational Collaborations with universities and schools, institutions Annual Report, ZF website, involvement in trade fairs, advertisements More detailed information about entities belonging to the Group can be found in ZF’s 2017 Annual Report, pages 73 Press and Annual Report, ZF website, “vision” company the media magazine, press releases, press conferences and 128. Communities ZF Family Day, press, ZF website, advertisements, sponsorship, regional trade shows such as the International Lake Constance Trade Fair (IBO) 16  ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Prioritization of fields of action according to social and business relevance Social relevance  Product safety  Environmental impacts of products Energy efficiency in production  Water use in production Employer attractiveness  CO2 emissions in production  Environmental impact of transports Waste & Occupational health recycling and safety  Diversity & equal opportunities Pollutant emissions in production Compliance  Human Rights Environmental impacts in the supply chain Biodiversity at the locations  Business relevance GRI 102-46 GRI 102-47 Defining report content and topic boundaries List of material topics Due to the integration process of the Active & Passive Safety 201 Economic performance Technology Division, this year’s materiality analysis remains 202 Market presence unchanged compared to ZF’s Sustainability Report 2014. 203 Indirect economic impacts To determine the report’s content, a materiality analysis was 204 Procurement performed which identified the sustainability topics impor205 Anti-corruption tant for the company, and assigned relevant GRI topics. The 301 Materials material topics were determined using an impact assessment, 302 Energy further backed up by a media analysis and assessed in terms 303 Water of mediumand long-term relevance for ZF. Topics classified 305 Emissions as relevant from both a social perspective as well as in respect 306 Effluents and waste to their importance for ZF’s business success are reported on 307 Environmental compliance as fully as possible in regard to the GRI requirements. GRI top308 Supplier environmental assessment ics assigned to further topics are only included in this report 401 Employment if they have a significant business relevance for ZF. We intend 402 Labor/Management relations to review boundaries, topics and materiality together with our 403 Occupational health and safety stakeholders in 2018. 404 Training and education 405 Diversity and equal opportunity 406 Non-discrimination 414 Supplier social assessment 416 Customer health and safety 17  ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 102-48 Restatements of information A few figures were updated with explanatory footnotes under respective disclosures. GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting No changes GRI 102-50 Reporting period This is the sixth edition of the sustainability report published by ZF Friedrichshafen AG, and follows the 2016 sustainability report. It is based on the fiscal year 2017. GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report July 2017 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Christine Betz ZF Friedrichshafen AG Corporate Governance Sustainability Löwentaler Straße 20 88046 Friedrichshafen Email: sustainability@zf.com GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. GRI 102-55 GRI content index This GRI table is the GRI content index. GRI 102-56 External assurance This report was not submitted for an external assurance. 18  ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Material Topics 19 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Economic GRI 201 Economic performance Overall personnel expenses totaled €4,669 million (2016: €4,419 million), including wages and salaries, social security GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 contributions, benefit expenses and pension expenses. For Management approach – Economic performance more details see the consolidated statement of profit or loss in The integration of TRW Automotive Holdings Corp., acquired the 2017 Annual Report, p. 58. on May 15, 2015, was essentially complete by the end of fiscal year 2017, with merged corporate functions and a unified Ongoing tax payments by regions 2017 (2016) identity as regards customers and suppliers. The ZF and TRW in € million service organizations were successfully launched as “One Aftermarket” in early 2017. ZF’s new, consolidated brand Other 11 (5) presence at the 2017 International Motor Show IAA gave a Asia-Pacific clear signal that the integration has been a success. 92 (97) Europe The acquisition of ZF TRW is part of the implementation of the Total 269 (217) North America 439 (364) ZF 2025 corporate strategy and represents a key milestone in 67 (45) securing ZF’s long-term future as a technology company. 2016 In order to reach the targeted future position, especially in 2017 autonomous driving, ZF has decided not to develop everything organically but to fill some technological gaps by building on strong partnerships. With the implementation of ZF Ventures GmbH, ZF created a framework to develop an ecosystem GRI 201-2 based on equity shares with technology partners such as IBEO Financial implications and other risks and opportunities (Lidar), Astyx (Radar) and DoubleSlash (Software). Other due to climate change gaps are to be closed through cooperations, for example with One of the main factors resulting from our production activiNvidia (ECU), Hella (Radar) or Faurecia (interior concepts). ties is the emission of greenhouse gases. Reducing these emissions, therefore, is a central element of ZF environmental The top financial key figures ROCE (Return on Capital Empolicy and targets, which are managed worldwide by our ployed), ZF Value Added, and Operating Result are used to environmental management system according to ISO 14001. measure and control the financial performance of the ZF See 3 GRI 300 for more details on ZF’s environmental manageGroup. ment approach. GRI 201-1 Following the Paris Agreement of 2016, the German Climate Direct economic value generated and distributed Protection Plan 2050 and the COP in Bonn in autumn 2017, The ZF Group succeeded in increasing sales by 3.6 percent many countries have been working on national regulations to €36,444 million and invested €2,230 million (2016: €1,948 and programs to fulfill the conventions. The scope of these million) in research and development, which is 6.1 percent impacts on ZF’s businesses is currently not fully foreseeable. of Group sales. The ZF Group overall donated €6.87 million Moreover, financial implications cannot be quantified while (2016: €8 million). legal requirements are under discussion and not yet conclusively defined. The production materials purchasing volume in 2017 totaled €19.8 billion. This includes directed buy volumes. The value of non-production materials amounted to some €5.5 billion. 20 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Operating costs are likely to rise due to increasingly strict Moreover, with our Vision Zero we defined a strategic legislation with tougher regulations for plant approvals and response impacting many levels and processes within the ZF operations. In China, for example, the 13th five-year plan Group. Aiming for zero emissions and zero accidents leads to restricts air pollution to fixed limits by region, which results new products and services. First applications are already on in locations having to make increasing efforts to ensure they the market and major future business projects were secured in comply with the local legal requirements. 2017. The development of competitive products has opened up new sales opportunities for ZF. At the same time, a possible increase in fuel or energy prices may result in an increase Losses due to extreme weather in logistics costs and a decrease in the demand for individual mobility on the part of the market. We can mitigate this risk Extreme weather situations caused by climate change such as with innovations in hybrid technology, e-mobility and lighthigh water and flooding or extreme drought have so far only weight design. For more information about ZF solutions see affected our production locations in isolated cases. Neverthe3 GRI 302-5. less, ZF sees these developments as a potential risk with more frequent and more intensive consequences. This is why we include early precautions against extreme weather and natural Further influences disasters as part of our sustainable corporate development. The opportunities and risks for our wind power sector vary We have only seen isolated examples of higher property widely since business development is still heavily dependent insurance premiums at locations subject to potential natural on subsidies and overall development on emission-related hazards such as flooding, storm or extreme drought. These regulations supporting renewable energies. European could increase in the future if incidents of damage occur more companies are facing higher organizational costs due to the frequently. These issues are decisive factors when building obligation and the expanded requirements for statutory and new plants or purchasing production facilities. regulatory reporting, e.g. the EU directive on the disclosure of non-financial information. Reliable supply chains in light of climate change Finally, suitable precautionary measures must be taken to minimize the diverse and often increased risks. We are also To minimize risks and manage them more effectively, the ZF addressing identified risks with our environmental manageGroup is working on localizing sources. The objective here is ment system, and our sustainability program has set correto reduce transport costs and actively contribute to lower CO2 sponding environmental targets. emissions. Furthermore, this can limit the impact of failures in the supply chain to the region affected. We are also carrying GRI 201-3 out initial projects to identify robust methods for determining Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement the emission values and environmental impacts of selected plans products and materials. Provisions for pensions are set up for obligations from vested benefits and current pensions for entitled current and former employees of the consolidated ZF Group and their surviving Product level dependents. Various retirement pension schemes exist depending on the legal, economic and tax situation in the ZF generates a substantial proportion of its sales with prodrespective country, which – as a rule – are based on the ucts used in the combustion engine driveline. Even though length of service and emoluments of the employees. In genprogressive electrification in the passenger car and commereral, a distinction can be made in connection with company cial vehicle drive segment may represent a competing techpension schemes between defined contribution plans (DC) nology, ZF sees promising opportunities in the development and defined benefit plans (DB). Plan benefits depend upon of electric, electronic and mechatronic competence. Theresalary, length of service and the cost of living index. For defore, we prepared for this technology trend with our E-Mobility tails about provision for pensions see the 2017 Annual Report, Division. p. 101. 21 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 201-4 GRI 202-1 Financial assistance received from government Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared In the fiscal year 2017, €18 million (2016: €18 million) in to local minimum wage government grants was received. They were divided as folZF pursues a “globally attractive employer” strategy comprislows: Investment grants were basically received for investing competitive wages and salaries. Ratios for standard entryments at various locations in the USA, Germany, Belgium, level wage compared to local minimum wage is currently not Russia and Australia. Expense subsidies mainly comprise systematically reported on. Therefore, a global compensation research subsidies and subsidies for education and vocational database will be progressively introduced over a three-year training. period. The planned compensation database will enable ZF – among other benefits – to report and monitor wage and salary Government grants levels worldwide. in € million 2017 2016 2015 GRI 202-2 Investment grants 10 12 17 Proportion of senior management hired from the local Expense subsidies 8 6 11 community We traditionally recruit management staff from within the company’s own ranks. This also applies to international locations. As a result of the integration of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division, the locations around the world GRI 202 Market presence and the management structure of the combined company hasve become even more international than before. Figures GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 relating to senior management hired from the local commuManagement approach – Market presence nity are currently not reported on. Progressive globalization is having a major impact on ZF’s sales and sourcing markets and therefore requires a stronger international focus regarding our structures and competencies. Following our acquisition of TRW Automotive, the diviGRI 203 Indirect economic sion of business is much more international, strengthening our presence in North America and Asia. Its integration as the impacts Active & Passive Safety Technology Division added locations in China, Mexico, Poland, Romania, the USA and other vital GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 markets around the world – including 22 technical centers Management approach – Indirect economic impacts and 13 test tracks. ZF is well positioned with two engineering We know that a company can only achieve business suctechnology centers, 32 manufacturing facilities, three aftercess in an intact economic environment. A company’s focus sales service and trade companies as well as 239 aftersales on success must match the development of the surroundservice networks all over the country. ZF is also one of the ing and dependent companies so that sustainable corporate biggest employers and customers in all the regions that the governance is possible for all. This principle plays a major role company operates in. in our relationships with business partners, but also in our investments in production materials and capacities. ZF is one As a fair employer, ZF is committed to competitive remuof the biggest employers and customers in all the regions that neration of its employees. Locations in countries with high the company operates in. Se 3 GRI 102-9 and 3 GRI 204-1 for employee headcounts participate in coordinated market details on our expenses for our supplier network, which has benchmark exercises in partnership with leading benchmark significant indirect economic impacts as we apply our “local service providers on an annual basis. Locations in countries for local“ principle. with lower employee headcounts participate in local surveys according to their specific needs. 22 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Corporate social responsibility at ZF is an important and As a Corporate Partner, ZF also extended the cooperation intrinsic component of the company’s mission statement. In with the UNITECH Program in 2017. UNITECH International line with this commitment, we therefore contribute a great is a European network of top engineering universities and deal to our local communities by supporting education, multinational companies. At present, only nine schools from sports and recreation, culture, and environmental and comnine different countries are allowed to propose their twenty munity projects. Activities of this nature range from funding best students, of which only ten will be accepted. UNITECH endowed chairs at universities, through the ZF Art Foundastudents are people who want to become highly qualified, tion supporting artists and musicians, festivals and non-profit internationally experienced engineering graduates with organizations, to sponsoring the elite volleyball players of the access to prime international internships and employment VfB Friedrichshafen team or funding many local recreational positions. In 2017, ZF was able to recruit two students from sports. the UNITECH talent pool who had successfully completed the prestigious program. Each year, ZF gives the Zeppelin Foundation a dividend. The funds are used in line with the articles of association, espeFurthermore, ZF supports several teams of the Formula cially in the fields of science and research, art and culture, as Student Germany competition. In this engineering design well as child and youth development. The Dr. Jürgen and Irmcompetition, international students compete against each gard Ulderup Foundation in Lemförde supports the education other in various disciplines with their self-constructed race and vocational training of young people as well as nature and cars. In addition to sharing its expertise, ZF has been supportlandscape conservation. Jür­gen Ulderup was the founder of ing the young talents with high-tech racing products, financial the Lemförder Group, a company that is part of the ZF Group assistance and team-building activities since 2002. In 2017, today. ZF was sponsoring 39 university teams. For the first time in the history of the competition, there was the new Formula GRI 203-1 Student Driverless race category, presenting the students with Infrastructure investments and services supported a completely new challenge: Developing an electric race car ZF makes significant investments in technical professions. that can run without a driver in autonomous mode – in line We aim to promote interest and enthusiasm for MINT subjects with the ZF triad “See – Think – Act”, the leading principle for early on among children and adolescents, with particular bringing artificial intelligence to vehicles. emphasis on girls. ZF is achieving this objective for instance by actively participating in the Girls’ Day and running Knowledge Workshops (“Wissenswerkstätten”) in several German ZF-Innolab cities. These popular workshops lead hundreds of children and youngsters every year to gain hands-on experience in the As part of expanding its long-term commitment to cooperaworld of technology. tion with universities, ZF established an innovation laboratory at the Friedrichshafen campus of the Duale Hochschule In higher education, ZF finances a large number of endowed (DHBW) Ravensburg. At the “ZF-Innolab” facility, DHBW professorships in the Lake Constance region and across the students, under an apprenticeship contract with ZF, conduct world. Cooperation with renowned universities, for example research on themes such as autonomous driving and digital the Zeppelin University and the Baden-Württemberg Coopbusiness models. erative State University in Friedrichshafen, the University of Ravensburg-Weingarten, the HTWG Constance – University The students at the “ZF-Innolab” work closely together with of Applied Sciences or the RWTH Aachen University, is part the “ZF Denkfabrik” think tank. The Innolab deals with broad of the young talent promotion program. mobility issues internationally and across all modes of transportation. It also explores new business segments that may be turned into viable business models over the long term. 23 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 204 Procurement mation of our BPP includes a tool-based solution to track the information about the current BPP status of each supplier. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 The information about the BPP acceptance is considered in Management approach – Procurement the supplier awarding decision as well as in the new supplier Good materials management is vitally important for customer approval process. satisfaction. Only then can we guarantee the high quality of our products and delivery reliability. This is why a trusting and The BPP represent values that ZF recognizes, supports and reliable collaboration with our suppliers is a priority for ZF. communicates to partners. As guidelines, they specify fundamental sustainability requirements for the cooperation with The specific requirements for suppliers result from the Adour business partners. They address various topics such as vanced Procurement Strategy (APS 25). The APS follows and human rights, labor standards, occupational safety and health supports the Group strategy and is based on the ZF Environprotection, environmental protection, responsible raw materimental Policy, the ZF Principles of Social Responsibility and als procurement, business ethics and compliance. ZF rethe ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. All serves the right to scrutinize the business relationship and we suppliers are required to comply with these three sets of princonsider it our duty to take appropriate action if we identify ciples. Establishing an effective and efficient value creation deviations or violations. chain throughout the Group is the declared objective of the APS 25. The strategy also aims for three sub-goals: increasExternal service providers in Germany must sign a declaration ing ROCE, total quality management and standardization. Its of compliance to the collective agreements guaranteeing fair systematic implementation is supported by a process which wages, normal working hours and a rejection of unregistered ensures that sourcing decisions are based on total cost of labor and tax evasion. This declaration also applies to subconownership criteria. tractors engaged by ZF and includes the proviso that ZF can check compliance at any time. The cross-functional Sourcing Decision Board enables us to ensure that not only price is paramount but also environmental aspects are considered when suppliers are selected. Improving supply chains To minimize impacts of transportation such as, for example, In line with the principles endorsed by APS 25 we have costs or environmental impacts but also aspects of timing, integrated environmental and social (including safety and ZF’s strategy is “local for local” – to buy where the supplied health) standards into supplier management and the supplier materials or components are needed. Therefore, we continue selection process – evaluating potential new suppliers using to focus our localization activities on Mexico, India, China and supplier self-assessments and audits. The long-term goal is a Eastern Europe. The objective here is to implement the “local purchasing strategy which dispenses with materials from critifor local” concept with our existing strategic suppliers or to cal procurement sources. prepare and develop the local supplier base to meet ZFspecific requirements. ZF requires new potential suppliers to submit a self-assessment following the Supplier Self-Assessment Sustainability template based on the Business Partner Principles, during the Business partner principles approval process. The success of our internationally active company is partially ZF uses an adapted version of the so-called Self-Assessment based on professional cooperation with our business partners Questionnaire on CSR and Sustainability developed by the worldwide. Since the foundations of this cooperation are European Automotive Working Group on Supply Chain Suscommon values and standards, all new and existing supplitainability. The advantage of using a standardized Self-Assessers have been under an obligation to endorse our Business ment Questionnaire for all participants (OEM and Tier 1) is to Partner Principles (BPP) since the end of 2016, with suppliers avoid duplication and to improve efficiency for the suppliers. of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division onboarding This Self-Assessment Questionnaire is one part of our Supplier in 2018. A standardized process for the request and confirApproval Process. 24 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social In 2016, ZF started to use a special tool to manage supCompliance regulations plier inquiries about supplier contact data, the existence of a product safety officer as well as general company data. In Compliance regulations include rules governing anti-corrup2017, the survey was enhanced and ZF requested the update tion and antitrust law. They also include the correct approach of supplier master data including Product Safety Experts, HSE for correctly handling favors, gifts and hospitalities. (Health, Safety and Environmental) Experts and certificates. In The following topics are covered by the regulations: future this tool will be rolled out Group-wide. • R  esponsibilities, tasks and authorities of the Compliance GRI 204-1 Organization Proportion of spending on local suppliers • Rules for lawful and responsible behavior 83 percent (2016: 83%) of our global purchases for non• Ban on corruption production materials (excluding investments) in the reporting • Business partner integrity year are to be made locally. The local procurement of produc• Rules on handling favors, gifts and hospitality tion materials is calculated using a key indicator based on total • Correct behavior in competition spending including directed buy and internal supply. The aver• Contacting Corporate Compliance and reporting incidents age over all divisions for 2017 amounted to 54 percent (2016: • Conflicts of interest 54%) for production materials. ZF Compliance Management System GRI 205 Anti-corruption The ZF Compliance Management System (CMS) has created the framework for meeting the respective legal requirements GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 worldwide. The objective of the CMS is to ensure compliance Management approach – Anti-corruption with internal and external regulations. The CMS focuses on Compliance is an essential element of successful managepreventing and investigating violations in the areas of ment and good corporate governance. It supports reliable and respectful dealings with customers, business partners, • Corruption, employees and the environment. Compliance also forms the • Antitrust law, platform for lasting cooperation in an atmosphere of trust. • Code of Conduct, • Fraud and We rise to the challenge posed by globalization. This requires • Reputational damage. law-abiding, honest and responsible behavior on behalf of our employees at all levels and in all areas as the core value The CMS meets the following requirements: independence in our corporate culture. ZF communicates the relevant rules and effectiveness of the Compliance Organization, integration proactively to its employees; for example, through the Code of of compliance into business processes, transparent decision Conduct (CoC) or other compliance regulations. processes and corresponding HR processes (sanctions). The pillars of the CMS are: prevent, detect and respond. The ComThe Code of Conduct defines binding principles for correct, pliance Organization is set up in line with the organizational law-abiding, and ethical behavior. Subjects covered include structure of the ZF Group. adherence to laws, fair competition, anti-corruption, business and social responsibility, product compliance, occupational In joint ventures where ZF is the majority shareholder, the ZF safety, data protection and transparency. The Code of Conduct board representatives must ensure that either the ZF complias a core element of the Compliance Management System ance management or a comparable compliance management (CMS) is available in all languages in which ZF conducts busisystem is in place. ness. Managers at every level are decisive for the compliance culture in the company. Therefore, they must confirm they have received the CoC and promise to follow its principles. 25 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Compliance tools GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption The ComplianceHelpdesk is a preventive tool to systematiRegarding corruption-related categories all operations are cally clarify and document general compliance questions. ZF being assessed over a period of four years. The total number employees can contact the ComplianceHelpdesk whenever or percentage for the reporting year is not available. they are faced with a compliance-related question in their dayto-day business activities. To achieve more precise results, the risk analysis process follows the divergent business models and is performed The preventive elements of the ZF CMS are complemented by at business unit level. Additionally an online questionnaire a case management system. It is – amongst others – conregarding compliance risks will be conducted every two years, nected to the ZF Trustline, an electronic notification system starting in 2018. that employees and third parties can use to e.g. anonymously report suspected serious misconduct. Such cases might GRI 205-2 include violations of competition and antitrust law, or cases of Communication and training about anti-corruption policies corruption and conflicts of interests. and procedures News and information sharing on compliance issues raises ZF developed an internal risk analysis process for compliance awareness among employees and communicates values and risks. The main focus of this risk analysis is on antitrust and expectations on employee conduct. corruption. The objective of this analysis is to identify and assess, on the basis of the risk profile of ZF, compliance-relevant A range of communication measures ensure that compliance risks at an early stage and to counteract them. is firmly anchored within ZF’s culture. All employees, including the Board of Management, have continuous access to compliZF Compliance Organization ance topics through newsletters, the compliance intranet Prevent Detect & respond and other channels. As a main communication channel, our intranet provides access to necessary compliance contacts Risk analysis Notification and essential documents. To ensure that compliance news Regulations Investigation reaches the management teams of the individual ZF locations, Communication Monitoring compliance delegates are required to update the management Training Remediation & sanctioning team about compliance issues periodically, so the manageComplianceHelpdesk ment will pass this information on to their employees. Business partner due diligence In 2017, the compliance newsletter was used to communicate Business partners can pose a compliance risk if their actions the status of integration between the ZF and former TRW or failures to act can be attributed to ZF. As a result, ZF could compliance departments. Due to the high importance of this be held liable if no suitable precautionary measures were issue, the newsletter was sent to the compliance community taken, for example to prevent bribery. All business functions of approximately 5,000 individuals, which includes all compliof our company are therefore obliged to take appropriate ance delegates and compliance officers, and all members of measures – preferably before business relations with a partner the ZF management. Additionally, Compliance published an are initiated – to ensure that business partners are adequately article on the main ZF corporate news site to reach all levels assessed and instructed. A business partner due diligence of employees. process has been set up and an appropriate guideline was published in 2015 and is an addendum to ZF’s Business Partner Principles. For more details on ZF’s risk management approach see Annual Report 2017, p. 48. 26 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Training opportunities ZF has integrated target-group-oriented compliance training courses into its training concept. The objective of the training program is to firmly anchor compliance in employees’ consciousness and prevent wrong-doing. The courses convey knowledge and promote the ability to act in critical situations. Target groups can be addressed using different solutions, depending on the necessities of a topic. Classroom training gives participants the opportunity to directly exchange ideas and experiences on compliance-relevant topics and issues. In 2017, face-to-face training sessions were offered in a number of countries including China, Brazil, Argentina, Germany, Russia, Slovakia, Poland, Mexico and Hungary. Overall 1,116 employees received face-to-face training in the reporting year. Online training serves to convey broad, general knowledge to all employees. Online training for the Code of Conduct is available on the intranet and should be completed by all new employees. ZF online training courses include the following topics: international anti-bribery principles, financial integrity and antitrust law. In the reporting year, approximately 13,000 employees completed these training courses. Additionally 1,135 employees received webinar training in 2017. Participant numbers are currently not reported by employment category or region. 27 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Environment GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 All ZF production and main development locations are Management approach – Environment required to have an environmental management that conforms We are meeting our responsibility toward people and the to the requirements of the ZF Group’s EHS management environment by implementing a range of different environsystem, either Group Directive DG 16-02 or the EHS managemental protection measures. This responsibility is anchored ment handbook. They also have to be certified within the ZF in ZF’s values, and protects against entrepreneurial risks – in Group certificate in accordance with ISO 14001. In 2017, the areas of compliance, customer relations and reputation there were 230 ZF locations worldwide certified in confor– while improving operating efficiency and benefiting the mity with ISO 14001, thereof 123 locations in the corporate environment. scheme and an additional 107 single certifications of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division. Conserving natural resources is the fundamental principle of our environmental strategy. A corresponding policy is based Management reviews are conducted twice a year, in which on environmental objectives and is globally binding for all the Board of Management assesses the target achievement of locations. This policy includes essential areas of activity such the sites. The board also assesses whether the environmental as climate protection, the environmental impact of production, management system is qualified to fulfill current legal cuseco-friendly product design and environmental performance tomer and management requirements. improvement. The locations strive to achieve the objectives at a local level. In 2017 the EHS integration team committed to a new common EHS management system based on a best-of-both In the course of integrating the Active & Passive Safety Techapproach. The rollout of this advanced management system nology Division, an integration team for Environment, Health will be conducted over a three-year transition period. and Safety (EHS) agreed on the update of the environmental policy and targets, which will be rolled out in 2018. The envi2017 also saw the launch of the implementation of the Group ronmental policy and objectives are published on the corpoDirective for Global Development & Product Evolution Process rate website. (GD PEP). Following the “design for environment” principle, this puts particular focus on environmentally friendly prodThe global ZF environmental organization covers all areas uct design. Relevant aspects must be proven by means of a of the company, from each individual division to different checklist at various steps in the development process, taking regions, right down to the locations. The corporate environinto account environmentally friendly manufacturing and mental protection officer is responsible at the Group level and manufacturability, wear, serviceability and repairability, senior environmental protection officers are appointed at the recyclability and environmentally sound materials. divisional level. On plant level, the EHS officers work on a daily basis towards ensuring environmental protection. The regional Furthermore, the technical standard ZF 9003 on Control of managers provide support for ensuring compliance in their Prohibited & Regulated Substances has been updated, respective regions, the implementation of ZF standards and extended and implemented for the combined company. monitoring of the environmental management system. Furthermore, the product-related environmental protection elements in the Supplier Purchasing Directive (QD 83) have been further strengthened and harmonized for the combined company. 28 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 301 Materials products during their use. To ensure that lightweight solutions help minimize the environmental impact of our products, we GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 successfully completed two projects. In the course of these, Management approach – Materials the entire life cycles of two fiber-based products were anaAs raw materials become increasingly scarce and more lyzed and compared with their steel and aluminum counterexpensive, their efficient use is crucial. Likewise, materials parts. LCAs for six variants of two products were successfully must conform to our high expectations regarding quality and calculated and compared. safety as well as environmental and social standards. Please see 3 GRI 204 for more details on procurement procedures and the general environmental management approach for Cradle to cradle details on the “design for environment” principle. Over the years, we have gained valuable insights into closAt ZF, product-related environmental protection begins with ing the loop. Like nature, the cradle-to-cradle concept knows material selection. From the very start, during the product no waste, no renunciation and no restrictions. Biological and development phase, we consider the total life cycle of a prodtechnical nutrient cycles provide the right materials at the right uct, including factors such as product materials, utilization time and in the right place. phase as well as disposability and recyclability, and design our products accordingly. By reducing material variety, ensuring Ultimately, the result is always better quality. The “from the materials are easily separated and using consistent matericradle to the cradle” (C2C) production method directly conals, we continually increase the recyclability of our products. trasts with the “from the cradle to the grave” model, in which We systematically substitute materials containing hazardous material flows often ignore resource conservation. substances. All these principles are embedded in guidelines during the development phase. One certified example of cradle to cradle is the MFZ 430 clutch cover. The ZF plant in Bielefeld (Germany) arranged The ZF Materials Warehouse provides information on almost the assessment of another remanufactured product in 2017. all existing materials, and, in the future, will also classify them The 8HP torque converter for automatic transmissions was into approved and preferred materials. It will then only be awarded a certificate in Silver by the Cradle to Cradle Products possible to use a non-approved material after submitting a Innovation Institute. The certificate comprises the categories: release application to the Materials Department, which will material health, material reutilization, renewable energy and review the material and check its conformity with set requirecarbon management, water stewardship, and social fairness. ments. This procedure optimizes costs, simplifies material selection and guarantees that only materials are used which GRI 301-1 comply with technical standards and country-specific laws Materials used by weight or volume banning certain materials. Materials in the ZF Materials WareThe commodities steel and aluminum have the largest house will be regularly screened for hazardous substances. consumption share in the purchasing portfolio. The ZF This means materials containing hazardous substances can Group purchases approximately 280,000 t of aluminum and be substituted at the earliest possible stage of the material 1,935,000 t of steel (including iron cast) annually. selection process, reducing the environmental impact of ZF products even before they are manufactured. ZF purchases not only raw materials but also a large number of assembled parts and products, which already consist of a mixture of different materials. Therefore, figures on specific Material and life-cycle analysis materials are not readily available. A standard ZF product, the 8HP70 8-speed automatic transmission, comprises approxiProduct responsibility for ZF also means critical analysis of mately 58 percent steel and 25 percent aluminum. The rest materials used, especially for materials as energy-intensive in contains lubricating oil (7%), silicon (3%), rubber and plastics their production as carbon and glass fiber materials, and as (2.2%) and copper (1.5%) as well as other metals, alloys and challenging to recycle. Fiber-based lightweight materials, in solvents in extremely small quantities. particular, can help reduce the environmental impacts of ZF 29 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 301-2 GRI 302 Energy Recycled input materials used ZF frequently uses recycled materials in its production proGRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 cesses. Steel and aluminum constitute the highest weight Management approach – Energy share of ZF products. This includes steel from scrap steel and Energy management is a top priority for an industrial company aluminum from scrap aluminum. For standard steel, the minisuch as ZF and a core element within the ZF EHS managemum global recycling rate is 70 percent. ment system. By this means, all locations regularly evaluate their energy profiles and energetic topics. This involves Recycled oils are also used in production, for example hydrauconducting audits, identifying potential for improvement and lic oil. Furthermore, ZF channels a high percentage of waste defining actions and measures for improving energy efficiency back into the material cycle via external recycling procedures, and consumption reduction. especially scrap metal and metal chips, waste oil, paper and cardboard, wood and demolition waste. As a result of their As an integral part of the energy management system, locamaterial composition, ZF products make a disproportionately tions define specific targets locally on an annual basis to high contribution to meeting the recycling quotas as stipulated increase energy efficiency and take appropriate actions. The in the EU End-of-Life Vehicle Directive. target achievement is monitored and controlled through key performance indicators within the environmental and energy GRI 301-3 management system in conformity with ISO 14001 and ISO Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 50001. To comply with respective legislation, ZF is required to take back packaging. In Germany, ZF fulfills this requirement by, Detailed energy programs help the locations to achieve their for example, participating in external collection systems that targets. The core elements are behavioral changes, energy involve taking back and recycling packaging through a dual supply management, energy data management, and organizasystem, or through sector solutions (for automobile repair tional and technical energy efficiency programs. workshops or for information technology, communications technology and consumer electronics). Through this Actions to increase efficiency and reduce energy consumpapproach, we have more than exceeded statutory recycling tion are planned and implemented at all locations depending quotas. on the local consumption footprint and target achievement. These measures, in conjunction with the energy management Data of the total amount of packaging material used within system, considerably improve energy efficiency worldwide. the ZF Group will be published on the internet after validation and acceptance of authority, which is expected for April 2018. Additionally to ZF EHS management, all German and European locations are audited externally on a regular basis. The Concerning products, ZF has been committed for decades to Corporate Energy Management ISO 50001 scheme covered remanufacturing procedures and has therefore established a 47 locations in 2017. Further locations gained single-site global reclaiming system. Various parts like torque converters, certification according to ISO 50001 or have conducted ConAct and dual-mass flywheels are being remanufactured external audits according to EN 16247. for industrial use. Remanufacturing transmissions and other parts saves production energy by upwards of 90 percent. Also, A roadmap for a revised energy and climate change strategy ZF was able to save over 10,000 tons of materials by remanuand Group targets were updated, following an energy-andfacturing over 25,000 gearboxes for trucks, buses, passenger climate strategy workshop held in the last quarter of 2017. cars and off-road vehicles, and our site in Bielefeld (Germany) The cross-functional Steering Board, including decisionremanufactured over 340,000 clutch pressure plates and discs makers from purchasing, production, tax and real estate and saves an additional 10,000 tons of material each year. management departments, revised methods and tools from all Moreover, the locations in Frydlant and Wrexham accomrelevant domain functions within the company. The essential plished remanufacturing almost 745,000 brake calipers from discussion of strategy was based on legal requirements and passenger cars. requirements arising from political and societal developments (e.g. the Paris Agreement) with the goal of defining ambitious Group targets. 30 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 302-1 Energy consumption 2015–2017 Energy consumption within the organization in percent Energy is mainly used for production processes, especially heat treatment, surface treatment and compressed air. Other1 6 Another significant field of energy use is associated with  building and infrastructure management, for example heating, lighting, air conditioning and ventilation. Due to the huge Electricity 66 variety of production processes used within the ZF Group, the Natural gas 28  share of energy use differs greatly from location to location.  Approximately 66 percent of the energy consumed at ZF 2015 2016 comes from purchased electricity. Energy procurement and 2017 consumption is therefore a major topic, especially at the ZF production locations. While the major share of energy consumption comes from electricity, natural gas accounts 1 Oil, district heating, liquid gas, acetylene for 28 percent of the energy. It is mainly used for heating and production processes and partially in on-site combined heat and power (CHP) plants. The remaining 6 percent comprise energy from oil, district heating, liquid gas, acetylene, liquid gas and biogas. In terms of renewable energy resources a Absolute energy consumption 2015 –2017 minor share comes from on-site solar power. Approximately in gigawatt-hours 12 percent of the electricity consumption involves CO2reduced emission factors due to special purchasing contracts 4,800 4,107 4,155 or on-site production. Compared to the previous year the absolute energy consump4,000 tion increased by 1 percent. Energy efficiency programs and 2,668 measures could not compensate the for increase of energy 3,200 consumption due to expanded production. 2,400 GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 1,600 The vast majority of energy consumption outside the organization comes from the use of our products. See 3 GRI 302-5 for 800 more information. 0 GRI 302-3 20151 2016 2017 Energy intensity As in previous years, ZF reduced energy intensity. ZF brought Natural gas Electricity Other2 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division down energy consumption per € million of sales by 3 per2 Oil, district heating, liquid gas, acetylene cent last year. This improvement in energy performance was reached by increasing production volume and implementing a vast variety of energy efficiency measures. From 2015 to 2017 specific energy consumption decreased by 10 percent. 31 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 302-4 can be used to make processes more robust while at the same Reduction of energy consumption time indicating which machines require preventive mainteSpecial programs and actions at site level have achieved connance. While the project initially started with an Industry 4.0 tinuous improvement in energy efficiency. In 2017, ZF implefocus it also improves our energy management efforts. The mented more than 110 projects to reduce energy consumpacquired data reveal opportunities and potential in electricity tion and increase energy efficiency, not including the Active & savings, which are consistently exploited. Passive Safety Technology Division. These were mainly in the areas of plant engineering, process optimization and building The Car Chassis Technology Division started a project using technology. heat treatment by means of AWP tempering (for “Assembly of Warming Parts”), in order to reduce energy consumption and Specific energy consumption 2015–2017 emissions. AWP tempering is a new induction-based process in megawatt-hours per € million in sales where a workpiece is no longer heat-treated as a whole in an oven, but only selectively heated by induction. This saves 30 percent energy compared to the old method in the oven. The 120 110 process is currently being introduced at eight locations world104 101 wide, with more to come. ZF is about to completely convert 100 the process for heating structural components of passenger cars to AWP tempering. 80 GRI 302-5 60 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 40 As a technology and cost leader, ZF aims to meet the demands of the mobility megatrends of tomorrow, such as 20 efficiency, integrated safety and automated driving. Following our Vision Zero, ZF products are intended to make a strong 0 contribution to reducing emissions and accidents to zero. Accordingly, the Group has set a clear technology focus with 20151 2016 2017 its guiding principle “See – Think – Act”. The company’s Natural gas Electricity Other2 product and technology planning follows market and product 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division 2 Oil, district heating, liquid gas, acetylene roadmaps, which are continuously updated. At ZF, sustainability is not another product development objective, but rather an integral part of our company worldwide. Within the huge variety of measures there were 110 projects reported to save 34 GWh in 2017, not including the Active & Putting into practice our Vision Zero, ZF offers electric drive Passive Safety Technology Division. This is enough energy to solutions for almost all vehicle segments, such as bicycles, supply more than 6,400 households with an average conbuses or tractors. The newly presented Vision Zero Vehicle sumption of 4,000 kWh/a. uses an electric axle drive system with an output of 150 kilowatts that can power a mid-sized car comfortably and powerZF also fosters behavior that reduces energy consumpfully. The system is integrated into the innovative rear-axle tion through empowering employees to identify and label modular system called mSTARS, which stands for modular equipment and lights that can be safely turned off when not Semi-Trailing Arm Rear Suspension. This modular system is needed. compatible with the most varied requirements and can be combined with hybrid, fuel cell and electric drives as well as A promising project is called DO MORE, which stands for conventional all-wheel modules or active rear axle steering “Digital Online Machine and Operations Research.” It allows (AKC). Consequently, mSTARS offers ease and flexibility in for making digital operating data from machines and systems electrifying volume-produced vehicles, and OEMs can respond centrally available and evaluable. This way, the collected data to different market requirements with just one chassis variant. 32 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social As a worldwide leader in marine propulsion systems, supplyAbsolute water consumption1 2015–2017 ing systems and components for all types of ships, ZF Marine in million cubic meters offers a range of “hybrid-ready” transmissions to address the market needs. Our systems can be integrated into all types of fast craft, from coast guard vessels to fast offshore supply 10,000 9,045 8,940 vessels. The resulting environmental protection includes fuel 9,000 8,550 savings, lower CO2 emissions and noise reduction. 8,000 GRI 303 Water 7,000 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 6,000 Management approach – Water Water is used at ZF locations for production, e.g. for surface 2,000 treatment processes, washing, rinsing and cleaning, as a coolant, or for non-production purposes such as sanitary water, 0 drinking water, in the canteen or during construction projects. 2015 2016 2017 At locations in water-scarce areas, water consumption in Ground and surface water Municipal water Rainwater 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division production is a major issue as the use of freshwater might become increasingly restricted in the future. However, the ZF water management objective goes beyond reducing consumption in risk areas: We want to continually reduce specific Specific water consumption1 2015–2017 water consumption throughout the Group. Therefore, we are in cubic meters per € million in sales introducing location-specific water-saving projects. Progress is monitored and managed in line with our environmental 400 377.5 management system at the individual locations and at Group level. The different approaches of the Active & Passive Safety 332.5 336.6 Technology Division and the other ZF divisions are mainly 350 driven by different production footprints and sources. In 2017, the EHS integration team worked on a common strategy to 300 align management and reporting strategies and targets. These were first rolled out at the beginning of 2018. See 250 3 GRI 300 for more details on the management approach. 200 GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 50 The water supply at ZF locations is adapted to local circumstances and generally comes from the municipal water supply. 0 At some locations water from rivers or groundwater is used 2015 2016 2017 for cooling processes without any chemical change. Within the last year, the absolute amount of water consumption Ground and surface water Municipal water Rainwater 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division increased by 5 percent. 33 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Besides various projects to reduce overall consumption, ZF Absolute water recycled/reused1 2015–2017 makes use of available water treatment and reuse technoloin cubic meters gies to reduce freshwater consumption as for example the sewage treatment plant in Guadalajara (Mexico), which provides final disinfecting with ozone to ensure that the repro90,000 cessed water complies with local quality standards. In future, it will also serve to wash the chromated parts. 75,000 64,907 51,794 49,038 GRI 303-2 60,000 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 45,000 Currently no figures are available for affected water sources. Some of our production locations, e.g. in Brazil and Mexico, 30,000 are in so-called “water scarce areas”. Permits for water withdrawal for production are in some cases already restricted 15,000 in these areas. If water scarcity persists, the situation could worsen or spread to other regions. Resource scarcity results 0 in the need for increased investment or expenses to cover the 2015 2016 2017 technical modernization of production equipment. Furthermore, we are currently faced with more expensive electricity 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division in Brazil. A large part of the country’s electricity supply comes from hydropower, so increases in water scarcity entail a risk of price increases. Such a development could also lead to Specific water recycled/reused1 2015–2017 electricity rationing, which would put energy supply to the in cubic meters per € million in sales locations at risk. GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused 3.0 ZF makes full use of all technical methods for saving water in 2.4 production processes, for example cascade rinsing systems 2.5 2.2 for washing processes or process water recycling. The signifi1.9 cantly increased amount of water recycled or reused (absolute 2.0 and specific) proves the good impact of our efforts. We will initiate further projects in 2018. 1.5 Since 2016, our location in Schweinfurt (Germany) has made 1.0 use of a new ion exchanger plant that allows the contaminated groundwater to be treated so that it can be used as 0.5 ultrapure water for our industrial rinsing processes in surface treatment plants. The new system replaces four old ion 0 exchangers with annual savings of potable water (11,000 2015 2016 2017 m³/a), energy (65,000 kWh/a) and process chemicals (43 m³/a hydrochloric acid, 28 m³/a sodium hydroxide). This way 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division it also supports local soil rehabilitation efforts. 34 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 305 Emissions ZF’s strategy is to buy where the supplied materials or components are needed, i.e. “local for local,” which helps to avoid GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 the impacts of transportation. A strategic decision was made Management approach – Emissions by the Group for ZF to be responsible for all transport carried The majority of emissions generated by our products out from suppliers to ZF plants. For us, this is the best way occur during the utilization phase. That is why, as part of our to ensure that transportation is organized efficiently and that emission reduction efforts, we are focusing on developing environmental factors are systematically taken into account. products that contribute to cutting vehicle emissions. See In countries where this has not yet been implemented, for 3 GRI 302-5 for more information. instance China, we have launched projects to roll out this strategy as quickly as possible. As part of our freight manageOur environmental and energy management system manment, we are making a concerted effort to pool transport and ages the reduction of emissions from our production faciliincrease the full truck load (FTL) quota to avoid unnecessary ties. Prior to the merging of ZF and TRW, the objective of the transports. two companies was a 20 percent decrease in CO2 emissions generated by the energy consumed during production per When selecting transport service providers, we always sales by 2020. This target had already been achieved by consider the company’s “green logistics” credentials. both companies in 2015. By 2017, the specific ZF emissions dropped by 32 percent compared to the baseline (average GRI 305-1 emission 2006 – 2010). Absolute fossil CO2 emissions (Scope Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 1+2) increased in the last year although several energy and Direct emissions include emissions from energy sources emission reduction projects were conducted. This increase consumed at the sites, including natural gas, fuels e.g. diesel, results mainly from increased energy consumption due to gasoline, biogas, acetylene, liquid gas and others. production expansion in countries with high emission factors for purchased electricity in Asia-Pacific, as well as Mexico and The increase in absolute energy consumption due to expandGermany. The reorganization of the EHS management system ed production led to a slight rise in absolute Scope 1 fossil for the combined company will include a revision of the CO2 CO2 emissions in 2017. reduction target and its reallocation as part of the new EHS policy and strategy. GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Since 2016, the emissions calculation has been based on the Indirect emissions include emissions from purchased electricVDA emission factors from 2015. The reported amount of fosity and all kinds of district heat. sil CO2 emissions does not include CO2 equivalents (from CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, NF3, or others). In 2016, ZF joined the CDP The increase in absolute energy consumption due to exreporting – the full report is available at the CDP website. panded production led to a rise in absolute Scope 2 fossil CO2 emissions in 2017. Absolute CO2 emissions 2015–2017 Specific CO2 emissions 2015–2017 in thousand tons in tons per € million in sales 2017 2016 20151 2017 2016 20151 Scope 12 253 – – Scope 12 6 – – Scope 22 1,393 – – Scope 22 34 – – Total 1,646 1,570 928 Total 40 40 39 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division 2 Scope 1+ 2 are only reported for 2017 due to changing calculation in recent years 2 Scope 1+ 2 are only reported for 2017 due to changing calculation in recent years 35 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 305-3 In 2017, the locations Pune (India) and Johannesburg (South Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Africa) installed solar power plants leading to an expected Our approach for Scope 3 emissions is focusing on the suptotal emission reduction of 480 tons annually. plies and suppliers with highest CO2 emission levels in the life-cycle perspective. See 3 GRI 302-5 for more information At the location Bielefeld (Germany) 50 percent of the puron emissions from products and services. chased electricity was from renewable sources. The location has been purchasing 100 percent from renewables since GRI 305-4 2018. A total of seven locations purchased electricity from GHG emissions intensity renewables or with reduced CO2 emissions, leading to a total The GHG emissions intensity results directly from the energy reduction of approximately 60,000 tons of CO2. intensity and the footprint of each country where energy is purchased and used. In addition, the production footprint is GRI 305-6 strongly influenced by customer needs as well as national Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) production and purchasing requirements. ZF locations worldwide manage their ODS emissions at local level in line with our environmental management system and In the reporting year, ZF reduced energy intensity. Nevertheaccording to local legal requirements. At ZF locations, ODSs are less this could not decrease specific fossil CO2 emissions in relevant to air conditioning processes and equipment. Theretons per € million in sales. The increase of production and fore, locations engage qualified contractors for the maintenance therefore energy consumption in some countries with high and service of coolant equipment to ensure adequate handling. emission factors, e.g. in Asia-Pacific, Mexico and Germany, led to increased emissions. This rise was higher than the The most relevant ODSs in operation processes are volatile reduction achieved by energy efficiency programs and CO2 organic compounds (VOC), mainly used in surface treatment emission reduction projects such as installation of combined processes. For detailed absolute and specific emissions of heat and power (CHP) plants or solar power plants. For details solvents (VOCs) see GRI 305-7 and 3 GRI 305-8. on projects see 3 GRI 302-4. GRI 305-7 GRI 305-5 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SO2), and other Reduction of GHG emissions significant air emissions ZF’s strategy focuses on continuously reducing GHG emisA major percentage of ZF’s VOC emissions originate from sions. The improvements result from numerous initiatives and large painting and degreasing facilities. Wherever possible, projects to increase efficiency and raise awareness at a local we are continuing the transition to water-based paints and level. All projects reducing energy consumption or increasing aqueous degreasing procedures so as to reduce VOC emisenergy efficiency also lead a reduction in emissions. sions from these processes. If water-based paints cannot be used for reasons of product quality, the captured exhaust Over 110 energy efficiency projects, not including Active & flows from these facilities are technically treated to minimize Passive Safety Technology Division projects, were implementVOC emissions. ed at ZF locations around the world. These were mainly in the areas of plant engineering, process optimization and building Absolute VOC, NOX and SO2 emissions 2015–2017 technology. in tons 2017 2016 2015 Nonetheless, these measures could not compensate for the VOC1 1,014 8862 1,079 increase in absolute emissions which was mainly caused by SO2 4,350 4,226 2,387 an increase of energy consumption in countries with high NOX 2,821 2,755 2,126 emission factors for electricity. For details on projects see 1 Data for VOC solvents of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division were not yet 3 GRI 302-4. available on Group level 2 Figure was updated compared to ZF’s Sustainability Report 2016 36 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Specific VOC, NOX and SO2 emissions 2015 – 2017 The relevant processes at ZF with a potential risk for the in kilograms per € million in sales release of hazardous substances are essentially surface 2017 2016 2015 treatment, carbide treatment, magnesium machining and VOC1 solvents 38 342 45 hardening. Preventive technical measures in place at the locaSO2 105 1072 100 tions ensure that hazardous substances cannot spill into the ground and endanger the groundwater, even in the event of a NOX 68 70 89 1 Data for VOC solvents of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division were not yet potential release resulting from a breakdown. A Group-wide available on Group level reporting obligation has been introduced to cover the eventu2 Figure was updated compared to ZF’s Sustainability Report 2016 ality of a release. GRI 306-1 Another approach to improving environmental performance Water discharge by quality and destination is to change air filters from active carbon adsorption to therThe total and specific volume of wastewater at ZF locations mal oxidation. This way solvents can be oxidized effectively increased based on the use of fresh water. Data for some and solid particles can be extracted. locations of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Divsion are not yet available. Further potential ways to reduce VOCs in paint processes are being evaluated in certain products from the off-highway Using water treatment technologies, ZF does not only reduce segment, bearing in mind the specific high corrosion resisfreshwater consumption but also effluents. For example, our tance and resistance to mechanical stress requirements. site in Coimbatore (India) is treating wastewater at a reverse osmosis plant. The production then uses the recycled water Future reporting and management of these VOC emissions for washing, rinsing and cleaning operations as well as for the is being revaluated in the integration process and will be application of cooling lubricants. adjusted for the combined company. Absolute wastewater1 2015–2017 in cubic meters 2017 2016 2015 GRI 306 Effluents and waste Sanitary wastewater 1,472,482 1,550,626 1,787,733 Treated process 831,466 870,305 780,868 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 wastewater Management approach – Effluents and waste Untreated process 6,084,672 5,638,274 6,146,260 wastewater Wastewater at ZF is usually discharged into the public sewer system and treated at local wastewater treatment plants conTotal 8,388,620 8,059,205 8,714,861 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division nected to the system. However, our environmental management system aims at continually reducing the volume of wastewater and waste. Direct drainage into surface water only occurs at a few locations lacking public infrastructure. In these Specific wastewater1 2015–2017 cases, water is drained only if approved by the authorities in cubic meters per € million in sales and is treated in conformity with state-of-the-art technology. 2017 2016 2015 Threshold values are strictly monitored here. ZF is committed Sanitary wastewater 55 60 75 to installing water-saving equipment that exceeds these statuTreated process 31 34 33 tory requirements. wastewater Untreated process 229 219 256 ZF is constantly working toward decreasing the volume of wastewater waste sent for disposal and hazardous waste by altering Total 316 314 364 processes, optimizing procedures and substituting hazardous 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division substances in operations. 37 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 306-2 GRI 306-3 Waste by type and disposal method Significant spills While the total amount of waste increased by 5 percent due In 2017, no significant spills with impact on the environment to an increase of production, the specific amount of waste were reported. slightly increased by 0.6 percent in 2017, compared to the previous year. GRI 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Absolute waste 2015–2017 ZF does not export hazardous waste from one country to in tons another. Our waste management is organized locally. 2017 2016 20151 Recycled non-hazardous 534,807 507,062 292,952 GRI 306-5 Recycled hazardous 43,254 41,180 30,497 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Total recycled 578,061 548,243 323,448 No bodies of water were significantly affected by wastewater Disposal non-hazardous 33,654 34,075 32,887 drainage. Disposal hazardous 40,373 36,895 19,545 Total disposal 74,027 70,970 52,433 Total 652,088 619,213 375,881 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division GRI 307 Environmental compliance Specific waste 2015 – 2017 in tons per € million in sales GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 2017 2016 20151 Management approach – Environmental compliance Recycled non-hazardous 12.93 12.83 12.22 We continue to operate responsibly as a business and a Recycled hazardous 1.05 1.04 1.27 manufacturer of ZF products by constantly striving to comply Total recycled 13.97 13.88 13.49 globally with legal requirements and internal standards. Disposal non-hazardous 0.81 0.86 1.37 Disposal hazardous 0.98 0.93 0.82 In the context of environmental management, compliance is Total disposal 1.79 1.80 2.19 a core issue. Due to various local requirements, legal developTotal 15.76 15.68 15.68 ments are pursued and evaluated and – if necessary – mea1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division sures implemented at all locations and levels of the ZF Group. Processes and events that are relevant for compliance must be reported. Phosphate coatings are used on steel parts for corrosion resistance. From the environmental point of view phosphatGRI 307-1 ing is seen critically due to the generation of process sludge Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations and effluents, which are considered as hazardous waste. São ZF was involved in over 57 remediation projects, whose Bernardo do Campo in Brazil has succeeded in completely causes date back at least a decade. The processing of these eliminating the phosphating process while maintaining the projects is carried out jointly with the relevant local authorities. same product quality. There usage of hazardous materials and The costs for these projects amounted to €9.0 million in 2017. the amount of hazardous waste and wastewater was thereby reduced and the environmental risks minimized. For this sucFurthermore, we neither committed any legal environmental cessful project the team in Brazil received the Mercedes-Benz offences nor were required to pay any significant environmentAward in May 2017. related penalties or fines in 2017. 38 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 308 Supplier GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental environmental assessment criteria During the course of the reporting year, 100 percent of new GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 ZF suppliers underwent self-assessment according to sustainManagement approach – Supplier environmental ability criteria defined by ZF. No indications of infringements assessment against our principles of environmental protection, human When selecting strategic suppliers, ZF carefully reviews their rights, labor practices, forced labor, child labor or freedom environmental management. See 3 GRI 204 for more details of association were identified. We will continue to apply this on the management approach for procurement, supplier stanprocedure consistently in the future. dards and assessment. GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and Capacity building actions taken In China, the government has been taking more strict meaWe set up the ZF Supplier Academy to create a strategic sures towards violation of environmental laws and regulations. cooperation and qualification platform in order to promote ZF informed its supply base to comply with EHS regulations, and support cooperation with our production material suppliand organized respective training and self-assessment for ers. ZF suppliers have the opportunity to take part in seminars selected suppliers. We also conducted online surveys to asheld in their regions. Participation provides suppliers with an sess EHS compliance of suppliers in China. For suppliers with in-depth insight into ZF requirements, standards, guidelines potential environmental risks, the Purchasing and Supplier and procedures so that they can subsequently apply them Management team is taking preventive action. EHS requireeffectively at their companies. Since the end of 2017, suppliments were implemented In the approval process for new ers of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division have suppliers in China. been able to participate in seminars as as result of the integration process. 39 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Social GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 • C  ommitment to People: We support and encourage our Management approach – Social employees in the fulfillment of their duties and responsibiliAs part of the changing market environment, ZF is responding ties. In return, we expect commitment and performance. to megatrends, strong growth in the Asia-Pacific region and We provide constructive feedback and foster a culture of North America, technological and demographic change, and trust. worldwide population growth. At the same time, highly qualified personnel are key to the company’s long-term success. • R  esult Orientation: We set ourselves challenging goals and Therefore, attracting and systematically further developing talmeasure what we achieve. We deliver as promised, and ented personnel is one of ZF’s major challenges. This is why value agility. By finding the right balance between quality ZF is positioning itself as a globally attractive employer. and speed, we ensure that we succeed in what we set out to do. Preparing for future challenges Existing management systems like the ZF Quality Management System or various HR systems are not being replaced or Following the acquisition of TRW Automotive, we introduced superseded. But in time they will be progressively aligned with the new ZF Management System (ZF MS) to provide both the requirements of the overarching ZF Management System. theoretical guidance and practical instructions for effective cooperation. The new ZF Management System aims at shaping our way of working in terms of speed, simplicity and target focus. GRI 401 Employment Being a core element of the ZF MS, the four equally important GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 principles “Innovation Approach,” “Customer Focus,” CommitManagement approach – Employment ment to People” and “Result Orientation” form the ZF Charter Responsible, supportive and fair – that’s the kind of employer and define what is important to us and how we do business. ZF aims to be. We want to create a corporate culture that These principles provide direction and guidance to ZF employstrengthens collaboration and trust. And we are convinced ees regarding expected behavior and mindset. The principles that this approach also leads to better financial results. We define what we regard as important, what we do and what provide support and make offers, but at the same time ask makes us special: for our employees’ dedication and commitment. We want to create a work environment that rewards high performance. • Innovation Approach: We develop pioneering products and Fairness, as we see it, provides benefits for employees and technologies that help us achieve our strategic goals – and employer alike. are financially rewarding. Our employees and business units alike all strive to develop innovative and creative soluZF is looking for qualified experts in all markets. Once hired, tions. We think like entrepreneurs. This also means we take they enjoy attractive working conditions and qualification oprisks and learn from our successes and failures. portunities at all our company locations worldwide. The varied cultural backgrounds of our employees, their competencies • C  ustomer Focus: We win over our customers with our and their diligence and motivation are shaping our corporate quality and our passion, offering them clear added value. culture and they are the key to our success. This applies to internal and external customers alike. At the same time, we always aim to be profitable – and act accordingly, in every part of our organization. 40 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social In order to develop and produce intelligent mechanical prodProvisions for pensions are set up for obligations from vested ucts, ZF still requires employees from traditional occupations. benefits and current pensions for entitled current and former Due to changing mobility habits, however, employees and employees of the consolidated ZF Group and their surviving graduates in the software and IT fields are becoming increasdependents. Please see 3 GRI 201-3 for details on the proviingly relevant for the automotive industry. This is why the HR sions for pensions. Department is increasing its global activities in attracting such graduates or those who have completed vocational training in Following the acquisition of TRW, ZF is in the process of their respective fields. For further employer branding, the new analyzing the key benefit programs in the major countries and campaign “What’s next?” was rolled out. It is aiming at inlocations. The benefits analysis for the USA has been completcreasing the brand recognition of ZF as an attractive employer ed and benefits harmonization in the USA will be completed in the growing markets. by 2018. GRI 401-1 GRI 401-3 New employee hires and employee turnover Parental leave ZF hires approximately 600 new apprentices in Germany per At the end of December 2017, a total of 494 employees took year. Other parameters are currently not reported on for the parental leave in Germany; of this number, 370 were male and Group in total. 240 female. In Germany, 195 female employees returned from parental leave and 1,800 male employees took parental leave Employee turnover for 2017 (2016) for a short period in 2017. as percent of headcount Africa 1.7 (2.7) Europe 4.6 (4.6) GRI 402 Labor/Management Asia-Pacific North America Relations 15.3 (10.3) Total  35.4 (22.2) 13.3 (9.2) GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management approach – Labor/Management Relations South America 2016 The common interest of employees, employee representa2.3 (2.2) 2017 tives and company management is to sustain our international competitiveness and achieve sustainable commercial success. Confronting the challenges of globalization, we strive for collaboration at all levels based on mutual respect. GRI 401-2 A trusting cooperation under the Works Constitution Act is a Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not fundamental factor in our corporate culture. This applies to all provided to temporary or part-time employees employee representative committees such as the individual ZF employees with part-time, full-time, permanent or tempoworks councils and committees, including the General Works rary employment contracts are provided access to the same Council, the Group Works Council or the European Works benefit programs. Health and insurance benefits play a central Council and the individual contact persons on the employer’s role in ZF’s offering to employees. Of course, benefits vary side. according to local standards, regulations and market practice. Benefit programs for contractors and agency temps are GRI 402-1 treated according to the type of contractual engagement with Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes ZF and according to local regulations. All legal obligations are respected. Employee and employer representatives regularly interact in an atmosphere of trust. Employee representatives are therefore comprehensively informed in a timely manner about changes in the company. 41 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Fundamental questions about the company’s development are Organizational structure discussed in communications and at meetings. The discontinuation and relocation of companies or sub-units, investments A new three-dimensional Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) or other changes to the organization are also main topics. organization was defined for the combined company, comprising: • Centers of Excellence developing program elements, • Regional teams with focus on site service and legislation GRI 403 Occupational Health and • ZF internal business partners to coordinate all EHS aspects and Safety in the division or business unit. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Additionally, the Health Committee was extended to the Active Management approach – Occupational health and safety & Passive Safety Technology Division. The Interdisciplinary Our employees’ safety, health and well-being are core values Expert Group on Health Management (IEG) will be extended at ZF. They are therefore an integral part of the company’s to the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division in 2018. culture and strategy. As we are aiming for appreciable value to our employees and other stakeholders, the vision is to manage The “best of both” approach was applied in nine “deep dive” our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) performance to be teams: Experienced specialists evaluated topic-specific best leading in the automotive industry. practices, standards, and opportunities for cost reduction and synergies. Results are being used to define the EHS program The ZF Group has defined targets to further protect, preserve for the combined company to be able to better serve interand promote health, well-being and job satisfaction. Progress nal and external customers and markets. Moreover, the EHS of target achievement is frequently measured, monitored management system team is updating existing procedures, and managed. Regarding safety, ZF and the Active & Passive specific requirements and guidelines. The EHS management Safety Technology Division targets will be harmonized during system for the combined company will be introduced in the the course of 2018. course of 2018. While compliance with legal and regulatory requirements is the foundation of all our activities, we have implemented Managing safety Group-wide EHS standards. We aim to meet or exceed customer requirements but also to prevent and minimize the Aiming for constant improvement, all ZF locations apply impacts of EHS risks. For example, risks at workstations are appropriate management systems. The introduction of periodically assessed, necessary measures are implemented OHSAS 18001 is voluntary. Locations may use our Integrated and their effectiveness is evaluated. When planning and Management System (IMS) for occupational health, safety, procuring machines and equipment, key criteria are considenvironment and energy, which conforms to the internaered for occupational health and safety protection. The EHS tional standard BS OHSAS 18001. However, locations that management system also aims at improving the performance fall significantly short of their accident reduction targets are in our supply chain. asked to join the certification scheme. In 2017, 74 (in 2016: 54) locations were certified to OHSAS 18001, with more sites In addition, ZF believes that safe behavior cannot only be following in 2018. achieved by technical or organizational measures. Therefore, Safety Excellence programs have been implemented at all levAs part of the integration of the Active & Passive Safety Techels of the organization. The programs are continuously being nology Division, Accident Management as well as Machine enhanced to build Safety Leadership and engage employees Safety and Ergonomics programs were analyzed by deep dive in the prevention of work-related injuries and illnesses. They teams. Results will be integrated into the EHS management form the basis for the world-class performance and the safety system of the combined company by mid-2018. culture we are aiming for. 42 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social All employees and their representatives are involved in the Employee Involvement continuous improvement of health and safety in the workplace and they are subject to regular qualification measures. Staff Behavior Based Safety (BBS) aims to increase employee are motivated to participate in activities such as workshops involvement in safety by making employees more aware of and suggestion schemes. how an individual’s behavior at work largely determines safety outcomes. About 113 locations of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division have implemented this process of safety Safety Excellence coaching, with employees coaching their colleagues to work safely. In 2017, one ZF location in Brazil continued with BBS. The Safety Excellence program is ongoing and comprises The systematical rollout is scheduled to start in 2018 worldthree key areas: Safety Leadership, Employee Involvement and wide. Continuous Improvement of Functional EHS Programs. This program aims to sustainably foster the same culture of shared values regarding health and safety for every employee and Continuous Improvement of Functional EHS at every location. To build a culture where safety is a value, Programs ZF encourages and empowers employees to make a positive impact on their work environment. The backbone of the Continuous Improvement program is comprised of our management systems and audit programs. The systems are currently being evaluated. Other safety Safety Leadership improvement programs are being developed and rolled out for the combined company based on the best-of-both approach. The Safety Leadership (SL) Core Team continued to focus For example, since the ergonomics program plays a pivotal on the rollout of the Safety Leadership program. In 2017 the role at ZF, a modified ergonomics program will be launched focus was placed on the top management level and site level for the combined company in 2018. in Germany. Outside Germany, the rollout began at the end of 2017 and will continue in 2018. So far, more than 2000 leaders (over 90%) participated in 225 workshops delivered Managing our wellbeing by Safety Leadership Coaches – trained employees from EHS and production. Mandatory standards for training courses on leadership and health were rolled out in Germany, not yet including locations Module 1 focuses on the transformation to a sustainable of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division. The trainsafety culture, presenting nine Safety Leadership Elements ing according to the defined curriculum is being prepared and and introducing five Safety Basics. SL coaches received participation of all leaders is planned to be completed by the training to conduct workshops on Module 2 that focuses on end of 2019. hazards, risk assessment, incident investigation and managing at-risk behavior. The integration of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division into the Health Committee has already been realized. The Safety basics were implemented to support the program and integration of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division make it visible to the employees. They consist of rules related into the Interdisciplinary Expert Group on Health Management to the use of safety shoes, high-visibility clothing and mo(IEG) is being prepared and will start in 2018. The Occupabile devices, unique safety flyers for visitors and envisioning tional Medicine expert group on “Hazardous Substances” is accident-free days at the locations. being continued, and a new Occupational Medicine expert group on “Skin Protection” will be established in 2018. There were various preventive activities in all locations. While the focus in 2017 was on heart and circulatory diseases, the focus lies on skin protection in 2018. 43 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 403-1 Rate of accidents (LTAR) Workers representation in formal joint management– Accidents with working days lost per one million working hours worker health and safety committees Regions 2017 2016 20151 The German Law of Occupational Health and Safety stipulates EMEA 8.8 10.5 15.5 that occupational health and safety committees should be of which Germany 11.5 14.2 17 organized at German locations. Members of the Works of which Europe excl. Germany 5.8 5.9 10.5 Councils are also represented on these committees. Prior North America incl. Mexico 2.2 2.6 6.5 to the occupational health and safety committee meetings, South America 4.8 6.0 12 specialists in occupational health and safety, medical officers, Asia-Pacific 1.0 1.1 3 representatives of the Works Council and responsible executive managers carry out inspections and audits to gain an ZF Group 5.5 6.52 12.1 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division insight into the current status and need for change. 2 The difference arises mainly from much lower rates of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related Most accidents (80%) occurred in EMEA (LTAR 8.8/ -16%). fatalities The Asia-Pacific region reported the lowest accident rate Work-related lost time accidents are recorded and analyzed in (LTAR 1.0/ -9%); the regions of North America (LTAR 2.2/ order to monitor safety performance. In 2017, data included -15%) and South America (LTAR 4.8/ -20%) also achieved agency workers but due to current databases injury rates good results. All regions proved that their safety-improvement cannot be disclosed separately. Also, data by gender are not actions and programs have been effective. available, but will be included in a new database planned to be implemented in 2018. Due to confidentiality constraints The Severity Rate – lost working days per lost-working-day achealth-related figures regarding absenteeism are not reported cident – was 19.8. As the definition of lost working days has on. been modified and is now based on calendar days, this data cannot be compared with previous years. In 2017, there was one fatal work-related accident within the ZF Group, in Wuhan, China. Unfortunately also contracA high percentage of lost-working-day accidents was caused tors, experienced companies working on our sites without ZF by moving parts. Injuries sustained by employees were mostly supervision, had a few severe accidents – one leading to a to the hands and feet. fatality in China. As ZF places great value on the health and safety of each individual we set up a project to further improve GRI 403-3 contractor management – especially in terms of qualification, Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases information, permission processes and supervision. related to their occupation Information on occupational diseases are currently only As 1,615 work-related accidents resulted in 32,027 lost workreported for Germany, not yet including locations of the Active ing days, the Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) – accidents per & Passive Safety Technology Division. There were no indicaone million working hours – was 5.5. This represents a reductions that there are employee groups who have a high rate tion of 15.4 percent compared to the previous year. While the or risk of disease resulting from their work at ZF during the LTAR in the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division still reporting year. The risks of occupational diseases and workshows an excellent performance of 2.5, other ZF divisions related health problems typical of the metalworking industry show considerable improvements. For example, our locations are well known. Preventive measures and contingencies in Germany excluding the Active & Passive Safety Technology for intervention are in place. For instance, the standard key Division were able to reduce the LTAR by 20 percent. This can indicator method is used to evaluate stresses on the locomotor be interpreted as the result of high management attention due system in the workplace and corresponding prevention and to the Safety Leadership Program as well as monthly safety intervention actions are taken, such as ergonomic workplace reviews. design. 44 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Noise-induced hearing loss was again the most frequently GRI 404 Training and Education reported occupational disease among ZF employees. There were 13 cases identified in 2017. As noise-induced hearing GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 loss usually develops over years of exposure to noise, the latManagement approach – Training and education est figures for occupational disease identified do not necesIndividual and organizational development, qualification and sarily reflect current working conditions. Strain on the inner lifelong learning are decisive success factors when it comes to ear is also reduced by wearing suitable personal protective securing a company’s long-term future. Our employees require equipment (PPE). This hearing protection equipment is availthe right skills in order to guarantee that we retain the power able to all employees affected, and wearing it is mandatory in of innovation. ZF employees can choose from a wide range of noisy areas. advanced qualification opportunities. Apart from hearing loss, some work-related skin diseases ZF is committed to developing people, management and the were diagnosed. In 2017, 37 cases of potential work-related organization by focusing on various layers and target groups skin diseases were diagnosed and 3 were confirmed. We and it invests accordingly. Talent management, learning and provide the required skin protection to prevent work-related development, educational enhancement and enrichment, and skin diseases and stipulate its use in skin protection plans. competency management are supported and strategically Whenever employees suspect they have health problems, they developed. Applying this holistic approach to management can consult the company doctor or medical service during enables us to systematically monitor and anticipate workforce working hours. All employees have the option of undergoing issues in all corporate areas. This, in turn, allows us to conadditional health check-ups alongside mandatory health care solidate the capabilities of our employees and respond to the at ZF. In 2018, prevention activities in Germany are focusing challenges of demographic change. on “skin protection.” All training programs are systematically evaluated. Participants In the metalworking industry, the risk of occupational infecand trainers submit an evaluation after every event as part of tious diseases is negligible. People who take business trips to a continuous improvement process. The individual evaluations countries with increased health risks including possible infecform the basis for regular reviews and appropriate revisions. tious diseases receive obligatory preventive care. We select external service suppliers such as training course providers and trainers according to defined criteria and a GRI 403-4 tough selection process carried out jointly by the specialist Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements department and Purchasing. with trade unions The system of co-determination in place at the German ZF The corporate HR Development and the HR Development locations also applies to health and safety at work. Close codepartments in the individual divisions, regions and technioperation on these issues occurs between the Works Councils cal departments work closely together. They standardize and the Group Works Council. Occupational health and safety operational processes in HR Development and reinforce them issues are part of the Group Directives and guidelines applied permanently. By establishing cross-divisional working groups, at the various locations. In Germany, the approval process for we have closely coordinated all areas involved with the objecthese regulations includes the involvement of employee repretive of effective employee and executive manager training and sentatives regarding issues subject to co-determination. On a qualification at all locations. location level, there are various guidelines on hand that cover occupational health and safety. Increasing digitalization and connectedness in production are making their way into companies under the moniker “Industry 4.0” and it is changing the requirements for apprenticeship, too. As a result of the project “Apprenticeship 4.0” ZF integrated new content specifically focused on electronics and IT into the internal apprenticeship program. In 2018 some sites will add new job profiles to their current portfolio. In addition, the qualification of vocational trainers has been identified as a 45 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social main enabler to promote the implementation of “Apprenticeapprentices worldwide amounted to 2856, including students ship 4.0” at ZF. Therefore, a ZF Vocational Trainer Day for all from the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division. Around trainers in Germany will be held in early 2018. The internation20 percent of them are students completing a dual study alization of apprenticeships is also becoming more important program at a university. This young target group can choose for the ZF Group as a whole and there are several initiatives to from 35 different apprenticeships and Dual University courses expand the apprenticeship model outside of Germany. of study. ZF as a learning organization New ways of learning Currently, the knowledge management approach is only in The Global ZF Campus promotes advanced specialized trainplace at ZF sites in Germany, not yet including locations of ing opportunities for managers and employees in all corpothe Active & Passive Safety Technology Division. The objecrate functions. The objective is to achieve systematic and tive is the conscious, responsible and systematic handling of global advanced training of employees with technical training knowledge as a resource. Collaboration rooms, Wikis, and programs derived from the Group strategy. Various internal ZF virtual communication media support the virtual cooperation academies offer employees in Materials Management, Quality, of employees. Best-practice databases store valuable practiFinance, IT, Sales, Production and other associated functions cal experience and make it available for reuse. Expert forums an extensive range of advanced training opportunities. ensure the targeted exchange of knowledge and experience. Currently we are expanding our activities and also setting up The suggestion and idea management schemes provide a R&D academy to ensure our readiness for future technoloemployees with a platform for submitting improvement gies as well as a digital academy to focus on qualification and suggestions and ideas. The ideas@ZF project has created the change processes dedicated to digitalization in the ZF Group. conditions for an idea management process across all locaTarget groups are cross-divisional, cross-location as well as tions. This allows ideas to circulate between the German locainternational. The academy course portfolio is tailored to the tions. Thanks to the continuous improvement process, specific functional and cross-functional learning needs, thus establishimprovement potential has been identified and implemented. ing a globally consistent standard of knowledge and expertise. Knowledge and idea management in the Corporate HR funcAs a new essential component of the ZF Campus, we tion creates awareness for effectively handling knowledge launched our eCampus in 2017. eCampus is the name of a and ideas; it provides advice and supports the professionalizanew, virtual learning environment as a central component of tion of existing activities as well as building new activities in the ZF Campus concept. The eCampus puts the learner in knowledge and idea management. focus and provides the right format for every learning style. This is independent of the learning content, whether digital GRI 404-1 skills, job-specific knowledge or multidisciplinary competenAverage hours of training per year per employee cies need to be developed. Constantly expanding its portfolio, This data is not yet available as various HR systems are still ZF Campus also offers additional learning formats such as being harmonized. Our program “Success Factors” will enable videos, quick guides, quizzes and freely available content such us to collect that data in the future. as TED talks, tutorials, blogs, digital libraries etc. The learning environment provides not only an overview of the ZF range of GRI 404-2 learning options, but also connects employees. That opens Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition up scope for interactive learning – true to the motto “learning assistance programs out loud.” eCampus is tailored to our employees’ needs and ZF places a great deal of importance on education and trainboosts faster dynamics and more agility in the entire organizaing, resulting in improved qualifications. In the reporting year, tion, enabling employees to build stronger networks and work about 600 young people started an apprenticeship or dual increasingly in teams. study program at ZF in Germany. By the end of 2017 our 46 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Improving qualifications and developing leaders In Germany, ZF is pursuing a comprehensive approach to deal with the challenges of an aging workforce. For example, workWe have again increased our international training capacities. places are being designed to accommodate the requirements For example, we intensified our cooperation with colleges and of an aging workforce and emphasis is placed on finding the universities in China, the USA and several European countries. right work-life balance between career and family. ZF is also Further successes were also achieved in internationalizing our focusing on health management, flexible working time models trainee program. and lifelong learning. Since leadership excellence is one strategic target of the ZF GRI 404-3 Group, we continued our “ZF Global Leaders” program in Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 2017. It comprises level specific modules with a blend of inand career development reviews person sessions, virtual learning, self-reflection tools and peer ZF emphasizes the importance of personal and professional group coaching as well as work on real cases. The objective development for all employees. Individual performance and of ZF Global Leaders is to provide leadership with different development opportunities are discussed and documented development opportunities and to prepare candidates to be on an annual basis according to the HR process cycle for ready to transition to the next management level. The ZF non-managerial employees. Figures by gender and employee Global Leaders landscape fosters a global mindset and strong category are currently not available. collaboration. Over time it also aims at creating one global leadership culture through cross-divisional, cross-functional As part of the integration of the Active & Passive Safety and cross-regional group composition. Further targets are to Technology Division in 2017, a new potential and succession strengthen the company’s leadership pipeline and to provide planning process applicable for managerial employees in the a global, consistent leadership development throughout the Group was defined. This new process was implemented for different management levels. The goals and content of the pilot groups in 2017 and will be rolled out for all managerial program are based on the Group strategy and linked to the employees in 2018. The process is supported by a cloudZF Management System with its ZF Charter and ZF’s leaderbased IT solution. ship principles – therefore encouraging new ways of working together. A new Short-Term Incentive (STI) was rolled out Group-wide for all managers in 2017. The system is intended to foster a culture of innovation and performance, resulting in a stronger Preserving Knowledge target focus. The STI consists of key financial performance indicators and an individual component based on individual In order to keep knowledge in the organization, ZF has cretargets and personal performance. Assessing the company ated knowledge batons where employees who are leaving and individual components ensures a comprehensive evaluathe company make their practical knowledge available to the tion of the results achieved throughout the year. The process organization. Existing expertise is documented and stored on is transparent and defines the framework for our actions and storage media so that knowledge can be shared and expriorities, and for the behavior and attitudes we expect from changed using search engines in which employees can enter the combined company’s managers. The Individual Target specific queries. Agreement and Performance Process (iTaP) has been moved to a cloud-based IT solution. In 2016, the ZF Group created a new program to allow former employees to contribute their valuable experience and extensive knowledge. The program “Senior Professionals” enables participation in specific projects and matches specialist areas with senior experts. These temporary assignments can be managed with little administrative effort and provide ZF with a flexible and dedicated workforce. In the reporting year, the program included 221 registered experts with 24 work assignments. 47 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 405 Diversity Managing diversity GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 The HR strategy is part of the Group strategy and highlights Management approach – Diversity the issue of diversity. ZF understands diversity as the key to We believe that diversity and the appreciation of diversity success, a driver of innovations and a factor in enhancing have a positive impact on society and how people work corporate value. ZF focuses on particular dimensions that will together. That is why we signed up with the Diversity Charter help meet strategic challenges in the coming years. They will and now belong to a group of approximately 2450 signatories also contribute to enhancing the ZF’s future competitiveness. dedicated to a welcoming, prejudice-free corporate culture. These dimensions include a balanced gender ratio, issues This voluntary commitment represents our pledge to actively such as cultural background and internationality of the workpromote diversity within our organization. force, a wide range of experience and expertise and solutions to demographic changes. All of these factors are systematicalZF employees by gender1 2015 – 2017 ly analyzed and processed on a regular basis, and the results 2017 2016 2015 are reported to the Board of Management. The introduction of ZF Career Elements for managers has enabled us to define a Men 64,071 61,768 62,678 binding framework for job and career decisions. The modules Women 11,959 11,537 11,483 determine criteria for promoting and supporting multidivision1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division al, multidisciplinary experience and help to internationalize management. The ZF Career Elements are currently applied when staffing executive positions. Further roll-out is ongoing. In 2016, a mentoring program to increase the visibility of female managers within the organization was implemented. To increase the number of women in technical professions, Feedback on the program was very positive – from both the ZF has become a partner company of the highly renowned mentees and mentors. A follow-up program open to women Femtec Association, which was founded by the EAF Berlin and men will be rolled out in the course of 2018. From a globand the Technical University of Berlin in 2001. Femtec is an inal perspective, demographic change comes in many different ternational career platform for women in natural sciences and forms. While western industrialized countries are primarily engineering. The organization recruits talented young female confronted with the challenges of an aging population, people students for STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Math) in developing and newly industrialized countries are much professions, qualifies excellent candidates for a management younger. Since ZF is a global player with approximately 230 career and offers distinguished career perspectives to focused locations in 40 countries, the age structure of the company’s female students in cooperation with the partner companies. workforce is very heterogeneous and strongly depends on the Within the involvement in the Femtec.Network, ZF offers a history of each particular ZF location. glimpse into the working world at a technology company. ZF employees by region and gender1 in 2017 in percent Women Men 2017 2016 2017 2016 Europe 13.85 13.81 86.15 86.19 of which Germany 12.93 13.01 87.07 86.99 North America 26.62 26.02 73.38 73.98 South America 9.1 8.51 90.90 91.49 Asia-Pacific 16.91 18.89 83.09 81.11 Africa 14.73 15.07 85.24 84.93 Total 15.73 15.74 84.27 84.26 1 Without the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division 48 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social Thus, ZF offers for example plant tours or different projects. GRI 405-1 During the Innovation Workshop (“Innovationswerkstatt”) Diversity of governance bodies and employees 2017, carried out with and for ZF, the Femtec participants In light of German legislation governing equal representation dealt with questions and ideas for automated driving and of women and men in managerial positions in the private developed an effective and sustainable self-cleaning function and public sectors, targets for the relevant managerial levels for sensors in automotive applications. have been discussed and set for ZF Friedrichshafen AG to be achieved by June 30, 2022. A career component was introduced in the form of a social module to cover parental leave, leave to care for relatives and At the first managerial level (executive vice president/senior other types of community and family commitments. The comvice president) and the second managerial level (vice presipatibility of work and family at ZF is still an important objective dent) below the Board of Management, the percentage of for promoting equal opportunities and employee satisfaction. women is planned to increase to 15.0 percent each. At the Since 2006, the ZF location in Friedrichshafen has been certifirst and second managerial levels, the targets set for June 30, fied as family-friendly company in Germany. As part of the 2017 (8.4% and 8.1%, respectively) have been exceeded. “career and family” (“berufundfamilie”) audit, family-related targets and measures have been firmly established. In 2018, For vacancies regarding the Board of Management, a quota of the existing audit will be extended to other major locations 10 percent female Board of Management members is envisof ZF in Germany: Besides Friedrichshafen, also Schweinfurt, aged by June 30, 2022. Dielingen, Passau and Saarbrücken will participate. At the moment, 20.0 percent of the members of the SuperviFurthermore, additional family-friendly minimum standards sory Board are women. The target of 30 percent by June 30, were defined and consistently implemented by an expert 2022, will apply when the next term of office begins in spring body for work and family. Having actively implemented the 2018. aspect of career and family care for many years, we have also expanded childcare places and options for short-term care The percentage of older employees is much higher in Germathroughout the Group. Another important element is providing ny, whereas international locations employ younger people. daycare for employee children during school vacations. This provides about 700 places for school vacation daycare at our The age group for managers in the first, second and third major locations in Germany. management levels below the Board of Management is between 50 and 55. In all other management groups, the To face the challenge of an aging workforce in Germany, age group is between 45 and 50. demographic experts at our major locations are already in place. In 2017, the IT-supported age structure analysis was In 2017, the percentage of women in leadership positions supplemented by standardized evaluations to put a clear focus in the Group amounted to 11.9 percent. on areas with an especially age-critical workforce. Subsequently appropriate measures were derived and reported. As of 2006, ZF Friedrichshafen AG has been compliant with For example, in Saarbrücken jobs are clustered by physical the statutory requirements for employees with disabilities and requirements to achieve a matching to restrictions of individrecorded the rate for Germany. In 2017, the proportion of ual employees. The efforts in activities for an aging workforce employees with disabilities amounted to 6.2 percent. This were rewarded with the recertification of the label “Demolevel exceeded the five percent minimum that legislation grafiefest. Sozialpartnerschaftlicher Betrieb” (which loosely stipulates for the company. As a result, it was not necessary translates as “Fit for Demography. Social Partner Company”) to make any compensation payments. by the Lower Saxony Ministry of Economy, Labor, Transport and Digitization for the locations around the Dümmer Lake. 49 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 405-2 GRI 414 Supplier Social Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Remuneration at ZF is based on compensation structures. Assessment While in the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division compensation structures are historically based on a global job GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 classification system, in other ZF entities the compensation Management approach – Supplier social assessment structure for managers is based on a global grading system. ZF has an integrated approach regarding supplier environCompensation structures below management levels are based mental and social assessment; see 3 GRI 204 for further either on collective pay-scale agreements or on local grading details on our management approach with suppliers. systems. Based on the provisions of the Dodd Frank Act, Sec. 1502, all Job classification, grading systems and collective pay-scale relevant ZF production material suppliers were obligated in agreements are intended to minimize the risk of discriminat2017 to meet the disclosure requirement for the use of conflict ing against women on compensation levels. Entities of the minerals (gold, coltan, cassiterite, wolframite and its derivaActive & Passive Safety Technology Division have been fully tives such as tantalum, tin or tungsten) from the Democratic integrated into ZF’s grading process for management posiRepublic of the Congo (DRC) and adjacent countries in comtions since mid-2017. A global compensation database will be pany products, and to verify their origins. progressively introduced over a three-year period. The planned compensation database will enable ZF – among other benTo provide a solution for the reporting and identification of efits – to report and monitor equal remuneration as well as conflict minerals along the entire supply chain, ZF has been potential gender gaps worldwide. ZF is an equal opportunity using a web-based solution. As part of the tool-assisted supemployer and appointed a global diversity manager in 2016 to plier inquiry program, a total feedback of 64 percent was monitor equal treatment among employees. recorded in the reporting year. The results of the inquiry indicate that the reviewed supply chains do not source products that finance conflicts in DRC regions, although this cannot be entirely ruled out. However, all suppliers are requested to GRI 406 Non-Discrimination ensure a conflict-free supply chain and are obliged to take measures to disclose the origin or source of their resources. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 A high-risk smelter follow-up is conducted for the suppliers Management approach – Non-discrimination whose feedback included high risk smelters. We intend to ZF is present in many countries of the world and embraces a increase the feedback rate from suppliers again in 2018. wide diversity of cultures and people. We foster the exchange of thoughts, ideas and methods as well as understanding GRI 414-1 between cultures and people. Our ZF Charter and ZF LeaderNew suppliers that were screened using social criteria ship Principles contain a definitive statement on the issue of During the course of the reporting year, 100 percent of new diversity: Employees at ZF are not discriminated against on the ZF suppliers underwent self-assessment according to defined basis of skin color, gender, age, nationality, religious denominasustainability criteria by ZF. No indications of infringements tion, social background, disability or sexual orientation. This against our principles of environmental protection, human applies to the recruitment of new employees, the existing emrights, labor practices, forced labor, child labor or freedom ployment relationship and professional advancement at ZF. The of association were identified. We will continue to apply this only traits that are important are performance, personality, skills procedure consistently in the future. and qualifications. For further details on our values see 3 GRI 102-16 and regarding managing compliance see 3 GRI 205. GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions GRI 406-1 taken Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ZF performs an integrated approach regarding the environThere were no confirmed incidents of discrimination in the mental and social supplier assessment. reporting year. 50 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social GRI 416 Customer Health and Act – Actuators turn electric commands from the control units into mechanical movements, such as braking maneuvers. Safety Recuperation makes it possible to convert part of the kinetic energy back into electrical energy which can be used to GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 charge the battery of a hybrid or electric vehicle. Management approach – Customer health and safety Quality and safety are important priorities at ZF, especially in regards to end users. Our ZF4Q quality strategy is derived Vision Zero Vehicle from the Group strategy. The ZF Quality Management System is based on three elements: Quality Planning for prevention, Our latest milestones are showcased through the Vision Zero Quality Assurance to secure the current volume production Vehicle. As part of ZF’s efforts towards safer mobility, we and Quality Management to shape processes and structures. simultaneously addressed two decisive causes of accidents. The goal is to implement all processes, both industrial as well The Driver Distraction Assist is a laser-based time-of-flight as business processes, at a high level of maturity and evaluate interior camera with learning capabilities that helps keep the them for ongoing improvements, in line with the ZF Producdriver’s eyes on the road. It records the head position threetion System. dimensionally and does so reliably even under difficult lighting conditions and in darkness. The Vision Zero Vehicle is also ZF has charted the course for the future with its Group stratequipped with a Wrong-way Inhibit that is aimed at preventing egy. Following the “Vision 0” for 0 emissions and 0 accidents, drivers from turning onto roads in the wrong direction. The ZF intends that its products make a strong contribution to right direction is identified through high-resolution and up-toreducing emissions and accidents. date maps which it gets from the cloud and the front camera, which accurately recognizes street markings and traffic signs. ZF aims to meet the demands of the mobility megatrends of The assistance system is designed to warn oncoming vehicles tomorrow, such as efficiency, integrated safety and automated using dipped-beam headlights and hazard warning lights and driving. With its “See – Think – Act” guiding principle, the moves the vehicle at a slow speed to a safe stopping position Group has set a clear technology focus. The company’s prodalong the side of the road. For more details and examples see uct and technology planning is based on market and product ZF’s corporate website. roadmaps which are continuously updated. Development has also focused on sensors for environment recognition, elecGRI 416-1 tronic control units, occupant safety systems and automated Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product driving functions. and service categories ZF’s Global Development and Product Evolution Process (GDPEP) establishes quality and safety management procedures See – Think – Act for ZF’s products and services. Group directives implement processes for adapting specifications to specific products. ZF’s “See – Think – Act” approach seeks to further safety in Appropriate testing is done at different points in the course its products. of the project. In the development process, service concepts are also designed and then implemented by trained customer See – Technology such as forward-looking cameras and service personnel. 360-degree radar sensors monitor traffic situations and road conditions, seeking to reduce risks to drivers, occupants and ZF’s commitment to product quality continues in manufacturpedestrians. ing. ZF then has processes in place to monitor products in the field and work with customers when potential issues arise. Think – The central control unit processes information and These efforts promote stable processes in production at ZF is capable of activating safety functions, such as automatic manufacturing locations worldwide. emergency braking or airbag deployment. 51 ZF Sustainability Report 2017 General Disclosures Material Topics Economic Environment Social By signing the United Nations Global Compact in May 2012, ZF committed itself to actively support ten principles of responsible business. UN Global Compact Principles Relevant GRI Disclosures Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human 102-16, 205, 414 rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 102-16, 205, 414 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right 102-41, 402, 414 to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 102-16, 205, 414 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 102-16, 205, 414 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 102-8, 102-16, 205, 405, 414 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 102-11, 308 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 301, 302, 303, 305, 306, 307, 308 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 301, 302, 303, 305, 306, 307, 308 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 102-16, 205, 414 Imprint ZF Friedrichshafen AG Editorial deadline D-88038 Friedrichshafen March 2018 Germany Phone +49 7541 77-0 Consultancy, text, and layout Fax +49 7541 77-908000 akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh, www.zf.com D-80469 Munich, Germany Contact Christine Betz ZF Friedrichshafen AG Corporate Governance Sustainability Löwentaler Straße 20 88046 Friedrichshafen Email: sustainability@zf.com 52 ZF Sustainability Report 2017
