Leaders in customer service and commitment Corporate Responsibility Report la marca 02. 2017 Básica, 5 tintas CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Contents Letter from the Chairman & the CEO....... 2 Euskaltel Group in 2017 ............................ 6 1. Organisational & cultural capital .......... 12 2. Human capital........................................ 20 3. Customer capital.................................... 30 4. Natural capital........................................ 38 5. Relationships capital............................. 44 6. Intellectual capital................................. 52 7. Other information................................... 56 About this report............................................. 56 GRI tables.......................................................... 62 EUSKALTEL GROUP LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN & THE CEO Letter from the Chairman and the CEO The acquisition of Telecable in 2017 culminated the great expansion of cable in the north. Euskaltel, R and Telecable are all leaders in their respective markets, and the combination of all three makes us leaders in northern Spain. 4 core pillars Since the Euskaltel Group went public in 2015, we have faced a number of major challenges. In confronting them, we have successfully fulfilled As regards strategy, we have designed and im­ plemented a new Strategic Plan for 2017–2019 based on four core pillars: operational excel­ our commitments to our shareholders. 2017 has lence, promoting a unique experience for our been a year of growth and significant progress customers, maintaining diversified growth, and towards our strategic objectives, strengthening protecting customer value. In pursuance of this our position as the leading telecommunications strategy, in 2017 we strength­ened our organ­ group in the north of Spain. We have strength­ isational and corporate govern­ ance structure Diversified ened our position as the leading telecommunica­ by establishing a new Strategy Committee, in­ growth tions group in northern Spain. creasing the number of members of the Board of Directors from 10 to 12, and cre­ating the new Thanks to the full integration of R and our acqui­ roles of CRO (Chief Risk Officer), CISO (Chief In­ sition of Telecable, the Euskaltel Group continues formation Security Officer), Compliance Officer to grow and make its business stronger, offering and Data Protection Delegate. increasingly innovative products and servic­es on Operational a par with the best in the industry. Our increasing­ In pursuance of this strategy, in 2017 we strength­ excellence ly innovative products and services are on a par ened our organisational and corporate govern­ with the best in the industry. ance structure by establishing a new Strategy Committee, increasing the number of members In 2017, we reached a record high in the num­ of the Board of Directors from 10 to 12, and cre­ ber of products purchased by our customers, ating the new roles of CRO, CISO, Compliance Unique resulting in strong cash generation. This has Officer and Data Protection Delegate. experience enabled us to pay out the announced dividends and main­tain our financial leverage within the 2017 was also the year in which we worked on set targets, with solid performance in terms of our new Code of Ethics and Anti-Corruption Pol­ cash flow. And we have not lost sight of our pri­ icy, both of which were approved in December. ority to cre­ate value for all our stakeholders and These standards strengthen our culture and our to promote the development of technology in way of doing business, bringing us into line with Customer value the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias. the best practices in the market. protection 2 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 In just over two years we have completed three major challenges: our IPO, creating the leading telecommunications group in northern Spain, and designing and implementing a consistent policy for shareholder remuneration via dividends. ALBERTO GARCÍA ERAUZKIN Chairman 3 EUSKALTEL GROUP LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN & THE CEO 777,000 customers residential and business Pooling the capabilities of Euskaltel, R and Telecable will significantly increase the Group’s growth potential, enabling us to continue leading the digital development of Basque, Galician and Asturian societies. FRANCISCO ARTECHE CEO 4 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 In 2017, we passed the mark of 777,000 residen­ tial and business customers, while improving user satisfaction and perception of the services we offer. In the coming years, we aim to maintain our leadership in the residential segment, pro­ In less than three years viding a unique experience in services such as TV, wi-fi and Digital Home. In the business seg­ our key business figures ment, we have major clients who have been with have more than doubled: us for years because we provide a high quality service and continuously adapt our products to revenues, Ebitda and their needs, big data services, the Internet of Things, Cybersecurity, etc. cashflow. This is proof of the Group’s financial and None of this would have been possible if we didn’t have the very best professionals a compa­ operational robustness ny can have and the hard work of our people. With the incorporation of Telecable, we share not only in a strongly competitive a firm commitment to a common goal, but also the industry. values that make us an outstanding team: proxim­ ity, honesty, innovation and efficiency. As part of our corporate plans, in 2017 we conducted a work climate survey spanning the three Group compa­ nies for the first time. The feedback will help us make the Euskaltel Group the best possible place to work at. We are also strongly committed to FRANCISCO ARTECHE job creation in local communities, particularly for CEO young people. Our new TalenTU2019 programme serves this purpose by stimulating young talent recruitment and supporting leadership and pro­ fessional development. proves that our successful Group plan is prepar­ Also, as part of our commitment to our stake­ ing the way for our expan­sion into other regions. holders, in 2017 we continued to implement our CSR Plan for 2016–2018, with actions to gener­ Our achievements of 2017 would not have been ate stronger economic, social and environmen­ possible without the trust of our shareholders, tal value, and to enhance transparency in an in­ the loyalty of our customers, and the hard work creasingly diverse company. The CSR Plan also of our employees. In 2018, we will strive to re­ takes forward our commitment to the United Na­ main worthy of their trust while contributing to tions Global Compact, which we are signatories the social and economic development of the of, and to its Sustainable Development Goals markets where we operate. This is the defining (SDGs). The plan makes a significant contribu­tion trait that sets us apart from other telecommuni­ to ODS 9 by supporting innovation and to ODS cations operators, and the basis of the Euskaltel 8 through our efforts to create quality jobs in the Group’s success. regions where we operate. We can therefore conclude that 2017 has been extremely positive in terms of revenue growth, cost optimisation, ef­ Alberto García Erauzkin Francisco Arteche ficient use of resources, and market share. This Chairman Chief Executive Officer 5 EUSKALTEL GROUP IN 2017 Leaders in northern Spain Euskaltel is the leading telecommunications group in northern Spain, with a deep-rooted commitment to the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias. Euskaltel Group in 2017 CURRENTLY COVERED BY THE GROUP 777.000 residential and business customers 6.000.000 people The Euskaltel Group’s growth in recent years has The Group employs 705 professionals from been linked to our IPO of July 2015, the integra­ the telecommunications industry, with an aver­ tion of the Galician operator R in 2016, and later age age of approximately 44, and we generate the Asturian operator Telecable in July 2017. more than 4,200 indirect jobs in the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias. The Euskaltel Group provides services to a market of 6 million people – the population of Our impact on the community enables greater a country like Denmark – serving over 777.000 economic, social and technological development residential customers and companies. in the Basque Coun¬try, Galicia and Asturias. 6 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Main figures € 622.2 0.36 +777k 68% income M€ €/share customers of customer households purchase more than 3 products +14M€ 705 25,596 98 investment employees training hours partnerships in r+d with community organisations Gaining scale – integrating R and Telecable in the Euskaltel Group The Euskaltel Group continues to grow, bringing In 2017, the Group approved its Strategic Plan new companies on board to form a Group with for 2017-2019, which focuses on increasing cus­ shared values that is diverse but united. In 2017, tomer loyalty and improving customer satisfac­ we made significant progress in the integration tion. This plan, which is based on four pillars, of R, particularly in terms of financial reporting, will be implemented across the organisation IT systems and arrangements with suppliers. We through more than 30 projects. Additionally, are also in the process of developing common the plan strengthens the Group’s five key suc­ policies and standardising procedures to enable cess areas: remaining leaders in the residential the integration of Telecable and the functioning market, growing in the corporate market, build­ of the three operators as a single one. ing a network that is ready for excellence, digi­ talising the Group, and continuing to expand to new markets and regions. 7 EUSKALTEL GROUP IN 2017 Synergies – a positive impact on results The integration plan also identifies numerous customers and financial results. Cultural syner­ synergies, mainly relating to TV platforms, data gies have also been identified in the ability to processing and mobile telephony, which will be maintain a common, consistent, properly con­ implemented over the coming years. The inte­ veyed corporate culture. The Group communi­ gration of the three operators has strengthened cates its culture to its stakeholders chiefly by the Group’s growth in terms of revenues, total upholding values such as honesty and proximity. Synergies valued at 13% 25% 24,7 M€* 53% 9% We are applying discipline Operating costs and rigour to the Revenue integration, an ambitious Sales costs and exacting process. Capex (investments) * Refers to synergies already made without incorporating Telecable. VERY POSITIVE BOTTOM LINE +9,4% +8,6% 103,5 M€ -3,4 M€ EBITDA income cash flow capex We are pushing forward In 2017, EBITDA grew Cash flow generated Synergies at EBITDA with the integration, with by 9.4% compared with in 2017, after debt level are valued at good business results 2016, driven by higher service, stood at Euros 21.3 million. and improved EBITDA. revenue (8.6%) and Euros 103.5 million, Along with Capex strong management of allowing us to savings of Euros 3.4 direct costs. distribute dividends to million, this totals Euros shareholders. 24.7 million, distributed as shown in the chart above. 8 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Key success factors The Euskaltel Group has consistent values and • The largest proprietary fibre optic network in culture across the organisation. We are firmly root­ its market. ed in the regions where we operate and we pro­ • Business models that complement one vide alternatives and convergent solutions which another. allow us to continue to grow. The results we have • Convergent optic fibre and achieved would not have been possible without telecommunications services (broadband, the following combination of key elements: mobile and landline telephone, and pay TV). • Higher growth and cash flow conversion • Shareholder commitment rates compared to similar European • A solid customer base companies in the same industry. • Excellent and committed professionals • Closer, friendlier customer management and • Recognised brands with a strong local sensitivity to local issues. presence in the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias. KEYS ASPECTS OF OUR BUSINESS MODEL In 2017, the Group focused its efforts on the objectives of its Strategic Plan. The following capitals have been key in developing and implementing the Plan. Organisational & Human Customer Natural Relationships Intellectual cultural capital capital capital capital capital capital 1 2 3 4 5 6 Setting the In the Redoubling Promoting and Building close Wth innovation Group’s development efforts to giving priority ties with as a common corporate values of talent provide a unique to initiatives stakeholders value overarching and a new, management experience, that respect the and local the entire more efficient plans. safeguard environment, communities. telecommunications organisational service and developing industry. structure. continuity the most and protect advanced consumer data. models for environmental management. 9 EUSKALTEL GROUP IN 2017 The Code of Ethics and Ethics Channel have ed, to ensure a culture of regulatory compliance, been unified and updated, and new policies have risk reduction, and proper conduct is maintained been laid down for the Euskaltel Group, including and promoted throughout the Group. A Strategy a Corruption Prevention Policy and a Corporate Committee was also created, and the number of Tax Policy. members of Board of Directors increased from 10 to 12. The year 2017 was extremely productive in In the area of Corporate Governance in 2017, the the development of different products and ser­ positions of Compliance Officer, Data Protection vices. Delegate and Cybersecurity Manager were creat­ EUSKALTEL GROUP MILESTONES The ambitious The Group has A clear, comprehensive goals for organic become a multiStrategic Plan focused and inorganic regional platform with on generating growth have been a strong commitment sustainable value for met in record time and deep roots in its all stakeholders has since the IPO. main markets, fully been established, prepared to grow and which has earned full enter new regions. commitment from the entire organisation. 10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 A Sustainable Strategy The Group’s expansion strategy for the coming as approved in 2016 by the Euskaltel Group’s years focuses on two areas, as set out in the Board of Directors. Aiming to create value for Strategic Plan: our stakeholders while upholding our mission • In the natural markets where it already and vision, the Group’s CSR Policy also reflects operates, i.e. the Basque Country, Galicia and our commitment to transparency, excellent Asturias, the Group expects to take its fibre management, proper corporate governance, network to 80,000 new homes and 6,200 respect for Human Rights, gender equality, new businesses by further deploying our own equal opportunities, supplier alignment with FTTH network. CSR policies, and responsible contribution to the taxation system. • The expansion to regions and provinces adjoining the Group’s markets will begin in The CSR Policy provided a framework for the CSR 2018 starting with Navarre. Master Plan (2016–2018), which is consistent with the Sustainable Development Goals and there­ The expansion process will be guided by the fore with the United Nations Agenda 2030. core values of the Euskaltel Group, which are based on maintaining strong links with the re­ In 2017, the Group implemented the different gions where we operate. strategy lines contained in the Plan. This has enabled measuring and managing the compa­ This undertaking is reflected in the Group’s ny’s performance in environmental, social and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy financial terms. PILLARS AND ACTION LINES OF THE EUSKALTEL GROUP’S STRATEGIC PLAN Organisational Human Customer Natural Relationships Intellectual & cultural capital capital capital capital capital capital Report chapter 1 2 3 4 5 6 Diversified growth Operational excellence Unique experience Customer value protection Strategy pillars 11 1 Pillars of the Euskaltel Group’s strategy Diversified growth Operational excellence Unique experience Customer value protection Organisational and Cultural Capital The Euskaltel Group’s Organizational and Cultural Capital is a core pillar supporting the strategy and diversified growth, which focuses on pursuing excellence and competitiveness in a strongly competitive market. Strengthening our organisational structure promotes operational excellence, contributes to an efficient, streamlined organisation, drives talent development and supports the digitalisation of operations. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Contributing to build and spread a strong, responsible business culture We aim to open up new paths to growth and reach new markets, promoting the spread of a responsible business culture and management models in the regions where the Group operates. Driving growth Shareholders of the Euskaltel Group* 4.95% 4.48% Artemis Investment Management Abanca 3.17% 10.02% Norges Bank Make-up of Corporación Financiera Alba the Board of Directors 15% Zegona Limited 21.32% 41.06% 12 Directors Kutxabank Other 2E  xecutive Directors (Chairman & CEO) 4P  roprietary Directors *At 21 December 2017 according to the CNMV. 6 Independent Directors A diversified shareholder structure and specialised governing bodies The Euskaltel Group comprises the parent compa­ Committee, Appointments and Remuneration ny Euskaltel, S.A., along with R Cable y Telecomu­ Committee, and Strategy Committee. Each one nicaciones Galicia, S.A. (100%), CINFO Contenidos of the three committees has seven members, Informativos Personalizados, S.L. (67.20%) and, with a majority of independent directors and since July 2017, by Telecable (100%), made up of chaired by an independent director, as recom­ Parselaya, Telecable Capital Holding, S.A.U. and mended by the Code of Good Governance. The Telecable de Asturias, S.A.U. Board of Directors’ remuneration is established in accordance with the prevailing Directors’ Re­ Euskaltel’s Board of Directors has 12 members: two muneration Policy, which has been approved by executive directors, four proprietary directors and the General Shareholders’ Meeting, under the six independent directors. To strengthen its Corpo­ supervision of the Appointments and Remunera­ rate Governance, the Board of Directors has estab­ tions Committee. This remuneration is recorded lished three Advisory Committees within it, each in the Annual Report on Directors’ Compensa­ with its own internal regulations: Audit and Control tion, which is published by the Group. 13 EUSKALTEL GROUP 1. ORGANISATIONAL AND CULTURAL CAPITAL An organisational structure geared to excellence and competitiveness As part of the process of strengthening our position 6 Independent Directors), 50% of which are inde­ New Strategy as a telecommunications group operating in the pendent directors, following the recommendations Committee Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias, the Euskaltel of the Code of Good Governance (see Euskaltel Group has an organisational structure geared to Group’s Annual Corporate Governance Report). A Strategy deliver excellence and competitiveness in its three Committee has key markets. Euskaltel, R and Telecable are adapt­ Transverse divisions to ensure growth, been established as a consultative ing their structures to drive further growth, shore efficiency, consistency and flexibility and informative up their customer focus, develop communications We have established Group-wide divisions to body devoid of solutions for corporate and individual customers, strengthen our growth in the Basque Country, executive powers. and maximise synergies, thereby boosting the Galicia and Asturias and maximise operational Its role will be to inform, advise Group’s results while preserving the deep-rooted efficiency. These include Corporate Marketing for and put forward commitments and autonomy of our business units businesses and homes, which design and imple­ proposals within in the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias. ment communication solutions for companies and its remit, and its individuals, launch new products, and build part­ action guidelines are laid down The following changes were made to the Group’s nerships with other companies in the sphere of IT, in the Strategy organisational structure in 2017: as well as the corporate departments of Finance, Committee’s Networks and Human Resources. These transver­ Regulations. A stronger Board of Directors sal divisions lead the Group’s teams in the Basque The General Shareholders’ Meeting increased the Country, Galicia and Asturias, to ensure that de­ number of members of the Board of Directors to 12 cision-making processes are efficient, consistent (2 Executive Directors, 4 Proprietary Directors and and flexible. Corporate Governance The Euskaltel Group’s firm law, etc.) as well as internal the services provided to commitment to its stakeholders rules (Corporate Governance customers, and align digital springs from its people. Accordingly, System, Code of Ethics, etc.), and security with the Euskaltel we have assigned the following to promote a culture of ethical Group’s business objectives and responsibilities in order to behaviour and compliance. strategy. strengthen the Group’s Corporate We have created the role of We have created the role of Data Governance System: Chief Information Security Protection Manager. We have created the role of Officer (CISO), reporting to the We have assigned risk Group Compliance Officer, IT Director, whose mission is to management functions (Chief reporting to the Secretary ensure information security and Risk Officer, CRO) to the Director General and the Board of business continuity, coordinate of Strategy and Corporate Directors, whose mission is the design and implementation Development. to reduce compliance risks, of security measures both in including risks relating to external corporate information systems regulations (criminal law, tax and in the network that supports 14 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Corporate policies based on good governance practices In the area of corporate governance, the Eu­ The Euskaltel Group expressly rejects corruption in all skaltel Group’s Board of Directors approved a its forms, and is firmly committed to preventing, deter­ Corporate Tax Policy which includes the Group’s ring and detecting any instances of bribery and corrup­ commitment to promote good tax practices and tion. The Board of Directors has approved the Group’s support community interests, by avoiding tax-re­ zero-tolerance Anti-Corruption Policy to promote hon­ lated risks and inefficiencies in the implementa­ esty – a value included in the Group’s Code of Ethics tion of business decisions. – over any form of bribery or corruption. Other actions to promote transparency and excellence at Euskaltel Euskaltel has continued to take steps in line with vidual Directors; and (iv) separate self-assessment our firm commitment to good corporate govern­ of the Audit and Control Committee, through com­ ance and compliance with the Code of Good pletion by its members of a self-assessment ques­ Governance for Listed Companies. In this context tionnaire based on Technical Guide 3/2017 of the of continuous improvement and commitment to National Securities Market Commission on Audit good corporate governance, we have taken the Committees of Public Interest Entities. following actions: • We analysed the Group’s degree of compliance • The Board of Directors has carried out a self-aswith good governance practices as compared sessment process comprising four separate with the Annual Corporate Governance Report sub-processes: (i) self-assessment of the Board issued by the National Securities Market Com­ of Directors and its Committees, in the form mission. The results show that we are above the of a corporate governance self-assessment average for listed companies in areas including questionnaire based on the Code of Good Corporate Social Responsibility, General Share­ Governance; (ii) assessment of Board members holders’ Meetings, and organisation, remunera­ (Chairman, CEO and Secretary) through onetion, responsibility, structure, make-up and func­ to-one interviews between the Chairman of the tions of the Board of Directors. Appointments and Remuneration Committee and the individual Directors; (iii) group and in­ • We carried out an assessment of the Euskaltel dividual assessment of independent Directors, Group’s corporate governance covering seven through one-to-one interviews between the fields (policies, Board of Directors, advisory com­ Chairman of the Board of Directors and the indi­ mittees, remuneration, shareholders’ rights, ex­ 15 EUSKALTEL GROUP 1. ORGANISATIONAL AND CULTURAL CAPITAL The Euskaltel Group’s firm commitment to its stakeholders springs from its people ternal auditors and sustainability), in order to • We organised an information conference for examine the Group’s current position as com­ investors and analysts in Bilbao, Investor Day, pared with international best practices and in which we reported on the Group’s business similar companies. performance to date and presented our new Strategic Plan, an exercise in transparency • We introduced new technology to provide a that helps build a trusting relationship with our document repository for use by the Board of partners and shareholders. Directors. Risk management In 2017 the Group reviewed its Risk Manage­ the Board of Directors has appointed a Regula­ ment Model. In addition to strategic, opera­ tory Compliance Committee – an internal com­ tional, compliance and information risks, we mittee whose members are Group executives. Risk identified a fifth risk category relating to cyber­ management security, given the key role played by IT sys­ In the area of cybersecurity, the Group has set, progress in tems in Euskaltel’s operations. The Euskaltel as its foremost objective for 2017 and 2018, to 2018 Group has intensified efforts in the field of risk make further progress in the integrated man­ Further progress is management, creating new roles and assigning agement of information and network security. expected in 2018 new responsibilities to cover all the risk catego­ This entails drawing up a cybersecurity risk in the management of relations with ries identified in the risk management model: map, improving incident detection and re­ suppliers and CRO, CISO, Compliance Officer and Data Pro­ sponse, updating the Group’s security policy, customers, internal tection Delegate. adopting new security measures, and providing management internal training, all with the aim of reducing ex­ procedures, corporate privacy Compliance Officer posure to cybersecurity risks. culture, system In the field of Compliance, we have introduced adaptation, and mechanisms to identify and manage the Eu­ The Group has also designed an action plan for data retention policy skaltel Group’s map of compliance risks, and to 2017 and 2018, to comply with the EU General standardisation. standardise procedures and checks aimed at Data Protection Regulation (RGPD) 2016/679 mitigating such risks. Additionally, the Group’s on the Protection of Individuals with regard to new Compliance Unit has defined, with the the Processing of Personal Data and the Free Board’s approval, the roles and responsibilities Movement of such Data, which will become ef­ of Group Directors and employees in relation fective in May 2018. Among other measures, this to criminal compliance, with a view to making plan includes an analysis of the Group in terms all staff aware of their obligations in fostering of data protection, employee training, and the a culture of ethics and compliance within the appointment of a Data Protection Officer, which organisation. To provide further reinforcement, have already been carried out in 2017. 16 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Good Governance and Ethics Management The corporate values underpinning the Euskaltel Group Good governance practices are inextricably The Code of Ethics sets out the corporate val­ linked to good business management, in so far ues and principles of the companies that form as they seek to safeguard the company’s legiti­ the Euskaltel Group. The corporate values un­ mate interests, ensuring business sustainability derpinning the Euskaltel Group are proximiand monitoring performance. With this in mind, ty, honesty, innovation and efficiency. The Proximity in its meeting of 19 December 2017, the Board Group companies must carry these values of Directors of the Euskaltel Group approved an to the territories where they operate. These update and extension of the Group’s Code of values reaffirm the Euskaltel Group’s identity Ethics, Rules of Conduct and Ethical Channel, markers, determining the ways in which we Honesty which establish the principles and standards of operate and understand our framework of behaviour that Group employees and persons relationships with internal and external par­ acting on behalf of the Group must follow in ties. Upholding these values in day-to-day their internal and external relations during their activities means constant work, relentless ef­ day-to-day work with stakeholders. fort, and observance of applicable legislation Innovation 7 1. Compliance with the law, internal regulations and Efficiency contractual relations 2. Responsibility and professionalism grounded on ethical behaviour 3. Compliance with applicable financial regulations 4. Precedence of the Euskaltel Group’s interests over personal interests Basic Principles 5. Responsible communications of our Code of Ethics 6. Data privacy and confidentiality 7. Commitment to Human and Labour Rights and the regulations included in the Euskaltel Defence Committee, monitors and oversees Group’s Corporate Governance System. Hav­ compliance with the Code of Ethics and the rules ing earned the trust of our stakeholders (cus­ of the Corporate Governance System, resolving tomers, employees, suppliers and partners, any communications, incidents and/or queries government institutions, shareholders and regarding the interpretation of regulations, and investors, and society at large), the Euskaltel implementing measures for effective compliance. Group undertakes to convey these values and The Group’s Ethical Channel, which helps iden­ treat all stakeholders with diligence and integri­ tify potentially unethical behaviour, provides ty in corporate relations. information, answers queries and reports ac­ tivities potentially constituting an infringement To ensure that the regulatory framework with­ of the Code of Ethics, while guaranteeing con­ in which the Euskaltel Group operates is duly fidentiality in all matters it deals with. The previ­ monitored, the Regulatory Compliance Commit­ ously mentioned Regulatory Compliance Com­ tee (an internal committee whose members are mittee helps deal with the information received Group executives), and ultimately the Corporate through the Ethical Channel. 17 EUSKALTEL GROUP 1. ORGANISATIONAL AND CULTURAL CAPITAL CSR management As a guiding reference among value-driven, social­ flects the Company’s sustainable commitment, ly responsible, community-integrated companies a cornerstone of its business strategy, activi­ committed to social welfare and development, the ties and its corporate reputation. To this end, Euskaltel Group has a CSR Plan in place that covers we have established a model of relationships material aspects of interest to our main stakehold­ and communication with key groups, as well as ers, aspects examined by the main sustainability a reporting and monitoring model for our CSR indexes, and good practices in the industry, among Plan. This Corporate Responsibility Report is other matters. an essential instrument in the communication of the Group’s performance and progress in The model used to monitor the CRS Plan is imple­ the area of CSR. mented through the CSR Process team, comprising representatives from the departments with respon­ Contribution to Sustainable sibilities in areas pertaining to CSR. The Euskaltel Development Goals (SDGs) Group is firmly committed to upholding ethics and Aware of the huge economic, social and en­ transparency in its relations with its stakeholders, vironmental challenges facing humanity, the issuing accurate and complete information that re­ Euskaltel Group contributes to attaining the The CSR Plan covers the following areas Corporate People Suppliers Customers The Responsible Responsible Contribution governa´nce and (Business & venvironment payment of communications to society relations with Residential) taxes the Board and shareholders Commitments fulfilled in 2017 Identify good governance recommendations applicable to Design a relationship and the Euskaltel Group. Promote and facilitate access to the communications model with key Group’s financial and non-financial information. stakeholders. 2017 We have achieved … Design a model for reporting and monitoring the Group’s CSR Plan. Degree of fulfilment of our commitments Completed Advanced Under way Beginning implementation 18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) pledges to set itself concrete targets measur­ by means of its business activities and projects able with specific indicators, to fully align the undertaken in the different territories where it company’s objectives with the SDGs. operates. This will enable us to identify future business SDGs provide businesses with an opportunity opportunities, enhance the value of corpo­ to develop and implement solutions and tech­ rate sustainability, strengthen our ties with nologies which enable addressing the chief our stakeholders, keep abreast of policy de­ global sustainable development challenges. velopment, stabilise companies and markets, and use a common language with a shared In recent years, we have gained profound in­ purpose. sight into SDGs, which has been incorporated into our corporate culture and passed on to our employees through internal campaigns. In 2017 we established the Group’s priority SDGs fol­ The Euskaltel Group has lowing an assessment of their positive impact on the local communities. These are clearly a firm commitment to our identified as SDG 8, Decent Work and Econom­ stakeholders based on ethics ic Growth, and SDG 9, Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure. Both these objectives are fully and transparency aligned with the Group’s activities, our keys to success, our business strategy and our corpo­ rate values. The Group also contributes to the rest of the SDGs through programmes devel­ In 2018, we will continue to promote our oped in partnership with other companies and commitment to the economic, environmental institutions. and social development of our communities, sharing the corporate values and culture that The Group’s senior management has also been make us a unique telecommunications opera­ instrumental in supporting these activities and tor, generating value for our shareholders and integrating the SDGs into our overall strategy. communicating the impact and performance For the next financial year, the Euskaltel Group achieved. Commitments for 2018 Design a criminal risk management and organisation model: review Full integration Launch the Group’s new risk and standardise the Group’s of Telecable map in relation to the new criminal risk map and draw up a Implement antiinto the Group. Risk Management Model. criminal risk manual. corruption checks. 2018 We will be working on … Launch the Group’s Review of the Group’s Training and awarenessDiversity Policy. CSR Policy by the Board of raising for Group employees Directors. on our Code of Ethics and Rules of Conduct. 19 2 Pillars of the Euskaltel Group strategy Diversified growth Operational excellence Unique experience Customer value protection Human capital The Group’s Human Capital is a strategic pillar for operational excellence. A streamlined structure, building efficient processes, digitalised operations, and talent management, are all crucial for meeting the objectives of our Strategic Plan for 2017–2019. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Contributing to local employment We aim to support personal and professional growth in a good working environment, so that our human capital is qualified and motivated. In 2017, the Euskaltel Group made outstanding tegic Plan launched in 2017, which promotes progress in the policies, programmes and pro­ operational excellence with the aim of becom­ jects that are undertaken for the benefit of our ing the best option for customers. The opera­ employees. We have identified the most salient tional excellence pillar is materialised through aspects needing improvement in terms of skills, three lines of action: an efficient, streamlined professional development and well-being. process structure, digitalised operations, and These are all areas which the division of Human talent management. Resources works to enhance. Based on the Euskaltel Group’s defining culture, The people who make up the Euskaltel Group which has an impact on the local communities, are part of a team that is increasingly diverse, Human Resources has developed and imple¬­ efficient and streamlined, while preserving the mented programmes to create value in the local, deep-rooted focus that identifies our com-munities through training and promoting three businesses in the Basque Country, Gali­ digital skills, supporting leadership, favouring cia and Asturias. The Company’s employees work-life balance and flexibility, encouraging tal­ are a core value in the fulfilment of the Stra­ ent and fostering local employment. A streamlined, efficient process management structure The integration of R and Telecable into Eu­ permanent employment contract. The stability skaltel is enabling the Group to increase its and continuity of our team of outstanding pro­ workforce and to support local development fessionals is an absolute priority for our human more vigorously. This requires the Company’s resources policy. We therefore offer employees structure to be consistent in its culture and to flexible employment conditions that enable a follow the same values and objectives. balance between work and life. The Euskaltel Group and local We are also proud to have generated more than employment 4,200 indirect jobs in the Basque Country, Gali­ The Euskaltel Group’s employees are 42% wom­ cia and Asturias, through suppliers and strate­ en and 58% men, with an average age of 44. gic value-creating partnerships with other com­ They make up a team of 705 people with stable panies in the industry. jobs. Of total staff, 97,3% enjoy the security of a 21 GRUPO EUSKALTEL 2. HUMAN CAPITAL 705 total staff 97.3% staff with a permanent contract 15 years average length of service 6% employee turnover 42% 58% women men The Group’s current structure is based on the customers and the capacity to motivate people establishment of corporate divisions that deal and teams. with matters affecting the entire Company. Nevertheless, the business divisions of the The Group’s values are linked to a number of three different brands (Euskaltel, R and Teleca­ corporate guidelines which employees of all ble) still exist and maintain their identity, focus­ categories must follow. These guidelines re­ ing on direct contact with the local community, quire employees to ensure their relationships their needs and expectations. with all stakeholders are marked by honesty and proximity. Innovation and efficiency are This structure aims to create increasingly effi­ also values that we strongly identify with. cient processes, exploiting synergies between the three brands while preserving their individ­ Upholding these values in day-to-day activities ual identities. entails constant work, simple habits, relentless effort, and observance of applicable legislation On 13 October 2017, the Group signed an and the regulations included in the Euskaltel agreement relating to R’s First Collective Bar­ Group’s Corporate Governance System (poli­ gaining Agreement for implementation of the cies, manuals and internal protocols which the Group’s people policy, with the agreement of Group is voluntarily subject to). the employee’s legal representatives. Active listening Corporate values With the aim of listening to our employees’ A study of the Euskaltel Group and the values voices and stimulating two-way discussion, the that underpin its corporate culture and leader­ Group carried out a company climate survey this ship model was carried out in 2017. These val­ year of all employees. The questionnaire had a ues embody the spirits of the three converging high response rate ((around 80%). The areas brands, which share personal links with their evaluated included employee satisfaction with daily planning, managers’ leadership, training, working atmosphere, team work, openness to change, digitalisation, internally-provided infor­ mation, and pride of belonging. Euskaltel Group values Based on the feedback received, the Group will continue to promote and strengthen various initiatives contributing to make the Euskaltel Group a better place to work. Proximity Honesty Innovation Efficiency 22 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Diversity and equality In 2017, the Euskaltel Group continued to con­ bargaining. We reject any form of discrimination, duct programmes to promote equal opportuni­ striving within our area of influence to eliminate ties and diversity in the workforce, across all cat­ all forms of forced and compulsory labour, espe­ egories within the Company. Our workforce is cially child labour. 42% women and 58% men. They all work in an environment that is firmly committed to equal­ Therefore, in 2017 Euskaltel’s, R’s and Teleca­ ity and which supports initiatives for a flexible ble’s Codes of Ethics were merged into the Eu­ work-life balance for both men and women. skaltel Group’s Code of Ethics, which includes We also started working in 2017 on the Group’s commitments relating to support and respect for Equality Plan, which will lay down the main the protection of fundamental human rights, par­ steps to be taken to foster and protect an inclu­ ticularly equitable selection and recruitment of sive, respectful and diverse work environment. new employees; occupational health, safety and risk prevention; ensuring respectful treatment The Group manages its human resources in due and non-discrimination prevails in our work en­ respect of human rights, equal opportunities, vironment; favouring a work-life balance; equal freedom of association and the right to collective opportunities, and a harassment-free workplace. Employees by position and gender 49% 38% staff under the staff under the Collective Bargaining Collective Bargaining Agreement Agreement 58% men 705 total number 42% women of employees 4.8% 2.3% management management 4.8% 1.1% directors directors 23 GRUPO EUSKALTEL 2. HUMAN CAPITAL Digitalisation and digital transformation in operations The Group is fully aware that digital transfor­ smart, fully digitalised operator, as seen both mation brings people to the fore, making tal­ from the inside and from the outside, requires ent management a competitive advantage. involving the entire Group’s workforce and We firmly believe that successful digitalisation transforming our business models. can only be achieved if the entire workforce become involved and share the same vision. A 2017 has been crucial in driving a new digital number of initiatives were taken in 2017 aimed culture in the Eu¬skaltel Group, supporting the at driving cultural change towards digitalisa­ necessary train¬ing and leading employees to tion. These actions covered processes, interac­ learn about and embrace new market trends. tion, information and, above all, people. The keys to the Euskaltel Group’s success in Digital revolution the industry will be the sound organisation of The digital revolution has changed the way we our workforce, adopting a standard corporate work and our relationships with stakeholders, culture across the Group, training our employ­ making them closer, more interactive, more ees, encouraging coopera¬tion, utilising digital instantaneous and more efficient. Becoming a technology and embracing cultural change. The digitalisation process will lay the groundwork for numerous programmes, connected with our strategic goals, aimed at leading cultural change Keys to cultural change Training qualified professionals able to lead and promote change. Promoting a corporate culture that identifies the Group Working towards an efficient, flexible organisation which can adapt to change and is fully businessoriented. Digitalising processes, roles and functions, to operate more efficiently. 24 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Talent management and support The Euskaltel Group’s Strategic Plan focuses We also have partnerships with universities on talent management as a key instrument and schools in the Basque Country, Galicia to design and implement a unique, attractive and Asturias, to help young people develop business. This has produced programmes their digital talent with a view to finding em­ such as TalenTU and leadership programs. ployment. Professional development 25,596 The Euskaltel Group’s Strategic Plan views improve technical qualifications across the employees’ professional development with­ Group, providing joint training by pooling re­ in the Company as key to strengthening our sources, know-how and best practices from training leadership position in northern Spain. all three businesses. We also streamlined hours processes that are essential for employees’ TalenTU2019, a programme launched in 2017, professional development, and identified key strongly stresses the need to recognise em­ people in the Company with a high potential ployees’ talent individually, providing clear for being included in specific training pro­ prospects for growth and enhancing their grammes focusing on operational excellence. motivation. The programme encompasses several projects relating to leadership, career paths and attracting young talent. Professional development plans We updated the Group’s assessment mod­ 36.3 average el to include individual yearly goals. Special annual The Euskaltel Group provides training plans for importance was given to pinpointing the re­ training all employees, and invests in skills-enhance­ quired qualities for the different employee hours per ment activities to drive their professional de­ categories, according to their position within professional velopment. Training programmes are adapted the organisational structure and the division to individual profiles, and focus on the aspects in which they work (corporate or business). that are most relevant for each category. Thus, a half-yearly assessment is already in In 2017, 25,596 hours of training were deliv­ place, and self-assessment will also be intro­ ered, as well as other periodic communica­ duced. Goals and skills in the areas of lead­ tions and training activities. We worked to ership and digital culture will be set in 2018. 25 GRUPO EUSKALTEL 2. HUMAN CAPITAL Leadership 5 The Group’s transformation requires a lead­ On December 2017, the Group’s new Leadership ership that can act consistently with corporate Development Plan and Model was presented values and provide example and motivation to in the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias, to the rest of the organisation. TalenTU therefore the employees with managerial responsibilities includes Leader 2019, a project geared to pro­ within the organisation. Leadership skills moting a Leadership Model in which career paths are designed to enhance the leadership This establishes seven priority actions designed skills of individuals with the best potential with­ to develop the five leadership skills listed above. 1. Personal in the Group in top and middle management. These priorities focus on stimulating learning consistency and discussion through initiatives including a 2. T he ability to Leaders have a key role to play in the Strategic Leader-Coach Skills programme, a Leadership motivate teams Plan’s success and in the birth of a new corpo­ for Innovation programme and an Internal Men­ and individuals rate group. toring programme. and to enhance their competencies Five skills have been identified that Euskaltel The Group is convinced that improving leader­ 3. Executive Group leaders are required to have: personal ship skills is an opportunity for enrichment, both capability consistency, the ability to motivate teams and for individual employees and for the Company individuals and to enhance their competencies, as a whole. 4. Strategic vision executive capability, strategic vision, and the ca­ 5. Capacity to pacity to drive change. drive change Young Talent 48 Identifying and supporting talented young lo­ cal people in the Basque Country, Galicia and Galicia and Asturias, and with a number of tech­ nology-focused vocational training schools. In students Asturias is essential for the Euskaltel Group. addition with improving their skills, these part­ that did In partnership with universities in northern nerships help young people find employment. internships at Spain, we help young people develop their the Euskaltel digital and technology skills with joint projects During 2017, 48 interns worked with the Group that provide education and work experience Group, primarily telecommunications en­ through internships and training initiatives. We gineering students and students from web also hold talks on career choices and on the and multi-platform design higher learning use of new technologies. schools. In addition, these partnerships allow students to visit the Company as part of our The Group has educational partnership agree­ ongoing contact with universities and other ments with universities in the Basque Country, educational institutions. 26 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Occupational health, safety and well-being The Euskaltel Group operates in a way that helps tified under the international standard OHSAS its employees grow personally and professional­ 18001. This system encompasses all activities ly in a healthy work environment. We aim to have carried out at our centres and in all phases of a qualified, motivated human capital. the business. The objective is to conduct all ac­ tivities in line with the occupational health and In line with this approach, we have adopted the safety criteria established, thereby avoiding or WHO’s (World Health Organisation) Healthy mitigating risks and fostering a stable and safe Company model, based on the Group’s occu­ workplace. Our occupational health, safety pational safety and prevention policies. We devoted significant efforts in 2017 to putting this model into practice through processes promoting health in the workplace, as this has We devoted significant a positive effect on employees’ well-being and, ultimately, on society at large. efforts in 2017 to putting this model into practice through The Healthy Company model is being imple­ mented in the Euskaltel Group and its three processes promoting health main businesses, which in 2017 adopted the Luxembourg Declaration for the exchange of in the workplace good practices in health promotion. We also introduced a number of new initiatives, such as providing discounts in dental care ser­ and well-being culture is shored up by preventa­ vices for all Group employees and their direct tive training designed for each work post, offered family members. as from the day employees first join the Group. In addition, as part of the annual occupational health As a starting point for the Healthy Company and safety programme, all Group centres are reg­ model, Euskaltel, S.A. maintains its occupation­ ularly inspected to ensure that working conditions al health and safety management system, cer­ are healthy and safe. Healthy Company The first step in the process of implementing Telecable installed defibrillator devices in its a Healthy Company model and contributing to office buildings, as an example of good OHS improve employees’ health is to provide the fa­ practices. cilities with the most necessary means for dis­ ease prevention and detection. In 2017, R and All three companies offer employees the op­ Euskaltel improved the healthcare resourc­ tion to include tumour markers in their periodic es available to staff in their offices, including medical examinations, and Euskaltel and Tele­ blood-pressure meters and thermometers. cable also offer flu vaccines to all their staff. 27 GRUPO EUSKALTEL 2. HUMAN CAPITAL WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS 0 Objective: zero 0.04 Índice de gravedad1 0.82 Índice de frecuencia2 accidents (1) Work days lost for every one thousand hours worked. (2) Accidents involving sick leave for every one million hours worked. ABSENTEEISM3 1.56 2.12 2.07 2015 2016 2017 (3) A  bsenteeism rates are calculated as the percentage of work hours lost due to common illness relative to total work hours. Commitments fulfilled in 2017 Move from a “prevention” focus to a “healthy company” focus, by defining Draw up a succession Roll out TalenTU 2019: development the Group-wide 2017–2019 Healthy and generational of the Career Plan and the Employer Company Master Plan. transition plan. Branding project. 2017 We have achieved … Monitor the scope of the new ISO Conduct a workplace climate 45001 standard, which replaces survey to ascertain employees’ OHSAS 18001. expectations. Degree of fulfilment of our commitments Completed Advanced Under way Beginning implementation 28 MEMORIA DE EMPRESA RESPONSABLE 2017 The Euskaltel Group operates in a way that helps its employees grow personally and professionally in a healthy work environment. We aim to have qualified, motivated, healthy human capital. Photo byCraig Garner on Unsplash Commitments for 2018 Develop Professional Develop and publish the Euskaltel Achieve OHS system certification for R Career Plans. Group’s Equality Plan. and Telecable. 2018 We will be working on … Develop our Develop a mobility Implement the Healthy Leadership framework for the Company model in all Programme. Group’s professionals. Group companies. 29 3 Pillars of the Euskaltel Group’s strategy Diversified growth Operational excellence Unique experience Customer value protection Customer Capital Customer Capital impacts on the unique experience and the customer value protection pillars. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Active listening for better customer experience We aim to offer the very best communication solutions to encourage responsible consumption while continuing to meet our customers’ expectations. One of the key levers of Euskaltel’s Strategic in northern Spain following the incorporation Plan is to continue providing a unique customer of Telecable, enjoying a large client base that experience, while working to improve user ex­ includes both local and international business­ perience and enhance product customisation, es and institutions. In 2017 we also broadened 6M so that our products and services are in line our TV services in the Basque Country, Galicia with new needs. and Asturias. In 2017, the Group reached record highs in mobile telephony, broadband and payThe Euskaltel Our Customer Experience programme, which TV penetration. Group serves started in 2016, continued in 2017. This is par­ a market of six ticularly significant given that the market envi­ This helps to build the unique experience that million people ronment remains highly competitive. We have we want our customers to enjoy, while preserv­ examined the programme’s results with a view ing the local roots of our three businesses and to addressing the concerns detected in the re­ promoting value-generating partnerships. All gions where the Group operates. The Euskaltel to make our services the very best. Group is still leader in the optical fibre market Customer experience and brand The Group is an industry leader in the north of Basque Country and Galicia, and we own the Spain. Euskaltel, R and Telecable are leaders in largest fibre optic network in our market. The the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias, re­ Euskaltel Group believes listening makes a real spectively, thanks to a solid customer base and difference and leads to the expectations and business models that complement one anoth­ needs of our customers being met. er. We are a licensed 4G mobile operator in the 31 EUSKALTEL GROUP 3. CUSTOMER CAPITAL +777K residential and business customers 68% of customer households purchase more than 3 products Most of R’s and Euskaltel’s customers have with the requirements of the new Spanish been with their operator for more than five public procurement law (Ley de Contratos del years. These remain the most popular opera­ Sector Público), which will come into force on tors among families with children and young 9 March 2018. people. Customer loyalty is a major asset for the Group, which is why we make significant The Group ensures proper customer manage­ efforts to keep our oldest customers by meas­ ment through certifications for business con­ uring their level of satisfaction. Our services tinuity (ISO 22301 at Telecable), services (ISO are also used by government institutions. The 20000-1), customer service (UNE-EN 15838), Euskaltel Group is currently working to estab­ information security (ISO 27001), and product lish mechanisms and procedures to comply quality (ISO 9001). Service https://www.euskaltel.com/ https://web. https://legal. quality CanalOnline/microsites/ mundo-r.com/legal/ telecable.es/ calidad_servicio/index. es/calidad_de_ indexes jsp?idioma=esp calidad-servicio servicio Unique customer experience The Euskaltel Group offers a unique experience satisfaction is key to brand loyalty. We there­ by actively listening to our customers and fo­ fore offer more than just a service. We provide cusing on their needs and concerns. Customer an experience that creates a bond between the Lines of action of our Customer Experience programme Improving and slimming down customer Designing a new customer experience experience To provide a standard functional experience that To create an emotional bond. This meets the customer’s initial expectations. This is involves redesigning user interaction based on more than 800,000 online surveys that across all channels to establish a pinpoint each stage of the client’s “journey”, helping different kind of relationship, which to identify the causes of dissatisfaction in order to will be consistent with the values of establish pain points and action plans to improve the the Euskaltel group. customer’s experience. 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 customer and the brand, so that the customer obtained in a circular continuous improvement identifies with the corporate values that the Eu­ process. This process is key for improving end skaltel Group upholds. customers’ experience, creating closer ties with our markets and determining which repu­ In addition, the brand’s recommendation level tational risks can directly impact the Company will be monitored by measuring NPS (Net Pro­ at different levels. moter Score) through 1200 annual surveys of panellists in the Basque Country and Galicia, to NPS is an extremely powerful tool for product determine the Euskaltel Group’s brands’ rela­ launches, campaigns, service improvement, tive position compared with their competitors in and day-to-day operations. It helps adapt pro­ their respective markets. Measuring and mon­ cesses and guide efforts towards the Compa­ itoring customer satisfaction and NPS helps ny’s strategic objectives, by integrating feed­ the Euskaltel Group to learn about the results back into the decision-making process. Customer Experience programme One of the main pillars of the Euskaltel Group’s All feedback obtained through customer satis­ strategy is to provide the best customer expe­ faction surveys, the reasons for rotation, brand rience and remain leaders in the residential image studies and the observation of daily market. The Customer Experience programme experiences in dealing with the customer, are plays a key role in this respect. It is part of the used as input in an action plan specifically de­ Group’s DNA and the chief source of informa­ signed to provide the best service every time. tion on consumer needs. The Customer Experience study constitutes an The Customer Experience programme is based ongoing learning process on market trends and on the corporate values of honesty, proximity, the Group’s reaction to them, aimed at achiev­ innovation and efficiency, and aims to eliminate ing a degree of customer satisfaction that will customer dissatisfaction and move towards a contribute to our competitive value. Telecable new digital design. To this end, 77 profession­ will join this programme in 2018. als are currently working in 20 task groups to identify the top ten key moments in the Eu­ skaltel Group’s relationship with the consumer, with a view to improving user experience. 33 EUSKALTEL GROUP 3. CUSTOMER CAPITAL Cybersecurity In 2017, the market saw a significant increase Chief Information Security Officer in attacks targeting system vulnerabilities, with The Euskaltel Group has security mechanisms ransomware (Wannacry, NotPetya, etc.) playing in place to deal with this type of threat, and the a particularly prominent role. These vulnerabili­ impact suffered has been very limited. However, ties also affected communication systems, such given the potentially damaging consequences of as the wi-fi encryption system and other commu­ cybersecurity attacks and the increase in poten­ nication systems, via denial of service (DDOS) tial risks, the Euskaltel Group created a Cyberse­ attacks. The annual increase in the number of curity division (Chief Information Security Officer/ vulnerabilities for Spain was above 26%, accord­ CISO) in 2017, reporting to the IT Director (CTO) ing to CCN-CERT data. and from time to time to the Audit and Control Committee also.) Cybersecurity goals for 2018 This division will safeguard information security For 2018, the Euskaltel Group has set itself the goal of and business continuity, and identify the Group’s improving the integration of IT and network security current and potential cyber risks in a preventive, management, completing our Cyber Risks Map as systematic and effective manner. It will also coor­ part of the Group’s risk management system, and dinate the design and implementation of security our Security and Continuity Plan for the services and assets that require protection. We will also carry out measures, both for IT systems (which support pro­ projects to improve incident detection and response, cesses) and for the network (which supports the security policy integration among the Group companies, services provided to customers), to ensure digital implementation of new security mechanisms, and staff security is in line with the Group’s strategic and training and awareness, all with a view to reducing the business objectives. Group’s exposure to cyber risks. Business Intelligence The Euskaltel Group made significant progress terminal problems, and to make preventive im­ in the past year thanks to new Big Data infra­ provements in our TV service. In 2017, the Group structures. In addition to the work carried out implemented a Network Quality Indicator (QPI), within the Company, new startups have provid­ which monitors the Network and acts on discon­ ed further insight thanks to the Group’s involve­ nections and occupancy levels by proactively re­ ment in BIND 4.0, the initiative of the Basque moving noise, balancing carriers, and rebooting Government and the SPRI, the autonomous gov­ cable modems whose status is not correct. ernment of Galicia and ANTEGA and the princi­ pality of Asturias and IDEPA. Business Intelligence also enables the Eu­ skaltel Group to carry out on-the-spot com­ Big Data mercial actions based on data obtained online, The Euskaltel Group has completed the deploy­ and to identify high availability times in which ment of a Big Data infrastructure that will allow to contact customers. Knowing our customers us to better adapt our products and services to and how they behave is also important for the our customers’ needs. We will also be able to of­ purpose of identifying risks of termination and fer these products in a more segmented manner, taking proactive action to secure customer loy­ focusing on specific customer profiles. Informa­ alty. All this helps to improve user satisfaction tion obtained through Big Data is also used to and to build a close and trusting relationship diagnose and prevent network and customer with our customers. 34 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Customising our services to offer every customer 3.5 average products contracted by a unique 68% of customer experience households In 2017, the Euskaltel Group continued to offer the ty ranking of Spanish providers that stream best services across its three main businesses, their contents during prime time. The Euskaltel with the aim of building customer loyalty through Group is the first operator in Spain. To make campaigns that offer clear value to users. this easier, the customer’s remote control has a dedicated Netflix button. One of the Group’s objectives, in addition to delivering a quality service, is to build an DECO 4K emotional, personal bond with our customers Since July 2017, the Euskaltel Group has offered by offering services that they actually need the market a new decoder with a number of dis­ and which can make their daily life easier. We tinctive features, including 4K image quality, also made network enhancements through­ access to more than 3,000 apps and games, out the year to improve customer experience, Chromecast, replay and recording functional­ and provided instructions via email to resolve ities. This new decoder offers customers fea­ potential network and/or TV decoder issues. tures and services that enable them to enjoy The products and services developed by the the new possibilities that TV has to offer. Group are the result of continuous improve­ ment facilitated by our close relationship with Wifi Kalean, Wifisfera and Wificlientes our customers based on increasingly efficient The Euskaltel Group has 436,00 wi-fi hotspots customisation and our users’ increased ability scattered across the regions it operates in, of­ to make decisions. fering customers free internet use without us­ ing their data allowance. With 1 wi-fi hotspot for Partnership with Netflix every 3 inhabitants, this establishes the Euskaltel In November, the Euskaltel Group signed an Group’s wi-fi network as the largest in Spain. agreement with Netflix to allow Euskaltel, R and Telecable customers direct access, starting in Telecable’s wi-fi service, Wifisfera, enables 2018, to the most successful series, films and internet customers to use more than 119,000 documentaries through Deco 4K. Euskaltel, web hotspots located in public spaces free R and Telecable top Netflix’s monthly quali­ of charge. R’s Wifclientes allows customers in Our penetration ratio reached maximum levels 77.1% 84.7% 67.7% in 2017 Mobile Broadband TV 35 EUSKALTEL GROUP 3. CUSTOMER CAPITAL Galicia to automatically connect to more than ers can control everything going on at home 137,000 hotspots from their mobile phones, or in the homes of elderly people in their care. without using up their data allowance. Euskaltel Life will be launched in 2018. Te lo Perdiste (You missed it) Wifi Vacaciones (Holiday Wi-fi) A service that allows customers to watch con­ Customers enjoyed their summer with a month tent that has been broadcast in the past seven of free wi-fi on their mobile phones during the days whenever they wish to on their TV. period when demand is at its highest. Company Campaign Exclusive broadband and TV for Active listening with different business clients university students living in shared has meant that, through a Company’s co-oper­ houses ation and differential value, cutting edge tech­ In September, we launched a service in re­ nology and the services that customers really sponse to demand from students living away request are provided. from home who need to make intensive use of high-performance networks, both for academ­ Tres Ollos and Euskaltel Life ic and leisure purposes. One salient feature of A través de una sencilla app, los clientes de Us­ this offer is the possibility to disable the service ing a simple app on a mobile device, R custom­ temporarily free of charge. Commitments fulfilled in 2017 Identify opportunities for expansion in communities at risk Design and implement campaigns and of digital exclusion, and assess potential partnerships with awareness initiatives to promote responsible other organisations and government institutions. use of the internet. 2017 We have achieved … Strengthen the Customer Experience Project Identify opportunities for digital expansion and study to continuously measure and manage user what form partnerships with other organisations and satisfaction. government institutions could take. Degree of fulfilment of our commitments Completed Advanced Under way Beginning implementation 36 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Photo by Parker Byrd on Unsplash With all these initiatives, the Group aims to boost its competitive advantages of proximity, honesty, trustworthiness, service and simplicity. Commitments for 2018 Implement the Customer Experience Expand to new regions in programme in Telecable. northern Spain. 2018 We will be working on … Make further progress in the management of integral security, so that it covers information, network and equipment security. 37 4 Pillars of the Euskaltel Group’s strategy Diversified growth Operational excellence Unique experience Customer value protection Natural Capital The Euskaltel Group’s Natural Capital contributes to our Strategic Plan for 2017–2019 delivering the best operational experience with the least environmental impact. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Contributing to the fight against climate change We strive to apply excellence in our handling of all environmental aspects, making sure the environment is respected at every stage of our business value chain. Environmental management represents a ma­ also introduced in R and Telecable in 2017. In jor challenge for the Company. At the same keeping with this dynamic, Euskaltel volun­ time, synergies between our three markets tarily adopted the EMAS III Regulation (Euro­ produce numerous opportunities to help pean regulation governing an eco-manage­ provide a quality service that is also efficient ment and audit scheme) in 2004. friendly with the environment. Our commit­ Visit EMAS III ment to excellence in environmental man­ Evidence of our commitment to transparency certificate agement was the starting point for establish­ towards stakeholders in this regard includes https://www.euskaltel. ing an Environmental Management System in our EMAS III Environmental Statement, in­ com/webektest/ GaleriaCorporativo/ accordance with ISO 14001. This system was cludes the Company’s Carbon Footprint. Documentos/ nosotros/ responsabilidad_ social/2017/2016declaracionambiental.pdf Environmental strategy In keeping with the Euskaltel Group’s commit­ Master Plan, locking in its commitment to sus­ ment to the environment, our strategy in this tainability and the comprehensive manage­ area is reflected in our Environmental Master ment of environmental risks at Group level. Plan for 2017–2019. The plan’s four core pillars focus on excellence in environmental manage­ Excellence in environmental ment, environmental performance communica­ management tions (i.e. Green Communications), Green Prod­ The objective of this pillar of the 2017–2019 En­ ucts, and the fight against climate change. vironment Master Plan is to formulate policies that can successfully reduce the environmental The Euskaltel Group’s 2017–2019 Environment impact of the Group’s operations by encourag­ Master Plan is fully consistent with the Basque ing good environmental practices. Environmen­ Environmental Strategy for Sustainable Devel­ tal management includes analysing products’ opment 2002–2020, the Basque Autonomous environmental impact when they are first intro­ Community’s Environmental Framework Pro­ duced, and their environmental footprint. gramme, and the Basque Country’s Climate Change Strategy, Klima 2050, all of which are The Euskaltel Group’s Integrated Management initiatives of the Autonomous Regional Govern­ System Policy, which was updated in 2017, re­ ment of the Basque Country. flects our commitment to continuously improve products, services and work methods, as well as In 2017, the Group made progress in the im­ the management system itself, to improve per­ plementation of the 2017–2019 Environmental formance in all areas. 39 EUSKALTEL GROUP 4. NATURAL CAPITAL -53% WEEE* generation -3% materials -1% energy intensity** *Waste electrical and electronic equipment consumption **kwh/product From the beginning, Euskaltel’s Management corporate website, and the organisation’s car­ System gained certifications under the ISO 9001 bon footprint has also been registered with Quality Management and ISO 14001 Environmen­ the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, Food and tal Management standards, becoming the first the Environment, as part of our commitment to telecommunications operator in Spain certified communicate environmental performance. Visit all our for both these international standards. In 2017, Management we worked to extend these certifications to our We have enriched our management practices System’s certificates under offices in Galicia and Asturias. The certificates are with Advanced Management concepts includ­ ISO Quality publicly available on the Group’s website. Like­ ing Total Quality, Management Excellence, Management and wise, the Energy Management audit was carried and Innovation. This approach is at the heart Environmental Management out in accordance with ISO 50001 in Asturias. of the Group’s current commitment to raise standards our competitiveness in a global market where Green Communication we face major competitors. www. euskaltel.com/ We prepare the EMAS environmental state­ CanalOnline/ ment, which is verified and published on the nosotros/rse/ sistema-gestion Our General Shareholders’ Meeting – an environmentally sustainable event As part of our permanent pursuit of environmen­ tal excellence, the Euskaltel Group’s General Shareholders’ Meeting of 2017 integrated envi­ ronmental aspects into its design and organisa­ tion for the first time. This earned us the Erron­ ka Garbia certificate granted by Ihobe. This seal Visit the Environmental aims to raise awareness among event organisers Statement of the and attendees of the negative impacts that mass GSM 2017, which events entail, so that they may be adapted and includes the Erronka Garbia held with the minimum possible impact on the en­ certificate granted vironment. by Ihobe www.ihobe.eus/ Euskaltel’s General Shareholders’ Meeting was Choosing an environment-friendly venue and avoiding the use of short-lived structures are two documentos/ an example of environmental care, as required by examples of the measures taken at the Euskaltel erronkagarbia/ the Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Mas­ Group’s 2017 General Shareholders Meeting. dae/7_DAE_ Diploma_ ter Plan for 2016–2018 in one of its key sections. Euskaltel.pdf 40 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Corporate Environmental Footprint project Euskaltel calculates the organisation’s envi­ is the third milestone included in the Group’s ronmental footprint as part of its partnership Environmental Master Plan. To this end, we car­ with the Basque Ecodesign Center. In 2017, the ry out technological surveillance actions aimed company worked towards integrating the Cor­ at incorporating best industry practices. We porate Environmental Footprint into the Envi­ also analyse products and equipment for ener­ ronmental Management System. This process, gy efficiency. a pioneering initiative in Europe, gives compa­ nies a measure of their environmental perfor­ Additionally, the Group’s Comprehensive Man­ mance, based on several different criteria and agement System sets the groundwork for min­ from a full life-cycle perspective. This measure imising the impact of its activities on the envi­ helps companies improve their environmental ronment in which we operate, and for improving management and can implicitly lead to savings our processes. This is reflected in the roll-out of opportunities while boosting the response to the 4G (LTE) network under way since 2015, on information requests by investors, sales, com­ the basis of criteria that ensure responsible net­ parative assessment and proactive responses work deployment, in strict compliance with elec­ to future legal requirements. tromagnetic field regulations, to the point that 100% of the company’s base stations have emis­ Green Product sions levels below the statutory limits. Within Improving the Euskaltel Group’s products in en­ this framework, the Group has also entered into vironmental terms by analysing their lifecycle site-sharing agreements to minimise visual and and trying to minimise their impact their impact energy impacts and to reduce waste generation. Circular economy The circular economy is a key line of action in­ Country and Galicia customers, which are then cluded in the Master Plan, which sets the objec­ sold and reused, thereby generating econom­ tive of establishing a policy and strategy in this ic resources to fund international cooperation area by 2019. projects in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, through the Jesuit Refugee Service. For some years now, the Group has placed special emphasis on introducing measures to The fight against climate change reduce the impact caused by the generation The fight against climate change is one of the of electrical and electronic equipment waste, lines of action included in the Group’s CSR which is a consequence of permanent innova­ Plan for 2017–2019, which is put into practice tion and faster obsolescence. through a number of initiatives. In line with the Basque Country Climate Change Strategy to The percentage of refurbished customer de­ 2050, the Group has been involved in prepar­ vices (decoders, cable modems and routers) ing and piloting a methodology for organisa­ in 2017 compared with the the total number tions to adapt to climate change, coordinated of devices placed on the market was 55%, by Ihobe, the Basque Country government’s which represents a reduction in the impact of environmental management company. natural resources consumption. Euskaltel and R provide used mobile phone drop-off points The Euskaltel Group has established a series at their stores and offices, free of charge. The of measures to reduce energy consumption, campaign aims to inform, raise awareness and which are included in our Plan for the Reduction collect used mobile telephones from Basque of CO2 emissions. This commitment has been 41 EUSKALTEL GROUP 4. NATURAL CAPITAL broadened by calculating the organisation’s results of the audits, carried out by an inde­ carbon footprint and preparing the 2017 Green­ pendent third party, were reported to the rel­ house Gas Emissions Report, which quantifies evant energy efficiency authorities. In 2017, the both direct and indirect emissions (Scope 1 and 2017 Energy Efficiency Plan was approved for 2). In accordance with Royal Decree 56/2016 on the Group companies. Additionally, the Group energy efficiency, in 2016 the Group submitted companies commenced implementing the ISO to mandatory energy audits at its facilities. The 50001 Energy Efficiency Standard. Contributing to the fight against Climate Change The Euskaltel Group companies have joined Efficient management of resources the #PorElClima community initiative to combat and impacts climate change. The Group has made a public The Group evaluates each and every environ­ commitment to take action to reduce the pol­ mental aspect based on the severity of the lution causing global climate change, and to associated impact, identifying the most sig­ take part in a pioneering initiative by people, nificant issues and focusing efforts on mini­ Visit our certificate (page companies, organisations and government in­ mising and controlling them. Improvement 89 of the report stitutions, with a common goal: to lead action targets are also established. The most relevant Learning from against Climate Change in accordance with the environmental aspects in 2017 were electricity the leaders. CDP Europe Natural guidelines set out in the Paris Agreement. consumption, GHG (Greenhouse Effect Gases) Capital Report emissions, and the generation of malfunction­ 2017) The Group also took part for the second time in ing lead battery waste. www.cdp.net/ the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which clas­ en/reports/ sified our environmental performance as level C. archive Commitments fulfilled in 2017 Analyse and implement requirements for Analysis of CO2 emissions offset, Continue analysing the the ISO 14001:2015 standard in Euskaltel’s in view of the CO2 emissions life cycle of Euskaltel’s comprehensive management system and reduction plan. products/services. certification by an independent expert. 2017 We have achieved … Carry out the 2017 Energy Roll out the 2017-2019 Secure the Erronka Garbia Efficiency Plans. Environmental Master Plan, as part sustainable event certificate for the of the company’s CSR strategy. General Shareholders’ Meeting. Degree of fulfilment of our commitments Completed Advanced Under way Beginning implementation 42 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT TABLE* The trends in and results of the Euskaltel Group’s environmental performance in terms of materials, energy and natural resources use, as well as the main wastes generated, are set out below. *The figures for 2017 include Telecable. GHG emissions (t. CO2 eq.) 2015 2016 2017 Direct (Scope 1) 825.37 915.83 1,184.85 -3,4% Indirect (Scope 2) 13,190.62 9,479.44 10,940.47 GHG emissions Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) 259.32 259.60 320.40 intensity Materials and water consumption Use of water and materials most relevant to the organisation 2015 2016 2017 Paper (t) 178.76 141.11 155.78 Cable (t) 176.12 79.50 73.31 -10% Equipment (t) 304.96 200.90 180.92 de consumo Water consumption (m 3) 6,539 6,039 8,138 de equipos Overall energy consumption Use of electricity and use of diesel, both internally (gen-sets and company vehicles) and externally (employee vehicles) 2015 2016 2017 Electricity (Mwh) 55,996.22 57.133.77 65,939.54 Diesel (Internal) (Mwh) ** 647.08 563.41 531.11 -1% Diesel (External) (Mwh) ** 777.20 641.96 842.17 energy intensity Energy intensity (kwh /product)* 25.10 24.46 24.12 *Energy intensity is calculated by dividing overall energy consumption by the number of products placed on the market **Diesel consumption in MWh is arrived at by using the conversion formula published in Guide GRI 3.1 (1 ton of diesel = 43.44 Gjoules) Waste generation 2015 2016 2017 Non-hazardous waste Paper and cardboard (t) 37.29 28.93 22.73 WEEE (t) 62.43 59.74 28.21 -53% Hazardous waste WEEE generation Lead acid batteries (t) 40.05 39.33 59.69 Fluorescents (t) 0.72 0.60 1.06 Commitments for 2018 Continue rolling out the 2017–2019 Environmental Master Plan, as part of the Group-wide CSR strategy, Design and implement Secure the Erronka Garbia based on the Group’s comprehensive management the 2018 Energy sustainable event certificate system policy. Efficiency Plans. for new events. 2018 We will be working on … Carry out actions to offset or Continue analysing the life Prepare the EMAS reduce CO2 emissions. cycle of Euskaltel Group III Statement for the products/services. whole Group. 43 5 Pillars of the Euskaltel Group’s strategy Diversified growth Operational excellence Unique experience Customer value protection Relationships Capital Institutional relationships, sponsorship, public relations and the various activities organised by the Euskaltel Konekta Foundation create links to the community which contribute to diversified growth, in particular the identification of new avenues for growth, strengthening of the brand, and liaison with the local communities. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Contributing to value creation in our territories We contribute to the socio-economic development of the local communities by planning social engagement activities. We believe in technology as a way of uniting people, in the value of each and every conversation, and in coming together despite distance. Technology made by and for people: that is the motto which inspires and guides us. For yet another year, the Euskaltel Group has stakeholders: shareholders, customers, the expanded its corporate and business activity by community, suppliers and their employees. This studying new possibilities for customer experi­ philosophy is intended to position the Compa­ ences, with the aim of adding value to our servic­ ny as a driving force in the economies of the re­ es and creating emotional links with the various gions in which we operate, generate local busi­ stakeholders with whom the three companies ness opportunities, influence employment, lead interact on a daily basis. This is the fundamental corporate participation in civil society, promote purpose of Euskaltel, R and Telecable: proximity trust and pride in belonging, and boost social and value creation as the distinguishing features commitment and digital positioning in Basque, that set us apart from our competitors. Galician and Asturian societies, while enhancing competitiveness and collaboration between the For this reason, relationships play a key role in public and private spheres. the Group’s business model, and partnerships with local businesses and institutions are formed The Euskaltel Group is highly active in the so­ to promote the development of both Company cio-economic context, projecting corporate and community, paying careful attention to the values in the home market as one of the most concerns of the communities in which the Eu­ obvious ways to build our brand and retain cus­ skaltel Group is present. In terms of our institu­ tomers, who see that the brand they have cho­ tional activity, the Group aims to work respon­ sen is reputable and committed to the region. sibly and in close collaboration with our various Drivers of the local economy The Group believes that Corporate Social Re­ fiscal obligations and to contribute to creating sponsibility must contribute to and be geared sustainable communities by enhancing trust in towards value creation for all stakeholders, the local area. maintaining the commitments and values de­ ployed in its mission, and taking into account Responsible payment of taxes its firm commitment to local communities, trans­ Our ties with local communities and our com­ parency, excellence in management, Good Cor­ mitment to support the local economy are key porate Governance, respect for Human Rights, distinguishing values of the Euskaltel Group. We gender equality and equal opportunities, com­ promote social and economic development by pliance with Corporate Social Responsibility contributing to job creation and strengthening policies among suppliers, and responsible con­ public funds, with the ultimate aim of making so­ tributions to tax. The Group aims to meet its ciety intrinsically richer. 45 EUSKALTEL GROUP 5. RELATIONSHIPS CAPITAL 737 local suppliers partnerships with community organisations 98 +516k beneficiaries Value creation By collaborating with public institutions and helps to create social and economic value supporting the local economy, growing along­ through salaries, taxes paid and economic side customers and the community, the Group boosts in the places in which we operate. 2015 2016 2017* Net revenues (INCN) 334,375 561,426 609,275 Other operating revenue 431 360 524 Financial revenue 192 37 228 Economic value generated (thousands of euros) 335 M€ 562 M€ 610 M€ 2015 2016 2017 Purchases 15,168 26,245 22,946 Work undertaken by other companies 55,255 103,520 109,463 Wages and salaries 28,593 38,365 42,452 Other operating expenses 83,697 122,149 151,438 Financial expenses 50,042 47,891 49,109 Dividends 207,033 0 54,665 Corporation tax and other taxes 7,975 22,215 29,170 Economic value distributed (thousands of euros) 448 M€ 360 M€ 459 M€ Economic value retained (thousands of euros) -113 202 151 TAXES PAID IN 2017 121 Euros million paid in tax in 2017, including own and collected 64.5 M€ 13 M€ 30 M€ 13.5 M€ VAT & Canary Island Rates & Business Personal income tax Corporation consumer tax (ICIG) activities tax & Social Security tax *Financial data for 2017 include Euskaltel, R and CINFO. Telecable is consolidated from the date of its integration. 46 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Support for local suppliers The Euskaltel Group bases its relationships quality of the distribution and service. Moreo­ Group with suppliers on mutual trust and advantage, ver, the Euskaltel Group collaborated with four objectives operating ethically to ensure the proper pro­ special work centres with a purchase volume of The Euskaltel gress of commercial exchanges and the pro­ €519,000. The aim here is to promote the in­ Group aims to tection of mutual interests to minimise risks to clusion of people with disabilities in the labour contribute to local sustainability. market by employing them to provide customer development by placing its trust service, office assistance and support for print­ in local suppliers In the telecommunications sector, operation­ ing and handling invoices. which are strategic al efficiency and customer experience depend to the Group, largely on suppliers’ facilities and service provi­ Meanwhile, the Group has contributed to lo­ adding value and providing them with sion. In view of this, the Group maintains close cal economic development by contracting the opportunities for relationships with the main suppliers which services of 797 Basque, Galician and Asturian growth. distribute and provide the service. The highest suppliers, 40% of which saw a purchase volume purchase volume is related to customer and net­ exceeding €10,000. The high volume of servic­ work operations services, as well as technology es purchased means that purchases in the are­ purchases, which represent 37% and 35% of the as in which the Group operates carry significant annual purchase volume respectively. weight, at 49%. The remaining purchases are made in other countries, due to the complexity The Euskaltel Group has taken particular care of the sector. Nonetheless, in a year of change, to transfer the Company’s corporate values and growth and synergies, particular attention was culture to its 1,347 suppliers, involving them in paid to upholding long-standing agreements the strategy and growth for the last year. Sim­ and supporting the local economy, maintaining ilarly, the Group considers it especially impor­ strategic alliances in the Basque Country, such tant for suppliers to share the Euskaltel Group as our partnership with ZTE Managed Services Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, as well Southern Europe, which represented 15% of the as the Group’s Code of Ethics. Both documents total purchase volume. No other supplier ex­ include key principles such as occupational ceeded 4%, in order to ensure the viability and health and safety, service quality, respect for sustainability of responsible business. the environment and safety of both employees and others affected by the Company’s activities. The management system features a certifica­ With the aim of enhancing supplier capacity tion tool, under which 100% of suppliers (and and increasing their involvement in the devel­ their employees) rendering services at the opment of the business, the Euskaltel Group Group’s facilities are duly accredited. With re­ offers training and undertakes regular reviews gard to the selection of suppliers, the Euskaltel to identify areas for improvement. In 2017, pro­ Group gives priority to those which have imple­ gress was also made in identifying synergies in mented an environmental management system the value chain, improving the efficiency and when assigning contracts. 47 EUSKALTEL GROUP 5. RELATIONSHIPS CAPITAL Social commitment Social initiatives In 2017, the Euskaltel Group collaborated with The Group also sponsors the Universitario 48 community organisations using technology Bilbao, Hernani and Gaztedi inclusive rugby to support various local groups. Additional­ teams, and participated in the Euskaltel Charity ly, many of the social initiatives launched are Marathon which raised funds for research into boosted by agreements with educational insti­ brain strokes. tutions and with centres organising family activ­ ities more generally. In addition, December saw the launch of the Ai­ tona-Amonak campaign, in which Euskaltel acts The knowledge that the Euskaltel Group has a as a messenger conveying gratitude for the large number of families among its customer important role played by grandparents in the base has led to collaborations with organisa­ community. A certificate which grandchildren tions such as AFAE-Euskadi Family Action, Hi­ can present to their grandparents at Christmas rukide-Federation of Large Families of Euskadi, was created for the campaign. Gure Señeak-Association for Improving the Lives of Children with Rare Diseases, Bakuva, Save Meanwhile, R collaborates with the Red Cross, The Children, Urgatzi, Bizipoza, Adecco Founda­ the Food Bank and various museums which tion, ASPANOVAS and a long list of organisations promote rural sustainability in Galicia, as well which tackle different spheres of family life. as the Galician Centre of Contemporary Art. At Telecable, charity markets are held for employ­ Other events organised for families include ees to contribute to the Food Bank, free servic­ Denon Eskola, or Basque Public School Day, es are offered throughout the year to support the festivals held in Basque schools in Bizkaia, Project Man, and the money raised from the Álava and Gipuzkoa, activities for boys and girls Christmas raffle goes to ADANSI and UMA. with the football and basketball teams, surfing and mountain-based activities, and fun runs, among others. 614 Developing youth talent The Euskaltel Group visits educational centres and welcomes Masters students in Telecommunications to its facilities to allow them to learn about training the work undertaken by the company and encourage their scientific ambitions. visits* Through this type of initiative, the Group aims to supplement the theoretical knowledge taught in academic centres and to provide students with more practical insight. Meanwhile, the Group holds guidance talks for sixth form students who would like to learn more about the Company and its work before choosing the subject they wish to study at university. * Visits from university students in Engineering and Computer Sciences, students on vocational training courses and sixth form students. 48 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Sponsorships The Euskaltel Group engages in sponsorship the ten events held to date, the partnership between to create emotional ties which position and Euskaltel and Com¬edy Central has had a very posi­ strengthen the brand among a wider audience. tive outcome. In 2017 over 24,000 Euskaltel custom­ The Group’s communication activity in this area ers had the opportunity to enjoy a night of comedy is intended to create a friendly brand image, posi­ with live performances by comedi¬ans from Comedy tioning the brand in lively environments where the Central, the only 100% comedy channel in Euskaltel’s public can enjoy and learn from new experiences. TV programming. Family activities continue to be a main feature of the Group’s sponsorship, as well as of events or­ ganised by the Group itself. Various activities have All of the activities been organised, such as the Euskaltel Kirol Eguna held in Bilbao and San Sebastián, with the aim of sponsored make a visible bringing together thousands of people and fami­ contribution to Basque, lies to promote sport, launching campaigns to raise awareness of the benefits of sporting activity and Galician and Asturian including people with disabilities. society. Through active listening, activities can be devel­ oped to suit the interests of the community, in line Meanwhile, R invited more than 4,500 customers to with company policy, to create bonds and pride shows and activities promoting Galician culture, lei­ in belonging, by favouring local suppliers for all sure and entrepreneurship. Customers were able to contracting opportunities. The Group was also the enjoy initiatives such as breakfasts, technology days, technology sponsor for Gipuzkoa Basketball Club film premières, basketball matches, riding tests and when it returned to the top league. Once again, robotics workshops, among others. Euskaltel renewed its commitment this year to schools to sponsor the four Basque language fes­ Finally, Telecable brought football matches to a large tivals held in the Basque Country and Navarre for number of customers who had not purchased this the twentieth consecutive year. As well as facilitat­ service. In addition, the company and Wuaki invited ing the communication for these events, Euskaltel 300 customers to previews of the science fiction promoted a competition which involved various series Beyond, with the aim of promoting the TV skills tests and encouraged teamwork. In addition, platform which had recently become part of Teleca­ various Customer Experience cam¬paigns were ble. An agreement with Yelmo Cinemas in Asturias launched in the Basque Country, Galicia and As­ allowed more than 3,000 customers to enjoy a dis­ turias through customer loyalty activities. In 2017, count on tickets from Monday to Sunday throughout Euskaltel invited 200,000 cus¬tomers to ‘The November and December, and 100 customers at­ Comedy Central Nights’, providing new cultural tended the Gijón Film Festival, which is sponsored and leisure experiences to its customer base. In by the Group. Institutional activity Institutional activity represents a tool for active the public authorities and commercial relation­ listening and engagement with the Euskaltel ships, as well as the objectives and needs deriv­ Group’s stakeholders. This activity involves mon­ ing from these relationships. Various indicators itoring the expectations of the various stakehold­ relating to relationships with stakeholders are ers and the extent to which these are met. It also assessed, and action is taken on the basis of a serves to manage institutional relationships with holistic overview of these relationships. 49 EUSKALTEL GROUP 5. RELATIONSHIPS CAPITAL Euskaltel Konekta Foundation Projects to Promote New Technologies lows online leagues and tournaments to be organised Encounters Network. In 2017, the 25th edition of the locally throughout the year. Euskal Encounter was held. This is the longest-stand­ ing, largest computing party in Spain. It forms part of First Lego League. The Euskaltel Konekta Foundation the calendar of Encounters organised by the Euskaltel helped with the organisation of the First Lego League, About the Konekta Foundation, which also includes Gipuzkoa En­ an international robotics competition in which more Euskaltel counter and Araba Encounter. All of these events have than 500 participants aged 6 to 16 resolve a real Konekta Foundation beaten attendance records thanks to the ‘Opengunes’ challenge related to science, technology and inno­ or areas open to the public, which allow the use of new vation in the various activities which form part of the The Euskaltel technologies to be disseminated and democratised ‘Opengune’. Euskaltel participated in this open space Foundation is a private, non-profit through workshops and seminars. The Encounters with a talk by psychologist Edurne Donlo on the proper organisation which feature numerous technological innovations, along use of mobile phones by underage children. This year, helps to create and with appearances from IT enthusiasts and profession­ the company participated in the panel discussion on boost connections als, and aim to allow information exchange and group STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and between people, companies and activities focusing on computing. Maths) education alongside the Basque Government, initiatives, in the Lauaxeta school and Azti Tecnalia. context of the use 2017 saw the expansion of the Encounters, with the of Information and XGNR Encounter held in Galicia. This is a computing We have also taken part in the First Lego League in Communications Technology (ICT), event which has been held in Silleda, Galicia for Galicia. based on four the last 17 years and which R helped to organise for strategic directions: the first time this year. The Silleda showground in Women in Progress. The Women and Technology projects to promote Pontevedra welcomed 1,200 attendees, including Days were held for the second consecutive year with new technologies, entrepreneurship and both participants and visitors interested in new support from the Euskaltel Konekta Foundation, in an digital incubators, technology. attempt to encourage female students attending the social technology event to study science. To this end, a large number of and positioning of Gamegune. Gamegune is the most prestigious talks and workshops were organised over a three day the Euskaltel Konekta brand. Hearthstone tournament in Spain, which was held for period. The 2017 edition was held at the Artium Muse­ the seventeenth time in 2017. Aimed at online video um in Vitoria-Gasteiz on 18th, 19th and 22nd March. games professionals and enthusiasts, it meets the aim of the Euskaltel Konekta Foundation to promote new Innova. In April, the fifth Innova days were held at the technologies. Euskalduna Palace to tackle topics such as innovation, digital business and creativity. With the motto ‘Learn­ E-Games – Gamegune Opens. The Euskaltel Konekta ing to Build’, Asier Gezuraga, manager of Euskaltel’s Foundation has created a new online video games online channel, gave a very interesting and innovative platform to support the new Gamegune Opens talk on Lean Thinking to a packed hall. initiative. The Gamegune Opens are a series of tour­ naments and leagues of various video games which Entrepreneurship and digital incubators are held throughout the year, and which are open to Bind 4.0. In 2017, the Foundation participated in the anybody who wishes to participate. This platform al­ public-private acceleration programme intended to Commitments fulfilled in 2017 Identify and share good corporate social responsibility Expand relationships and increase the number of practices among suppliers. agreements with educational and technological centres. 2017 We have achieved … Evaluate ESG criteria when selecting Ascertain the impact of sponsorship suppliers for the Group. and social commitment activities. Degree of fulfilment of our commitments Completed Advanced Under way Beginning implementation 50 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 boost development of the best start-ups in Industry for the corporate challenges of the day. The main aim 4.0, facilitating projects with leading industrial compa­ of the initiative is to promote and encourage encoun­ nies and providing a complete support programme. In ters between professionals, associations and other turn, BIND 4.0 represents an excellent opportunity for organisations from all corporate and economic areas. industrial companies, as it speeds up identification and It is for this reason that the Euskaltel Group decided to Objectives of contact with the best global talent, allows access to participate. the Euskaltel cutting-edge technology and promotes the develop­ Konekta ment of Industry 4.0 projects and solutions. Social Technology Foundation HETEL. Euskaltel is a strategic partner for HETEL The main aims of the KBI. The Foundation sponsors KBI Digital, an ad­ (Basque Association of Vocational Training Centres) Euskaltel Konekta vanced digital economy incubator which is the product due to its support for vocational training and for the Foundation are to of an agreement between Bilbao City Council and promotion of scientific careers among young people. enhance young people’s relationships the Bizkaia Regional Government. The purpose of Since 2009, HETEL has operated the SHARE collabo­ with ICT by supporting this incubator is to promote entrepreneurial projects rative project in which around 60 Telecommunications activities related to from both start-ups and established companies within and Computing Systems students participate. The new technologies, to the digital economy sector. KBI Digital aims to be a students work in groups to develop the installation of maintain a presence in the community by reference point for the creation and implementation of various application servers in each centre, simulating a promoting knowledge digital initiatives, as well as for the launch of start-ups company with different departments. and responsible for new applications and the development of compa­ use of ICT, to be a nies in the ICT sector. Intelligent Families. Euskaltel has developed a project benchmark company in the ICT sector in in collaboration with the NGO AFAE (Euskadi Family the Basque Country, Global Innovation Day (Innobasque). Global Innova­ Action) which works in the areas of conflict resolution, Galicia and Asturias, tion Day, promoted by Innobasque (Basque Innovation prevention of psychosocial risks and promotion of by participating in Agency), is an open, dynamic and participatory space health, and includes three family training sessions to all initiatives and events linked to this which brings together thousands of people every equip members of its working groups to seek optimal area, and to act as year. It provides an easy way of creating connections, progress in their personal, family and professional a window onto the exchanging knowledge and experiencing innovation lives. world by promoting first-hand. The Euskaltel Group participated with a successful ICT initiatives launched in stand explaining the latest progress made by the Positioning of the Euskaltel Konekta Brand the regions in which it company in the area of Big Data. It also participated Music Festivals. With a view to promoting the Eu­ operates globally. in Innobasque Steam, a pioneering initiative to raise skaltel Konekta brand, the Foundation attended the awareness and disseminate information among people three music festivals organised by Last Tour in the working in informal education to encourage them to Basque Country. BBK Live, a pop and rock festival held include STEAM education in their activities. each July in Bilbao, is one of the largest festivals in the country. Kutxa Kultur is a new festival hosted in San Bilbao Berrikuntza Garage Innovation Lab Bilbao. Sebastián, while Azkena Rock features underground Innovation Lab Bilbao (InnolabBilbao) is an open rock bands along with well-known headliners. Various space for innovation where technology and business stands were also set up to provide wi-fi to everyone come together to seek new technological solutions who attended the festivals. Commitments for 2018 Undertake a satisfaction survey among analysts with Strengthen agreements Review and implement the new the Investor Relations department. with local universities. 2018-20 CSR Master Plan. 2018 We will be working on … Standardise relationship-building Review civil society links Strengthen the Euskaltel activity between the three companies, in terms of corporate Konekta Foundation’s Euskaltel, R and Telecable. management. acitivity in the Group. 51 6 Pillars of the Euskaltel Group’s strategy Diversified growth Operational excellence Unique experience Customer value protection Intellectual Capital Intellectual capital has a cross-cutting impact on the 2017-2022 Strategic Plan through the four pillars. Furthermore, innovation is one of the key, corporate values in the Group’s business model. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Contributing to digitalisation and digital transformation As the Euskaltel Group operates in the telecommunications industry, ongoing innovation and the most up-to-date technology are key to being efficient and providing the sector’s newest services. An essential part of the Euskaltel Group’s longof actively listening to stakeholders and the term strategy is to be at the forefront of innova­ Customer Experience. tion, so as to stand out from the competition. Our constantly evolving business is based on In 2017, the Group’s innovation-based work new technologies, customers are increasingly focused on improving operational excellence, demanding and the market is full of technology developing new business lines and product choices. innovation in areas such as IoT, TV, WiFi and mobility. In this field we have also been mon­ As market leader, the Group’s strategy is to itoring legislation and technology issues re­ drive and broaden the range of products and garding 5G so that we can expand our knowl­ services available, providing customers with edge and develop this technology over the the market’s latest TV, broadband and mobility next few years. options. The Group aims to improve consum­ ers’ daily lives and offer them the most effec­ The Corporate Innovation Unit studies and tive services and products they need, continu­ analyses industry trends, new technologies ously updating all systems and getting ahead and the Group’s viability to drive new products of the competition to identify trends as a result and services at the right time. Digital innovation Innovation investment age technology startups. This action also has The Euskaltel Group is aware of its lead sta­ an impact on local economic development. tus in the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturi­ as within the technology field and its work to Furthermore, the Euskaltel Group supports support innovation, foster a digital culture and sustainable innovation, bearing in mind the drive digitalisation in the business environment ability of new technologies to help commu­ and daily life is particularly relevant. nities’ with their social and environmental is­ sues. Research is also encouraged, as it is the In 2017, the Group invested over Euros 14 million basis for the creation of new devices and ser­ in r+d, pushing forward various programmes vices that integrate all the possibilities digital that help companies to digitalise and encour­ transformation has to offer. 53 EUSKALTEL GROUP 6. INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Key projects In 2017, the Group launched various products The future is making way for an ecosystem of pro­ that were essentially linked to improving network fessionals and companies who are experts in con­ capacity and to launching new Cloud and the In­ tent-loaded TV applications, with the Euskaltel ternet of Things (IoT) services. Group as the driving force behind innovative pro­ posals in this field. The Group also promoted the During the year, the Euskaltel Group launched the company’s strategic StartUps Euskaltel and Start­ first 4K Android-based TV decoder, bringing to­ Ups R programme, which welcomes entrepre­ gether the Internet and the latest TV technology. neurs and innovative proposals and aims to con­ 4K technology is currently the highest resolution nect their projects with the manufacturing sector, turning their ideas into actual business plans. It is mainly targeted at technology start-ups in the Group’s strategic areas: the Internet of Things, Innovation is the way we fulfill our artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, new network and communications technologies, WiFi, 5G, and commitment to customer care, new content and apps relating to the 4K decoder. Thanks to this project, over 40 companies in the responding to their needs and Basque Country and Galicia joined the first startsurprising them with our products ups programme and they will be helped with free telecommunications services, equipment, train­ ing, workshops, networking and visibility. FRANCISCO ARTECHE Furthermore, Euskaltel also offers the compa­ CEO nies the whole range of opportunities provided by technology so as to increase their compet­ itiveness and maximise the technological and innovative ecosystem’s potential. At confer­ and four times better than high definition (HD). ences organised by the Group in partnership Customers in the Euskaltel Group’s respective with leading companies in the industry, the dis­ markets can use Android applications on the TV. cussion centres on a practical approach to the This launch is the start of new business opportu­ transformation process, using information and nities for app developers. communication technologies. Commitments fulfilled in 2017 Develop and introduce new kinds Support entrepreneurship via a Launch a new service to introduce small of sensor on to the market and plan to help startups and a plan to and medium sized companies to Industry to use sensors to measure the monitor technology in partnership 4.0, enabling data from each production quality of our own network. with external innovation players. element to be stored and analysed. 2017 We have achieved … Integrate specific sensors into residential IoT Provide recommendations to help for vehicles, security sensors and connected families improve their household alarms. energy efficiency. Degree of fulfilment of our commitments Completed Advanced Under way Beginning implementation 54 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 14 M Another key initiative to help foster innovation in the Basque Country is Euskaltel’s support Bilbao’s innovation laboratory (InnolabBilbao) is an innovative space where technology and busi­ investment for research activities at the Orkestra-Instituto ness come together to find new technological in r+d Vasco de Competitividad, the competitiveness solutions to everyday business challenges. It is institute at Deusto University. The Group has promoted by the Centro de Innovación de Bilbao renewed its commitment for the next four years association, which was founded by Fundación and will help develop the chair of digital econo­ BBK, Corporación Mondragón, Deustotech, IBM my, recently created at the institute. and Euskaltel. Iberdrola and Bilbao city council The Orkestra manifesto on the Basque Coun­ 40 try’s 10 main challenges for the future identifies the digital economy as a key element in devel­ supported oping competitiveness in the Basque Country StartUps and, within this context, Euskaltel is the leader The Group’s Startups Plan in innovation and driving technological devel­ opment in the region. fulfils our commitment to development and digital The Euskaltel Konekta Foundation has lent its support and encouragement to numerous in­ transformation in Basque, novation-related programmes, such as Bind 4.0 and Innolab. The first involves a public-private Galician and Asturian society accelerator programme aimed at driving the development of the best Industry 4.0 start-ups, FRANCISCO ARTECHE fostering projects with the leading industrial CEO companies and taking part in a comprehensive support programme. also form part of the initiative through Bilbao Ek­ In 2017, we took part as the driving company intza. The main objective is to promote and foster in a project to design a predictive model to im­ the coming together of professionals, associa­ prove Euskaltel customer loyalty based on the tions and other bodies from all business and eco­ latest analytical tools using big data. nomic backgrounds. Commitments for 2018 Develop and implement Develop technology to Develop new TV services that the IoT in the residential aid digital transformation broaden the capacity of the and SME categories. projects for companies. new 4K decoder. 2018 We will be working on … Introduce artificial Introduce new, intelligence-based user improved WiFi interfaces. systems. 55 7 Other information CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 About this report This report is prepared on the basis of the Euskaltel Group’s financial and non-financial reporting system and the initiatives undertaken in the three regions: the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias. Scope and profile The Euskaltel Group has produced the Corpora­ undertaken. The preparation and results of this te Responsibility Report in line with the Global analysis are explained in the following pages. Reporting Initiative (GRI) guide, following the The information disclosed in this report follows principles and content set out in the most recent the baseline for assessing future performance of edition of the guide. This is an international ben­ the Euskaltel Group established in the previous chmark standard for the creation of sustainabili­ Corporate Responsibility Report. The Group is ty reports, which covers all of the most relevant also currently working to extend the scope of the aspects for shareholders, customers, emplo­ reporting system to include all indicators from yees, suppliers and the community, including the three integrated companies in coming years. exhaustive information on ESG (Environmental, All data reported, with the exception of finan­ Social and Governance) aspects. cial indicators, include Telecable from 1 January 2017. CINFO data are consolidated for financial In order to comply with the GRI guidelines, the indicators only. Company carried out a materiality analysis to ensure the report would focus on the social, en­ The contents of this report are linked to more exten­ vironmental and economic issues that are most sive information published on the Euskaltel Group relevant for our businesses, and which influen­ website, in the EMAS Environmental Declaration, ce the decisions of our stakeholders. Moreo­ in the Annual Corporate Governance Report and in ver, as signatories to the United Nations Global the 2017 Consolidated Annual Accounts, and form Compact, this report provides information on part of the Management Report, conforming to the our progress towards the implementation of same approval, deposition and publication criteria the Principles established by this initiative. This as the former in compliance with Royal Decree-Law report focuses particularly on those aspects 18/2017 of 24 November 2017. The report also ob­ identified as relevant in the materiality analysis serves the CNMV Good Governance Code. * The materiality analysis identifies those issues that are relevant to the company using internal and external variables relating to the company itself. 57 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION Materiality analysis In 2017, the Euskaltel Group carried out a materia­ and policies, information on future challenges lity analysis based on the GRI Standards. Firstly, and strategic partnerships, and documentation an external analysis was completed which took on initiatives implemented in the area of Sustai­ into account the main trends in the sector, an nability. These analyses led to the identification exhaustive study of press coverage of the Eus­ of 80 relevant themes relating to Corporate So­ kaltel Group using the Factiva tool, the content cial Responsibility, which were grouped into 36 published on the websites of the Group and its sections for the Euskaltel Group, and which were competitors, the information required by proxy assessed by the Internal Audit, Communication, advisers, the strategic directions of the PEERs Finance, Compliance, Environment, Marketing, in terms of CSR and the information requested Institutional Relations, Strategy, Human Resour­ by the main analysts relating to Sustainability, ces, Legal, Purchasing, Innovation and Investor basing the study primarily on the Dow Jones Relations departments. The assessment con­ Sustainability Index (DJSI), the FTSE4GOOD and sisted of evaluating the importance of each of the CDP. In addition, the external analysis was these aspects for the departments concerned, informed by the main needs and concerns of considering their impact on company operations the Euskaltel Group’s stakeholders, which were and reputation. As a result, 18 priority sections detected through the different communication were identified using the internal and external channels open to employees, customers, the analysis, and these are presented in the following community, shareholders, suppliers and institu­ matrix according to their individual importance. tions. An internal analysis was also carried out These material themes represent the main focus on the basis of the Euskaltel Group’s strategy of the report. MATERIALITY MATRIX Very 1. Operation and 10. Local employment High make-up of the 11.  raining and talent T 3 Board of Directors development 17 (balanced, diverse, 12. Performance etc.) based recognition 2. Prevention of and remuneration Importance to stakeholders 16 18 6 corruption and policy High 5 fraud 2 13. Contribution to 14 3. Risk Managements local development 12 1 4. Regulatory 14. Inclusion and compliance accessibility of 5. Ethical business products and 10 13 8 practices services 11 4 6. Customer 15. Responsible Medium experience: network 9 Quality of service deployment and customer 16. E  fficient use of satisfaction resources 15 7. Information 17. Management privacy and data policies and protection systems 7 Low 8. Cybersecurity 18. Support to local Low Medium High Very High for customer suppliers protection Importance to the company 9. Digitalisation, digital transformation 58 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Stakeholder engagement The Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Poli­ During 2017, we updated the operation of the cy, approved by the Board of Directors on 24 May Group’s Ethical Channel mechanism. This chan­ 2016, sets out the obligations and guidelines to nel provides a tool for employees of the Group, be fo¬llowed by each operator. Likewise, the Cor­ customers, suppliers and third parties to report porate Responsibility Master Plan is based on the alleged events or actions which they consider to expectations identified when consulting stake­ infringe the Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct, holders through different surveys and studies. any regulations included in the Euskaltel Group’s Corporate Governance System, or the relevant The Euskaltel Group’s corporate values of friend­ external legislation or regulations, in a secure, liness and honesty shape not only the behaviour confidential manner. of our own employees but also the Group’s rela­ tionships with all stakeholders. Moreover, one of the Group’s differentiating factors is value crea­ tion at a local level, building a climate of trust Euskaltel Group´s Code among all players in each of the regions where the Group operates. As established in the Code of Ethics is committed of Ethics, the Euskaltel Group is committed to to maintaining maintaining ethical standards and transparency in its relationships with stakeholders, acting res­ ethical standards ponsibly and working closely with them to adapt to their needs and concerns. and transparency in its relationships with The Group has also developed a Communica­ tions Plan which covers all stakeholders and is stakeholders, acting based on the Euskaltel Group’s mission and ob­ jectives, as well as the aforementioned corporate responsibly and working values. The Group’s communications are defined closely with them to by close relationships with our market and with opinion leaders. These relationships are based on adapt to their needs and transparency and proximity, just like those which Euskaltel, R and Telecable maintain with their concerns. stakeholders in the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias respectively. This model for communica­ tion and liaison with stakeholders has generated One of the main programmes developed by the unprecedented reputation capital and corporate Euskaltel Group for communication with custo­ image, achieving an exceptional level of identifi­ mers is Customer Experience, a tool which has cation with the Company’s target market, which allowed for greater insight into customer needs differentiates it from the competition significantly. and development of products and services which are particularly useful in their daily lives. Moreo­ To create friendly, honest working relationships, ver, active listening has been especially important the Euskaltel Group uses various platforms and in identifying the concerns of employees who promotes direct, two-way dialogue allowing cus­ have been able to express their opinions on the tomers, shareholders, employees and the com­ Company’s operation and the future challenges it munity to express their needs and suggest impro­ faces through a satisfaction survey. vements. In 2017, the stakeholders in each of the Group’s main areas were reviewed, with the aim Meanwhile, 2017 was a particularly relevant year of identifying all operators who directly interact for shareholders. The Investor Relations depart­ with the Company. The aim of this exercise was ment stepped up its activity with road shows and to update and target the actions implemented, as interactions with analysts, and distribution lists well as to provide formal channels which are bet­ were created to provide them with up-to-date in­ ter suited to the target audience. formation on the Group’s ongoing growth. One of 59 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION the most important events of the year was Investor th, direct relationship with the Group’s suppliers Day, which was held in November with a view to through the Purchasing department, whose role publicly sharing the Company’s foremost achieve­ is key in detecting concerns throughout the su­ ments and the strategy we will follow in the coming pply chain. Finally, the Management Team’s open years. As usual, the Group has continued to build door policy facilitates the exchange of informa­ trust in the community via sponsorship, develop­ tion and submission of queries. In 2017, the main ment of local culture and digitalisation through the concerns reported to the Board and to the Mana­ activities of the Euskaltel Konekta Foundation. Mo­ gement Team were related to the Group’s expan­ reover, constant interaction with the local authori­ sion. In general, a growing interest in digitalisation ties enhances Company knowledge of the region and in the quality of the service provided was de­ and its main needs. Similarly, we maintain a smoo­ tected via the various channels. The Euskaltel Group’s key stakeholders and channels for dialogue Stakeholders Communication tool Main expectations identified Social organisations, universities and education Social media Local employability, commitment to centres, research centres, economic operators, Media relations local associations and institutions, local community, opinion former and consumer Collaboration with universities social initiatives and cultural Community associations and the press promotion. and other institutions Euskaltel and R websites Friendly customer service, transparency Company, residential, institutions Mobile applications of prices, digital inclusion, service quality, and public sector Complaints investment in R+D+I, digital health and Customers Customer experience data protection, among others. I ntranet Quality of working life, health and Employees covered and not covered by the Satisfaction survey well-being, equal opportunities, Collective Labour Agreement, employees’ Internal communication commitment to employees, training Employees representatives, trainees and employment agencies channels and development. Distributors, installers and contractors, Local purchasing, transparency strategic suppliers, operators, suppliers Company survey Suppliers and equal opportunities. & partners of infrastructure Councils, city councils, governments, Transparency, regulatory compliance, supervisors, regulators, development Community survey environmental management and Public agencies and industry agencies people management. administrations Board, shareholders, analysts /  eneral Shareholders’ Meeting Ratings, risk management G investors, funders and press coverage Shareholders Investor Relations Office and financial results relating to shareholders & investors Working closely and transparently with all stakeholders in Ethical Channel compliance with legislation and all ALL applicable regulations. Frequency Ongoing Every two years Annual 60 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 VERIFICATION OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT VMS-2018/0003 AENOR has verified the Report by the organization GRUPO EUSKALTEL TITLE: 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In accordance with: GRI Standards GRI option applied: Exhaustive Verification Process: To grant this Verification Document, AENOR has verified that the report complies with GRI requirements and has checked the data and information contained in the report. Issue date: 2018-02-23 AENOR INTERNACIONAL, S.A.U Rafael GARCÍA MEIRO Génova, 6. 28004 Madrid. España General Manager Tel. 91 432 60 00.www.aenor.com EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION GRI Standards table Global Standards Description Notes/direct reference (page ) Scope SDG Compact GRI 101 Foundation 101 Guiding principles Other information (page 57) Group GRI 102 General contents Organisation profile Name of 102-1 Euskaltel, S.A Group organisation Activities, brands, Euskaltel Group in 2017 (page 6) 102-2 products, and Group Customer Capital (page 34 and 35) services Location of the head 102-3 Back cover Group office Location of 102-4 Euskaltel Group in 2017 (page 6) Group operations Owners and legal Euskaltel, S.A. 102-5 Group form Organisational and Cultural Capital (page 13) Euskaltel Group in 2017 (page 6) 102-6 Markets served Group Customer Capital (page 31) Size of the Euskaltel Group in 2017 (page 6 y7) 102-7 Group organisation Human Capital (page 21 and 22) About our Human Capital (page 21 y22) Principle 102-8 employees and Group 8 See Annex 102-8 (page 74) 6 other workers Relationships Capital (page 47) During 2017, all Euskaltel Group suppliers were located in the European Union, except 22 companies, as follows: 102-9 Supply chain Group Australia (1), China (2), Colombia (1), Israel (1), Suiza (3), Tai­ wán (2), EEUU (12). (See Appendix. Page 75) Letter from the Chairman and the CEO (page 2) Significant changes Euskaltel Group in 2017 (page 6) 102-10 in the organisation Group Organisational and Cultural Capital (page 14) and its supply chain Relationships Capital (page 47) Precautionary Organisational and Cultural Capital (page 16) 102-11 principle or Section E of the Euskaltel Group’s 2017 Annual Corporate Group approach Governance Report Letter from the Chairman and the CEO (page 5) 102-12 External initiatives Natural Capital (page 42) Group 17 Relationships Capital (page 48 and 49) Membership of Relationships Capital (page 48 and 49) 102-13 Group 17 associations Other information (page 57) Strategy Declaration of the 102-14 Letter from the Chairman and the CEO (page 2-5) Group executive body Key impacts, risks 102-15 Organisational and Cultural Capital (page 16) Group and opportunities 62 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Global Standards Description Notes/direct reference (page ) Scope SDG Compact Ethics and Integrity Values, principles, Organisational and Cultural Capital (page 17) Principle 102-16 standards and rules Group 16 Human Capital (page 22) 6 of behaviour Until 2017, R and Euskaltel published their Codes of Ethics and Conduct on their respective intranets. These covered the organisation’s ethical principles and improper employee con­ duct. Telecable employees formally accepted an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy originally established by their for­ mer partner Zegona. In December 2017, the Board of Directors approved the Code Mechanisms for of Ethics, Anti-Corruption Policy and the Ethical Channel, which consulting and includes the ethical principles of the organisation and improper Principle 102-17 Group 16 resolving ethical employee conduct. Applicable to all companies in the Euskaltel 6 questions Group, these were formally and officially communicated to all Group staff by the Group Chairman. In the near future, the Ethi­ cal Channel will be available for queries and complaints relating to rule infringement, not only to Euskaltel Group employees, but also to any third party through the websites of the Group com­ panies. Until such time as the Ethical Channel is operational, complaints and/or suggestions may be sent by post as estab­ lished in the Euskaltel Group’s Ethical Channel. Governance Governance 102-18 Organisational and Cultural Capital (page 14) Group structure Euskaltel Group in 2017 (page 11) 102-19 Decision making Group Other information (page 57) Level of executive responsibility Euskaltel Group in 2017 (page 11) 102-20 linked to financial, Group Organisational and Cultural Capital (page 18) environmental and social issues Discussion of financial, 102-21 environmental and Other information (page 60) Group 16 social issues with stakeholders Members of the Organisational and Cultural Capital (page 13 and 17) 102-22 executive body and Group 5 16 Human Capital (page 24) its committees Organisational and Cultural Capital (page 13 and 14) Chair of the 102-23 Section C.1.3 of the Euskaltel Group’s 2016 Annual Corporate Group 16 executive body Governance Report Appointment and selection of the 102-24 Organisational and Cultural Capital (page 14 y15) Group 5 16 members of the executive body Section D.6 of the Euskaltel Group’s 2017 Annual Corporate 102-25 Conflicts of interest Group 16 Governance Report 63 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION Global Standards Description Notes/direct reference (page ) Scope SDG Compact Governance Executive body Letter from the Chairman and the CEO (page 5) involvement in Euskaltel Group in 2017 (page 9 and 10) 102-26 establishing Group Group Section E of the Euskaltel Group’s 2017 Annual Corporate mission, values and Governance Report. strategy Each year, the Board of Directors is informed of the Group’s Group reporting to fnancial, social and environmental performance. The Group’s 102-27 Group 4 the executive body CSR Policy, which was approved in 2016, was implemented in 2017 and continues to be formulated. Evaluation of the 102-28 executive body's Organisational and Cultural Capital (page 15) Group performance Identification and management Section E of the Euskaltel Group’s 2017 Annual Corporate 102-29 of financial, Group 16 Governance Report. environmental and social impacts Effectiveness of Section E of the Euskaltel Group’s 2017 Annual Corporate 102-30 risk management Group Governance Report. processes Review of financial, 102-31 environmental and Organisational and Cultural Capital (page 18 and 19 ) Group social issues Executive body The Board of Directors is entrusted with reviewing and approv­ involvement in 102-32 ing this 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report, after third-party Group sustainability assurance. accountability Communication The CEO is entrusted with informing the Board of Directors of all 102-33 of critical Group aspects regarding the company’s performance. considerations In 2017 the Board was informed of issues related with the prepa­ ration of the Group’s annual financial statements and proposed distribution of profits, periodic public information disclosed, Number and budgets and objectives, authorised representation. Remunera­ nature of critical tion of the Board of Directors and senior management, approval 102-34 considerations Group of the different annual reports, call to the General Shareholders’ communicated to Meeting, preparation of proposed resolutions and the corre­ the executive body sponding directors’ reports thereon, new corporate policies, R’s integration process, acquisition of Telecable, and the new 20162018 CSR Plan, among other matters. Remuneration Section A.1. Euskaltel, S.A.’s Annual Report on Remunerations 102-35 Group policies for 2017 Process for Section A.2. Euskaltel, S.A.’s Annual Report on Remunerations 102-36 determining Group for 2017 remuneration Stakeholder 102-37 involvement in Organisational and Cultural Capital (page 13) Group 16 remuneration Annual 102-38 Remuneration ratio stands at 49%. Group remuneration ratio Rate of increment The median percentage increase in annual total compensation 102-39 of the annual Group was 2.0% at Group level. remuneration ratio 64 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Global Standards Description Notes/direct reference (page ) Scope SDG Compact Stakeholder involvement 102-40 List of stakeholders Other information (page 60) Group Collective Principle 102-41 Human Capital (page 23) Group 8 bargaining 1 and 3 Stakeholder 102-42 identification and Other information (page 60) Group selection Stakeholder Customer Capital (page 33) 102-43 involvement Other information (page 59 and 60) Group approach See Appendix (page 74) Main issues and 102-44 considerations Other information (page 58) Group discussed Accountability Organisational and Cultural Capital (page 13) Companies included Euskaltel has interests in the following companies to facilitate 102-45 in the consolidated Group the achievement of its business objectives: Hamaika Telebista financial statements Hedatzeko Taldea and Safelayer Secure Communications. Delineation of report 102-46 contents and topics Other information (page 58) Group covered List of material 102-47 Other information (page 58) Group topics Restatements of 102-48 Other information (page 57) Group information Changes to 102-49 Other information (page 57) Group accountability Report preparation 102-50 Financial year 2017 Group period Date of previous Euskaltel 102-51 Financial year 2016 report and R 102-52 Accountability cycle Annual Group Point of contact for 102-53 issues connected Back cover (page 76) Group with the report Statements on the 102-54 level of compliance External assurance report (page 61) Group with GRI standards 102-55 GRI contents list GRI Standards table (page 62-75) Group 102-56 External review External assurance report (page 61) Group GRI 103 Management approach Explanation of the 103-1 material issue and Group its borders Management 1 8 Management approach indicated in the different sections Principle 103-2 approach and Group of this table. 16 6 components Evaluation of the 103-3 management Group approach 65 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION Global Standards Description Notes/direct reference (page ) Scope SDG Compact GRI 201 Financial performance Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapters 0, 1, 2 and 5. Evaluation of the 2 5 7 201-1 management Relationships Capital (page 46) Group 8 9 approach Due to the nature of its activities, the Euskaltel Group has a very low en­ vironmental impact on its surroundings. This influences the scope of the environmental objectives it sets and allows the Group to ensure that any Financial potential risk for the company’s activities is being properly managed. As implications and the primary measure of its climate change impact, the Euskaltel Group Principle 201-2 other risks and calculates its carbon footprint on a yearly basis and prepares greenhouse Group 13 7 and 8 opportunities of gas emissions reports in accordance with the methodology established climate change by Ihobe, the Basque Country government’s environmental management company. Both direct and indirect emissions are quantified in these reports. Additionally, Euskaltel publicly reports risks and opportunities in its CDP report, which is available at https://www.cdp.net/es/climate The Euskaltel Group pays a monthly contribution to the Social Security for Obligations arising all its employees. This amount, based on their individual salaries, is paid from social benefit into the Public System of Benefits. The Group also offers a voluntary private 201-3 schemes and contribution scheme with tax benefits for employees who wish to make an Group 8 other pension individual contribution. Additionally, all Euskaltel Group employees enjoy a schemes number of social benefits, which may either be services and products sold by the Group, or health and wellness services. Financial assistance Subsidies collected in 2017 amounted to Euros 64K. In 2016, they amount­ 201-4 from government Group ed to Euros 248K, and in 2015 to Euros 367K. institutions GRI 202 Market presence Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapters 0 and 1. Ratio of basic entry-level wage The ratio of entry-level wage to local minimum wage for the Group in 2017 Principle 202-1 Group 1 5 8 by gender to local was 1.36 for women and 1.58 for men. 1 and 6 minimum wage The Management Committee comprises the CEO and the heads of the Decision Centres. These areas receive reports from the Function Depart­ ments, the majority of which relate to the local community. The Group’s Percentage of executive team comprises the Chairman, the CEO, the heads of the De­ senior managers cision Centres and the heads of the Function Departments. The Euskaltel Principle 202-2 Group 8 coming from the Group believes that the “open door” policy espoused by its executive team, 6 local community which bears ultimate responsibility for people management within the or­ ganisation, is the best way of channelling the suggestions employees may have regarding the Group’s performance in the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias. GRI 203 Indirect economic impacts Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapters 0, 3 and 5. 1 2 3 Investment in 4 5 6 203-1 infrastructure and Customer Capital (page 34, 35 and 36) Group 8 10 11 support services 12 13 14 15 1 2 3 Euskaltel bases its aspirations as a comprehensive telecommunications 4 5 6 Significant operator with a guaranteed future on the deployment of its own high-per­ 203-2 indirect economic Group 8 10 11 formance network and capillarity to provide a wide range of added-value impacts 12 13 14 services. 15 66 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Global Standards Description Notes/direct reference (page ) Scope SDG Compact GRI 204 Acquisition practices Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 5. Proportion of spending Relationships Capital (page 47) 204-1 Group 12 on local suppliers See Appendix (page 75) GRI 205 Anti-corruption Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 1. Transactions examined Principle 205-1 in connection with No evaluations were carried out in 2017 in respect of corruption risks. Group 16 10 corruption-related risks Supervision of compliance with the code is entrusted to the Corporate Defence Committee, which bears ultimate responsibility for the effec­ tive supervision and monitoring of the regulatory environment affecting the Group’s business. Additionally, in June, the Board of Directors appointed a Compliance Communication and Officer for the Euskaltel Group, who will be responsible for reducing training on antiPrinciple 205-2 any risks of regulatory non-compliance, and to supervise and monitor Group 16 corruption policies and 10 compliance with all applicable regulations. procedures In December 2017, the Board of Directors approved an Anti-Corruption Policy included in the Euskaltel Group’s Corporate Governance Sys­ tem, to promote compliance with anti-corruption legislation across the Organisation, and uphold honesty – a value included in the Group’s Code of Ethics – over any form of bribery or corruption. Confirmed corruption During 2017, no incidents occurred that involved a severe breach of Principle 205-3 incidents and actions regulations or of the good governance practices established in the Group 16 10 taken company. GRI 206 Unfair competition practices This issue is immaterial to the Euskaltel Group. Legal actions relating to matters of unfair competition, antiNo official judgements or decisions were issued that affect the compa­ 206-1 Group 16 competitive conduct ny in this regard. and monopolistic practices GRI 301 Materials Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 4. Materials used by 301-1 Natural Capital (page 43) Group 8 12 weight or volume • Purchase of refurbished customer equipment vs. total equipment pur­ chased: 1.95% in 2017. • Recycled paper to total paper consumption in all uses: 2.8% in 2017. Recycled materials Principle 301-2 See Annex 301-2 (page 74) Group 8 12 consumed 7 and 8 • Refurbished customer equipment compared to total equipment placed on the market was 55%. See Annex 301-3 (page 74) Principle Reused products and Natural Capital (page 41) 301-3 Group 8 12 7, 8 and packaging materials See Annex 301-3 (page 74) 9 GRI 302 Energy Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 4. Energy consumption 7 8 Principle 302-1 Natural Capital (page 43) Group within the organisation 12 13 7 and 8 Energy consumption 7 8 Principle 302-2 outside of the Natural Capital (page 43) Group 12 13 7 and 8 organisation 7 8 Principle 302-3 Energy intensity Natural Capital (page 43) Group 12 13 8 67 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION Global Standards Description Notes/direct reference (page ) Scope SDG Compact GRI 302 Energy Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 4. Natural Capital (page 43) The Euskaltel Group has defined an energy efficiency plan for 2019, setting out the measures for saving both electricity and fuel. This plan foresees the following actions: • Energy efficiency audit, in order to identify energy use actions that could help the Group save energy and be more efficient in that regard • Awareness-raising campaigns in respect of energy savings 7 8 12 Principle Reduction of energy 302-4 • Rational use of lighting at central offices, with automatic shutGroup 7, 8 and consumption 13 off features (at data processing centres) and other features 9 (hallways and offices) • Installation of more energy-efficient equipment at data pro­ cessing centres (servers) and consolidation of existing servers • Rational use of vehicles for work-related travel and travel be­ tween the different Euskaltel Group locations • Use of videoconferences for meetings between different Group locations, avoiding long-distance travel. Reductions in energy 7 8 12 Principle The Group takes the energy requirements of customer equip­ 302-5 requirements of Group 7, 8 and ment into account during the certification phase. 13 products and services 9 GRI 303 Water Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 4. Natural Capital (page 43) Water used by Euskaltel comes from the Consorcio de Aguas del Gran Bilbao water supply system, while water withdrawn by R comes from the Empresa Municipal de Aguas de la Coruña Water consumption by S.A., Aqualia and Viaqua networks, depending on the location Principle 303-1 Group 6 12 sources of each work centre. As for the water used by Telecable, this is 7 and 8 supplied by the Empresa Municipal de Aguas de Gijón, S.A. for the Gijón Technology Park offices, and by the network operated by FCC Aqualia (a contractor for the Oviedo Water and Sanita­ tion Service) for the Oviedo data processing centre. Water sources During 2017, no water sources were significantly affected by Principle 303-2 significantly affected by Group 6 12 withdrawal of water by the Group. 7 and 8 water extraction Water recycled and Principle 303-3 No water is recycled or reused by the Group. Group 6 8 12 reused 8 and 9 GRI 304 Biodiversity This issue is immaterial to the Euskaltel Group. Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or Principle 304-1 adjacent to, protected Group 6 14 15 8 areas and areas of The Euskaltel Group does not own any land in areas of high high biodiversity value biodiversity value. During 2017, no impacts were recorded in re­ outside protected areas spect of biodiversity in protected, heritage or biosphere reserve Significant impacts areas. Consequently, no impacts occurred in areas serving as on biodiversity of habitats to species at risk of extinction. Principle 304-2 Group 6 14 15 operations, products 8 and services Habitats protected or Principle 304-3 Group 6 14 15 restored 8 68 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Global Standards Description Notes/direct reference (page ) Scope SDG Compact GRI 304 Biodiversity This issue is immaterial to the Euskaltel Group. Species included in the The Euskaltel Group does not own any land in areas of high IUCN Red List and in biodiversity value. During 2017, no impacts were recorded in re­ 6 14 national conservation Principle 304-4 spect of biodiversity in protected, heritage or biosphere reserve Group lists whose habitats 15 8 areas. Consequently, no impacts occurred in areas serving as are located in areas habitats to species at risk of extinction. affected by operations GRI 305 Emissions Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 4. Natural Capital (page 43) The emission sources considered in scope 1 are: use of fuel in 3 12 Principle Direct GHG emissions 305-1 generators and by company vehicles during work trips, plus Group 13 14 7, 8 (scope 1) emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases. 15 and 9 See Annex 305-1 (page 74) Natural Capital (page 43) 3 12 Principle Indirect GHG emissions The emission source considered under scope 2 is the use of 305-2 Group 13 14 7, 8 (scope 2) electricity. 15 and 9 See Annex 305-2 (page 74) Natural Capital (page 43) The emission sources considered in scope 3 are: use of fuel in 3 12 Other indirect GHG Principle 305-3 transport means not owned by the Group but used for company Group 13 14 emissions (scope 3) 8 purposes (employee vehicles, planes, trains, taxi, etc.). 15 See Annex 305-3 (page 74) Natural Capital (page 43) Intensity of GHG Emissions (scopes 1 and 2) are divided by the sum of products 12 13 Principle 305-4 Group emissions sold. 14 15 8 and 9 See Annex 305-4 (page 74) Reduction of GHG 12 13 Principle 305-5 Natural Capital (page 41, 42 and 43) Group emissions 15 8 and 9 The Euskaltel Group does not produce, import or export ozone-depleting gases. Since 2012, Euskaltel has implemented Emissions of ozonea plan to replace R-22 gases, whereby whenever a leak of this 3 12 Principle 305-6 Group depleting substances type of gas occurs, the equipment is either retired or recharged 13 8 and 9 with other refrigerant gases that do not affect the ozone layer (R-434.A or R-424.A). NOx, SOx and other 3 12 Principle 305-7 significant atmospheric See Annex 305-7 (page 74) Group 13 14 8 and 9 emissions 15 GRI 306 Effluents and waste Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 4. The Euskaltel Group does not discharge industrial waste wa­ ter. Sewage water is discharged to the Consorcio de Aguas del Gran Bilbao water treatment system, in the case of Euskaltel, and to the Empresa Municipal de Aguas de la Coruña S.A., Total water discharge 3 6 Aqualia and Viaqua networks for R, depending on the location Principle 306-1 according to quality Group of each work centre. Telecable discharges its sewage water to 12 14 7 and 8 and destination the network of Empresa Municipal de Aguas de Gijón, S.A. for the Gijón Technology Park offices, and to the network operated by FCC Aqualia (a contractor for the Oviedo Water and Sanita­ tion Service) for the Oviedo data processing centre. Waste by type and 3 6 Principle 306-2 Natural Capital (page 43) Group method of treatment 12 7 and 8 3 6 Principle 306-3 Significant spills No significant spills were recorded in 2017. Group 12 14 8 15 69 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION Global Standards Description Notes/direct reference (page ) Scope SDG Compact GRI 306 Effluents and waste Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 4. All hazardous waste, including used lead batteries, are collected by Transport of hazardous authorised waste management companies, primarily in the Basque Principle 306-4 Group 3 12 waste Country and Galicia and, in certain cases, in other regions of Spain. No 8 hazardous waste has been shipped internationally. Water bodies affected During 2017, the Group did not discharge any water affecting any water Principle 306-5 Group 6 14 15 by spills and runoff sources or ecosystems. 8 GRI 307 Environmental compliance Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 4. Non-compliance During 2017, no significant fines were received in this connection. with environmental Principle 307-1 Grievances received about environmental impacts are reported in sec­ Group 16 legislation and 7 and 8 tion 103-2. regulations GRI 308 Environmental assessment of suppliers Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 5. Supplier evaluation includes environmental criteria and is carried out by the department of Quality, Environment, Well-being and Health, given that periodic supplier evaluations cover, among other issues, the results of in­ New suppliers evaluated ternal audits of the management system, and whether there is an environ­ Principle 308-1 under environmental Group 12 mental management system in place, particularly for suppliers that have 9 criteria a greater bearing on the Group’s environmental aspects’ assessment. We are currently working to expand our environmental management system policies to all Group companies. Negative environmental impacts on the value Based on the evaluations performed, the Euskaltel Group has not iden­ Principle 308-2 Group 12 chain and actions tified any suppliers causing significant negative environmental impacts. 9 implemented GRI 401 Employment Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 2. Employee recruitment Principle 401-1 See Annex 401-1 (page 75) Group 5 8 and turnover rate 6 Benefits offered to Human Capital (page 27) full-time employees In 2017 new initiatives have been implemented, including giving all Principle 401-2 that are not available to Group 8 people working for the Group and their families the option of accessing 6 temporary or part-time medical services under favourable terms and conditions. employees Figures for employees taking parental leave during the past few years are as follows: 2015 2016 2017 Men 13 11 13 Principle 401-3 Parental leave Group 5 8 6 Women 14 8 9 All 22 employees returned to work when their period of parental leave ended. GRI 402 Labour relations Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 2. In general, operational changes are reported to the affected persons Minimum notice period and the affected area prior to reflecting them on the official company Principle 402-1 in relation to operational Group 8 organisational chart posted on intranet. No minimum notice period has 3 changes been established. GRI 403 Occupational health and safety Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 2. Employees’ There are two Health and Safety Committees, currently covering 75% representation in joint of the workforce due to the integration of Telecable. Once Telecable’s 403-1 Group 3 8 health and safety Committee has been established in the near future, the number of staff committees represented will once again be 100%. 70 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Global Standards Description Notes/direct reference (page ) Scope SDG Compact GRI 403 Occupational health and safety Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 2. Types and rates of accidents at work, occupational Human Capital (page 28) 403-2 illnesses, work days lost and Group 3 8 See Annex 403-2 (page 75) absenteeism, and number of related deaths Workers with a high risk or No professional activities or job positions within the Group have 403-3 high incidence of workbeen identified as having a high incidence or high risk of work-re­ Group 3 8 related illnesses lated disease. Health and safety issues addressed in formal 403-4 Human Capital (page 27 and 28) Group 3 8 agreements with employees’ legal representatives GRI 404 Training and education Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 2. Human Capital (page 25) Number of training hours by position and gender, as shown in the table below: Average training hours per 4 5 Principle 404-1 Directors Managers Other professions Group year per employee 8 6 Men 2,874.5 2,429.5 9,324.5 Women 777.5 1.033.5 9,156.5 The Euskaltel Group fosters practical skills in terms of both technical Programmes to improve and non-technical abilities. The Group also has an outplacement pro­ 404-2 employee skills and provide gramme in place, which provides psychological counselling and sup­ Group 4 8 assistance for transition port for transition, with the aim of finding new opportunities and identi­ fying professional alternatives. The percentage of people who are assessed for their performance is 75%, as shown in the table below: Percentage of employees 2015 2016 2017 Principle 404-3 receiving performance and Group 4 5 Euskaltel 98.83% 99.50% 100% 6 career development reviews R 96.52% 95.00% 100% Telecable does not carry out performance assessments GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunities Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 2. Diversity among the 5 8 Principle 405-1 workforce and the governing See Annex 405-1 (page 75) Group 10 6 bodies In line with the Group’s people management policy, salaries are de­ Ratio of women’s termined on an individual basis; that is, each person is compensated 5 8 Principle 405-2 remuneration with respect to in line with the responsibility assigned, their performance and their Group 10 6 men’s contribution of value to the company. No differences are established in respect of gender, age or other such factors. GRI 406 Non-discrimination Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 2. Incidents of discrimination 5 8 Principle 406-1 and corrective actions put in No incidents of discrimination occurred in 2017. Group 16 6 place GRI 407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 2. Operations or suppliers where freedom of association Principle 407-1 Human Capital (page 23) Group 8 16 and collective bargaining may 3 be at risk GRI 408 Child labour This issue is immaterial to the Euskaltel Group. Operations and suppliers Prevailing legislation guarantees this prohibition. Article 6 of the identified as having significant Principle 408-1 Employment Statute prohibits the employment of under-age chil­ Group 8 16 risk for incidents of child 5 dren. exploitation 71 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION Global Standards Description Notes/direct reference (page ) Scope SDG Compact GRI 409 Forced labour This issue is immaterial to the Euskaltel Group. Prevailing legislation guarantees this prohibition. Employment must be offered freely, and employees Operations and suppliers must be free to leave their employment whenever Principle 409-1 having a significant risk for they choose. Article 49 of the Employment Statute Group 8 16 4 incidents of forced labour acknowledges the right of employees to leave their employment voluntarily whenever they choose to do so. GRI 410 Security practices Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 2. Euskaltel Group security personnel do not have deal­ ings with the general public. These employees are Security personnel trained in duly identified and have received the requisite train­ Principle 410-1 Human Rights policies and/or Group 16 ing in respect of Euskaltel's internal procedures and 1 and 2 procedures rules, the systems and equipment used, first aid, and data protection. GRI 411 Rights of the indigenous population This issue is immaterial to the Euskaltel Group. Total number of cases of In 2017, no groups of indigenous peoples were af­ Principle 411-1 violations of indigenous Group 11 16 fected by the Group's activity. 1 peoples’ rights GRI 412 Human Rights assessment Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 1. Operations that have All Euskaltel Group centres are regularly inspected been subject to Human Principle 412-1 to ensure that occupational health and safety condi­ Group 11 16 Rights reviews or impact 1 tions are optimal. assessments In 2017 the staff attended seminars on integrating Employee training on corporate values into their daily work. A total of 339 Principle 412-2 Human Rights policies and Group employees were trained on matters including re­ 1 and 2 procedures spect, approachability and honesty. Significant investment No significant investment agreements include hu­ agreements and contracts that man rights clauses or undergo human rights screen­ Principle 412-3 include Human Rights clauses Group ing, except for in respect of regulatory compliance 1 and 2 and/or have been subject to with safety issues. Human Rights assessments GRI 413 Local communities Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 5. Operations involving the local community, Principle 413-1 Relationships Capital (page 48-51) Group 11 impact assessments, and 1 development programmes Operations having significant None of the Euskaltel Group’s operations centres Principle 413-2 current and potential negative have or could have negative impacts on local com­ Group 1 2 11 1 impacts on local communities munities. GRI 414 Social assessment of suppliers Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 5. Given that suppliers are evaluated in respect of key New suppliers evaluated corporate risks, the Group does not deem it neces­ Principle 414-1 Group 5 8 16 under social criteria sary to conduct a further analysis focused on labour 2 practices. Negative social impacts on The Group does not deem it necessary to conduct a Principle 414-2 the value chain and actions Group 5 8 16 further analysis focused on these aspects. 2 implemented GRI 415 Public policy This issue is immaterial to the Euskaltel Group. The Euskaltel Group does not make any donations to Principle 415-1 Political contributions Group political parties or their candidates. 10 72 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Global Standards Description Notes/direct reference (page ) Scope SDG Compact GRI 416 Customer health and safety Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapters 1 and 3. The Euskaltel Group uses and places on the market equip­ ment manufactured by third parties, ensuring that both the equipment it purchases and those it sells comply with cur­ rent legislation on electromagnetic fields. With regard to radio emissions, the Euskaltel Group pays particular atten­ tion to compliance with current legislation in its deployment Assessment of health of the LTE (4G) network, whose emissions are measured 416-1 and safety impacts of and reported to the relevant official agencies. A customer Group 12 products and services service telephone line is available to users to receive in­ formation about the Group’s policy in this regard. Although Euskaltel does not manufacture mobile handsets, all the models it sells are subject to an approval process, and sup­ pliers are required to meet the requirements of European Directive 1999/5/CE (R&TTE), which include a specific ab­ sorption rate and EMC electromagnetic compatibility tests. Non-compliance incidents relating to 416-2 health and safety No fines or sanctions were received in this respect. Group 16 impacts of products and services GRI 417 Marketing and labelling Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapter 3. All products offered by the Euskaltel Group are certified and meet the requirements set by different national and international bodies. The company complies with legal re­ quirements regarding packaging labelling, in accordance Product and service with Law 11/1997 on packaging and packaging waste. All 417-1 information and Group 12 labels state that the company complies with prevailing leg­ labelling requirements islation and that it contributes to the future management of waste generated by packaging. The company also cooper­ ates with the integrated management system organisation Ecoembes for this type of waste. Non-compliance incidents relating 417-2 to information and No fines or sanctions were received in this respect. Group 16 labelling of products and services Penalty proceedings involving a Euros 35,000 fine in con­ Non-compliance nection with the failure to notify price changes in advance, incidents relating 417-3 as legally required. Group 16 to marketing Currently suspended. communications No further non-compliances have been recorded in 2017. GRI 418 Customer privacy Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapters 1 and 3. Substantial complaints related to breaches of No duly-grounded complaints of this type were received in 418-1 Group 16 customer privacy and 2017. loss of customer data GRI 419 Socio-economic compliance Issue included in the materiality analysis and in the Euskaltel Group’s 2016–2018 CSR Plan. Management and evaluation approach set out in chapters 1 and 3. No penalty proceedings were opened in this connection in 2017. The situation of the penalty proceedings started in 2016 is as follows: Non-compliance with • Penalty proceedings for price fixing in premium-rate ser­ laws and regulations 419-1 vices, involving a EUR 240,000 fine, were previously re­ Group 16 in the social and solved through payment of the fine. An appeal was filed in economic area 2017, which was deemed inadmissible. Claims received through customer organisations are dis­ closed in Appendix (page 74). 73 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION GRI Indicators Appendix 102-8 Information on employees 2015 2016 2017 Category Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Directors 52 9 61 48 9 57 34 8 42 Managers 71 32 103 66 34 100 34 16 50 Other 185 194 379 182 188 370 342 271 613 professionals TOTAL 308 235 543 296 231 527 410 295 705 301-2 Recycled input materials used 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Percentage 2.8% 3.3% 2.8% Percentage 40.3% 35.5% 43.0% 305-1, 2, 3 and 4 Emissions 2015 2016 2017 Units CO2 (*) 169.36 147.46 161.00 t. CO2 eq. CH4 (*) 0.21 0.19 0.17 t. CO2 eq. N2O (*) 2.19 1.94 1.60 t. CO2 eq. Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) HFC (*) (**) 652.13 766.24 1022.09 t. CO2 eq. PFC (*) (**) 0.00 0.00 0.00 t. CO2 eq. SF6 (*) (**) 0.00 0.00 0.00 t. CO2 eq. Energy indirect GHG emissions CO2 (*) 13,190.62 9,479.44 10,940.47 t. CO2 eq. (Scope 2) GHG emissions intensity CO2 6.13 4.49 4.43 kg. CO2 e./prod. GHG emissions (Scope 3) CO2 259.32 325.77 320.40 t. CO2 eq. (*) The method and conversions from the Ihobe Stop CO2 tool are used to calculate GHG emissions. (**) The Global Warming Potential (GWP) data published in European Regulation (EC) no. 517/2014 are used to calculate HCFC, HFC and SF6 emissions in tonnes of CO2 equivalent. 305-5 Environmental investment 305-7 Other significant air emissions (tonnes) 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Waste management SO2 0.0008 0.0008 0.0007 27,118 23,222 16,933 Other air (managers and means) NOX 0.6968 0.6066 0.5719 emissions Partículas Sólidas 0.0591 0.0515 0.0485 Consultancy and audits 28,780 14,728 9,881 The “EMEP/EEA air pollutant emission inventory guidebook 2013” by the TOTAL 55,898 37,950 26,814 European Environment Agency is used to calculate SO2, NOX and SP emissions. Euskaltel Group claims* 2015 2016 2017* Residential 891 874 1,220 IGC + KontsumoBIDE + TC** 842 826 1,111 SESIAD 49 48 109 Business 77 76 122 IGC + KontsumoBIDE + TC** 69 66 101 SESIAD 8 10 21 Overall total 968 950 1,342 *Telecable data include claims from 1 January 2017 **TC: Includes claims received through the Health and Consumer Affairs Agency, the City Council Office of Consumer Affairs, the Consumers’ Union of Spain, the Consumers and Users Organisation, and the Consumer Arbitration Board. SESIAD: State Secretariat for the Information Society and the Digital Agenda 74 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 A total of 3 people with functional diversity worked at the Euskaltel Group in 2017 401.1 New employee hires and employee turnover Euskaltel Group´s Suppliers Under 30 Between 31 Over 50 years % of years old and 50 old Local % Pur­ Company / Suppli­ local suppli­ chase Location ers suppli­ ers volume 2015 1 0 3 0 0 1 ers 2016 3 0 0 0 2 0 Euskaltel / Basque 606 361 59.6% 59.1% 2017 16 8 6 8 1 0 Country The external employee turnover index by gender and age R / Galicia 579 324 56.0% 30.3% Under 30 Between 31 Over 50 years years old and 50 old Telecable 162 52 32.1% 38.6% / Asturias 2015 0 0 5 8 5 0 Euskaltel Group / 2016 1 0 7 3 7 0 550 NA NA 51.4% Other 2017 3 3 16 8 13 2 regions Men Women 403.2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism Absenteeism rate Absenteeism rate Absenteeism rate Absenteeism rate Euskaltel R Telecable Grupo total Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women 2015 0.72 3.48 0.35 1.32 ----0.55 2.86 2016 1.53 3.48 1.08 2.33 ----1.32 3.15 2017 1.23 3.43 1.39 2.08 1.99 2.12 1.51 2.86 Severity and frequency rates 2015 2016 2017 Euskaltel R Euskaltel R Euskaltel R Telecable Severity rate 0.19 0.24 0 0 0 0.14 0 Frequency rate 2.07 0.73 0 0 0 3.01 0 405.1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by professional category and gender, age, minority group and other indicators of diversity 2015 2016 2017 Men 21 10 25 25 10 23 46 12 20 >50 Women 6 0 2 10 0 2 17 0 1 Men 158 61 27 152 56 25 277 22 14 30>50 Women 182 32 7 173 34 7 244 16 7 Men 6 0 0 5 0 0 19 0 0 ≤30 Women 6 0 0 5 0 0 10 0 0 Staff under the collective labour agreement Managers Directors 75 EUSKALTEL GROUP Parque Científico and Tecnológico de Bizkaia, 809 48160 Derio. Bizkaia +34 94 401 10 00 memoriarc@euskaltel.com www.euskaltel.com
