2017/ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THE COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY BELONGS TO EVERYONE AT This report was printed under standards and on paper with FSC certification (Forest Stewardship Council) from controlled forests. CONTENTS Message from the President 7 Experiencias Xcaret 9 Tourism Tendencies 15 Sustainability 19 People 27 Planet 55 Prosperity 71 Report 89 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT Twenty-seventeen was the International Year of We work to understand in greater depth what the Sustainable Tourism for Development, according challenges are that the sector faces, and how to the United Nations Organization. It was a we are addressing them from our organization. particularly important event as it boosted the Likewise, we are dedicated to understanding our efforts of the international community to adopt contribution to the achievement of the Sustainable the new 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through our actions, Development Goals (SDGs), so that more projects and programs. These two analyses will organizations, institutions and governments can lead us, in the following decades, to strengthen join this great cause. our sustainable tourism strategy, and to draw up a plan focused on improving the scope of the SDGs At Experiencias Xcaret we share a vision of the from our reality and corporate particularities. world oriented to a more sustainable development. For us sustainability is not an option, it is the path. The Sustainability Report that we present today In nature there are no rewards or punishments, gives an account of the achievements made in there are only consequences. In our case, it is the the last year. We align ourselves to international only way to do tourism business. standards in the presentation of our report, and we are more precise in reporting how we Our organization is close to reaching three contribute, from our management, to comply with decades of existence, and since its inception we the Sustainable Development Goals. We hope you have worked to have a profitable company that extensively enjoy your reading of this material. allows us to invest the necessary resources in social and environmental issues. We have built Experiencias Xcaret lives a new era. Its foundations prosperity for many people and for our country. are very powerful and are strongly rooted to the earth thanks to sustainability. We are on the right TOURISM AND SUSTAINABILITY: In 2017 we laid the foundations for everyone track and we visualize a promising future. Let’s in the organization to be clear, in our day to move forward, with all our heart, walking through A PROMISING FUTURE day, that sustainability is the way forward. We this wonderful path. institutionalize sustainability, so that everyone, in the years to come, will have the clear knowhow to continue generating virtuous circles in the Arq. Miguel Quintana Pali tourism industry. President and General Director Experiencias Xcaret Group 6 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 7 EXPERIENCIAS XCARET EXPERIENCIAS XCARET CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY The business model that characterizes the organization has led it to expand its product portfolio over these years, with the aim of diversifying tourist offerings in the destination Cancun Riviera Maya and the Yucatan Peninsula. In 2013 Experiencias Xcaret was consolidated as a corporate company, 24 years after the opening of its first business unit. We are a 100% Mexican organization dedicated to sustainable tourism recreation. MISSION To guarantee the scope of the Experiencias Xcaret Group by maximizing our value We offer unique and unforgettable tourism along the journey we are in. experiences for our visitors, inspired by respect for nature, culture and life. We operate the most emblematic parks of VISON To be unique in sustainable tourist entertainment. Cancun and the Riviera Maya, and tours to the archaeological zones of the Yucatan Peninsula. • Creativity • Profitability VALUES • Integrity • Congruency • Honesty • Spirit of Service • Commitment • Equality • Social Responsibility 10 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 11 EXPERIENCIAS XCARET TOURIST 2009 PLAYA DEL CARMEN 2013 PLAYA EXPERIENCES DEL CARMEN 2016 Live an adventure full of adrenaline exploring the jungle at PLAYA night! Admire the Mayan Riviera from the only nocturnal zipDEL CARMEN lines, get to know the interior of the planet and its stalactites, 1990 PLAYA DEL CARMEN Live a day full of excitement, surrounded by nature, while you explore the jungle immerse yourself in rivers of “lava” and cross wild roads through hanging bridges and flooded caverns. Live a night to A giant Pinwheel welcomes you from above and discover the interior the limit only at Xplor Fuego! to Xenses, a unique park where At Xcaret you’ll enjoy more than 50 attractions of the earth with its impressive rock imagination is endless. Test your for the whole family, from swimming in three formations in a unique experience. Be senses along two different circuits. 2013 different underground rivers, to observing a part of the adventure at Xplor, where PUERTO Fly like a bird, immerse yourself in great variety of birds in an impressive aviary. fun is also extreme! MORELOS mud, float in a river of salt, and Taste exquisite flavors, and take a trip through discover different ecosystems the history and folklore of our country with the without using sight in this largest spectacle in Mexico; all this and much An exclusive tour to four different types of cenotes where you incredible place where nothing is more on the shores of the Caribbean Sea. will get to know mysteries and Mayan stories. Accompanied what it seems. by a guide and a photographer, descend by assisted rappel, swim and admires the underwater gardens, fly on zip-lines, 2010 YUCATAN PENINSULA paddle a kayak, and enjoy a delicious picnic in the middle of 1994 CONTINENTAL ZONE Travel in time with all the luxury and the jungle. From the heights of the Scenic Lighthouse comfort to know the wonder of the Mayan world. Discover one of the 2013 CANCUN admire the most impressive natural most splendid cities of this ancestral landscape of the destination. Snorkel civilization, where you can admire the Xoximilco is the best and most traditional Mexican fiesta in freely to observe a great diversity of mysticism of the temple of the warriors, Cancun, where you won’t miss out on the food, tequila and wildlife, and enjoy fun activities. Xel-Há the ball game court, the observatory, mariachi. Have fun aboard picturesque gondolas through awakens the excitement of experiencing a and the enigmatic castle of Kukulcán, fantastic scenarios, while you toast, sing and dance on a heaven closer to you. the feathered serpent. night full of fun, culture and tradition. 12 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 13 TOURISM IN 2017 TOURISM IN 2017 TOURISM IN 2017 Tourism is one of the fastest growing economic These figures show the potential of the tourism sectors. In 2017, the arrivals of international tourists sector as the engine of prosperity in the world. “Tourism, when registered an increase of 7% with respect to the This sector employs one in eleven people in the designed and previous year, meaning that they reached a total world and drives more than one hundred billion managed well, can of 1.322 billion. The Americas received 207 million trips a year. By 2020, the number of international contribute significantly international tourist arrivals in 2017, that is, 16% of tourists is expected to reach 1.6 billion. However, the world total. Mexico ranked sixth in the world in there is a growing trend in changing the habits of to the economic, social international tourist arrivals, displacing Germany tourists, increasing the preference for sustainable and environmental and the United Kingdom. It received 39.3 million destinations. From the planning of the trips, dimension of international tourists, which represents a growth of sustainability is a subject that begins to define sustainable 12% compared to the previous year. These visitors behaviors and preferences. Travelers want to see development.” Ban left an economic impact of 21.3 million dollars, which that tourism companies and hotel developments Ki-monn, Former means an increase of 8.7% with respect to 2016. carry out environmental practices and benefit the Therefore, tourism becomes the third source of net communities where they operate. Secretary General of income for Mexico. Of the tourists who arrived by the United Nations. air, 59% did so from the United States, 16% from Latin For this reason, the United Nations Organization America, 11% from Europe, 10% from Canada, and declared 2017 as the International Year of the remaining 4% from other countries of the world. Sustainable Tourism for Development with 1,322 billion the purpose of promoting tourism through the tourists traveled the world. The state of Quintana Roo is considered the construction of a better future for people and jewel of Mexican tourism and the reference for the planet. During this year, more companies in the sector. In 2017, it attracted 17 million tourists, the sector committed themselves to managing 17 million that is, 43.2% of the total number of people who in a more sustainable manner, which will allow tourists visited Quintana Roo entered Mexico by air, land and sea. Undoubtedly, the industry to be further energized in an orderly Cancun and the Riviera Maya are the favorite and respectful manner with the environment sun and beach destinations for international and host communities. 2017, International Year travelers; although the growth of the southeast of Sustainable Tourism of the state is also highlighted, according to hotel accommodation data. Source: Tourism Secretariat, February 2018 16 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 17 SUSTAINABILITY IN EXPERIENCIAS XCARET SUSTAINABILITY IN EXPERIENCIAS XCARET SUSTAINABILITY In our corporate management model, sustainability is based on SUSTAINABILITY IN MODEL OF three axes, identified as the “3 Ps”: PEOPLE, PLANET and PROSPERITY. EXPERIENCIAS XCARET EXPERIENCIAS XCARET SUSTAINABILITY For Experiencias Xcaret Group, sustainability is the balanced The scope of our actions have two dimensions: internal creation of economic, sociocultural and environmental value and external. The internal includes all the actions that are POLICY OF that guarantees the harmonious growth of our business carried out within the company and that are related to the and the environment in which we operate. In graphic form, development of the business; and the external includes all EXPERIENCIAS XCARET sustainability is like a top, you cannot put more force on one actions that have an impact on the environment where the side because it will fall over, it has to be balanced so it can company operates. keep rotating. To manage Experiencias Xcaret Group All the actions that support the conservation of the We are a team of people who share the vision of being unique based on a model that ensures the environment are included in the pillar of the planet and cover in sustainable tourism recreation, this vision will allow us to conservation, dissemination and two aspects: the conservation of ecosystems and species, continue offering unforgettable tourism experiences over development of the natural, sociocultural and animal well-being. This pillar reflects that through our time, which will always guarantee the growth of our business, and economic heritage for future actions, we can achieve a more friendly relationship with the as well as the wellbeing of the communities and the natural generations. environment. environment where we live. In the pillar of people all social actions are concentrated, This vision is based on the principles included in the which cover three aspects: respect for human dignity, quality Sustainability Policy and the Management Model, which of life, as well as preservation and dissemination of cultural describe how we implement sustainability at Experiencias heritage. Xcaret, at the corporate level and in each business unit. The Directing Committee approved these documents in July 2017, And, in the prosperity pillar, we consider all the actions with the purpose of ensuring that sustainability continues to related to the economic performance of the business and the be part of our business model. generation of value to society and the environment. It covers four aspects: economic performance, responsible marketing, promotion of the Mexican economy, and business ethics. 20 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 21 SUSTAINABILITY IN EXPERIENCIAS XCARET “Sustainability is synonymous with balance. It is the right balance SUSTAINABILITY MODEL between benefits for people, the planet and prosperity. It is like a top that rotates perfectly when it is in balance, but if it receives more strength in any of its points, everything collapses.” Arq. David Quintana Morones Education for Conservation and sustainable Respect for development PEOPLE human dignity dissemination of cultural heritage PLANET Quality of life Impulse for the development of the Animal well-being people Conservation of the natural heritage (ecosystems and species) Efficient use of resources Economic Boosting the performance Mexican economy PROSPERITY Responsible marketing Business ethics 22 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 23 SUSTAINABILITY IN EXPERIENCIAS XCARET STAKEHOLDERS MATERIAL ANALYSIS In the development of our tourism activities, For practical purposes, we have classified our At the end of 2017 we carried out the analysis of the relevant we have relationships with multiple groups groups into categories: topics for Experiencias Xcaret and for our stakeholders in the of people. While we promote the creation of process of sustainability management. value in a sustainable manner for all of them, • Co-workers from the perspective of social responsibility, • Visitors The themes identified in this analysis were obtained through we are committed to responding to their needs • Partners three processes: and expectations, and from the perspective • Opinion leaders and media of reputation, commits us to managing their • Communities where we have a presence perception of our Group. • Schools and research centers • • Suppliers Commercial allies 1 Materiality Matrix in the sector. • Non-profit organizations 2 • Governmental authorities Benchmarking in Corporate Responsibility of nine national and • Competitors international companies in the sector. • Future generations 3 Press summary of Experiencias Xcaret, focused on aspects of For each of these groups sustainability. we have consolidated preferential communication channels in order to identify the most relevant issues and During 2018, we will prioritize material provide, whenever possible, a issues, thereby updating the strategy reasonable response to their and initiatives regarding sustainability. needs and expectations. 24 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 25 PEOPLE PEOPLE RESPECT FOR HUMAN DIGNITY At Experiencias Xcaret we recognize that the human being is in himself worthy and deserving of respect. “Tourism is an important economic Human dignity consists of respect for ideological engine that contributes to the differences, gender, social class, race, nationality, improvement of the livelihoods of religion, skills and language, as well as equal opportunities for all people. It is based on the millions of people around the world.” value of respect and ethics, ensuring not to Taleb Rifai, Secretary General of the compromise or under any circumstances affect World Tourism Organization. the physical, emotional, moral and spiritual integrity of human beings. Therefore, we prioritize all people, not only those who collaborate in our Group, but all those who are part of our social environment. We understand that people are the center of all economic, social and environmental development. 28 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 29 PEOPLE QUALITY OF LIFE CO-WORKERS BY GENERATION More than 65 years old 0.5% (Silent Generation) At Experiencias Xcaret we understand that CO-WORKERS quality of life is a series of actions that allow The quality of life at Experiencias Xcaret is built people to achieve well-being, satisfaction and generating a favorable, stimulating, creative and happiness. inclusive work environment, in which all co-workers interact from a just basis, promoting human and Between 37 & 52 27.5% 3% This purpose is achieved through different actions, professional development. That is why we protect Between 53 & 65 years years both in the internal and external dimension. In labor rights and provide safe work environments (Generation X) (Baby Boomers) the internal dimension, these actions focus on with the aim of creating full, productive and decent contributing to improve the skills, knowledge employment sources for the 4,700 co-workers of and attitudes so that co-workers develop in the Group. an integral way. In the external dimension, they are oriented towards the creation of synergies All of our co-workers are under a direct contract that lead to social development; to a greater scheme and have a package of benefits in addition Between 30 & 36 competitiveness of the organization, of its to those established by law. Under 18 years (Generation Z) 0% 69% years (Millennials) productive chain and of the economic zone where it participates. CO-WORKERS BY GENDER CO-WORKERS BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY 4,700 CO-WORKERS BY ORIGIN 72% Men CO-WORKERS 63% Rest of Mexico 28% IN 2017 MIDDLE OPERATIONAL AND 36% Yucatan Peninsula MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVES ADMINISTRATIVE Women 1% 63% Men 59% Men 73% Men Foreigners 37% Women 41% Women 27% Women 30 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 31 PEOPLE HEALTH AND WORK SAFETY In September 2017, Xcaret Park won the “Ramazzini & 39 co-workers I challenge you, Carvalho Prize”, the highest I care for you During 2017 the Safety, Health and Environmental distinction of the Safety, Protection Management System was Hygiene and Civil Protection Participated strengthened, which included an update of the policy of nonconformities and sanctions of Association, A.C. (ASEHPROC), for its performance achieved 1,184 co-workers during safety, occupational health and environmental protection. in issues of Safety and Health health days at Work and Civil Protection. To promote a healthy workplace, we carry out the “Te Cuido” Program (I Care for You). This includes a day of health that consists of free clinical analyses of the co-workers of all the business units; attention for at-risk groups, that is, a program for employees who require specific care for the activities they perform; nutrition counseling; and the program “Te reto, te cuido” (I challenge you, I care for you), where 271 Assessed co-workers at risk of health due to obesity, participate by reducing weight and adopting a co-workers for nutrition healthy lifestyle; sports activities such as soccer, basketball, volleyball, swimming and zumba classes; as well as the races Colorea Xoximilco and Troglodita Xplor. 2,314 Sport events co-workers and activities 32 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 33 PEOPLE CO-WORKER BENEFITS Demonstrating the importance of co-workers is essential in our Group, which is why we have several benefits that affect their well-being. SCHOLARSHIPS OF EXCELLENCE FOR COURTESY ADMISSIONS FOR PARKS At Experiencias Xcaret we have CHILDREN OF CO-WORKERS AND TOURS OF EXPERIENCIAS XCARET designed creative experiences We awarded 186 scholarships to the children of coWe awarded 93,437 courtesies to encourage for our co-workers: workers who maintained excellent qualifications, the right to recreation for our co-workers increasing the number by 24% with respect to the and their companions. previous school year. EXPERIENCIAS XCARET CO-WORKER’S DAY The leaders of the Group help us to thank and celebrate the effort and dedication with which our CELL PHONES DINING CENTERS co-workers carry out their work. We provide cellular phones with a data plan We awarded 1,159,505 buffet meals to at no cost to all our co-workers, extending this co-workers and interns, considering FAMILY DAY benefit to their families by making available balanced and healthy menus. All the coFor the third year, we gathered 4,096 people who 1,624 additional lines. worker dining rooms are qualified with the make up families of the Group’s co-workers to enjoy Distinctive H. a day of fun. This event allows us to highlight the social transcendence of the family and strengthen TRANSPORTATION DISCOUNTS our bond with them. In 2017 we transported 1,045,725 people, We signed 119 agreements with companies representing 61% of our employees, providing safe and businesses in Cancun, Playa del END OF YEAR HOLIDAY PARTY and comfortable rides through several routes. In Carmen and Tulum, with the purpose of The Gran Tlachco Theater of Xcaret became a addition, we reduce the Group’s carbon footprint. offering discounts on different products stage in which 3,887 employees celebrated the and services to our co-workers, and thus, results achieved in an exceptional year of work. strengthen the local economy. 34 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 35 PEOPLE TRAININGS AND DEVELOPMENT 215 Co-workers recognized under the Collection of Smiles program At Experiencias Xcaret we have a commitment to CO-WORKER ACKNOWLEDGMENTS the integral development of our co-workers. Our It is very important to strengthen the pride and 172 Co-workers recognized in the company meetings, training programs seek to train people who are loyalty of our co-workers, and for this there are “Entérate” Forums recognized for their professionalism in the approach two types of recognitions: to the satisfaction of our visitors, in the execution of their activities and in the attachment to the results • Collection of Smiles: Leaders give a collectable of the business; so we have a commitment to their coin to co-workers who perform an outstanding comprehensive training. action. • “Entérate” Forums: During co-worker’s In 2017, all employees received institutional, strategic meetings, the best co-workers of and technical training, with an accumulated total each area are distinguished. of 149,134 hours. On average, we offered 32 hours of training per person. In November, we held the Loyalty and Performance Ceremony, in which we recognized In addition to job training, it is very important to offer the co-workers with the longest standing in the opportunities and spaces of development to our organization, as well as those who stood out for co-workers. Through the program of conclusion of excellent performance during 2017. In total, they studies, 53 co-workers concluded their preparatory, 204 co-workers were recognized. CO-WORKERS BY TYPE OF TRAINING university and postgraduate studies. Additionally, architect Miguel Quintana made “I’m single, I do not have a wife, I 14% Institutional Promotion of our co-workers has become a fundamental aspect to ensure the successful a recognition to the cast of the dance of the Viejitos de Michoacán, one of the most do not have children. I live alone, my relatives are far away. It feels growth of our Group. During 2017, we promoted 793 applauded artistic numbers of Xcaret México employees in the following functional categories: Espectacular. The most emotive distinction was wonderful to interact with the 28% Strategic 84% line, 14% middle managers, and 1% executive that of Elwin Avilez y Castillo, who completed 20 public, when people who do not positions. Today, at Experiencias Xcaret, we have a years of being part of this cast, and who at 73 know you see you, they admire pool of excellent talent. years of age, wants to continue to infect with you; and people who already know 58% Technical joy the thousands of people who see the show you applaud for friendship. It’s every day. fantastic!” Elwin Avilez 36 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 37 PEOPLE ACADEMIC ALLIANCES ACADEMIC LINKING PROGRAM LINKING WITH THE Academics is a relevant interest group for Experiencias Xcaret. Our social Our Academic Linking Program aims to provide the opportunity to high COMMUNITY action is focused on promoting the development of people. We have school and university students for professional internships within the developed alliances with centers of Group under the tutoring of coAt Experiencias Xcaret we are very committed all educational levels to contribute in workers that help them develop to the societies of the north of Quintana Roo the training in sustainability, as well as technical and personal skills. This and Valladolid in Yucatan, where the parks and the strengthening of the skills of the program consists of a pool of talent; tours that we operate are located. After the people. Likewise, we have partnerships in 2017 we received 798 young people, implementation of our Management Model, with research centers to help raise the of which 16% were hired at the end of we assume that our Group is part of a social scientific level and find solutions to the their stay in the Group. framework that depends on tourism and that it problems of our environment. can only be developed in a sustainable manner. As a tourism business group, we work in partnership to consolidate sustainable communities, not only through job creation and responsible management of natural and cultural heritage, but also with the INTERNSHIPS BY ORIGIN support in improving the infrastructure and access to quality basic services for the communities where we have a presence. This commitment is 51% Mexico South permanent and genuine, for the gratitude and love we have for Mexico, for culture and life. 43% Mexico Central We have generated alliances with academic organizations, government authorities, other 5% Mexico North companies and non-profit organizations; all of them allow us to ensure the social, economic and 1% Rest of the world environmental development of our communities. 38 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 39 PEOPLE ALLIANCES WITH NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS EDUCATION PROGRAMS FOR SUSTAINABILITY For Experiencias Xcaret education is the main schools through an agreement with the Ministry of way to achieve sustainable development, where Education and Culture (SEyC) of Quintana Roo. the participation and commitment of each of Due to its intersectoral nature, tourism has the the people with whom we relate is required, living And through the Xplor Academic Excellence capacity to generate strategic alliances between actively the values of ​​ sustainability in order to Program, 100 high school students and professors the private sector and non-profit organizations in generate an impact significant in our environment from public universities in Quintana Roo participated order to join efforts to achieve common objectives and in the communities where we have a presence. in an educational journey to enter the underground in community and environmental issues. caverns full of stalactites and stalagmites, with the Our Xcaret, Xel-Há and Xplor parks have education purpose of raising awareness of the importance to programs to contribute to the education of the conserve this ecosystem of the Yucatan Peninsula. At Experiencias Xcaret we have five main generations that will be responsible for the future alliances with non-profit organizations that of our world in the coming years. In 2017 we worked on the design of the educational constitute action platforms for the improvement strategy for sustainability, which we will be and development of the community and the At Xcaret and Xel-Há, we have the Environmental implementing in the coming years, since we know challenges of the environment. Our collaboration Education Program which promotes the protection that it transcends all our stakeholders, co-workers, with these organizations is not only done through and conservation of the natural and cultural partners, visitors, communities, commercial economic donations or in kind, but also in donation heritage of Quintana Roo and Mexico through partners, suppliers, academia and future of time and talent from our co-workers. These interpretive tours around climate change, generations. organizations are: Flora, Fauna and Culture of endangered flora and fauna ecosystems, good Mexico; Mexican Red Cross, Cancun Delegation; environmental practices, responsible tourism and Citizens for Transparency; Save the Children Mayan culture. In 2017, we received 12,732 students Quintana Roo; and Transforming by Educating. and basic education teachers from 300 state public 40 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 41 PEOPLE FLORA, FAUNA AND CULTURE OF MEXICO,A.C. 15 YEARS OF SOWING THE FUTURE SEA TURTLE CONSERVATION 3.7 tons PROGRAM of waste recovered from beach The sea turtle program is a program cleanups in nesting areas of research, monitoring, protection and awareness of sea turtles that nest on the coasts of Quintana Roo. 130 volunteers at turtle camps 1,763,135 sea 970 attendees turtle hatchlings at the Sea Turtle Festival in Xcacel, Akumal and Tulum. reintroduced 2017 This non-profit organization works for the of Mexico has managed to continue the Riviera conservation of the natural and cultural heritage Maya-Tulum Sea Turtle Conservation Program with of Mexico. It was created a decade and a half ago important data for the scientific community; it has as a response to the environmental and cultural developed the Green Areas Program, dedicated problems generated by the accelerated urban to the production of native plants of the region, as and tourist development registered in the state of well as reforestation and monitoring of Protected Quintana Roo in recent decades. Since its inception, Natural Areas; and it operates with great success we work in partnership to generate welfare for the three community welfare spaces in northern community and the environment. After 15 years Quintana Roo. of partnership work, Flora, Fauna and Culture 42 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 43 PEOPLE GREEN AREAS CONSERVATION 226 acres COMMUNITY WELL-BEING PROGRAM 91 projections PROGRAM of mangrove reforested since This program that contributes to the strengthening 6,022 attendees at the “Cine 2008 with an 80% survival of the social fabric, the improvement in the quality Club” in Parque La Ceiba. This program consists of the recovery of Quintana rate in the Protected Natural of life, the promotion of values and respect for Roo’s vegetation both in natural ecosystems and in public spaces through the reforestation Areas of the municipalities of nature through various activities that take place in 9,800 attendees Benito Juárez and Cozumel. community spaces: Parque La Ceiba “El Corazón of mangroves in Natural Protected Areas and for “Saturdays of Tianguis” de Playa”, La Ceiba Community Center “El Corazón production of native plants in the Riviera Maya in Parque La Ceiba. de Ciudad Chemuyil”, and La Ceiba Community Forest Nursery. Center”El Corazón de Tulum”. 60 participants For Experiencias Xcaret, Flora, Fauna and Culture of in the “Sewing Workshop” of the Mexico is a true example of how you can contribute Community Center of Chemuyil City. to the social and environmental transformation of 103,600 plants 126 acres the community. More than 550 beneficiaries produced in nurseries of of casuarina (invasive in six workshops on waste We will continue a total of 110 species. species) eradicated in management, ecothe Mangroves Protected efficiency, drawing, yoga, and Natural Area of Nichupté. “Sowing the Future Together”. empowerment of women in the Community Center of Tulum. 44 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 45 PEOPLE CITIZENS FOR TRANSPARENCY, A.C. This non-profit organization promotes transparency, open government, citizen participation and accountability with the aim of eradicating corruption in Quintana Roo. Last year we reaffirmed our commitment. SAVE THE CHILDREN QUINTANA ROO Our commitment to promote the protection of the rights of children and youth allow us to continue collaborating with Save the Children Quintana Roo through a donation that we make every year for the operation of the Playa del Carmen and Tulum toy libraries for the benefit of the communities MEXICAN RED CROSS OF QUINTANA ROO where we maintain presence. As in every year, during the Annual Collection of charge of supporting the reconstruction work of the Red Cross, we made a donation to support the the affected communities. well-being of the Quintana Roo population and tourists in emergency and disaster situations. TRANSFORMING BY EDUCATING During 2017, we donated $4,458,000 pesos to This organization is focused on the education In alliance with Flora, Fauna and Culture of Mexico, support the construction of the Mexican Red of children, adolescents and young people with we made a call to the solidarity and generosity of Cross University Institute, Plantel Cancun, where educational struggles in the Riviera Maya, providing our co-workers to support those affected by the the first Bachelor’s Degree in Pre-hospital Medical them with teaching and a high level of job training earthquakes in Oaxaca and Chiapas. Through Emergencies will be offered. Through this donation, including a level of practical English, computer a collection, we doubled each peso donated. In we seek to support the strengthening of emergency skills, and basic health programs, among others. total, we donated $245,344 pesos to the Mexican care services to meet the needs of the communities Red Cross, the Cancun Delegation, which was in of Quintana Roo. 46 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 47 PEOPLE According to UNESCO, intangible heritage is CONSERVATION AND understood as all those expressions transmitted that give a sense of identity and promote respect DISSEMINATION OF THE for cultural diversity. Currently, Mexico has various cultural expressions inscribed in the list of CULTURAL HERITAGE intangible cultural heritages, some of them are expressed in our experiences such as the “Day of the Dead”, “Ritual Ceremony of the Voladores At Experiencias Xcaret we are de Papantla”, “Mariachi, String Music, Singing ambassadors of the Mexican and Trumpet” and “Charrería, Equestrian Art and Traditional Rodeo of Mexico”. culture. We have established a commitment to the conservation and dissemination of Mexico’s We proudly share with all our visitors our love of customs and traditions expressed Mexico through our shows, activities and events in its music, gastronomy, art and such as Xcaret México Espectacular, the Mexican Cemetery, the Museum of Mexican Popular Art, dance, many of them considered Equestrian Show, Mayan Pre-Hispanic Dance, Intangible Cultural Heritage of the Mayan Ball Game, many others. We highlight Humanity by the United Nations the results of the emblematic events for the Educational, Scientific and communities of Quintana Roo because of the Cultural Organization. and Culture cultural value they represent for the Mayan world (UNESCO). and for Mexico, like the Sacred Mayan Journey and the Festival of Life and Death Traditions. 48 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 49 PEOPLE From October 30 to November 2 we celebrated FESTIVAL OF LIFE AND the twelfth edition of the Festival of Life and Death Traditions at Xcaret Park. This cultural festival DEATH TRADITIONS aims to recover and promote the traditions of the Day of the Dead as a common identity element The festival has become an to strengthen the regional identity of the state 48,306 attendees through artistic proposals alluding to this heritage. emblematic event in which the Quintana Roo community In 2017, the guest state was Yucatan, which was 17 art groups comes closer to the most represented by a great artistic, theatrical and of Yucatan musical cast. However, the most significant genuine customs and 25 artisan groups participation was that of the inhabitants of the traditions of our country. Mayan communities from 25 locals in this state and Quintana Roo. They had all the facilities from the Mayan areas of such as transportation, accommodation and free Quintana Roo and Yucatan spaces within the event to market their handmade products and traditional foods. 315 volunteers 50 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 51 PEOPLE SACRED MAYAN JOURNEY The ancient Mayans had a ritual associated with The Sacred Mayan Journey commerce, navigation and religious practice of is a model of conservation crossing in canoes from Xcaret (formerly Polé) to the island of Cozumel, with the purpose of venerating and dissemination of the the goddess of the moon and fertility, IxChel. After Intangible Cultural Heritage that a meticulous research and documentation effort, contributes to the sociocultural 4, 259 aattendees 30 canoes Xcaret recovers this tradition and, in 2007 manages dimension of sustainable to recreate it with the intense participation of a development and strengthens group of canoers and performing artists. the identity of the Quintana Roo 311 canoers from 13 countries 195 artists population. 52 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 53 PLANET PLANET PLANET One of the most important challenges in the tourism sector is related to the environment. Tourism activities can have an impact on ecosystems; However, by promoting efficient management of resources and promoting measures against climate change, it is possible to minimize this impact in order to preserve the natural attractions that distinguish destinations. We have selected the methodology of EarthCheck, the world’s leading organization in scientific benchmarking and certification for CONSERVATION OF THE NATURAL HERITAGE the travel and tourism industry, as a tool that allows us to ensure Our parks and tours are found in ecosystems with sustainable management and the continuous improvement of our great physical, biological and geological richness. experiences. In 2009, Xel-Há was the first park in the world to receive We are committed to the conservation of the the EarthCheck International Certification of Sustainable Tourism. natural heritages where we operate, and to fulfill Afterward Xcaret was certified and both have become global this, we use resources responsibly, protecting and references of good practices. The other parks of the Group do not yet renewing them to guarantee their availability for have certification. However, they follow the standards established by future generations, including all the species of the organization and will have to be certified in the coming years. flora and fauna that live in said environment. 56 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 57 PLANET COMPREHENSIVE WATER MANAGEMENT Our commitment to the conservation of water and the life that lives in underground rivers, mangroves, cenotes, beaches and creeks, is backed by an awareness program on the use of chemical-free sunblocks. In our sales channels, the importance of using these products to ensure water care in our experiences is specified; our commercial partners support us in this process of awareness of visitors. We have an on-site program of exchanging traditional sunblock for chemical-free samples. In 2017, we exchanged 155,458 free samples with our visitors. The parks have wastewater and osmosis treatment plants. Through these processes, we avoid the contamination of the underground layers of great fragility in the areas of karst geology. In addition, reclaimed water is used to irrigate green areas within our ECOSYSTEMS parks. In 2017, 144,405 liters of water were treated. An ecosystem is a natural system where a great diversity of organisms live. At Experiencias Xcaret, we operate in In addition, we have implemented efficiency systems in the use of water in our parks, ecosystems of great beauty, where there is a great diversity such as dry urinals, sparing showers and faucets and low-flow toilets, supported by of plant and animal species. It is our responsibility to take routine maintenance programs throughout the year. care of them, conserve them and make them greater, these ecosystems make Mexico a unique country. 58 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 59 PLANET Hazardous wastes, such as fats, oils, paints and solvents, are delivered to a certified company that guarantees its proper final disposal. 84.5 % recycling of organic and inorganic waste ENERGY EFFICIENCY We continue with the integration of our business 2,520 tons model energy efficiency programs. Although in all of compost produced our parks the use of natural light is privileged, in from organic waste those spaces that require it, we continue replacing COMPREHENSIVE WASTE MANAGEMENT lamps with LEDs and installing timers, as part of In all the parks and tours we implemented a solid waste separation program. In our Transfer and 66 tons of PET the energy efficiency programs. recovered Collection Centers we make separations in greater Most of our spaces have natural ventilation detail. The inorganic waste that we recover is availability; however, in the areas that require it, delivered to authorized external suppliers to 21 tons of recovered we have inverter technology air conditioners that give them an adequate end, most of them are aluminum and metal are used responsibly. destined for recycling. With organic waste we 243 tons of recovered produce compost that serves as a substrate for Our vehicles and boats are eco-efficient, their the reproduction programs of native plants that engines guarantee fuel savings. We have a paper and cardboard we have in our nurseries, with which we reforest preventive maintenance program that promotes green areas of the parks and the central median their proper functioning. of the Cancun Tulum federal highway. 102 tons of glass recovered 60 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 61 PLANET FLORA AND FAUNA SPECIES FLORA PROGRAMS We promote the conservation of the natural ecosystems 219,713 plants FAUNA PROGRAMS • 39% are birds where we operate, through our programs of production produced At Experiencias Xcaret we have a • 28% are marine species in our nurseries biological population of Mexican • 22% are mammals and reforestation of native plants. With this we guarantee fauna that is under our care, of • 6% are insects the existence of the forest wealth of the environment and which: • 5% are reptiles the natural beauty of our experiences. 173,401 plants reforested in public spaces and park green areas 3, 316 butterflies 7,825 produced reproduced orchids in Xcaret Park 1,768 queen conch monitored in Xel-Há Park 62 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 63 PLANET • Reproduction programs: butterflies, great green Some of these programs are macaws, red macaws, pink flamingos, toucans, aimed at cooperating with horses, eagles, corals, Mexican parrots, king vultures, nurse sharks and manatees. institutions with which we • Conservation programs: sea turtles, red macaws share activities and resources and elkhorn coral. to achieve the path towards Within Xcaret Park we have an aviary, which is the result • Collaborative research programs: queen conch, nature conservation. southern stingrays, fish and mammal monitoring. of years of research, where natural habitats were created (from low and middle jungle, to mangrove), which allow the development of more than 1,825 specimens of a total of 60 species in an area of 5,000 square meters. This aviary has an area of incubators for the reproduction SOME OF OUR ALLIANCES of specimens, area of hummingbirds, area of birds of prey, high forest, humid forest, low jungle, forest of fog, mangrove, wetland area , aquatic area, semi-arid area, and shrubland. Our commitment to the well-being of all the specimens that we have under our care, as well as the conservation of the species, have led us to develop a wide spectrum of activities such as reproduction, research and conservation, which are reinforced by a program of education. ARROYO NEGRO A.C. Unidad de Manejo Ambiental 64 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 65 PLANET 12,742,052 sea turtles reintroduced since the beginning of the program. 1,753,507 sea turtle hatchlings SCARLET MACAW CONSERVATION PROGRAM returned to the sea in 2017. At the end of 2017, we managed to get 235 The success of the reintroduction is based on more specimens to live in the jungles of Los the breeding program of the scarlet macaw Tuxtlas in Veracruz and in the Palenque region that began in Xcaret Park in 1994, thanks to of Chiapas. This represents a 97% increase in the which it is possible to provide specimens, born population of the species in the wild and is the under human care, to the reserves of Chiapas SEA TURTLE CONSERVATION PROGRAM result of the work of many people and institutions and Veracruz. In addition to an intense work to In partnership with Flora, Fauna and Culture monitoring” carried out by the Remote Sensing involved, such as the Institute of Biology of guarantee the conditions that allow the survival of Mexico, A.C., we promote the protection of and GIS Laboratory of the Center for Research the National Autonomous University of Mexico of the specimens in wildlife, the organizations sea turtles, through monitoring, research and and Advanced Studies of the National Polytechnic (UNAM); Acajungla, A.C., Aluxes Ecopark, the of the civil society that protect these reserves, conservation of turtle populations that spawn in Institute (CINVESTAV-IPN). As a result of this reserves of Nanciyaga and The Other Option; the have fomented the conscience of the local the main beaches of the central coast of Quintana alliance, two sea turtles (one olive ridley and National Commission of Natural Protected Areas communities to stop the capture and illicit traffic Roo. In 2017, on the beaches of Xcaret and Xel-Há, another hawksbill) were rehabilitated at Xcaret (CONANP); the United States Fish and Wildlife of the species, and at the same time, to awaken we helped 1,753,507 sea turtle hatchlings return Park, and subsequently reintroduced to the Service (USFWS); Defenders of Wildlife; Ancient pride for the macaws. to the sea. Since the beginning of the program Caribbean Sea. Both agencies received a satellite Forest, A.C; and Xcaret Park. and through a joint effort, we have reintroduced tracking device to monitor their movements, in 12,742,052 sea turtles, a historical record worldwide. order to support scientific information on the critical habitats of turtles and their vulnerabilities. In addition, in the same year we joined the Very soon we will double the number project “Critical habitats of sea turtles: satellite of red macaws in the wild! 66 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 67 PLANET ANIMAL WELLBEING We are a responsible organization, providing the best care to ANIMAL WELL-BEING all the agencies that we have under our care. STRATEGY Therefore, in 2017, we consolidated our strategy and model of Experience animal well-being that allows us to provide challenging and Play, curiosity, tranquility, positive experiences to all the organisms that we protect. satisfaction, company, This model is based on five domains: reward, and interaction ELKHORN CORAL CONSERVATION PROGRAM Experiencias Xcaret aims to contribute to the restoration and repopulation of the coral NATURAL SKILLS Conduct reefs of the Mexican Caribbean through the Natural behavioral reproduction of the elkhorn coral acropora expressions, management, palmata, a species characteristic of the area social interaction and in danger of extinction. This program is carried out in partnership with the National Good well-being Environment Autonomous University of Mexico, the National Opportunities, diversity, Fisheries Institute and Secore International. environmental choices, safe environments, etc The coral conservation program focuses 400,000 coral on obtaining gametes through sexual reproduction, which guarantees the genetic Freedom from Health eggs collected sickness Capacities, adaptation diversity of the population, and therefore, its survival in the medium and long term. It has Nutrition 1,691 reproduced been possible to reintroduce colonies of this species in areas of affected reefs. Availability, diets recruits Animal care Survival 68 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 69 PROSPERITY PROSPERITY VISITOR SATISFACTION Our purpose is that our visitors have the best our visitors; however, for some years now we have experience before, during and after their visit. Our implemented a system that measures excellence, corporate culture is focused not only on ensuring that is, the ten rating of 100% of our visitors. “The the fulfillment of the promise of sale of our parks voice of the customer” is a permanent listening and tours, but on exceeding the entertainment system through social networks and satisfaction expectations of visitors. studies that has led us to consolidate a culture of measurement and analysis to evaluate our Therefore, we have established constant performance and identify new opportunities that communication processes with our customers and keep us at the forefront of the offer tour. visitors. We begin by measuring the satisfaction of VISITOR AFFLUENCE 98/100 is the 94% of our 91.6% of our 99.6% of our In 2017 we received qualification visitors agree visitors are visitors would 3’332,118 visitors 75% of visitors that our visitors that their willing to revisit recommend our which represents a growth of are international. give to the experience in our experiences experiences 8.9% over the previous year. 25% of our visitors are experiences the Experiencias on their next trip of Mexican origin and 75% international. Other lived in our Xcaret parks to the destination nationalities that enjoy our parks was in experiences are: United States, Colombia, Argentina, United accordance Kingdom, Canada, Brazil, Chile, with what Spain, Peru and South Korea. they paid These indicators refer to the parks, where we have total control of the visitor’s experience. 72 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 73 PROSPERITY XPLOR BRAVEST RACE In its 5th edition, the Xplor Bravest Race is the most important obstacle and pursuit race in Mexico. It takes place in beautiful natural settings with rivers, cenotes, caverns, and the exuberant vegetation of the Mayan jungle that is part of the Xplor Park environment. The Xplor Bravest Race is a sporting event that is characterized by the participation of personalities from sports and entertainment. In the competition the participants face more than 30 constructed, incidental and natural obstacles in a distance of 5 kilometers. SPECIAL EVENTS In 2017 the race consolidated good practices and a space of awareness on the care of the environment. A strategy of attracting visitors has been the realization of special events that captivate specific 3,078 participants 98% nationals audiences, but also leave a positive mark. Thus, we generated the Xplor Bravest Race and the Xel-Há Triathlon, events that not only encourage 47% men 2% foreigners sport and healthy lifestyles, but are also linked to social and environmental causes that have a positive impact on the communities in which we 53% women have a presence. 74 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 75 PROSPERITY 2,058 participating triathletes, 5% more than in 2016 9.6 tons of organic waste recovered 1.8 tons of recovered inorganic waste 187 volunteers XEL-HÁ TRIATHLON $2,005,389 pesos donated from inscriptions for the sea turtle program of Flora, Fauna This event was born in 2009 to celebrate the 15 years of Xel-Há Park. It has grown and Culture of Mexico, A.C. significantly to position itself as one of the best triathlons in Mexico. It is endorsed by the Mexican Federation of Triathlons (FMI) and is considered an event with cause by allocating each year donations for Flora, Fauna and Culture of Mexico, A.C., and the Mexican Red Cross of Quintana Roo. $723,500 pesos donated for the benefit of the It has an environmental focus called “Green Triathlon”. During the two days of the event, good environmental practices are performed, such as the use of chemical-free sunblock, Mexican Red Cross separation of waste, collection of bicycle chambers for reuse, use of biodegradable through dinners materials and supplies, reduction of prints, collection of swimming caps for your donation, rehabilitation of roads, among others. 76 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 77 PROSPERITY INNOVATION AND DEVELOPMENT Tourism activity, by its nature, requires a constant innovation that can satisfy the requirements of the visitors; that is why our parks constantly have a renewed offer of attractions and The Scenic Lighthouse of Xel-Há was one of the services. main innovations of 2017. This new icon of the Mexican Caribbean is a work that emulates a traditional lighthouse and fulfills the function of being a reference for maritime navigation. But conceptually it offers much more. It allows visitors to ascend to a platform located 40 meters high to appreciate, with a 360 degree perspective, “Sometimes you don’t need the impressive blue ocean and a beautiful jungle; to look up to find heaven.” and the most fun is the descent, on a waterslide, visitors can glide at high speed by one of the Arq. Miguel Quintana Pali four channels and end the experience with a refreshing dip in a pool. 78 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 79 PROSPERITY CERTIFICATIONS CERTIFICATION OF SUSTAINABLE TOURISM EARTHCHECK GOLD Xcaret and Xel-Há parks received the EarthCheck Gold Sustainable Tourism Certification for their outstanding performance in the management of natural resources for tourism use. DISTINCTIVE H DISTINCTIVE S We confirm the commitment to hygiene The Ministry of Tourism once and quality in the elaboration of the food again recognized Xcaret and drinks that we offer in the restaurants and Xel-Há parks for their for visitors and in the dining rooms of good environmental practices co-workers of all our parks and tours. in the tourism sector. STRATEGIC POSITIONING QUALITY AND SAFETY STANDARDS CERTIFICATION Throughout the year we evaluate our performance based on certifications that integrate national Xenses Park received the Certification of Quality and Safety Standards granted and international standards that allow us to advance in the path of continuous improvement and by Thomas Cook SGS and the Association for Challenge Course Technology, excellence. In addition, as a result of our good practices, in 2017, we received a total of ten awards having demonstrated compliance with the requirements of the SGS Health and and four certifications that recognize our management on issues of quality, hygiene, marketing, safety, Safety Compliance Program, which verifies safety, service and the sustainability of sustainability, technology, among others. activities offered to tourists. 80 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 81 PROSPERITY ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS GREAT PLACE TO WORK The Great Place to Work Institute recognized us as one of the Best Companies to Work for in Mexico, ranked number 19 in the ranking of organizations HEEL AWARDS “MARKET BOSTON COLLEGE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP FILM FESTIVAL with more than 5,000 employees. In addition, EXCELLENCE” This year we won three awards from Boston College at the Corporate we obtained the third national place in the list We were awarded the Heel Citizenship Film Festival with the film “Flying Home” about the scarlet of the Best Companies to Work for the Millennial Award for “Excellence in the macaw. The categories in which we were awarded were “Best Video Generation. Market” by Meeting Professioby Public Voting”, “Best Small Business Video” and “Best Video of All nals International Mexico at an Categories”. We were the only Mexican company participating in the TRIPADVISOR industry meeting in Mexico. This festival and the only one that presented the testimony of a conservation The world’s largest travel website once again award recognizes individuals, program for a species in danger of extinction. awarded the certificate of excellence to all companies, or other organizaour experiences due to the high ratings and tions for having demonstrated recommendations made by our visitors. their achievement in Market Excellence, and having created new business opportunities for BEST PRACTICES OF CORPORATE partners and co-workers within SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY the industry, in the field of marThe Mexican Center for Philanthropy (Cemefi) keting, sales, promotion and recognized the Reforesting Our Home Program as positioning of brands. one of the Best Practices of Social Responsibility, DISTINCTIVE ESR (SOCIALLY BEST DIGITAL TRAVEL BEST MANAGED AFFILIATE in the category of Intersectoral Alliances. RESPONSIBLE COMPANY) CAMPAIGN PROGRAM IN LATIN AMERICA For 16 years, the Mexican Center Xenses Park obtained recogDuring the delivery of the for Philanthropy (Cemefi) has nition for “Best Digital Travel International Performance TOP RATED TRAVEL AWARDS recognized us as a Socially Campaign” by the Web MarkeMarketing Awards organized We received the recognition of Viator, the most TRAVVY AWARDS Responsible Company for ting Association, for its creativiby PerformanceIN, we receiimportant online travel agency in the world, as a For the second consecutive being the first to adopt social ty, innovation, impact, design, ved recognition for the Best prominent provider in the reservations platform year, Xcaret was recognized as responsibility standards in copywriting, use of media and Managed Affiliate Program in for tours, activities and attractions. This award the Best International Theme the tourism sector and in the recall of the campaign. Latin America. supports the company’s ongoing efforts to achieve Park and the Best Water Park destination of Cancun Riviera excellence in the experience of each visitor. outside the United States by Maya. TravAlliancemedia. 82 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 83 PROSPERITY VALUE CHAIN Our business model We consider our suppliers as important business partners, so we guarantee equal opportunities in the acquisition of their not only contributes products and services under criteria of quality, profitability, service, to the promotion of competitiveness, added value and origin of the company. In addition, the tourism industry, we give preference to companies that develop productive and but also to the commercial practices harmonious with people and the environment. economic impulse. Our purchasing policy benefits in priority order local suppliers, then regional, national, and ultimately foreigners. In addition, this helps to reduce our carbon footprint; 95% of the purchases that we made in 2017 were to companies established in Mexico. Companies by Size Ninety-five percent of the purchases that we Large Medium Small made in 2017 were with companies 52% 16% 32% established in Mexico. Suppliers SUPPLY CHAIN SHOPPING FROM THE GROUP 6% 1% 93% With this we reiterate our permanent commitment 42% 13% 45% to generate value to all our suppliers. (Supply chain and stores) Foreigners Mexico Rest of the Country Yucatan Peninsula Yucatan and Campeche Quintana Roo 6% 94% 33% 67% 10% 90% 1% 99% 35% 65% 13% 87% 5% 95% 43% 57% 11% 89% 84 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 85 PROSPERITY BUSINESS ETHICS Marcos David Quintana Constandse Redko Morones ESTRUCTURA ORGANIZACIONAL Our business ethics is based on regulatory Chief Executive Officer Executive Director of compliance, good corporate governance and Director of Innovation and practices, transparency and responsible practices Destino Xcaret Development in our value chain, as well as the promotion of honest behavior. We know that we are promoters of an adequate, ethical, honest and transparent line of conduct in all areas of the business. During 2017 we worked on the redesign of our Code of Arq. Miguel Quintana Pali Ethical Conduct, which will allow all employees to know the behaviors accepted by the organization. President and General Director We estimate to present it soon. “What has positioned Experiencias In recent years we have experienced a very Xcaret is sustainability” important transformation that arises from Arq. Marcos Constandse Redko an awareness of transcendence. In 2010, the Lizeth Álvarez Juan Manuel founding partners signed a trust that determines the direction our Group will take in the future. This trust guarantees the unity of the shares of The trust, linked to a solid Gorosave Soriano Macías the partners, which ensures that the capital will Corporate Executive Executive Director of remain 100% Mexican; it conceives the principles organizational structure, allows Director Corporate Strategy of sustainability as a commitment to operation us to increase the value for all Elizabeth Lugo with deep respect for communities and nature, as well as programs for the preservation and our stakeholders. The executive Monjarrás directorates not only have Executive Director dissemination of cultural heritage. responsibilities in the economic of Operations areas, but also in the social and environmental areas. 86 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 87 ABOUT THIS REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT In 2005, we were the first tourist company in Mexico to adhere to the United Nations Global Compact. At that time we visualized The Sustainability Report concentrates the main For more information about this that social responsibility and sustainability were the only way to do contributions of Experiencias Xcaret Group on business. Today, we understand that our role in this network is the report or the performance of economic, social and environmental issues, in the inclusion of more tourism companies to build a more responsible, period between January 1 and December 31, 2017. Experiencias Xcaret Group in sustainable, and at the same time, more competitive sector. terms of sustainability, contact Unless otherwise indicated, the figures and actions directly: Our organizational philosophy, corporate strategy and actions are expressed in this report refer to all the business aligned in four areas: human rights, labor standards, environment units that make up Experiencias Xcaret Group. Iliana Rodríguez Cavazos and anti-corruption. Director of Communication and This report was made considering criteria of the Corporate Social Responsibility HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Principal 9: Encourage Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guide, so there irodriguez@experienciasxcaret.com.mx Principal 1: Support and Principal 7: Support for the the development and are basic contents. Additionally, this document respect for the protection of preventive approach to diffusion of environmentally presents the commitment to the Principles of Miriam Alonso Pacheco human rights Pages: 10, 20, environmental challenges. friendly technologies. the United Nations Global Compact and the Corporate Social Responsibility Manager 21, 22, 23, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34, Pages: 20, 21, 40, 41, Pages: 20, 21, 56, 59, 61 y 66 Sustainable Development Goals. malonso@experienciasxcaret.com.mx 35, 36, 38, 46, 47, 48, 49 y 50 42, 43, 44, 56, 57, 59, 60, 61,64, 65, 66, 67 y 68 ANTICORRUPTION This document is available in electronic format, Leonildo Tun Caamal LABOR STANDARDS Principal 10: Act against all exclusively in English and Spanish, on the corporate Corporate Social Responsibility Executive Principal 6: Eliminate Principal 8: Promote greater forms of corruption, including website of Experiencias Xcaret: ejecutivorse@experienciasxcaret.com.mx discrimination in employment environmental responsibility. extortion and bribery. and occupation Pages: 10, 20, 21, 22, 23, Pages: 21, 22, 23, 47 y 86 Aida Erosa Flores Pages: 20, 21, 22, 23, 29, 40, 42, 43, 56, 57, 60, 62, “Thank you very much Aida Erosa Flores for 30, 31, 32, 33,34, 35, 36, 64, 67, 69, 74, 75, 76 y 77 having been part of Experiencias Xcaret, and 37, 38, 39, 47, y 50 www.grupoexperienciasxcaret.com for your valuable contribution to this Report.” 90 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 91 ABOUT THIS REPORT To get to know in more detail the actions, projects or programs aligned to each Sustainable Development Goal, consult the page number referred to in this diagram. 65 47 30 32 46 41 34 39 74 38 75 32 76 1 NO POVERTY 33 17 86 PARTNERSHIPS 77 FOR THE GOALS 2 ZERO HUNGER 34 46 3 AND WELL-BEING GOOD HEALTH 16 JUSTICE 65 PEACE, 44 34 67 AND 62 STRONG INSTITUTIONS 36 69 63 40 15 LAND SUSTAINABLE 4 LIFE ON QUALITY The Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) have the 64 EDUCATION purpose of achieving a better future for all; they repre42 DEVELOPMENT GOALS CORRELATION sent a road map so that in the next 15 years it will be 68 43 29 possible to eradicate poverty, protect the planet, and 69 56 14 LIFE BELOW WATER 5 GENDER EQUALITY 31 WITH THE 17 SDGs ensure prosperity for all people. It is a commitment 59 that requires the contribution of all sectors: govern13 ACTION 6 AND SANITATION CLIMATE CLEAN WATER 40 ment, companies, organized civil society and citizens. 74 59 76 At Experiencias Xcaret we are aware that companies 12CONSUMPTION RESPONSIBLE 7 CLEAN ENERGY AFFORDABLE AND AND play a key role in achieving these objectives. That is 50 PRODUCTION why we carry out a deep analysis to understand the 11 CITIES 8 AND 60 51 SUSTAINABLE DECENT WORK 61 COMMUNITIES 10 56 AND ECONOMIC 84 scope of our contribution through the projects, pro9 INNOVATION 57 INDUSTRY, GROWTH 85 REDUCED AND grams and actions that we develop. We are aligning 38 INEQUALITIES INFRASTRUCTURE 85 42 our business strategy with these Global Goals, and 45 84 49 30 48 thus, maximizing our contribution to meet the challen50 29 51 31 37 78 79 45 ges posed in this common agenda. 52 53 92 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 93 ABOUT THIS REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) Since 2014, we have reported on our performance considering criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), a non-governmental organization whose objective is transparency and accountability of companies in the fields of business management, EEnvironment economy, social, environment and labor practices. G4-8 Pgs: 72 & 73 G4-24 Pgs: 24 G4-EN1 Pág: 60 BMBusiness EC-Economy Materials by weight Management Markets served Stakeholders and volume G4-1 Pgs: 6 & 7 G4-9 Pgs: 12, 13 & 31 G4-27 Pgs: 25 G4-EC8 Pgs: 46, 47 y 77 G4-EN2 Pgs: 60 Statement of the person in Key issues for interest groups Significant indirect economic Percentages of recycled Scale of the organization charge of the company and institutional response impacts and their scope materials used G4-3 Pgs: 10 G4-10 Pgs: 30 & 31 G4-28 Pág: 90 G4-EC9 Pgs: 84 y 85 G4-EN10 Pág: 59 Name of the Number of co-workers by Period covered by the WPWork Practices Percentage of purchases Percentage and volume of organization gender report from local suppliers water recycled and neutralized G4-4 Pgs: 12 & 13 G4-12 Pgs: 84 & 85 G4-31 Pgs: 90 G4-LA2 Pág: 34 & 35 G4-EN13 Pág: 62, 64, 66, 67 y 68 Brands and products Supply chain Contact for resolving Co-worker benefits SOSocial Habitats protected or doubts restored G4-5 Pgs: 12 & 13 G4-15 Pgs: 7, 56, & 92 G4-34 Pgs: 87 G4-LA8 Pág: 32 & 33 G4-SO1 Pgs: 38, 39 y 41 G4-EN22 Pág: 59 Venue location Letters, principles Governmental structure Health and safety issues for Commitments with the Volume of treated water and initiatives of the organization co-workers local community G4-6 Pgs: 10 G4-16 Pgs: 65 & 91 G4-56 Pgs: 86 G4-LA10 Pág: 30, 36, 37 & 39 G4-SO20 Pgs: 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 50, 51, 52 y 53 G4-EN23 Pág: 60 Countries in which the Promotional organizations Codes of conduct or Skill management and Significant operations Total weight of waste by type organization operates and associations ethical codes continuing education programs within the community and methods of treatment 94 / EXPERIENCIAS XCARET / 2017 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 95 SUSTAINABILITY IS SYNONYMOUS WITH BALANCE. IT IS THE FAIR BALANCE BETWEEN BENEFITS FOR PEOPLE, THE PLANET AND PROSPERITY. IT IS LIKE A TOP THAT SPINS PERFECTLY WHEN IT IS IN BALANCE, BUT IF IT RECEIVES MORE STRENGTH IN ANY OF ITS POINTS, IT COLLAPSES. Arq. David Quintana Morones 2017 / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / www.grupoexperienciasxcaret.com
