CONTENTS EXECUTIVE MESSAGE PERFORMANCE CLIENTS TALENT SOCIETY REPORTING Are you ready for Industry 4.0? FY2017 UNGC report 1 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress This report serves as the Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact for Deloitte Global covering 2016-2017. While Deloitte Global is the signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, this report and the responses below include the activities of Deloitte Global and its network of member firms. The table below contains information or references to material in the 2017 Global Impact Report (“Global Report”) that addresses the Global Compact principles. UN Global Compact Disclosure GRI Principle Indicator Human rights Principle 1: Businesses Part of Deloitte’s purpose is to contribute to society, building confidence and trust, upholding integrity, and supporting the community. As a 103-2, 412-2, should support and network, Deloitte recognizes that it has a responsibility to uphold human rights both in the workplace and more broadly within its sphere of 413-1, 414-2 respect the protection of influence. internationally proclaimed In Deloitte workplaces, human rights typically take the form of non-discrimination and diversity in personnel practices, privacy, professional human rights; and development, and work-life balance Deloitte’s Global Principles of Business Conduct (“Global Code”) outlines our ethical commitments as a network and expectations for our approximately 264,000 people, giving us a strong, principled foundation. Elements of the Global Code directly address human rights and treatment of our people including the following: Principle 2: make sure • We support efforts to drive sustainable development, and we respect human rights standards. that they are not complicit • We foster a culture and working environment where our people treat each other with respect, courtesy, and fairness, promoting equal in human rights abuses. opportunity for all. • We do not tolerate harassment or unfair discrimination in our working environments • We understand the broader impact that our work has on society, our people, and our clients, and we conduct business with those interests in mind. The Deloitte Integrity Imperative, launched in May 2017, amplifies the Global Code across the Deloitte network by empowering leaders to set a strong tone from the top; encouraging people to speak up when they witness anything that runs counter to our Global Code; and helping Deloitte act quickly and appropriately in the face of misconduct. Deloitte Global’s Ethics team and member firm Ethics officers continue to work closely with senior Deloitte leaders to build and enhance the foundations of Deloitte network’s ethics program, including through the following ways: • Deloitte ethics training programs, including online courses, classroom programs and facilitator-led interactive case discussions (ethics training is required for all new hires upon joining Deloitte and for all Deloitte people every two years); • Channels for reporting ethics issues and concerns that emphasize confidentiality and nonretaliation; • An annual confirmation from member firms to Deloitte Global that all of their people have read, understood and are in compliance with the Global Code; and • A practice-review program to measure compliance with Deloitte Global ethics policy and continuous improvement in ethics programs over time. Deloitte not only works to address human rights issues within its communities, but also seeks to respond to some of the urgent human rights challenges of our world in a manner commensurate with its ability to effect change within and across regions and borders. Please see “Deloitte’s WorldClass vision” in the Global Report for details on engagement by Deloitte people in addressing the economic potential of refugee crisis. Deloitte people in several countries collaborated with others on an innovative initiative, called “FuturesHub,” to help uncover the economic potential of refugees, with a particular focus on helping them find employment in their host countries. To help guide their efforts, Deloitte and Oxford University’s Refugee Studies Centre conducted an exploratory study of refugees in Austria, the Netherlands and the UK and the results have been published in Talent Displaced, The economic lives of Syrian Refugees in Europe. 1 UN Global Compact Disclosure GRI Principle Indicator Deloitte also actively participates in policy discussions on some of today’s most important socioeconomic challenges, seeking outcomes that benefit society, government and business. Through a coordinated approach, our global public policy program extends Deloitte’s influence by connecting with people and organizations who can help make an impact on issues that matter. Two of the focus areas of Deloitte’s public policy efforts have people at their centers and as such touch on fundamental underpinnings of human rights: • Inclusive growth—engaging economic, social and environmental issues that matter most, because businesses can’t succeed if society fails; • Future of work—addressing the changing demands of the workforce of tomorrow, including how, where and when work is done. Please see “Ethics,” “Public policy” sections of the report and the “Global Code” for more details about human rights. Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses As described above, the Global Code outlines our ethical commitments as a network and expectations across the Deloitte network. Global 102-8, 102should uphold the freeCode elements directly address labor principles through a number of provisions including the following: 41, 401-1, dom of association and Respect, diversity and fair treatment 401-3, 404-3, the effective recognition • We foster a culture and working environment where our people treat each other with respect, courtesy, and fairness, promoting equal 405-1, 405-2, of the right to collective opportunity for all. 406-1 bargaining; • We encourage and value a diverse mix of people, view-points, talents, and experiences. • We create inclusive working environments that not only address individual needs, but allow our people to utilize their unique strengths. • We do not tolerate harassment or unfair discrimination in our working environments. Principle 4: the elimination Professional development and support of all forms of forced and • We invest in our people to develop the professional knowledge and skills necessary for them to effectively perform their roles. compulsory labour; • We help our people reach their potential through investments in personal and professional development and support programs. • We provide a safe work environment for our people and expect our clients to do the same. In FY2017, Deloitte advanced other initiatives designed to support the career development and personal wellbeing of its professionals, including: • Opening the doors to its fifth and sixth Deloitte University (DU) facilities—Deloitte University North in Toronto, Canada, and Deloitte University Asia Pacific in Sentosa Island, Singapore. In 2017, 65,000 Deloitte professionals participated in DU leadership development Principle 5: the effective programs. abolition of child labour; • Evolving its family leave policies to further recognize the diverse needs of families and changing dynamics of caregiving. Deloitte LLP (US), and for example, unveiled one of the country’s broadest and most progressive leave policies. Deloitte LLP (US) talent may now receive up to 16 weeks of fully paid extended family leave to support a range of life events impacting Deloitte LLP (US) people and their families—from supporting aging parents, to caring for a spouse or a significant other, to celebrating the arrival of a new child. • Launching a new, strengths-based performance-management experience across the network that forgoes individual ratings and annual performance reviews in favor of frequent, meaningful conversations between team members and team leaders. These conversations— coupled with real-time, reliable assessments of each individual’s performance—make it easier to understand and recognize performance Principle 6: the elimination throughout the year. of discrimination in • Offering opportunities to participate in business resource groups (BRGs), Deloitte offers its people opportunities to connect, build strong respect of employment networks to help navigate their careers, contribute to local communities, and provide feedback to leadership on related policies and and occupation. practices. At Deloitte UK, for example, 10 diversity networks connect around 6,000 Deloitte UK people who share affinity indicators such as gender, race, religion, sexual orientation, disability, and parenting/caring responsibilities. Please see the “Transforming talent” section of the Global Report for more details about support for labor standards. See also the “Headcount” and “New hires” in the “Performance Metrics” section for measures of Deloitte’s workforce diversity. Further details on Deloitte Global’s Ethics Program are in the “Ethics” section of this report. See the “Global Code” for more information on respect, diversity, fair treatment, professional development, and support. 2 UN Global Compact Disclosure GRI Principle Indicator Environment Principle 7: Businesses At Deloitte, our commitment to sustainability encompasses a broad scope of endeavors. It involves helping member firm clients manage their 201-2, 301-1, should support a preoperations and supply chains in ways that address environmental and social impacts and reduce risks. Likewise, it involves responsibly manag301-2, 302-1, cautionary approach to ing our operations and championing ecological initiatives across our global network of approximately 264,000 people. 302-4, 303-1, environmental challenges; 305-1, 305-2, As part of internal network-wide initiatives, Deloitte Global and its member firms engage with Deloitte professionals on sustainability priorities 305-3, 305-4, and practices through periodic newsletters, webinars, and other communications tools. Member firms also work vigorously to advance sustain305-5 ability among their clients. Deloitte member firms have sustainability specialists helping clients transition to sustainable business models and practices that can deliver topand bottom-line financial growth for the long term. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote The Deloitte network’s most significant improvements in environmental performance resulted from managing greenhouse gas emissions from greater environmental travel and buildings. responsibility; and • Deloitte achieved a 3 percent decrease from FY2016 absolute greenhouse gas emissions despite an 8 percent rise in overall headcount. • Deloitte’s carbon efficiency continues to improve—carbon intensity per full-time equivalent dropped 11 percent, and carbon intensity per dollar of revenue dropped 9 percent from FY2016. • Emissions from buildings dropped 2 percent from FY2016 and offices bought 44 percent more renewable energy. • In-depth disclosure of Deloitte’s greenhouse gas emissions, as well as our risks and opportunities related to climate change, can be found in Deloitte Global’s 2017 CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) Climate Change and Supply Chain response. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion Deloitte member firm’s sustainability work also supports greater environmental understanding. Please see the “Voluntary value” section of the of environmentally friendly Global Report for an example of how Deloitte Australia worked to value the natural capital of the Great Barrier Reef. technologies. Please see the “Sustainability” section of the Global Report for information on Deloitte’s initiatives to manage environmental performance as well as the environmental metrics in the “Metrics” section of the Global Report. Deloitte Global’s submission to the CDP can be found at www. cdproject.net Anti-corruption Principle 10: BusinessDeloitte actively supports multiple efforts to eradicate corruption throughout the world. Deloitte Global was an early signatory to the United 102-16, es should work against National Global Compact (UNGC) and the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). 413-2, 205-1, corruption in all its forms, 205-2, 205-3, including extortion and Deloitte Global’s Anti-Corruption team and member firm Anti-Corruption leaders work closely with senior Deloitte leaders to build and enhance 415-1 bribery. a globally consistent anti-corruption program across the Deloitte network, which includes the following elements: • A global anti-corruption policy that includes requirements for member firms’ own anti-corruption programs and addresses matters such as bribery, facilitation payments, political and charitable contributions, and gifts and entertainment; • Anti-corruption training that includes applicable policies, corruption red flags relevant to Deloitte and case scenarios; • Support activities—including communications, workshops, and webinars—to facilitate best practice sharing among Deloitte Anti-Corruption people; • Annual member firm anti-corruption self-assessment survey and other guidance and tools (such as guidance on anti-corruption testing and monitoring) to measure the effectiveness of anti-corruption programs across the Deloitte network; • A globally consistent process to perform anti-corruption due diligence on subcontractors, marketplace alliances, vendors and suppliers that are considered for business relationships; • A globally consistent methodology and process for Deloitte member firms to perform corruption risk assessments; • An annual confirmation from member firms to Deloitte Global that all of their people acknowledge that they have read, understood and agree to comply with the local anti-corruption policy and are not in violation of this policy; and 3 UN Global Compact Disclosure GRI Principle Indicator • A review program to assess compliance with Deloitte Global anti-corruption policies and encourage continuous improvement in member firm anti-corruption programs. Deloitte also continues to actively participate in initiatives addressing corruption either directly or indirectly including as described below. • World Economic Forum’s PACI. David Cruickshank, Deloitte Global Chairman, is the co-chair of the PACI Vanguard Anti-Corruption CEO leadership program. • Business and Industry Advisory Committee (BIAC) to the Organization for Economic Corporation and Development. Gerrie Lenting, partner, Deloitte Northwest Europe, is vice chair of the BIAC task force on anti-bribery and corruption. • University of Notre Dame Deloitte Center for Ethical Leadership. Members of the advisory board include several Deloitte LLP (US) leaders, including Deloitte LLP Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer Glenn Stastny. • Ethics Research Center. Stastny is a member of the board of directors. • Center for Professional Responsibility in Business and Society, University of Illinois College of Business. Stastny is a member of the advisory board. Please see the “Ethics” section of the Global Report and the “Global Code” for more details about anti-corruption activities. 4 Contact us GlobalReport@deloitte.com Learn more globalreport.deloitte.com Stay connected “Deloitte,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTTL”), its global network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/about to learn more. Deloitte is a leading global provider of audit and assurance, consulting, financial advisory, risk advisory, tax and related services. Our network of member firms in more than 150 countries and territories serves four out of five Fortune Global 500® companies. Learn how Deloitte’s approximately 264,000 people make an impact that matters at www.deloitte.com. This communication contains general information only, and none of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, its member firms or their related entities (collectively, the “Deloitte network”) is, by means of this communication, rendering professional advice or services. Before making any decision or taking any action that may affect your finances or your business, you should consult a qualified professional adviser. No entity in the Deloitte network shall be responsible for any loss whatsoever sustained by any person who relies on this communication. © 2018. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited. 5
