About The Report Our Approach to Sustainability Reporting Tata Motors Limited publishes sustainability report annually, hh Tata Technologies Ltd., Pune; disclosing its economic, environmental and social performance hh TAL Manufacturing Ltd., Nagpur and initiatives. This is the fourteenth Sustainability Report hh TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd., Pune; of Tata Motors Limited (TML) and it has been prepared as hh TML Drivelines Ltd., Jamshedpur per the latest Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards “in hh Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd., Dharwad accordance – comprehensive” criteria and is compliant with hh Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd., Lucknow. the ‘Business Responsibility Report’ Clause 55 of the equity listing agreement with stock exchanges in India. In addition, Key Exclusions the report is aligned to ‘Ten Principles of United Nations In sustainability report of 2017-18, the main exclusions are Global Compact’ (UNGC), ‘Sustainable Development Goals’ mentioned as below: (SDGs) and the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic (NVG-SEE) Responsibilities hh The economic performance of subsidiaries.` of Businesses in India issued by the Ministry of Corporate hh Product innovations and customer service of the Affairs, Government of India. subsidiaries. hh Information on the local community engagement and This report highlights our approach towards sustainability, CSR activities of the subsidiaries. long-term strategy, objectives and performance. Other exclusions related to the specific disclosure has been Our Principle for Defining Report mentioned in the materiality mapping table and GRI index section. Content and Context The report content has been defined by applying the External Assurance Reporting Principles of GRI to identify our material economic, The content and data disclosed in this report has been environmental and social topics. Inputs from stakeholder independently verified and externally assured by TUV India engagement process, Global & Sectoral Sustainability trends Private Limited, an independent third-party assurance are the basis for the identification of material topics. The provider. TUVI conducted the independent assurance of elaborate materiality assessment that we conduct every 3 TML’s sustainability report, which includes “reasonable year provides sustainability context and help us prioritize assurance” of TML’s sustainability information for the applied strategies, policies and action plans related to economic, reporting period. Sustainability assurance engagement was environmental and social impacts. conducted against the Global Reporting Initiative Standards Sustainability Committee completed a materiality review in and AA1000AS (2008) Protocol (Type 2, Moderate Level). FY18. The material topics have not changed substantially Furthermore, TUVI conducted the independent assurance since our previous report. In this sustainability report, we of TML’s GHG (Green House Gas) emissions, which includes have disclosed all the material topics, including issues that are “Type 2 moderate level assurance” of TML’s direct, energy identified as low, medium and high in the materiality matrix. indirect and other indirect (Scope 1, 2 and 3) GHG emissions for the applied reporting period. CFP assurance engagement Scope & Boundary has been conducted against the TNCC 20 Standard, ISO Our 2017-18 report highlights the performance of Tata Motors 14064-1 and AA1000AS (2008) (Type 2, moderate level) for Limited, India operations at Pune, Jamshedpur, Lucknow, verification of TML’s GHG emissions. The overall responsibility Sanand, Dharwad and Pantnagar. We have also included the of sustainability report assurance is with SH & S committee sustainability performance of three of our subsidiaries and supported by Safety, Health & Environment councils and one joint venture (JV) namely , plant level apex committees. The Sustainability Report 2004-05 and 2005-06 were limited to internal circulation. For a complete list of our subsidiaries and joint ventures, please refer to annual report 2017-18: https://www.tatamotors.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/12115930/Annual-Report-2017-2018.pdf Cautionary Statement: This report contains “forward-looking statements” describing the Company’s objective, projections, estimates and expectations. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied. Important factors that could make a difference to the company’s operations include, among others, economic conditions affecting demand / supply and price conditions in the domestic and overseas markets in which the Company operates, changes in the Government regulations, laws and other statutes and incidental factors. Sustainability Report 2017-18 | About The Report 1 Government’s transformational vision of auto electrification introduced a mechanism for capturing the value creation Message From CEO & MD in India. We are the first Indian manufacturer to be able to commercially introduce and handover ‘first of its kind’ series from our community development programs by assessing the Social Return on Investment (SROI) for all our long duration hybrid technology in India in the form of Tata Starbus Hybrid (5 years or more) programs. We continue to relentlessly Electric Bus, to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development strive in our endeavour of nation-building, sustainable Tata Motors has Authority (MMRDA), an event that got graced by Shri development, accelerated inclusive growth and social equity. Devendra Fadnavis, Chief Minister, Maharashtra. We are working on 15 out of 17 Sustainable Development been leading the Goals well aligned with the Group philosophy as well as our We have taken-up several initiatives to promote the use of business priorities. technology changes green materials; i.e. Green Plasticizer, Primer-less Windshield Glass Sealant, Composite Brake Drum and Leaf Spring. To conclude, I would like to reiterate our commitment in the industry We have also successfully completed a pilot on closedloop plastic recycling by making a new plastic component towards sustainable development and corporate citizenship. I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude while at the same out of scrap. Our integrated life cycle thinking and circular economy strategy hinges on addressing the current need of to all our stakeholders for contributing and collaborating with us on our sustainability journey. Your views and suggestions time striving hard resource optimization. Through our partners, Tata Prolife, are important to us and we welcome your feedback. Tata Assured and Tata OK, we continuously endeavour to to institutionalize increase the usable life of our vehicles. sustainable practices As part of RE100 initiative, a drive led by the Climate Group, in every aspect of we aspire to source 100% of the electricity demand from renewable sources, which is currently 20.76% of our total Guenter Butschek business. annual electricity demand. CEO & Managing Director We also own the sustainability performance of our Tata Motors Limited supply chain by constantly engaging with suppliers on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) aspects of our diverse and multi-tiered supply chain. We have covered Dear Colleagues, 66 suppliers under the on-site sustainability assessment I am pleased to present to you our fourteenth annual Our endeavour has been to understand the direct and during Phase-II implementation of sustainable supply chain sustainability report titled ‘Sustainable Mobility, Smart indirect impact of our activities and focus our efforts to initiative, completing 118 suppliers in the last two years, with Cities’. The report is prepared as per the GRI Standards “in streamline our operations in the most efficient manner. an aggressive plan to cover many more in this year. accordance – comprehensive” criteria and aligned to the ‘Ten Climate Change is one of the material issues as we continue Principles of United Nations Global Compact’, ‘Sustainable to work towards building awareness amongst stakeholders, Safety & Health is of paramount importance to us and we are Development Goals’ and ‘National Voluntary Guidelines developing cleaner and more efficient vehicles, and reducing committed to provide our employees with safe and healthy on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of environmental impact from manufacturing operations. We working environment. We have taken challenging targets Business’ of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government are constantly striving to increase the share of renewable on safety to reduce the total recordable cases by 65% by of India. Most importantly, it reinforces our commitment energy, improve our operational energy efficiency through 2020 over 2016-17. All our manufacturing plants are OSHAS towards ‘Triple Bottom Line’. ENCON, producing energy efficient products and diligently 180001 certified and we have implemented robust second monitoring carbon emissions out of our supply chain. party safety audit. Unfortunately, we had one fatality at our The Tata Group celebrates 150th anniversary of nation building Lucknow works during last year. We have conducted the this year. With rapid technological advancements in the field We are committed to the Government’s vision for electric detailed incident investigation and implemented corrective of autonomous, connected, electric and shared vehicles, a vehicles by 2030 and are working in a collaborative manner actions to prevent the recurrence. comprehensive approach to sustainable development of the to facilitate faster adoption of electric vehicles to build a entire ecosystem is crucial. Tata Motors has been leading sustainable future for India. In December 2017, we delivered We will keep nurturing the Tata’s philosophy of improving the technology changes in the industry while at the same the first set of Tigor Electric Vehicles (EVs) to state-run Energy the quality of life of the communities we serve and enhancing time striving hard to institutionalize sustainable practices in Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), out of the full order of long-term value for our stakeholders. Health (Arogya), every aspect of business. Our approach to sustainability is 10000 electric vehicles. This initiative of the Government of Education (Vidhyadhanam), Employability (Kaushalya), and not a mere compliance one but a continuous improvement India is a bold step in terms of promoting green & sustainable Environment (Vasundhara) continue to be the four pillars one with inclusiveness at its core. With this objective, we have transport solutions. We, at Tata Motors are extremely of our community development agenda. We have also launched the Sustainability Policy for Tata Motors. proud to be part of this project and are supportive of the 2 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Message From CEO & MD Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Message From CEO & MD 3 Message From COO & ED Sustainability is at the core of Tata businesses and we are committed to enhance the quality of life of communities by delivering the sustainable mobility solutions, in line with our Sustainability Policy. increased the share of renewable energy from 16.34% in 2016-17 to 20.76% in 2017-18 of the total electricity consumption. We are strengthening our waste management and working on a theme of “Value from Waste” across Indian manufacturing plants. While our manufacturing plant teams are extensively working on 3Rs i.e. Recycling, Reuse and Recovery, we are also exploring the innovative solutions for elimination and minimization of generation of waste at source itself. Dear Colleagues, Employees constitute one of the most important elements of I am pleased to present our fourteenth sustainability report TML and their safety is always a top priority. This year we have and hope that this report provides an insight on sustainability achieved 38% reduction in ‘Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate’ and performance of Tata Motors. 29% reduction in ‘Total Recordable Cases Frequency Rate’ as Sustainability is at the core of Tata businesses and we are committed compared to FY 2016-17. to enhance the quality of life of communities by delivering the Going beyond fences, we are working closely with our supplysustainable mobility solutions, in line with our Sustainability Policy. chain partners and implemented 2nd phase of the Sustainable Supply Chain Initiative. We have received positive response and In the milieu of regulatory and institutional changes, keeping active participation of suppliers in this initiative. We have covered abreast with the needs of our valuable customers, we have 118 suppliers so far under this initiative and planned to cover all manufactured a total number of 5,72,300 vehicles in FY 2017-18, critical suppliers during current financial year. We are encouraging an increase of 9.64% over the FY 2016-17. The changing business our suppliers to implement best practices and improve their environment with its set of challenges and opportunities have sustainability performance. This demonstrates our efforts towards helped us to innovate. We were granted 80 patents and have spent building the socially responsible value chain. INR 23.97 Billion approximately on Research and Development (R&D) during the FY 2017-18. To fulfil our commitment towards To conclude, I would like to express my sincerest gratitude to our sustainable mobility solutions, we continued our work on design & stakeholders and their confidence in us. This is one of the factors, development of advance vehicles. The government has recognized which encourages us to push the limits, innovate, and remain at our efforts and we are delighted to have won the bid for supplying the edge of the competitive business scenario. the electric version of the TATA Tigor to the Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) of the Government of India. We have also delivered 25 Diesel Hybrid Buses to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) during FY 2017-18. It is our continuous endeavor to reduce the carbon footprint Satish Borwankar of our manufacturing plants by focusing on energy efficiency COO & Executive Director improvements and sourcing of renewable energy. We have Tata Motors Limited 4 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Message From COO & ED Mission, Vision, & Values Our History, Business We are a company that constantly innovates across passenger & commercial vehicles to provide sustainable & Key Statistics mobility solutions for people and goods. With a deep urge to address customer needs, we offer the widest portfolio of products. In our efforts to make a substantial contribution to the uptake of innovative and sustainable urban mobility solutions, we bring in the most advanced technologies to offer Tata Motors Limited (TML) is a part of Tata Group founded 6600 service points. Spanning market presence across several relevant solutions. As a part of the Tata group, we believe in by Jamshetji Tata in 1868. TML is the largest manufacturer in countries in Europe, Africa, the Middle-east, Southeast Asia, making a difference for our employees, for the communities Indian automotive industry, with a wide range of portfolio South America, Australia, CIS and Russia, TML today is an we are part of and for the country. Our Mission statement covering cars, sports vehicles, buses, trucks and also vehicles international brand. Subsidiaries and associate companies clearly defines our purpose of existence and our passionate for the defence sector. We continue to take the lead in have helped the company to expand its operations to UK, commitment to bring sustainable innovation into everything shaping the Indian automobile industry landscape, with South Korea, Thailand, South Africa and Indonesia. we do to enhance the quality of life of communities. the introduction of leading-edge powertrains and electric solutions packaged for power performances and user In India, we have manufacturing facilities located at We aspire to be among Top 3 in global commercial vehicle comfort at the lowest life-cycle costs. Our new passenger Jamshedpur, Pune, Lucknow, Pantnagar, Sanand and markets and domestic passenger vehicle markets while cars and utility vehicles are based on Impact Design and offer Dharwad. We have 18 subsidiaries of which the performance achieving sustainable performance and delivering exciting a superior blend of performance, drivability and connectivity. of 3 subsidiaries and 1 JV namely, TAL Manufacturing innovations as per our vision statement. Faster time-toSolutions Ltd. (TAL), TML Drivelines Limited, Tata Marcopolo We believe in ‘Connecting aspirations’, by offering innovative market new technologies will be our key goal to find new Established in 1945, today TML operates from 163 countries, Motors Ltd. (TMML) and Tata Technologies Ltd. (TTL), is sustainability mobility solutions that are in line with customers’ and agile ways of innovating and experimenting. To compete employing above 50,000 personnel and having more than included in this report. aspirations. Our focus on connecting aspirations and our in the market, our approach will be targeted to reduce pipeline of tech-enabled products keeps us at the forefront complexity, provide for future technologies and ensure of the market. We have identified six key mobility drivers that global sustainability relevance. We aim not only to comply will lead us into the future – modular architecture, complexity with the emerging regulations but to be ahead of the curve reduction in manufacturing, connected & autonomous to manage ESG risks. We are constantly looking at proactively vehicles, clean drivelines, shared mobility, and low total cost converting these risks into opportunities by developing and of ownership. Our sub-brand TAMO is an incubating centre delivering sustainable mobility solutions. of innovation that will spark new mobility solutions through new technologies, business models and partnerships. Annual Report of FY2017-18 :https://www.tatamotors.com/investors/annual-reports/ 6 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | About Tata Motors Limited Sustainability Report 2017-18 | About Tata Motors Limited 7 8 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | About Tata Motors Limited The Board of Directors. comprises of nine Directors of which risk management process is also facilitated by internal audit. Governance seven are Non-Executive, including two Woman Independent Directors. The organizational policies, procedures, and The approach to manage business risk is through crossfunctional involvement and communication across businesses. performance are periodically reviewed by the Board, guided After the process of risks assessment is complete, the results by Mr. Guenter Butschek, MD & CEO. For details regarding Good corporate governance is one of the fundamentals philosophy of TATA Group and is further invigorated with along with the residual risks are presented to the senior the Board composition, Roles Responsibility, Board Evaluation which remain at the core of TML values. The TATA Group has the adherence to the Tata Business Excellence Model as a management to facilitate better decision making. The Audit and Board Credentials, please refer to our 73rd Annual Report been practicing the principles of good corporate governance means to drive excellence. Good corporate governance has Committee reviews business risk areas covering operational, pg No. 54-55, 72-78, 157-159, 225-250. since its inception and have laid strong emphasis on allowed us to effectuate decision making and also support financial, strategic and regulatory risks. independence, responsibility, transparency, professionalism, the formation of robust operation systems. A set of Committees with specific terms of reference/scope Managing Business Risk accountability and code of ethics to ensure adherence to have been constituted to focus effectively on the issues and the Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) and value system. TML Our current Organization Chart depicting the relationship Risk Management at TML is a coordinated process and expedite resolution of diverse matters. The Committees strongly believes that success and sustainable growth of any between the Board of Directors, Committees and the integrated mechanism. The Board is responsible for the operate as empowered agents of the Board as per their organisation depends on good corporate governance. Our Senior Management functions as on March 31, 2018, is overall process of risk management, which is supported by Charter/terms of reference. Targets set by these committees philosophy of corporate governance synchronises with the illustrated below: Enterprise Risk Management program. The program helps as agreed with the management are reviewed periodically Company’s business units, and corporate functions address and midcourse corrections are also carried out. The Board of opportunities and attend the risks through an institutionalized Directors and the Committees also take decisions by circular approach. In order to provide a foolproof mechanism, the resolutions which are noted during meeting. *The CEO & MD Chairs the ExCom #Business committees are chaired by related ExCom member where indicated otherwise by the CEO & MD ** Associated member of Ex Com https://www.tatamotors.com/investors/annual-reports/ 10 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Governance Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Governance 11 Board Committees and Their Functions Ethics And Integrity applicable for independent directors of the company under the responsibility of Company Secretary. With a view to TML has an Ethics Framework in place in line with Tata Board Committees Functions Group values to ensure ethical standards by its vendors and strengthen the adoption of the Code, training sessions are conducted periodically for the employees and relevant contractors through appropriate clauses in its work contracts. The objective of the Audit Committee is to review the quarterly/annual financial stakeholders. We recognize the importance of the ethics and integrity statements before submission to the Board. The committee also reviews the adequacy and therefore the framework includes Board oversight. The Audit Committee of internal control systems with the management, external auditor and internal auditor Ethical Concerns company has a whistle-blower policy and mechanism in place and recommends improvements to the management. For further details, please refer to that ensures confidentiality and protection of whistle-blower Effective implementation of the Tata Code of Conduct is page no. 152-154 of Annual Report 2017-18. from victimisation. The ambit of protection from victimisation a vital reflection of the commitment of the organisation is broad in order to protect the interests of stakeholders towards ethical business. TML has a robust mechanism to The Committee oversees and reviews statutory compliance relating to all security holders. receive and resolve all ethical concerns. Our TCoC provides concerned. It further considers and resolves the grievances of security holders of the company overall guidance for operating our business. Various issues Stakeholders’ including complaints related to transfer of securities, non-receipt of annual report/ A Chief Ethics Counsellor is nominated who is responsible for and concerns raised are reviewed by the Audit Committee Relationship declared dividends/notices/balance sheets. The Company has a designated email id: management of overall business ethics. The Company has and the Risk Oversight Committee quarterly. During the year invrel@tatamotors.com for contacting the Compliance Officer. For further details, refer to an ethics helpline where employees can place complaints 2017–18, following are the concerns received and resolved page no.157-158 of Annual Report 2017-18. against ethics violations. by TML: The Committee recommends to the Board the setup and composition of the Board and A Whistleblower can report his/her ethical concerns by using its Committees including the “formulation of the criteria for determining qualifications, the “Speak Up” service by either calling on 1800 103 2931 Nomination and positive attributes and independence of a director”. For details of the remuneration of or log on to the website www.speak-up.info/tatamotors and Remuneration Directors, Key Personnel and Employees, please refer to page no. 99 of Tata Motors share his/her concerns. Ltd. Annual Report 2017-18. For further details, refer to page no. 154-157 of Annual Report 2017-18. TATA Code of Conduct The core values and principles of Tata Group are The SHE Committee of the BoD has been renamed as Safety, Health & Sustainability encapsulated in the Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC). The Code Committee with the objective of reviewing Safety, Health, Environment and Sustainability guides and accounts for all our stakeholders including but The Safety, Health practices and performance. The Committee comprises of Managing Director, one not limited to employees, customers, communities in which & Sustainability Independent Director and one Executive Director. For further details, refer page to no. we operate, value chain partners, joint venture partners, 158-159 of Annual Report 2017-18. financial stakeholders, the government of countries in which we operate and other group companies, and guides towards highest moral and ethical standards. The TCoC is The Committee formulates and recommends to the Board, a CSR Policy which shall a comprehensive and exhaustive document encompassing Corporate Social indicate the activities to be undertaken by the Company as specified in Schedule VII. The aspects including anti-bribery, corruption, equal opportunities Responsibility Committee also recommends the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the activities and human rights. The TCoC strikes the right balance between referred to in clause (a) of the CSR rules. It also monitors the CSR Policy of the Company interests of stakeholders and providing them avenues to from time to time. For further details, refer to page no. 159 of Annual Report 2017-18. raise concerns or queries in good faith, or report instances of actual or perceived violations of our Code. One of the most The committee assists the Board in overseeing the Company’s risk management important aspects the Code aims at ensuring the effective process and controls, risk tolerance, capital liquidity and funding etc. and its periodic implementation of and adherence to the group’s mission on Risk Management update thereof to the Board. It is also responsible for reviewing the Company’s risk environmental and labour practices as well as social aspects. Committee governance structure, assessment, practice, guidelines etc. The Committee comprises The Code also provides for addressing and resolving issues of 4 Independent Directors. For further details, refer to page no. 159 of Annual related to conflicts of interest. Report 2017-18. The TATA Group is committed to keeping abreast with developments in multifarious aspects which affect its The Executive Committee of the Board reviews capital and revenue budgets, longoperations. Therefore, the Code is not static, but flexible term business strategies and plans, the organizational structure of the Company, real and is in alignment with the global business environment. Executive Committee estate and investment transactions, allotment of shares and/or debentures, borrowing Periodic reviews are undertaken with the primary objective of the Board and other routine matters. The Executive Committee of Board presently comprises of 1 to remain contemporary and contextual to the changes Independent Director, 1 Non-Executive Director and 3 Whole-time Directors. For further in law and regulations. However, it remains unaltered at details, refer to page no. 158 of Annual Report 2017-18. its core. A defined Tata Code of Conduct is available and 12 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Governance Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Governance 13 The grievance redressal mechanism at TML covers key aspects and Redressal (SHAR) Policy in-line with Tata Code Trends in Ethical Concerns Received/Resolved by Subsidiaries such as environment, health and safety, compliance, human of Conduct, meeting the legal requirements. The resource, product responsibility and social responsibility. Sexual Harassment Avoidance and Redressal System TTL TAL TMLDL TMML TCoC All the stakeholders are provided access to the grievance includes various location based SHAR committees Concerns Received Resolved Received Resolved Received Resolved Received Resolved redressal mechanism so that the concerns are addressed and in addition, an APEX Corporate SHAR committee duly, and where necessary is also brought to the attention housed in Mumbai. This acts as an Appellate Body and 2015-16 5 5 2 2 4 4 1 1 of TML’s management. Our grievance handling mechanism is responsible for disseminating SHAR policy and taking captures concern covering all the key areas of: effective steps for its propagation amongst employees 2016-17 0 0 0 0 6 6 10 8 and for fostering a free and fair reporting of all the issues. 2017-18 17 9 1 1 0 0 7 7 hh Environment: covers aspects namely biodiversity, Any complaints of sexual harassment can be reported at energy, emission, water, waste and environmental SHAR@tatamotors.com. compliances. The Head (SHE & Sustainability) is responsible hh Occupational Health and Safety: An online portal Anti-Corruption There have not been any incidents of corruption and antifor addressing the grievance related to the environment, to facilitates reporting grievances related to health and competitive behaviour in FY 2017-18. There is a process in supported by SHE team at the plant level. For effective TML is committed to the overall goal of TATA Group which safety and it is a part of a regular review. In addition to place to take appropriate disciplinary action proportionate and exhaustive out reach, every plant is equipped with focuses not only on development of the TATA Group, but the committees at the apex and regional levels, there are to the gravity of misconduct in line with the principles of a mechanism to receive and deal with grievances from develop in a manner to foster economic growth of the divisional committees which represent all the operational natural justice which is taken against the erring employees. the stakeholders. regions of operation. Hence prevention of corruption and levels and meet at regular intervals to address the grievances. We provide regular training to all our employees on antipromotion of fair competition is another important dimension hh Purchase and Supply Chain: A dedicated Suppliers corruption and anti-competitive as per the TCoC for TML. hh Product: We have dedicated TCoC for dealers, which of the compliance efforts. The National Fair Trade Regulator Code of Conduct provides guidance on the ethical – Competition Commission of India (CCI) has initiated legal provides guidance for handling grievances related to Regulatory Compliance operation of purchase & supply chain and for reporting actions for alleged anti-competitive behaviour against 17 car customers and marketing of products. A dedicated violations. Corporate Ethics team and Purchase & Supply manufacturers including Tata Motors. The matter is currently For timely, effective and robust compliance, ‘Legatrix’ has helpline receives complaints from the customers and it Chain teams are equipped with mechanisms to receive sub-judice before the Delhi High Court which has stayed the been implemented. It is an online compliance tool that helps is tracked on a daily basis for quality improvement. The and deal with grievances from interested parties at plant penalty imposed by the CCI. us track and manage compliance of various regulatory and complaints can be escalated to the President, Managing as well as corporate level. legal requirements. Our systems ensure compliance with the Director and Chairman’s offices till the closure of Efforts to promote competitive and liberal business new and existing laws, regulations and policies regarding hh Human Resource: As per hierarchy, the Human the complaint. environment also includes conformity with the Advertising increased fuel economy, reduced greenhouse gas and Resource department is the first point of contact for hh Corporate Social Responsibility: CSR Committee at Standards Council of India (ASCI) Code for Self-Regulation other emissions, vehicle safety, taxes and pricing policies. receiving and handling employee grievances. In case the BoD level is responsible for CSR activities, supported in Advertising and Marketing Communications. This ensures TML ensures strict adherence to the regulations pertaining of an escalation, the Ethics Counsellor addresses the by corporate CSR team. The CSR Committee at the plant that our advertising media do not mislead in terms of claims to emissions, safety, product labelling and other applicable concerns. To prevent and address Sexual Harassment level deals with grievances received from stakeholders. and representations, and do not communicate offensive or clauses of the Central Motor Vehicle Rules of India and at the workplace we have Sexual Harassment Avoidance anti-social content in any form. relevant Bureau of Indian Standards. 14 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Governance Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Governance 15 Our Sustainability Governance Sustainability Our sustainability governance comprises of the Safety, Health and Sustainability Committee, known as the SH & S the SH & S Council at the business unit level. The SH & S Apex Committee at our plants is supported by various focused Management & Initiatives Committee, at the board level which in turn is supported by departments such as safety, energy and environment. Sustainability Management Structure At TML, we believe that sustainability is an integral part of To integrate and strategically align sustainability into our core strategic management and corporate planning, therefore business, our Board has constituted a set of committees to we incorporate environmental and social factors into the specifically work on this agenda. Our leadership is committed identification of material topics and prioritization of KPIs. towards making TML an industry benchmark with our sustainability performance. The Safety, Health and Sustainability (SH & S) Committee has environmentally responsible. In this context, we have the been constituted with the objective of reviewing Sustainability Sustainability Policy to explore and assess the Natural and practices and performance. The overall sustainability Social capital valuation for our business. Over the years, Sustainability Policy performance of Tata Motors Limited is reviewed by the SH & we have established robust sustainability governance In line with Tata Group Sustainability policy, TML has developed The key elements of our Sustainability Policy are: Product S Committee and SH & S council on quarterly and monthly mechanism and have developed policies for all the relevant and launched the Sustainability Policy in November 2017 which Stewardship, Life Cycle Approach, Protection of human basis respectively. The terms of reference of the Committee material topics. integrates environmental, social and ethical principles into its rights in value chain, equitable and inclusive development, include: business. The policy guides us in establishing sustainability corporate citizenship, highest standards of transparency and We have also developed and published policies related to governance, Identification of material sustainability issues and governance. The policy stimulates our aspirations to become hh to take a holistic approach to sustainability matters in most of our material issues and have set goals and targets development of sustainability strategies aligned with global the global sustainability leader in the transport sector decision making; for the future. The details on the same are provided in the and national sustainability commitments, with the aim of considering futuristic mobility solutions. relevant sections. hh to provide direction to TML in driving the sustainability creating value and contributing to sustainable development. In addition to Sustainability Policy, we consider Tata Code of agenda; As per the Mission and Sustainability Policy of TML, we are Furthermore, we constantly engage with our employees committed to innovate sustainable mobility solutions with Conduct as an overall guiding principle. We are aligned to hh to frame guidelines, strategies, goals & Objectives, and Board members to develop and enhance knowledge in passion to enhance the quality of life of communities. sustainability in all the twelve policies. initiatives with regard to sustainability; economic, environmental and social sustainability. hh to oversee the implementation of these guidelines/ policies; and hh to review the policies, processes and systems periodically and recommend measures for continuous improvement in sustainability performance The Committee comprises of Managing Director, one Independent Director and one Executive Director. During the year 2017-18, three meetings of the Committee were held wherein all the members were present at the said meeting. Upholding the values of the TATA Group, Tata Motors https://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporate-governance/policies/ Limited has always strived to grow while being socially and 16 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Governance Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Governance 17 Management Systems as donations to any specific political party, candidate or of Road Transport & Highways of Government of by way of increased usage of Biodiesel. We are engaged campaign and preclude any activity that could be interpreted India, Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas (MoPNG) & in this initiative of GoI and currently running number of Our corporate governance philosophy is further strengthened as mutual dependence/favour with any political body or Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA) engine and vehicle programs to commercialize usage of with adherence to the Tata Business Excellence Model (TBEM) person. Any financial contributions considered by our Board Biodiesel as soon as it is made available to the general to improve our overall performance with higher levels hh Expert committee on Fuel Economy and Labeling of of Directors in order to strengthen democratic forces through public by oil marketing companies. of efficiency in our businesses and contribution towards Passenger Cars under Bureau of Energy Efficiency a clean electoral process shall be extended only through the sustainability initiatives. under Ministry of Power & Ministry of Road hh Working Group on Energy for Sub-Group on DST’s XIIth Progressive Electoral Trust in India, or by a similar transparent, Transport & Highways. plan on Technology Development Program (TDP). duly-authorised, non-discriminatory and non-discretionary Our state-of-the-art Enterprise Resource Planning system, hh Interministerial committee for upcoming emission norms hh National Electric Mobility Mission Plan We have been vehicle outside India. Supplier Relations Management and Customer Relations (BSVI) including Real World Driving Emissions (RDE) & actively participating in forming hybrid performance Management connect the company’s different locations, List of Membership Association Portable Emission Measurement System (PEMS) for criteria along with SIAM-FTG group and helped dealers and vendors for reliable, consistent and accurate Motor Vehicles of Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport government to launch FAME scheme. Now we are We actively participate in National Committees, listed below, data exchange. and Highways, Ministry of Heavy Industries, Ministry of building two types of hybrid and electric vehicles under which are working on formulating policies and regulations for improvement of environment throughout the country. Petroleum & Natural Gas. Technical Advisor Group under R&D scheme. CRM-DMS (Customer Relationship Management Dealer Management System): Our CRM-DMS is a unique hh Working group on Quadricycle Emission Norms for India. We participate in all the panel meetings pertaining to Engagements: We continually work with the steering initiative, implemented through a centralized online system hh Ministry of New & Renewable Energy, GoI, is promoting emissions, fuel economy, conventional & non-conventional committee of National Hydrogen Energy Board to find ways and deployed at all our dealerships and offices across the and assisting technology development for GHG reduction fuels for rules and standards formulation. to harness hydrogen potential energy of future. country. This helps us integrating our systems across the value chain to deliver better service quality. Our experts actively participate in World forum of United Enterprise Risk Management Program: Through the Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) for enterprise risk management program, business units and harmonization of Vehicle Global Technical Regulations corporate functions address opportunities and risks through related to pollution control and safety. an institutionalized approach aligned to the Company’s We at TML, actively take part in all WP29 UNECE group objectives. This is facilitated by internal audit. The business activities and prepare in advance for emerging opportunities. risk is managed through cross functional involvement and communication across businesses. Representations: TML has representations in significant Management Systems Certifications: Two of our number of National Committees as members who are working manufacturing Plants are upgraded and certified for ISO on formulating policies and regulations for improvement 14001:2015 – Environmental Management System Standard of environment including GHG reduction throughout the and Remaining Plants are in the process of upgradation. country; Similarly, all our manufacturing plants are certified to OHSAS 18001:2007 Safety and Occupational Health Management 1. TML actively participates in all WP29 UNECE group activities. System Standard. All of our CV manufacturing plants are 2. TML also participates in the following National also certified for ISO 50001:2011 Energy Management System Committees which work on formulating policies and namely, Pune CVBU, Jamshedpur, Lucknow, Pantnagar and regulations for improvement of environment including Dharwad. We also encourage our suppliers and dealers GHG reduction throughout the country: to adopt environmental and occupational health & safety hh Standing Committee on Emissions (SCOE) management systems. hh Sub-committee on Idle (CO & HC) emission norms Policy Advocacy of Union Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport and Highways of India, along with Automotive Research With a view to integrate and align existing sustainability issues Association of India (ARAI). with the public policy, we are actively involved in advocating for a better policy framework. We partner with policy makers/ hh Expert committee to define “Heavy Duty Vehicle Fuel industry associations and regulators on these issues through Economy Norms for India” under Ministry of Shipping, our representations in several industry and trade associations. Road Transport and Highways of Government of India (GoI) & Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA). Adhering to Tata Code of Conduct, we do not offer or give any company funds or property or other resources hh Expert Committee to define “Light & Medium Duty Vehicle Fuel Economy Norms for India” under Ministry 18 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Governance Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Governance 19 Message from Head (SHE & Sustainability) By aligning our work with the Sustainable Development Goals, we have begun to use our creative and innovative minds to bring about transformational changes not just within our business but also drive change within our societies that we serve globally. Safety and Employee health is of immense importance to us and we shall continue to enhance our employees’ safety and overall health index. We have taken up specific targets on safety and employee health index. In the last financial year, we improved our safety record by 38% and employee health index by 0.5%.For the current year also we have taken stretched targets on employee health and safety and have identified the critical focus areas for achieving them. At TATA Motors Ltd, sustainability is at the core of our Employee development is of paramount importance to us decision-making and has become a way of doing business. By and we ensure continuous learning and development of aligning our work with the Sustainable Development Goals, our employees governed by Learning Advisory Council. We we have begun to use our creative and innovative minds to continue to channel our focused effort towards improving bring about transformational changes not just within our the gender diversity. business but also drive change within our societies that we Acknowledging the criticality of our diverse supply chain, serve globally. we continued implementation of sustainable supply chain We are committed to continue our journey of sustainability initiative by engaging with 66 suppliers in 2017-18 and we are by improving efficiency and effective utilization of resources going to engage with remaining critical Tier 1 suppliers in the and capitals. We have aligned our sustainability strategy to next financial year. our business vision of 2019 and shall continue to approach Under the core guiding principle of the Tata Group, we sustainability in an all-inclusive way. We have set performance shall continue to engage with local community through our parameters for all the material issues and have developed community engagement programs addressing our focus action plans for achieving the same. Details have been areas like environment protection, Health, education, Road provided in relevant sections of this report. Safety and skill development. TML acknowledges the threat of Climate Change; we are Embedded with Tata’s core principle of enhancing quality of committed to contribute positively towards climate change life, we endeavour to manage our operations and run our mitigation and reducing our carbon footprint as well as business responsibly, minimize environmental impact and overall environmental footprint. In order to demonstrate our have a positive effect on society. leadership in this area, we have joined the RE100 campaign and aspire to move our operations on renewable energy in near future. In addition to that, we shall continue our efforts towards sustainable transportation system and improvement in energy efficiency. We seek to continue our practices and make interventions to achieve Zero Liquid Discharge and Arvind Bodhankar Zero Waste to Landfill Status. Head (SHE & Sustainability) 20 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Message from Head (SHE & Sustainability) Sustainability Report 2017-18 21 Awards Sustainability Highlights & Awards Sustainability Highlights Tata Motors Limited, Jamshedpur plant won the National Energy Conservation Award. The award was given by The Hon’ble President of India Shri. Ramnath Kovind, and was received by Mr. Ajoy Lall, Head Manufacturing, CVBU, Tata Motors Limited on the occasion of National Energy Conservation day , 14th December, 2017 at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. 7 http://www.tata.com/aboutus/articlesinside/leading-sustainably 22 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainability Highlights & Awards Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainability Highlights & Awards 23 24 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainability Highlights & Awards Sustainability Report 2017-18 25 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions 27 Sustainable Mobility Solutions Role of TML in Shaping The Future of Mobility in India The transport sector in India today faces an onerous task of opportunity in the market for vehicles that can be used meeting the mobility demands of a population of more than as shared resources. 1.2 billion people spread over an area of 3.3 million square hh Big-data Driven Freight Optimisation: Open source kilometres (Census 2011). This is projected to increase to 1.39 platforms will make data analytics flexible, reliable and billion in 2025. As per a World Bank Study, over 600 million relatively affordable for companies. This will lead to route people are expected to live in Indian cities by 2031. The and capacity optimisations, and collaborations between urban transport system is forecasted to rapidly develop with various third-party transport providers. the cities and problems such as increased traffic congestion, environmental pollution, threatening safety are going to hh Light Weighting: ultra-light, ultra-efficient vehicle pose severe challenges to the development agenda of our is an efficiency measure which has major positive nation. Realising the need for smart and sustainable transport impact on bottom line as well as reduction in on-road solutions, Government of India is on a mission of building carbon emissions. Approach and Performance in 100 smart cities and has unveiled investment plans totalling Customer Centricity Customer Engagement 150 billion USD in highways and shipping sector all over Customer service quality is met through assimilation of India by 2019. As a company that has gained a reputation With a vision to be a global leader in the transport sector, we our Customer Relationship Management and Dealer of contributing to nation-building we are committed to aim to provide the best experience to our customers with our Management System (CRM – DMS). Our TCoC for dealers providing Smart, Safe and Sustainable transportation that wide range of products. Customer centricity is intrinsic to our and overall quality policy provides the guiding approach The data security of our customers is ensured through would shape the future of mobility in India. culture – develop, deliver, delight. Customer service quality towards customer service. a robust consumer privacy policy which tracks and is met through integration of our Customer Relationship management and Dealer Management System (CRM – measures key aspects of customer dissatisfaction. All the At TML, we are focusing on both on-road transport It is important to understand customers’ expectations DMS). We continuously strive to provide best services to complaints are assessed for root cause analysis through subsectorsCommercial and Passenger Vehicles covering; and thus an ongoing dialogue with them is maintained enhance our customer engagement. We have continuously the Complaint Management Process. The complaints freight trucks, light goods vehicles, cars and public through feedback surveys. It helps us to make advances demonstrated our commitment towards providing the received through various modes like letters, e mail, Toll transportation buses. The remarkable growth of this sector in the quality of products we develop. In view of providing best customer service by constantly delivering value to our free no., feedback calling, social media forums, Customer poses both challenges as well as tremendous opportunity for consistent service, we have integrated feedback systems customers. Our performance in the customer service survey App etc are responded and acted upon for resolution. We the automotive sector. Rapid urbanization and an expanding across the life cycle stages of customer satisfaction. We conducted by J.D. Power over the last few years reflects on have a daily dashboard shared with the regional teams upper middle class offers a great market, but challenges like have benchmarked our performance with the industry our priority. where Turn-around-Time (TAT) adherence is measured increasing congestion and pollution due to dramatic increase peers by using J.D. Power Survey. The survey is a street along with closure percentage and ageing of open in personal vehicles makes urban cities a virtual gridlock. recruitment and face-to-face interview done from May to complaints. There is a mechanism in place to internally August every year over a spread of 40 cities. The survey escalate complaints to various members of the process Private sector has been increasingly providing leadership sample are owners with 12-24 months of ownership of chain if a complaint remains open beyond TAT. We drive regarding the problem of green logistics and urban mobility. products and who have serviced their vehicle at least once closure of complaints from dealers to end on the same Key trends that will impact the roadmap of automotive sector are: in the last 6 months. We have improved our J.D. Power day or the very next day with customer and this number Survey score for Passenger Vehicles over the years, which is also monitored daily. Daily tracking of complaints that hh Electric Vehicles: Poised for tremendous growth in are indicated in the graph above. J.D. Power Survey – are escalated to the Chairman, President and Managing India backed with pro-electric government policies. Syndicated CSI Survey criteria are undergoing a change Director offices happens till closure of the complaint. If from 2018 onwards. Testimony to our concerted efforts, hh Artificial Intelligence: Still nascent in India but on top there are any complaints open for a long duration it is we have moved up to 2nd rank in 2017 in the industry in of minds of automotive companies globally, to explore investigated by the CC team and resolution intervention the JD Power Customer Satisfaction Index in India. the possibility of driver-less mobility. offered wherever required/possible. Monitoring of key hh Shared Mobility: With arrival of technology to enable There have been no cases of non-compliance or violations performance metrics (CPTV, TAT adherence and Same this, car ownership is a thing bygone. This creates an in regards to customer privacy during the reporting year. Day Closure) is done by customer Care/ Experience teams. 28 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions 29 Details of resolution, root-cause analysis and service load managing the product recall. The process has been framed based analysis and performance is tracked by the customer support team. We provide feedback to the customers on the based on recall related regulatory aspects of various countries and global benchmark practices. Product Stewardship resolution of the complaint. The philosophy in managing customer complaints is Respond, Resolve & Reassure. The Recall Process is aimed at providing the framework to address the vehicle recall in case of safety defect in the vehicle Product Recall due to design, manufacturing or assembly problem posing TML has a well-defined Recall Process and Head of undue risk to the safety of vehicle or user and incorrect Approach and Performance Engineering Research Centre is overall responsible for product labelling. The future has already arrived and our market and environment are more competitive than ever before. Globalization and competition in the automotive sector have increased the need to innovate products that are more efficient, provide comfort to customers and are economical. To strategically stay ahead of the curve during the time of ever-changing global dynamics, we give prime importance to innovation and are continuously innovating new products keeping in mind the customer preference and regulations. TML is prepared for the future with its ‘Future-Ready’ portfolio, addressing various product and technology drivers. These drivers range from changing standards on emissions (BSVI), safety norms, fuel economy, rated loads, megatrends like ACES and other strategic product offerings. TML’s range of electric vehicles include IRIS EV, Magic EV, 12m Urban Electric Bus, Tiago EV, Tigor EV, RaceMo EV, along with E-Vision concept Electric Vehicle showcased at Geneva International Motor show during March 2018. Moving into the 150th year of Tata group, TML is geared up with a fresh perspective to drive India’s vision of sustainable transportation by developing viable, costeffective, safe and environment-friendly solutions including alternate fuel powertrains and supplying and maintaining largest CNG fleet of the world for Delhi since 2009. As the only OEM with an end-to-end extensive product portfolio across its Passenger and Commercial Vehicles businesses, TML is in a unique position to play a complimentary role in the smart cities of the future. From public transport to personal cars, from last mile connectivity to BRTS, from emergency response vehicles With the growing need for fuel efficiency and reducing to commercial utility vehicles, from green and sustainable on road emission for vehicles, innovative technologies are solutions to vehicles designed to amplify the thrill of needed to support the changing scenario and achieving the drive we have a product portfolio to connect the targets. We are evaluating several xEV options through aspirations and needs of its discerning customers. This is a different technologies as part of long-term strategy. clear example of our commitment towards development The Tata E-Vision electric sedan concept which was first of sustainable transportation. Our vision to mark our showcased at the 2018 Geneva Motor Show is based on place in the domestic passenger vehicle and global the brand’s new OMEGA platform that will be the base commercial vehicle reiterates our intention towards for all future electric Tata models that are more than 4.3 product stewardship. metres in length. 30 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions 31 The technologies vary from mild hybrids in one segment to hh The pioneer of the country’s first Fuel cell bus (12m), LNG mobile air conditioning systems from January 2017. This is domestic market as per CMVR Certification and of the a fuel cell in others, which we have demonstrated in Auto Powered bus (12m), and 18m Articulated bus. applicable to all new M1 vehicle category models. In 2016, export markets. Expo from time to time. We continue our R&D efforts in India as a signatory of the Montreal Protocol Amendment hh Delivered 25 Diesel Series Hybrid buses to the city developing vehicles which are powered by alternate fuels of Mumbai, India to be operated in the city center of had agreed to phase down production and consumption Emission and Safety in India like CNG, LPG, Biodiesel, electric and Hydrogen. We are also of HFC’s with 2028 as freeze year and 85% reduction by Bandra-Kurla Complex as well as for connecting BKC to The Government of India, starting April 2017, mandated working on LNG and Dual fuel technologies which provide an 2047. In this regard, TML is proactively exploring the use the Airport. Bharat Stage IV norms, which are equivalent to Euro IV alternative to pure diesel technologies. of alternate low GWP refrigerants like HFO 1234yf, HFCnorms, for all vehicles across India. All categories of our hh Developed a 12m electric bus based on low floor bus platforms 152a in mobile air conditioning systems. vehicles currently manufactured are compliant with Bharat Our R&D expenditure for the year 2017-18 was A23.97 Billion, for urban deployment which will result in zero tailpipe Stage IV norms. Bharat Stage VI norms will be applicable an increase of 14.14% from the expenditure of year 2016-17. emissions. This was displayed in AutoExpo 2018, Delhi. TML has been granted funds from United Nations across the country starting April 1, 2020. hh Developing an electric trolley bus based on the series Environment Program to work with a vendor and We also engage with various prestigious scientific and hybrid platform targeted for BRTS routes for zero demonstrate the commercial and technical viability of educational institutions, like Indian Institute of Technology, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) has emission mass mobility application. alternate low GWP, mildly flammable HFC-152a and Mumbai, Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur and also imposed restriction on the registration of Bharat HFO-1234yf refrigerants in secondary-loop mobile air Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore to support our cause hh Developing a fleet of fuel cell buses, again based on the Stage IV vehicles sold after 1st April 2020. The Fully Built conditioning systems. The project started in May 2016 of developing technologies suitable for Indian context and series hybrid platform which can provide clean public BS IV vehicles manufactured before 1st April 2020 shall and will be completed by December 2018. thereby, creating value to our customers. At an organization transportation in cities where hydrogen infrastructure will not be registered after 30th June 2020 and BS IV vehicles level, TML’s Engineering Research Centre is overall responsible be available. Several prototypes of the fuel cell buses are sold in the form of drive away chassis manufactured Developing Safe Mobility Solutions before 1st April 2020 shall not be registered after 30th for product development and innovations. under testing within TML premises. Product safety is always a priority to TML. All the products September 2020. Hence TML product plan, migration hh Developing electric vehicles based on small commercial Our new design philosophy means that the front end of are developed using latest technologies to ensure overall and manufacturing has been synchronized to fulfil these vehicles like Tata Iris and Tata Magic, which are intended the car gets a humanity line seen on all the new generation occupant and pedestrian safety. requirements. for last-mile public transportation applications. Tata cars. A new sub-brand named TAMO acts as an incubation centre of innovation towards new technologies, TML’s product safety development team ensures that CAFE Norms for M1 Category Vehicles business models and partnerships in order to define future Personal Mobility product design meets latest regulatory norms, consumer The Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) norms are mobility solutions by providing a digital eco-system granting TML recognizes the importance of alternate fuel vehicle group norms and due care norms in the area of safety. applicable to M1 category vehicles from April 1, 2017. As a access to new trends, innovations and ideas for designing in personal transportation and significance of the same in Our Integrated Safety Centre is fully equipped to carry result, we are required to demonstrate CAFE compliance new products and solutions. In March 2017, Tata Motors combating climate change and air pollution. At the company out different types of tests like, full vehicle crash tests, for our PV and CV M1 models. Through the use of the showcased a concept sports car under our sub-brand TAMO level, approximately 31.6% of our sales volume is from sled tests, Pedestrian protection tests, BIW (body in white) CAFE Calculator, we will monitor production volumes – RaceMo at the Geneva International Motor Show, where passenger vehicle (PV) which significantly contributes to the strength and anchorage tests, interiors evaluation tests, and process to ensure that organizational level CAFE 3D printing technology has been used to create replicas of overall on-road emissions. In this context, we have started material characterization tests, commercial vehicle tests, compliance (which will require us to produce enough fuel the concept car and distributed to the visitors at the show. to channel our effort towards improved tail-pipe emission, security systems evaluation tests, Advanced Driver Assist efficient models to compensate for those models having energy efficiency and technological intervention to introduce System (ADAS) evaluation tests. Head of Engineering higher CO2 emissions in g/km) is established at all times Key Initiatives and Outcomes alternate fuel vehicles. Research Centre (ERC) is responsible for reviewing and during the year. To ensure compliance with CAFE norms, in Alternate Fuel hh TML has designed and developed electric version of implementing safety initiatives in the products. we are taking measures to incorporate electric and hybrid At TML there are several initiatives to develop alternate fuel Tigor and is supplying to EESL, Govt of India. vehicles and include environmentally friendly technology We also have dedicated CAE group who is responsible vehicles which reduce the impact of vehicles on air pollution in our product range. hh Developing various electric cars for catering to the for developing vehicle structures and occupant restraint as well as climate change. A list of the major initiatives is customers aspiring for zero emission vehicle. systems (airbags, seatbelts) meeting target crash given below: safety performance requirements. All projects under Heavy Duty Fuel Efficiency Norms hh Displayed concept high performance and longer development are routed through a physical and digital With the notification for Heavy Duty Fuel Efficiency Mass Transportation & Last Mile Connectivity range EV car EVision in Geneva Motor Show which will validation process. Our facility is accredited by Vehicle Norms for Diesel vehicles of category M3 and N3 with be catering to the needs of customers aspiring high With approximately 68.4% of the sales volume from Certification Agency (VCA), UK as well as ARAI wherein GVW of 12T & above coming from the Ministry of Power, performing EV Cars. commercial vehicles, we have always prioritized our efforts both agencies witnesses the tests at the facility and TML is working on every vehicle of specified category towards enhancing the effectiveness and efficiency of mass hh TML is developing hybrid versions of its passenger car provide compliance certificate. to meet the fuel efficiency targets mentioned in the transportation vehicles. products like Hexa, Tiago and Nano for application in notification based on constant speed fuel consumption personal mobility. Meeting Homologation Requirements tests conducted at 40 km/h and 60 km/h. Accordingly, hh After the successful launch of the STARBUS ELECTRIC 9m, Adherence with the applicable regulation is recognized Phase 1 will be implemented on & after 1st April 2018 for the STARBUS ELECTRIC 12m and the STARBUS HYBRID Reducing Climate Change Impact of Refrigerants as one of most critical requirements to ensure business vehicles complying with BS-IV emission norms and Phase 12m buses, designed, developed and powered by UNEP Program: The European Union has phased out High continuity. Our Passenger and Commercial Vehicles 2 will be implemented on & after 1st April 2021 for vehicles alternate fuels, TML is manufacturing them for supplying Global Warming Potential (GWP) refrigerant HFC-134a from fulfil all the applicable regulatory requirements in the complying with BS-VI emission norms. to various State Transport corporations. 32 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions 33 Crash & Other Safety Requirements 1st April, 2019 by Original Equipment Manufacturers. Engine Product Development hh With requirement to comply with Heavy Duty FE for Motor Vehicles Fuel Efficiency Improvement Initiatives norms, improvement in fuel efficiency at engine Staying Prepared with Forecasting level through various proprietary technologies, India has a well-established regulatory framework hh 2%-3% fuel efficiency demonstrated through We have developed Domestic Regulation Forecast Matrix which result in reduction of parasitic losses, friction administered by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. advanced formulation used in engine oil. (DRFM) and Export Regulation Forecast Matrix (ERFM) which reduction and combustion optimization. This has Recently, the Government of India has embarked on a wide provide updates on various forthcoming regulations and their hh Similar initiative is being taken for axle and transmission resulted in 4 – 5% fuel efficiency benefit for 12T and ranging program to institute standardized safety features applicability, implementation etc., pertaining to Emissions and oil leading to fuel efficiency cumulative gain of 5% above vehicles. for a variety of motor vehicles. Crash safety requirements, Safety for the PV and CV products manufactured by TML. when used in conjunction with aforementioned oil. such as full frontal, offset frontal and lateral impact, have been made mandatory for all new models starting October DRFM is prepared and uploaded at a designated portal by 1, 2017 and from October 1, 2019 for all existing models of Regulations Team every month and the regulatory updates vehicle categories as specified in the individual standards. A are also sent through departmental communication across pedestrian compliance program will be instituted for all new the organization on monthly basis. The Export Regulation Engine Product Development models from October 1, 2018 and for all existing models from Forecast Matrix is prepared and uploaded by homologation October 1, 2020. Passenger vehicles will require safety features team for the applicable PV and CV markets indicated by such as safety belt reminders, reverse parking alert system, International Business on a periodic basis. In addition, speed alert system, manual override for central locking system periodic communication also being sent by Regulations and air bags from 1st July 2019 onwards. Anti-lock braking team to provide updates on various developments on the system (ABS) will be required for all M1 and M2 category domestic regulatory front to TML stakeholders. This system passenger vehicles starting April 1, 2018 and April 1, 2019, acts as forecasting trigger for Marketing, International for new models and existing models respectively. To facilitate Business, CoCs, PATs, developmental agencies to initiate informed consumer decision-making, the government is various design and developmental actions upfront for the formulating the Bharat New Vehicle Safety Assessment existing and new PV & CV models targeted for launch, sales Programme (BNVSAP), a star-rating based system of safety and registration in India and abroad. assessment for passenger vehicles. Additionally, starting April 1, 2018, all public service vehicles need to be outfitted with a Addressing Regulatory Changes vehicle location tracking device and an emergency buttons. Shift to BS IV: In April 2017, we announced our readiness to This would enhance overall safety of women and children hh On Nexon diesel vehicles, following carbon foot print reduction were implemented: address the challenge of shifting from BS III to BS IV. Our two while availing public transportation across India. new engines with SCR (Selective Catalytic Reduction) and EGR yy Combining 2 fuel filters into 1 fuel filter with improved filtration technology requiring no fuel filter In order to operationalize Electronic Toll Collection and ease (Exhaust Gas Recirculation) technologies for BS IV compliant change till life of vehicle or dashboard indication to driver; whichever is earlier. congestion at toll collection centres, MoRTH had mandated engines would be powering its range of Commercial Vehicles. yy Reducing weight of engine through use of alternate material for cylinder head cover with integrated the fitment of FASTags by the OEMs and their authorized oil separator. dealers in two Phases. Phase 1 involved the fitment of issuer Materials Engineering yy Increasing life of timing belt till life of the vehicle. bank specific tags from 1st December 2017. According to To make TML products environment-friendly, we envision the latest direction from NHAI (National Highways Authority inclusion of green and light weighting technologies in products of India), Phase 2 involving the fitment of Bank neutral over and above the basic Environmental regulatory compliance. Harnessing potential of Automated Manual Transmission the formulation was developed in such a way that it FASTag would be applicable from 1st Jan 2019. The bus body (AMT) driveline for fuel economy improvement on various gives fuel economy benefits due to reduced friction code regulations in two phases have become applicable To meet various environmental initiatives TML has released engine/vehicle platforms by virtue of lower viscosity of the oil. This oil is SAE for buses from 1st Oct’2017 and 1st Jan 2018 respectively. “Regulatory Compliance Bulletins” for creating awareness 10W40 which gives around 1-3 % fuel economy Enhancement in Oil Drain Interval Also Ambulance code and motor caravan codes became among suppliers about End of life vehicles, use of certain improvement over the existing SAE 15W40 engine oil. Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs). We are proactively hh For commercial vehicles, the engine oil quantity is applicable from 1st April’2018. hh This new development gives dual benefit to the sensitizing our supply chain on all the upcoming regulations substantial, ranging from 7 to 21 ltrs of oil and if the oil Government of India had mandated the fitment of aircustomer and also helps reducing carbon footprint and internal policies. drain interval is enhanced, it reduces overall disposal conditioning system or truck cabin ventilation system in all N2 by increasing the oil drain interval and providing of oil and contributes in reducing the overall carbon & N3 category of vehicles with effect from 1st January 2018. In order to ensure TML products do not have any hazardous better fuel economy. footprint. To achieve this, TML along with an oil Additionally, MoRTH has also mandated the compliance material content, additive supplier developed a Semi Synthetic engine with Truck Body Code for all such vehicles in two phases Thrust on Reducing Energy hh There is continuous upgradation of specifications / standards. oil with a novel chemistry with boosted oxidation (Phase I & Phase II) from 1st October 2018 and 1st October Consumption for Test Facility hh Use of International Material Database System (IMDS) for control properties that led to an increase in oil drain 2019 respectively. MoRTH has issued a draft notification intervals by 50% to 80% Kms in most of the engines. hh Improved test cell ventilation through high efficiency tracking and monitoring the material content of product. incorporating compliance with revised requirements in line evaporative cooling instead of pure air conditioning hh Strategy of linking product level environmental initiatives hh Apart from the benefit of enhanced oil drain intervals with Europe for Fully Built Buses manufactured on and after which was the more energy consuming option. to new product launches. due to enhanced chemistry and synthetic base oil, 34 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions 35 Nexon Pass By Noise Reduction hh To assist the designers & strategic sourcing team to determine the sustainability level of the parts Energy Conservation in Indoor Testing Nexon Petrol vehicle engine calibration was changed manufacturer in supply chain, we developed two to meet drivability requirement at Beta Stage. This novel tools for life cycle multi-criteria sustainability change resulted in higher exterior noise and the vehicle As a part of product verification and validation process, different vehicle proto components, aggregates, systems assessment & product footprint calculator. Both tools failed to meet Pass by noise Legal requirement. Engine and vehicles are tested for its performance and reliability using in-lab test facilities. All such in-lab test facilities will help in capability development & decision making. calibration and exhaust system were tuned to meet pass are equipped with electric motors and drives as prime mover. As a sustainability initiative, our emphasis was to by noise requirement. Pass by noise value was reduced go in for regenerative type test dynamometers and test systems though they are technically complex and costly. hh Evaluated impact of recycling materials & associated by 2 dBA (76 to 74) with above changes and regulatory Regenerative test systems use motors cum generator along with a suitable drive system. In normal operation, trade-offs to make informed decisions from requirements were met. It resulted in reduced noise electric motor provides mechanical load to load / drive the test component / vehicle and other way round the environmental perspective. pollution during driving. electric motor acts as generator and absorbs the mechanical load / power exerted by the test component / vehicle. During generator mode, it generates electricity, which is fed back to the grid. Regenerative test system In this study, material depletion, energy consumption, helps in reducing 60 80% of electricity consumption over non-regenerative type test systems. and environmental emissions of front bumper application in the vehicle were analyzed using the life cycle method to determine the effect of passenger vehicle plastic bumper recycling on the environment. This project emphasizes on circular economy principles for treating scrap in an organized manner without compromising on quality. TML in collaboration with other stakeholders developed the methodology to treat the plastic waste, which reduces the environmental burden by minimizing use of virgin plastic material & promoting close loop plastic recycling. The study was completed into two parts; Benchmarking impact of Virgin Material part and evaluating impact of Life Cycle Assessment: recycled material against benchmark study with sub tasks. Different scenarios were analyzed based upon material One of our key initiatives towards holistic improvement end of life practices (landfill, Incineration with or without in sustainability performance of our products is the energy recovery) for first generation products & recycle introduction of Life Cycle Assessment approach for material percentage (50 %, 70% & 100% recycled material our product development. In this approach, we use) in second-generation products. give specific importance to various components that are used in the production process to understand their impact. With the findings we are able to get better insights to improve the efficiency and sustainability of our products. Some of the highlights of our studies: hh A detailed LCA Study was performed to quantify the environmental impacts of our HEXA Vehicle which is manufactured at our Pune plant. ISO 14040/44 standard’s cradle to grave system boundary was used. With the assistance of Tata Steel, actual steel datasets were collected from them to know the actual impact of steel on vehicle production. hh Through the aggregate level LCA study of the air conditioning unit present in TATA ARIA we found that the refrigerant leakage during the use phase has the maximum impact for existing air-conditioning system. 36 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions 37 Conventional Life Cycle Model For Automotive Product Sustainability Raw Material Bumper Development Bumper Assembly & Use Scrapping of Bumper Production (Injection Molding) (Customer Use Phase) (EOL Phase) Without Energy Recovery Priorities Incineration With Energy Recovery Landfill Use in Other Application Recycling Open Loop Losses Proposed Close Loop Life Cycle Model For Automotive Product 38 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainable Mobility Solutions Key Challenges: Opportunities Opportunity Areas Identified Opportunities Potential Impact Faced & Emerging Economic hh Initiatives to make Tata Motors Limited a more agile and lean enterprise to address the changing global business scenario; hh Various initiatives in energy and resource optimization such as recycling hh Increase in product portfolio • Alignment to changing and reuse and implementation of ENCON projects to ensure effective customer preferences; cost management and cost competitiveness; • Increased business TML has operations across several geographies, and Considering the gamut of factors, we have prioritized risks hh Engagement with Company’s distribution channels and supply chains growth; is impacted by global as well as regional trends in the and opportunities to the business based on the frequency for sustainable performance and business continuity; • Reduced cost of automotive industry, changing policy scenarios, stricter of occurrence and potential of reoccurrence based on hh Increased emphasis on Research & Development (R&D) for new safer, operation and capital environment & customer friendly products resulting to launch of new products; cost. environment and tax regulations, fluctuating fuel rates historical trends. Risks & opportunities have been analysed hh Initiation of end of life treatment of various parts of Tata vehicle to avoid and commodity prices. In India, consumer preferences for potential impact on the company and external influence. high cost of virgin material; are largely determined by availability of credit, economic For the ease of understanding, risks are categorized under hh Entry into new business streams such as in defence sector from providing well-being of the people and the general growth of economic, environmental and social. only pure logistics solutions to tactical and combat solutions. the economy. Environmental hh Launch of hybrid buses for mass transportation and development of fuel hh Increase demand and efficient vehicles to reduce on-road fuel consumption and overall fleet wider acceptance of Risks emission; vehicle; hh Introduction of cleaner fuel CNG variants of the vehicles also help reduce • Greener operations Risk Area Identified Risks Potential Impact environmental load on ambient air quality and meet the product emission Reduced cost of operation Economic hh Rising inflation and interest rates coupled with muted industrial growth; hh Increase in capital cost; related regulations; and optimized material hh Intensifying competition in the premium automotive categories; hh Decline in business growth; hh Introduction of emission control technologies across the Commercial Vehicle usage; hh Underperformance of the Company’s distribution channels and supply chain; hh Business continuity risk. range that aid in superior performance, reliability, commercial affordability, • Increased social hh Increase in input prices of raw materials and shortage; environmental sustainability and future readiness of our vehicles. Use of acceptance of the hh Deterioration in the performance of any of the subsidiaries, joint Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) technology, will enable TML meet the company due to greener ventures may have a substantial adverse effect on the Company’s sales increasingly stringent emission norms; vehicle portfolio for and financial condition. hh Enhanced clean vehicles portfolioTML has introduced more than 50 mass transportation and products with more than 200 variants including Ultra 1518, SIGNA 3718, Ace commercial vehicles. Environmental hh Increasing awareness among customers and social vigilance for hh Increase in the cost of operation; Gold and Starbus Hybrid. In addition to this, TML is gearing up with BS environment friendly vehicles and increase in demand for more fuelhh Operate and maintain its IV product/technology superiority. Our products represent the Horizonext efficient and environment-friendly vehicles; facilities as per regulations philosophy with best-in-class offerings; hh Increased government regulations (Corporate Average Fuel Economy and standards, (ii) install hh Our futuristic electric vehicle, Magic Iris Electric, a clean, eco-friendly norms, shift to BS IV), rising fuel prices, and evolving environmental new emissions controls passenger commercial vehicle comes with a segment first solar charger; preferences of consumers; technologies, (iii) obtain hh Implementation of ENCON projects helped reduce energy consumption hh Compliance with new and current laws, rules, regulations and allowances to emit and thereby, reduce GHG emissions; government policies regarding increased fuel economy, reduced GHG greenhouse gases, (iv) hh Increased investments in RE, also, significantly contributed towards reduction and other emissions and vehicle safety; manage the Company’s of GHG emission in our operations; emissions programme, and hh Climate change (v) invest in research and hh Establishment of rain water harvesting and reverse osmosis system for yy Regulatory risk includes air pollution limits, product efficiency, development to upgrade sustainable water supply; changing taxation on fuel, product labelling and emission products and manufacturing hh Implementation of integrated circular economy strategy has resulted to reduced reporting obligations; facilities; consumption of virgin material and increased the useful life of the products. yy Change in physical climate such as change in precipitation and hh Unable to continue resulting drought, or floods. business due to violation of Social hh TML received order for hybrid buses for mass transportation. The hh Wider acceptance and yy Transition risk based on 2 degree climate scenario of low carbon regulations/ norms; launch of Small Commercial Vehicles (SCV) and Pickup range – The increased business; economy. hh Decline in business due SCV range of Ace, Ace Zip and Pickup range Super Ace have been hh Avoidance of loss of to inability in meeting game changers in enabling the customers to deliver last mile goods business due to social environmentally conscious and services. The unique quality and price proposition of these issues; customer expectations. vehicles have inspired and enabled many to become entrepreneurs; hh Enhanced ESG Social hh Change in Mobility preferences hh Decline in sale of passenger hh As customers are looking for new ways to access vehicles beyond the performance in supply yy Increased use public transport; vehicles; traditional ownership models, the Company is exploring possibilities chain and avoidance of hh Increase in competition in of premium mobility that will offer them the choice and flexibility to disruption in business. yy Shift from ownership model to dependency on cabs; the business; match their lifestyles; yy Increase in car-sharing economy with cab aggregators like OLA, UBER; hh Closure/ loss of business hh Engagement with suppliers for sustainable supply chain enhances hh Obligations under the World Trade Organization agreement could the ESG performance of suppliers, thereby reducing the risk of labour reduce the present level of tariffs on imports of components and due to labour unrest. unrest in supply chain and ensures continued goods and service vehicles which could result in increased competition; supplies from our local suppliers; hh Traffic congestion in major cities and environmental awareness; hh Continuous engagement with our employees & stakeholders provides hh Social unrest such as Labour strikes, civil disturbances, regional conflicts upcoming issues and concerns of our business and helps maintain our and other acts of violence may disrupt or otherwise adversely affect the social license to operate. markets in which the Company operates its business and profitability. 40 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainability Priorities 41 Stakeholder Engagement at TML Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Groups Engagement Mechanisms Frequency of Engagement Mode of Feedback Assessment Sunrise and Sunset meetings, Weekly/Monthly Reviews Accelerating with our Stakeholders Employee Satisfaction Survey; improvements displays; HR Annual, Quarterly, Employees Appraisals; Internal Surveys; Shaping Our Aspirations Forum; Skip Level Meets; Monthly, Weekly, Daily Questionnaire Town Halls; Focused Group For TML, engagement with stakeholders has always been of Discussions utmost priority, driving business to a level where it is today. Stakeholders’ views and suggestions are incorporated into Meetings with local Annual, Quarterly, Minutes of Meetings, Feedback Communities our business strategies while the concerns raised by them community; Public hearing Monthly, Weekly, Daily letters, Questionnaire are worked upon to strengthen our internal systems. On a Sustainable Supply Chain regular basis, our teams engage with multitude of people, Initiative, Technology Days, Annual, Quarterly, Vendor Rating, Satisfaction who impact or are impacted by our business decisions, to Suppliers/ Service Providers Supplier Meets, Vendor Monthly, Weekly, Daily Surveys , Questionnaire discuss matters most important to them. Council, Audits Opinion Leaders/ Experts/ Minutes of Meeting, Action One-to-one meetings Need-Based A formal stakeholder engagement process involves direct Academic Institutions Plans, Questionnaire & detailed consultation with different stakeholder groups, Minutes of Meeting, Action Media Regular Interactions Ongoing Plans, Questionnaire helping us in identifying the critical issues that needs our immediate attention. In FY 2018, we conducted a detailed Dealer Meets, Joint stakeholder engagement to understand key material topics. Programmes, Special Training Annual, Quarterly, Dealer Satisfaction survey; Dealers & Service Centers Programmes, Dealers Council; Monthly, Weekly, Daily Questionnaire A variety of sources are evaluated to obtain a precise picture Dealer Visits; Audits of the concerns raised by our stakeholders including reader feedback, customer & employee surveys, & discussions Customer Meets, Key Account outputs of workshops conducted with individual stakeholder groups. Process, Surveys; Feedback Customer satisfaction index; JD Customers Need-Based calls; Training Forums; Direct Power Survey; Questionnaire Visits Investor Meets, Investor Calls, Shareholder/Investors Annual, Quarterly, Minutes of Meeting; Action Investors & Shareholders Grievance Forum; Ethics Need-Based Plans; Questionnaire Committee Regulators/ Government One-to-one meetings; Need-Based Minutes of Meeting Authorities Meetings in Industry Forum 42 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainability Priorities 43 Materiality Matrix Materiality Assessment The matrix below is a representation of the outcome of our materiality assessment. Topics have been rated on a scale of low, medium and high for the impact on business and importance as perceived by the stakeholders. We use materiality assessment for identification of key issues 2017-18 to identify and prioritize topics based on GRI relevant to our business. The expectations and concerns standards. We redesigned the stakeholder engagement of our identified stakeholders help us in prioritization of questionnaire to cover wider material topics, consulted strategy, policies and action plans in the area of economy, relevant stakeholders including investors and sought their environment and society. inputs from the sustainability perspective. These inputs were mapped on materiality matrix based on importance to We revisited the materiality assessment done during stakeholders as well as to TML in order to prioritize FY 2014-15 and once again conducted the stakeholder material aspects. engagement and materiality assessment process in FY In the materiality matrix of FY 2017-18, there are 21 material Material Topics aspects, wherein some new material aspects have emerged For each material topic identified in the materiality matrix, such as; economic performance, water, human rights, social the mapping to GRI topic along with reporting boundary for media, labour-management relations, public policy advocacy TML as well as the subsidiaries has been presented. For each and local communities. While customer satisfaction, regulatory material issue, key material topics, as per GRI standard, along compliance and Energy & GHG are still at “Critical” priority with its GRI indicators have been identified. The reporting level, it was also observed that some of the material aspects boundary for each material topic has been defined from such as product innovation & competitiveness, economic the materiality assessment as well as the decision by the performance and occupational health & safety have moved management. from “High” to “Critical” priority level with respect to earlier materiality assessment of FY 2014-15. 44 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainability Priorities 45 Materiality Topics Mapping Table Material Topic Boundary of Organisation’s Relevant Coverage of Dimension Material Issues (As per GRI GRI Indicators Impact for Involvement in Stakeholder the Topic Material Topic Boundary of Organisation’s Standard) TML Impact Relevant Coverage of GRI Dimension Material Issues (As per GRI GRI Indicators Impact for Involvement in ESG aspects in Supplier 308-1 Outside TML Indirect Impact TML, Suppliers TML, India Stakeholder the Topic Environmental Standard) TML Impact (Continued) Supply Chain Environmental 308-2 Economic Economic Economic 201-1 Within TML. Direct impact Investors, TML, India Assessment Social Performance Performance Shareholders, 201-2 Child Labour 408 Employees 201-3 Forced or 409 201-4 Compulsory Labour Procurement Procurement 204-1 Within & outside Direct Impact TML, Suppliers TML, India Practices Practices TML Freedom of 407 Environmental Biodiversity Biodiversity 304-1 Within TML Direct Impact TML, TML, India Association Communities, and Collective 304-2 Bargaining Media 304-3 Human Rights Forced or 409 Within TML Direct Impact TML, Employees TML, India 304-4 Compulsory Effluent & Waste Effluent & Waste 306-1 Within and Direct Impact TML & TML, India Labour Management Management Outside TML Employees, Partial coverage 306-2 Child Labour 408 Community, for TAL, TTL, 306-3 Government TMLDL, TMML Labor Freedom of 407 Within TML Direct Impact TML, Employees TML, India Authorities, (Details provided Management Association 306-4 Media in GRI index) Relations and Collective 306-5 Bargaining Water Water 303-1 Within and Direct Impact TML and TML, India Occupational Occupational 403-1 Within TML Direct Impact TML, Employees TML, India Outside TML employees, Partial coverage 303-2 Health and Health and Partial community, for TAL, TTL, Safety Safety Coverage 303-3 Government TMLDL, TMML for TAL, TTL, Authorities, (Details provided 403-2 TMLDL, TMML Media in GRI index) (Details 403-3 provided in GRI Regulatory Environmental 307 Within TML Direct Impact TML, TML, India, TTL, Index) Compliance Compliance Government TMLDL, TAL, 403-4 Authorities, TMML Media Gender Diversity Diversity and 405-1 Within TML Direct Impact TML, Employees TML, India Equal Energy & GHG Energy 302-1 Within and Direct Impact TML, Employees, TML, India 405-2 Opportunity Emissions Outside TML Customers, Partial coverage 302-2 Investors, for TAL, TTL, 302-3 Opinion TMLDL, TMML Local Local 413 Outside TML Indirect Impact TML, TML, India. Leaders, Media, (Details provided Communities Communities Communities, 302-4 Government in GRI index) Government 302-5 Authorities Authorities, Opinion Emission 305-1 Leaders, Media 305-2 Product Customer Health 416-1, 416-2 Outside TML Direct Impact TML, Customers TML, India 305-3 Innovation & & Safety 305-4 Competitiveness 305-5 Customer Marketing & 102-43, 102-44, Within & Outside Direct Impact TML, TML, India Emissions to air Emission 305-6 Within & outside Direct Impact TML, Employees, TML, India Satisfaction Labelling 417-3 TML Customers, TML Customers, Partial coverage 417-1 Dealers & 305-7 Product Service Investors, for TAL, TTL, Opinion TMLDL, TMML Labelling Stations, Leaders, Media, (Details provided Investors, Social Media Government Government in GRI index) Authorities Authorities Raw material Material 301-1 Within TML Direct Impact TML, Suppliers TML, India. The Public Policy Public Policy 415-1 Within & Outside Direct Impact TML, TML, India & Recycled disclosure is Advocacy TML Government 301-2 material usage not applicable Authorities 301-3 for TTL. Partial Coverage of Training & Training & 404-1 Within TML Direct Impact TML, Employees TML, India TAL, TMLDL, Education Education TMML (Details 404-2 provided in GRI index) 404-3 46 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainability Priorities 47 Sustainability Strategy Integration of Sustainable Development Goals [SDGs] Our extensive materiality assessment helps us identify key our performance, we have established short-term and longissues, while continuous internal performance management term goals for environmental and social material topics. and monitoring mechanism helps us to strategize our actions Monitoring the progress of our performance with respect on identified material issues for integrated sustainable to established goals facilitates us to calibrate our course of To combat the massive economic, environmental and social stakeholders is essential and business plays an integral part development and adhere to our ethical principles. In line action and achieve our target. challenge, UN Conference on Sustainable Development, in this journey. Tata Motors Limited is working on 15 out of with our material issues and continuous self-assessment of in June 2012, laid down the foundation for Sustainable 17 Sustainable Development Goals which are strategically Development Goals for 2030. To achieve the ambitious aligned with the Tata Group philosophy as well as our target by 2030, a meaningful partnership between different business priorities. Sustainability Goals and Targets Topic Goals Time frame Status Our Alignment and Programs Supporting SDGs 100% disposal of biodegradable waste through composting/biogas Our skill development program, “Kaushalya” helps the youth in earning their livelihood, increase Effluent and Waste Target year 2018-19 On Track employability and increase earning capability through vocational training in automotive and other 5% increase in treated effluent industrial trades. We continuously attempt to eradicate poverty in the society through CSR and recycling employee welfare practices. For further details, please visit:http://www.tatamotors.com/programs/ Environmental Compliance Zero non-compliance Continuous On Track employability-skill-development/. Further details in “CSR”, “Value Chain Sustainability” and “Workforce” sections. Year on Year 5% reduction in “Aarogya”, our CSR program for health, focuses on maternal and child health by adopting a holistic Water Target year 2018-19 On Track water consumption approach and striking a balance between ‘preventive healthcare’ and ‘curative healthcare’ interventions. 5% reduction over previous year Target year 2018-19 For details on the program, please visit: http://www.tatamotors.com/programs/health/. We enhance work-related safety of employees and other stakeholders through various initiatives. For more Energy Aspires to meet 100% of energy Aspirational Target On Track information, please refer to “Workplace Safety ” section. demand from renewable energy year 2030 At TML, we encourage ‘holistic engagement’ with the entire spectrum of formal education for needy, deserving and marginalized students, under our Education program “Vidyadhanam”. For more details, 5% reduction in GHG emission Emissions Target year 2018-19 On Track please refer to our website: http://www.tatamotors.com/programs/education/ At the organization over the previous year level, we have dedicated structure to continuously enhance our employees’ skill sets. Further details in “CSR” section. Continue to manufacture 85% Material recyclable passenger cars as per Continuous On Track R-R-R European Regulation Our commitment towards gender diversity is reflected in Tata Code of Conduct. We have developed a holistic charter for inclusive programs which is centered on gender diversity and equality. For further Conduct site assessment of 82 Sustainable Supply Chain Target year 2018-19 On Track details, please refer to “Gender Diversity” in “Workforce” section of this report. numbers of suppliers Occupational Health and Reduction of Total Recordable Target year 2018-19 On Track To address the water issue, we have initiated program “Amrutdhara”, focused on addressing the Safety cases by 10% over previous year ‘drinking-water’ needs of needy and deserving communities. For details, please refer to our website: http://www.tatamotors.com/programs/amrutdhara/. We contribute to sanitation through our product Increase of women employees at usage for the cause of “Swachh Bharat Abhiyan”. Please refer to “Waste Management”, “Water and Employment and Diversity shop-floor to 20% over next By 2018-19 On Track Effluent Management” and “CSR” section for more details. 2 years To adhere to all the customer Customer Health and Safety health, safety and sustainability Continuous On track Tata Motors Ltd is committed to RE100 and aspire to achieve 100% renewable energy for our Indian compliance. operations by 2030. We have invested in wind power and solar roof top for developing renewable To be among top 3 in customer energy generation capacity. Please refer to “Energy & Environment” section for further details. Marketing and Labelling Continuous Achieved in 2017-18. satisfaction. 48 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainability Priorities 49 We contribute towards Indian economic growth through our operations and engagement with our stakeholders. We are committed to provide decent work environment to all our employees and this commitment is reflected in our Tata Code of Conduct. Please refer to “Economic Performance”, “Workforce”, “Workplace Safety”, “Value Chain Sustainability” and overall environment section for Business with Responsibility [3Ps] further details. Delivering exciting innovations is one of our visions for 2019 and we have established procedure and governance mechanism for research and development. Our new sub-brand TAMO acts as a center of innovation towards new technologies, business models and partnerships in order to define future Sustainable Mobility Solutions. Please refer to “Sustainable Mobility Solutions” section for further details. Our dedicated programs under Affirmative Action strive to reduce inequalities in the community. Our program, Aadhaar, is aimed at serving the socio-economically backward and disadvantaged Scheduled Caste (SC) and Schedule Tribe (ST) communities. For further details, please visit: http://www.tatamotors. com/programs/aadhaar/ and “CSR” section of this report. At organizational level, we maintain nondiscrimination as detailed in “Workforce” section. Our core philosophy of enhancing the quality of life acts as our guiding principle in the ways we do business. Through our innovative electric and hybrid buses we provide a safe, economic and sustainable solution to mass transportation. Please refer to “Sustainable Mobility Solutions” section for further details. We adhere to the European regulation of R-R-R and all our passenger cars are 85% recyclable. To assess the environmental impacts of our products we undertake life cycle assessment of our vehicles. We are gradually shifting towards co-processing for hazardous waste disposal. Please refer to “Raw Material” and “Waste Management” section of this report for further details. Our approach to climate change is three-fold comprising of building awareness among stakeholders, reducing the environmental impact of manufacturing and developing cleaner vehicles. For details on our environment program “Vasundhara” please visit http://www.tatamotors.com/programs/ vasundhara/. For further details refer to “CSR”, “Economic Performance”, “Value Chain Sustainability” and “Environmental Expenditure” sections of this report. We continuously attempt to avoid and mitigate negative impacts and enhance positive impacts on biodiversity. At all our manufacturing plants there are significant areas under Green Belt and there is a focused approach to biodiversity conservation. For more details, please refer to “Biodiversity”, “Energy and Environment” and “CSR” section of this report. Tata Code of Conduct, representing our values and principles, guides our every business. Our core principles address our commitment towards conforming to highest moral and ethical standards.Please refer to “Tata Code of Conduct” and “Value Chain Sustainability” section for details. For more details on TCoC, please refer to: http://corp-content.tatamotors.com.s3-ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.com/wpcontent/uploads/2015/10/tata-code-of-conduct.pdf At Tata Motors Limited, we engage with communities through NGOs and civil societies and bring in the required change in the life of deprived sections of our society. Please refer to “CSR” section for details. 50 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Sustainability Priorities Economic Performance In keeping with the core values of the Tata Group, we that the company operates within financial regulations & believe that the role of corporates well & truly goes fulfils various external financial requirements. beyond their performance in the arena of business, which is exclusively oriented towards generation of profit for the TML has transitioned its financial accounting in compliance shareholders. While we generate direct economic value with IND AS during the financial year 2016-17. The through our operations, products & services, we also work financial statements for FY 2017-18 have been prepared towards nation building by contributing to significant in accordance with the IND AS. We have identified indirect economic impacts which culminate in increased climate change as one of the risks, in accordance with economic activity, reduced social disparity & enhancement our risk identification & prioritization process. Driven by in the quality of life. We provide mobility solutions thereby regulatory, physical parameter change & other climate enabling people, enterprises & institutions to realize new related developments, we have identified climate change possibilities. We support job creation through the vast risks & opportunities. value chain of automobile companies. Communities chart A) Regulations: increase in expense & risk of business a course for economic & societal wellbeing, enabled & continuity could be a consequence of product efficiency empowered by our community development agenda. standards, increasingly stringent air pollution norms & We have addressed the management approach & energy regulations. Investments have been made in R&D grievance mechanism for economic performance in our for innovation & development of our product portfolio Annual Report 2017-18. to generate opportunities & address these risks to stay ahead of the curve. We have spent INR 23.98 billion in Our Management for Economic Performance R&D for development of clean technology vehicles, for Financial management of the organization is the shifting from BS III to BS IV and implementing mandatory responsibility of the finance department in compliance safety features. with the financial rules & the financial guidelines acting in B) Physical parameter change: water scarcity & increase in this company. While the accountability for the oversight cost of electricity could be a direct fall out of a potential of the overall governance process rests with the Board of change in precipitation & drought due to extreme Directors, TML’s financial management & implementation weather change. of the financial policies & procedures within the organization is the responsibility of the Group Chief We have made substantial investments in the development Financial Officer. Under the committed & able leadership of clean & sustainable means of mass transportation of the group CFO, the finance department comprising such as hybrid buses & Small Commercial Vehicle (SCV) of managers & executives drive efforts towards fulfilling for last mile connectivity, taking into consideration, low TML’s financial commitments by enhancing shareholder climate related development increasing environmental value. We ensure compliance with all the applicable consciousness & changing socio-economic conditions. financial laws & regulations that govern shareholder rights. Accurate records of our activities are maintained & disclosed in accordance with applicable law & industry standards. Keeping our shareholders informed about all relevant aspects is of paramount importance to us. Financial health of the company is secured by the finance department who work in collaboration with & assist staff, managers, Board of Directors & various stakeholders. The department ensures that the corporate financial records comply with internal & external audits. The team maintains the smooth movement of finance, ensuring 52 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 53 Economic Performance (in Rs. Cr.) FY 2015-16 FY 2016-2017 FY 2017-18 Economic Value Generated 48,122.48 49,258.31 58,816.60 Gross Revenue 48,122.48 49,258.31 58,816.60 Economic Value Distributed 47,963.69 51,471.39 59,158.77 Operating Costs 38,975.39 41,738.16 52,845.51 Employee Benefits and Wages 3,048.71 3,607.16 3,767.86 Payments to providers of capital 1,541.54 1,608.76 1,686.59 Payments to government 4,398.05 4,517.31 3,965.23 Economic Value Retained 158.79 -2213.08 -342.17 54 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 55 Energy & Environment Clean, cheap and abundant power is one of the basic ingredients for the economic progress of a city, state or a country. Founder, Jamsetji Tata Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 57 Climate Change Strategy Energy & Environment Safeguarding the environment is our priority given that our monitors and reviews the performance on a quarterly basis. operations and those in our supply chain have impacts on the SH & S Councils at the business level, supported by SH & S environment that may affect the sustainability of our business. Apex Committee at plant level, are responsible for reviewing The Tata Code of Conduct guides us in operationalizing our the performance on a monthly basis. All plants have a separate environmental stewardship approach of Reduce, Recycle, Environment department whose overall responsibility is to Recover and Refurbish. implement Environment Management Programmes. Key Impacts and its Management Energy Environment and climate related risks and impacts are The recent escalation of climate change as a key sustainability key priorities to the business and we have comprehensive challenge for corporations has prompted TML to set ambitious strategies in place for increasing Energy efficiencies; cutting energy conservation and emission reduction targets. GHG emissions; reducing waste; enhancing biodiversity and managing water usage. Following Life Cycle Assessment of our vehicles, it is evident At the Board of Director level, Safety, Health and Sustainability that our maximum impacts are at two levels Operational (SH & S) Committee oversees the performance of the and Product Usage level. company on environmental aspects. SH & S committee Our Drivers to Climate Change the climate agenda with the support of cross-functional teams that implement these action plans. Climate change is one of our key sustainability challenges. Three-fold Approach Tata Motors is working on mitigation of transition risk with Products: climate scenario below 2 degree centigrade. We have identified and tracking GHG emission sources covering More than 70% of the emissions are accounted for by the products operations and supply chain. customer during the usage of the sold product. We meet the current regulations of Bharat IV in all our vehicles, Towards Climate Change Action Operations: while being abreast with the latest technologies to meet We reduce our direct emissions through enhanced the future regulatory changes. The introduction of Hybrid energy efficiency of our operations, increased usage of buses and Fuel cell buses have helped us reduce our GHG renewable energy and offset mechanisms. A team of emissions tremendously. Further details can be referred climate change champions across the operations steer in “Product Stewardship” section. 58 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 59 Supply Chain : Energy and GHG Performance of TML 2017-18 Our supply chain significantly contributes to GHG emissions. Our total energy consumption from fuel and electricity has We engage with our suppliers actively through sustainable increased by 3.5% in 2017-18 and our overall scope 1 & supply chain initiative, sharing best practices in energy scope 2 GHG emissions increased by 5.7%. The increase in conservation, efficiency and renewable energy. We have total energy consumption and commensurate emissions are initiated the monitoring of GHG emissions at the operations attributed to increase in the production volumes by 9.64%. level of these suppliers which would help us in minimizing the carbon footprint of our supply chain. Energy Consumption Outside TML and Scope 3 Emissions We report our Scope 3 emission across 6 categories. GHG assessed under our initiative in sustainable supply chain. emission in the category “Purchase goods and services” These suppliers contributed to GHG emissions of 93,794 and “Upstream transportation and distribution” have tCO2e outside TML’s operational boundary. been calculated using collected data from 66 suppliers Scope 3 Emissions Accounted at TML While our electricity consumption increased by 3.33% in In addition to the GHG emissions produced because of Scope 3 Category GHG Emission Description of Scope 3 Categories 2017-18, scope 2 emission decreased by 2.13% from that of our energy and fuel usage, our manufacturing operations Number (tCO2) 2016-17. This is due to the increase in share of renewable generate process emissions during welding and metal energy from 16.34% of total electricity consumption in 2016cutting. We quantify them separately as their quantum is 1 Purchased goods & services 89,986 17 to 20.76% in 2017-18. We have a target of year-on-year directly proportional to the scale of manufacturing and does reduction of GHG emission from scope 1 & scope 2 by 5%. not offer any scope for mitigation. Fuel-and-energy related activities 3 96,197 (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) Other Gas Consumption by TML 4 Upstream transportation & distribution 3,808 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Material 5 Waste generated in operations 3,675 Description GHG Emission GHG Emission GHG Emission Energy (GJ) Energy (GJ) Energy (GJ) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) 7 Employee commute (company bus) 74,848 Dissolved 2,954 206.9 4,241.35 292.72 3,772.26 264.06 Acetylene 11 Use of sold products 38,83,897 Carbon-dioxide 761.5 451.75 565.08 The calculation of emissions from use of sold PV products efficiency as well as implementation of advanced vehicle Energy and GHG emission intensity have been calculated has reduced by 4.05 % in this fiscal year as compared to has been done based on the number of passenger vehicles technologies through innovations. As aforementioned, based on the number of vehicles produced in 201718 and last reporting period due to increase in renewable energy. sold, useful life and efficiency or mileage of the vehicle. Tata Motors Limited has introduced alternate and hybrid energy and emission from fuel and electricity consumption. During the reporting period, the energy and GHG emission “Use of sold products” contributes to approximately buses for mass transportation and has accelerated Energy consumption per vehicle has decreased by 5.94 % from intensity, has been 4.91 GJ / vehicle and 0.71 tCO2e / vehicle 93.53% of the total Scope 3 emissions. This shows the development of alternate fuel vehicles in both passenger last fiscal year whereas specific GHG emission per vehicle respectively. need for efforts required towards improving vehicle and commercial vehicle segments. 60 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 61 Key Energy and GHG Emission Energy and GHG Performance of Subsidiaries 2017-18 Reduction Initiatives TAL Increase in the share of renewable energy consumption and ENCON initiatives have resulted in 86,086 GJ of energy saving energy conservation is vital to reducing our energy demand and 18,378 tCO2e emission reduction through various means Direct Fuel Consumption and Scope 1 GHG Emission and reduction in emissions. During the financial year 2017-18, of fuel use optimization and electrical energy-saving measures. 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Energy Sources GHG GHG GHG (Fuel types) Energy (GJ) Emission Energy (GJ) Emission Energy (GJ) Emission (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) HSD 5,212.12 386.22 444.276 32.920 Diesel 2,895 214.5 61.12 4.53 120.315 8.915 Total 5,273.24 390.75 564.591 41.835 Electricity Consumption and Scope 2 GHG Emission Electricity Purchased 26,968 6,143 37,065.2 8,442.63 50,095.92 11,410.74 (Grid) TMLDL Direct Fuel Consumption and Scope 1 GHG Emission LDO 2,547.9 188.8 0 0 Propane 1,83,825.3 11,599.5 1,04,127.64 6,570.45 2,28,906 15,226 LPG 0 0 4,254.64 268.47 Total 1,86,373.2 11,788.3 1,08,382.27 6,838.92 Electricity Consumption and Scope 2 GHG Emission Electricity Purchased 3,43,713 78,290 2,76,904.8 63,072.76 2,67,659.6 60966.92 (Grid) 62 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 63 TAL, TMLDL and TTL have no renewable energy power and metal cutting purposes. Carbon-dioxide does not Energy and GHG Performance of Subsidiaries 2017-18 consumption during the reporting year. Dissolved react with oxygen and thus, energy generated from CO2 TMML acetylene and CO2 is used by our subsidiaries for welding has not been considered. Direct Fuel Consumption and Scope 1 GHG emission Other Gas Consumption by Subsidiaries 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Energy Material Unit TAL TMLDL TMML Sources GHG GHG GHG Description (Fuel types) Energy (GJ) Emission Energy (GJ) Emission Energy (GJ) Emission (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) Energy (GJ) 0 76.86 13.40 Dissolved Acetylene Propane 9,418 648.73 5,505.25 347.38 5,989.60 377.94 GHG Emission (tCO2) 0 5.38 0.94 LPG 0 0 0 0 1,094.52 69.06 Carbon-dioxide GHG Emission (tCO2) 0 0 364.66 Diesel 0 0 0 0 574.63 42.58 Total 9,418 648.73 5,505.25 347.38 7,658.75 489.59 Renewable Energy Electricity Consumption and Scope 2 GHG Emission Electricity Purchased 2,457.36 559.73 8597.3 GJ 1958.24 (Grid) 29,743 6,774.80 Electricity from RE 24,480 0 21744 0 sources TTL Tata Motors Ltd. is signatory to RE100, aspiring to source 100% renewable electricity for its manufacturing operations Direct Fuel Consumption and Scope 1 GHG emission by 2030. HSD 101 7.52 220.58 16.35 145.71 10.80 The Company has set up in-house Renewable Energy Electricity Consumption and Scope 2 GHG Emission generation capacity (solar and wind) which includes: Electricity hh 21.95 MW Captive Wind Farm at Supa and Satara Purchased 12,364 2,816 11,333.27 2,581.47 11,261.73 2,565.17 in Maharashtra. (Grid) hh 2 MW Roof-top Solar PV installation at Sanand hh 2.1 MW Roof-top Solar PV installation at Pune and additional 2 MW installation in progress. hh 2 MW Solar PV installation at Lucknow. hh 18.5 kWp Solar PV installation at Pantnagar. hh 7.2 kW hybrid-wind and solar installation at Dharwad During the year 2017-18, we have generated 13,332 RECs which resulted in revenue of 121 lakhs to the Company. In line with our commitment to RE 100, we are continuously seeking to increase the contribution of renewable energy in our energy demand. During the reporting year, we have significantly increased the use of renewable energy. 64 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 65 emission rates below the regulatory norms. Our paint shops are one of the major air emissions sources as we use solvent based paints but are equipped with appropriate emission Solar Installations at Lucknow & Pune Manufacturing Plants control equipment to arrest emissions during painting and baking operations. Our Pune CV and Lucknow plants have installed rooftop solar PV plants as a part of TML’s commitment to There has been increase of 61.84 % in Total Particulate Matter enhance the use of Renewable Energy across our plants. A rooftop solar PV plant one of 310 kWp capacity (TPM), 134.93% in NOX and 130.46% in SO2 in 2017-18 as and the other of 2 MW capacity were inaugurated at our Pune CVBU and Lucknow manufacturing facilities compared to 2016-17 because of the increase in production respectively during FY 2017-18. volumes by 9.64% during FY 2017-18. Salient features of Solar installations at Lucknow are : hh Safety Lifeline on the roof-top sheds Cumulatively we have a total renewable energy installed capacity of 6.11 MW of solar power at five of our manufacturing hh Walkways between solar panels on the roof-top sheds sites and 21.95 MW of wind power at Pune. hh CCTV camera-based project monitoring during installation hh The solar panels will reduce the shop’s internal temperature by 5°C Other Air Emissions Our manufacturing processes contribute to air emissions namely Oxides of Nitrogen(NOx), Sulphur Dioxide(SO2) and Particulate Matter. Through effective implementation of monitoring tools, efficient manufacturing processes and use of cleaner fuels, we have successfully maintained our Air Emissions by Subsidiaries (in MT) TAL TMLDL TMML TTL Parameters 2016-17 2017-18 2016-17 2017-18 2016-17 2017-18 2016-17 2017-18 Total Particulate 0.14 1.16 38.06 36.02 71.076 73.84 .00865 0.0086 Matter (TPM) Oxides of 0.000000864 0.00000284 0.81 0.76 0.0007 0.0008201 0.05685 0.03086 Nitrogen (NOx) Oxides of 0.0054 0.0000279 4.69 5.02 0.00014 0.0001309 0.02275 0.01733 Sulphur (SO2) Ozone Depleting Substance During the year, TML, TMLDL, TTL and TAL have used 110.57kgs, 14.3kgs, 0.83kgs and 26.5kgs of CFC-11 equivalent of ODS respectively. No other subsidiaries of TML have used ODS in 2017-18. R22 is used by TML, TMLDL, TTL and TAL for refrigeration. 66 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 67 Waste Management We are committed to continually improve our Waste waste disposal facilities, several recycling initiatives have management practices at our manufacturing facilities. been implemented. Our Plants are vertically integrated and carry out a wide range of manufacturing activities inside the Plant. We Key Initiatives in Waste Management: follow a three-pronged approach to manage waste: All Plants dispose waste in compliance with operating permits and hazardous waste authorizations. We engage with waste disposal facilities/waste recyclers/cement companies after due validation. As per our strategic drive to divert hazardous wastes away from landfill and incineration, a number of recycling options have been explored and implemented including Value-fromHazardous-Waste (VfHW) initiative. In 2017-18, we reduced the quantum of Haz. waste disposed to CHWTSDF by 15% over 2016-17. This was achieved through co-processing of high calorific value hazardous waste at cement plants, recycling of paint sludge into paint/primer and recycling We dispose off waste as per the regulatory requirements. of contaminated flushing thinner. Likewise we achieved success with non-hazardous scrap/waste also; example Tata Motors Limited is a vertically integrated manufacturing – conversion of low value scrap plastic packaging into plant, comprising of fuel (agricultural application), bio-methanation and composting of bio-degradable canteen waste and composting of leaf-litter. Employee Involvement: Our employees have driven a “Value from Waste” approach which has yielded many Pressing / Painting Assembly & innovative ideas for waste avoidance, waste minimization Stamping Testing of Aggregates at source, extending useful life of indirect raw-material, waste reuse within the process and off-site recycling of waste. These improvements in waste management were achieved by capacity building of service providers and conservancy contractors who are key to the collection, Fabrication Machining Assembly segregation and transportation of waste within the Plant. of Vehicle Our in-house facility at Pune and Jamshedpur manufacture quality castings (iron and Aluminum) required to meet our internal requirements. TML is cognizant that these operations result into producing hazardous wastes which need to be appropriately disposed. Making this as an opportunity to reduce our environmental impact and pursue commitment towards zero waste to common 68 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 69 During the reporting period 2017-18, four of our plants at Dharwad, Sanand, Pantnagar and Jamshedpur disposed zero TML Non-Hazardous Waste Generation Data hazardous waste to Landfill. Quantity in Specific Non-Hazardous Quantity in Specific Non-Hazardous Waste TML Hazardous Waste Generation Data 2016-17 Waste Generation 2017-18 Waste Generation Description (Ton) (Ton/Vehicle) (Ton) (Ton/Vehicle) 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Waste Category Waste Description Quantity Quantity Quantity Biodegradable Waste (Ton) (Ton) (Ton) (Canteen Waste + 3,597.81 3,062.654 Gardening Waste) 5.1 Used/Spent oil 202.17 181.85 226.601 Waste Foundry Sand 60,973.05 0.18 63,505.43 0.23 5.2 Oily wastes and Residues 380.77 668.866 689.25 12.5 Phosphate sludge 200.99 237.61 286.81 Scrap (all types) 29,004.77 66,407.774 15.1,15.2 Asbestos containing scrap 2.21 0.55 0.107 Total 93,575.63 1,32,975.858 20.1,20.2 Contaminated/Spent thinners and solvents 162.96 190.09 180.025 During the reporting year, 2017-18, we generated 132,976 MT of non-hazardous waste. There has been an increase in Paint sludge and Residues, Sealant residues, 21.1,23.1 2,825.54 2,410.095 1,688.42 42% over the previous reporting period owing to the increase in production volumes by 9.64%. Pattern waste from R&D activity Discarded containers of Hazardous 33.1 98.91 162.9 408.52 Chemicals 35.1 Chimney soot 0.76 0.3 4.58 35.2 Spent DM plant resins 18.82 1.63 1.68 35.3 ETP sludge 955.43 827.115 930.519 Oil and grease skimming residues from 35.4 21.3 44.43 136.71 wastewater treatment 38.1 Spent catalyst from heat treatment shop 0.1 0 0.1 37.2 Incineration ash 38.59 57.44 170.66 As per schedule II Shot-blasting dust 20.45 15.41 132.76 As per Schedule IV Non-ferrous metal scrap 144.73 220.9 220.943 As per schedule Used oil for recycling 8.32 88.66 0 IV(Cat 5.1) Scrap lead acid batteries 141.47 183.07 188.73 E-waste 148.89 69.77 96.07 Total 5372 5362 5362 Total Hazardous waste at TML We have maintained the total quantity of hazardous waste hazardous waste generated per vehicle as compared to the generation as last year though our production number has previous year. increased by 9.64% in 2017-18 indicating 8.76% reduction in 70 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 71 Total Waste Disposed by End Disposal Method at TML Non-Hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste Types of Performance with Performance with Waste Percentage of Total Waste respect to Disposal Types of Waste Disposal Respect to Disposal (Combination Quantity in Tons Disposed Through End Method in 2017-18 (Combination Disposal Total Waste Disposed Method Quantity in Tons Method in of Waste Disposal Method (%) as Compared to of Waste Method Through End Disposal Method Categories) 2016-17 2017-18 as Compared Categories) to 2016-17 Direction Direction 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Status of Change 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 of Status Change Composting 285.95 344.56 290.15 0.26% 0.37% 0.22% Grinding Sludge, Phosphate Sludge, CHWTSDF Decrease in Biomethan1,291.06 919.75 799.118 23.79% 17.02% 14.90% Good 1257.8 1,136.47 851.14 1.15% 1.21% 0.64% ETP Sludge, Shot Landfill Landfill ation Canteen Waste Decrease Good Blasting Dust Municipal landfill/ 2,900.08 2,116.78 1,881.38 2.66% 2.26% 1.42% Paint Sludge, piggery Hazardous Garbage, Scrap CHWTSDF Decrease in 2,566.18 1,712.118 1,438.237 47.29% 31.68% 26.7% Good Sold to Scarp Sealants, DM Incineration Incineration All Scrap LOTS 37,874.94 29,004.77 66,357.1 34.73% 31% 49.92% Dealers Resins, Sold to Scrap Increase Good Prototyping Waste Dealers TSDF 0 0 50.7 0% 0% 0.04% Paint Sludge, Decrease In-house Hazardous 271.28 290.6 152 5.00% 5.38% 2.83% in In-house Good Waste Burnt Landfill to Decrease in Incineration 66,725.8 60,973.05 63,505.43 61.19% 65.16% 47.77% Good Garbage Incineration Foundry Sand Stone Quarry Landfill Conversion of Paint Sludge to During reporting year we have significantly increased hazardous waste co-processing for material recovery at various Primer, Decrease in manufacturing sites. Reclamation of Recycle for Metal Needs Dirty flushing Material 129.33 217.57 211.09 2.38% 4.03% 3.94% Recovery Improvethinner, Re-use of Recovery Through ment ETP Sludge / Recycling Incineration ash in pavers/building products Decrease in Coenergy Paint Sludge, Needs processing recovery Hazardous 261.07 12,98.88 1,188.08 4.81% 24.06% 22.16% Improve(Energy through Garbage ment Recovery) Co-processing Increase Coin Material Phosphating processing recovery 38.59 81.87 349.79 0.71% 1.52% 6.52% Good Sludge (Material through Recovery) Co-processing Scrap Lead Acid Batteries, Scrap Lead Tire Balancing weights, Increase in Sale to All types of sale to Authorized 869.14 883.04 1,239.405 16.02% 16.34% 23.0% Good non-ferrous scrap Authorized Re-cyclers LOTS, All types of Re-cyclers Used / Waste Oil LOTS, e-waste, empty containers 72 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 73 Subsidiaries Performance in 2017-18 Non-Hazardous Waste Generation and Disposal at Subsidiaries Hazardous Waste Generation and Disposal at Subsidiaries Waste Types Unit 2016-17 2017-18 Disposal Method TAL Waste Types Unit 2016-17 2017-18 Disposal Method Canteen waste MT 3 7.44 Municipal Landfill/Piggery TAL Used/spent oil MT 0 4.2 Empty Drums No 0 150 Oily waste and residues MT 0 0.08 Incineration by MEPL Garbage MT 84 10.27 Paint Sludge (Oily cotton waste) MT 3.2 2.07 Aluminum Scrap MT 162 84.97 Grinding Sludge MT 1.68 0.25 Titanium Scrap MT 62.157 7.06 Sludge MT 68.34 94.4 Landfill by MEPL Wood waste MT 69.5 9.73 Sold to Scrap Dealers for Recycling Process Residue MT 79 114.76 Plastic waste MT 0.4 0.23 E-Waste MT 58 246 Metallic scrap MT 910.44 672.44 Sale to Authorized Recyclers Empty Paint Thinner Tins Lot 1 0 Electrical Scrap Lot 4.86 3.00 TMLDL Paper, Corrugated box etc. MT 6.2 2.7 Used/Spent Oil KL 62.6 109.6 Sale to Authorized Recyclers Scrap sold to scrap dealers Lot 0 3 Grinding Sludge MT 243.23 255.02 TMLDL Plastic Waste MT 9.73 7.19 Paint Sludge & residues MT 224.19 283.20 Co-processing Metallic Scrap MT 8308.6 727.87 Oil Soaked Cotton Waste MT 163.46 159.25 Other Waste (Paper, Corrugated Box MT 1398.42 1,372.41 Lead Acid Batteries MT 0.35 1.50 etc.) Sale to Authorized Recyclers Wood Waste MT 1827.6 1,319.85 Recycle E-Waste MT 0.52 2.37 Scrap Rubber, PVC Items MT 12.27 8.08 TMML Waste Thinner MT 7.98 8.22 Sale to Authorized Recyclers Misc. Electrical Scrap MT 12.48 6.98 Paint Sludge (Semi Solid) MT 197.51 306.48 Scrap Electrical Cables MT 9.54 15.17 Incineration Paint Filter, Painted Paper & Painting TMML MT 1.8 1.455 Cloth (Solid) Plastic Waste MT 53.92 45.95 Empty Paint Containers Nos 24,088 22,229 Sale to Authorized recyclers Recycle Metallic Scrap MT 1414.02 1492.41 E.T.P. Sludge (Semi Solid) MT 44.98 100.075 Landfill Wood Waste MT 391.15 1492.41 Reuse Used/Spent Oil MT 0.18 1.07 Incineration Scrap Rubber MT 52.055 57.27 TTL Used/Spent Oil MT 0.2 0.2 Scrap Fibre MT 2.055 2.2 Recycle Sale to Authorized Recyclers Other Waste E-waste Nos. 117 234 MT 2 4.7 (Paper, Corrugated Box etc.) TTL Canteen Waste (Food) MT 23.464 22.5 Composting 74 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 75 Water & Effluent Management While adopting a new technology, we evaluate its feasibility In 2017-18, our total water abstraction decreased by 7.88% Water Recycling and Effluent Management taking water efficiency as one of the critical deciding from previous year largely due to dedicated actions on Our goal to increase the percentage of recycled treated Manufacturing plants and other ancillary units especially the factors. We work closely with our stakeholders including our underground water leakages in our plants, increase in effluent is in line with our commitment to minimizing the paint shops require water to carry out their operations. Guided employees to reduce their individual impacts on environment. rain water harvesting facilities and, effluent re-cycling. negative environmental impact through our operations by our Environment Policy , we aim to reduce our impact on This we do by conducting various workshops and awareness Also, in 2017-18 we used 9.5 m3 of water / vehicle, down and conservation of natural resources as far as possible. water and continuously attempt to improve our efficiencies. programs on water conservation. Attractive posters and from 11.31 m3 water / vehicle in 2016-17. While we constantly strive to reduce our consumption banners were displayed at key locations, to communicate of fresh water, our approach is also to enhance our We carry out a specific water management improvement the need to conserve water and steps to achieve the same. abilities to recycle and reuse effluent generated from our by following a three-pronged approach – Adoption of Employees at our manufacturing facilities are encouraged commercial and domestic processes. technology for effluent management; implementation of to report any observed leakage through a formal complaint conservation initiatives; benchmarking & learning from peers. management system which is attended on priority. Key Initiatives in Water Management: Initiatives in Water Conservation and their Impact Location Initiative Impact Arresting Underground water pipeline leakages and Reduction in un-metered Pune replacement of old leaking water pipelines water loss Pune, Lucknow and Reduction in fresh water Improvement in recycling of treated effluent Pantnagar abstraction Reduction in fresh water Root Zone Technology Jamshedpur Pune, Dharwad Rainwater capture for use in process abstraction Sanand, Pantnagar, Ground water recharge through rainwater harvesting Increased water security Lucknow & Jamshedpur All Plants Audits of water intensive processes and equipment Increased water use efficiency TML’s Performance in 2017-18 Water Sourcing We rely on water from surface water and ground water We place emphasis on reducing our usage of freshwater sources at our manufacturing locations. While water at Pune (from rivers and lakes, rainwater, groundwater and municipal plant is used from municipality, at Sanand and Jamshedpur sources) because it is the main source of drinking water. plants, we depend largely on freshwater resources (rivers, We’re doing this by establishing rainwater harvesting facilities basins). At Pantnagar and Lucknow, we are dependent on at our Pantnagar, Lucknow and Jamshedpur plants and using groundwater for our water requirements. combination of water sources at Dharwad. Total Water Abstraction at TML Source 2015-16 (m3) 2016-17 (m3) 2017-18 (m3) Municipal 33,26,811 Surface Water 8,42,809 Root zone treatment is implemented for treating the wastewater using “Vetiver” as a natural way for effluent treatment at our Jamshedpur manufacturing plant. Vetiver (Chrysopogon zizanioides) of the Poaceae family, Ground Water 52,11,337 59,06,427 7,01,965 native to India, popularly known as Khus is a tough, natural, non-invasive plant with a deep penetrating fibrous root structure that grows up to 5 meters deep. The fibrous mat of vetiver roots, has the unique characteristics Rain Water 5,69,191 to control pollution. Total 54,40,776 76 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 77 Biodiversity Water Consumption at TML Subsidiaries TML’s Sustainability Policy articulates commitment to hh Lucknow unit took up an initiative to recharge the Subsidiary undertake natural capital valuation for all its locations to two artificial lakes in the complex, by offloading Source Unit 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Name understand the impact of our business on Biodiversity. treated effluent and ground water, thereby creating We are committed to avoid and mitigate the negative an ecosystem for fishes to thrive. Later, fishes were TAL Municipal Water M3 1,20,719 1,37,789 1,38,550 impacts and enhance positive impacts on biodiversity introduced into the lakes which attracted small water through TML’s Biodiversity Management Plan and social birds such as Black-crowned Night Heron, WhiteTMLDL Surface Water M3 5,15,254 5,55,612.1 4,89,211.25 responsibility initiatives. breasted Waterhen and Common Moorhen. These birds can often be spotted roosting in the trees Ground Water M3 1,25,376 1,05,046 93,915 Key Initiatives and Performance in 2017-18: surrounding the lakes. TMML Our manufacturing locations in India although not KIADB water M3 16,890 Not applicable 9,000 hh Jamshedpur unit being the oldest and largest, the located within the vicinity of any identified/notified unit has taken up many initiatives on biodiversity like biodiversity hotspots or protected water bodies, we have TTL Municipal water M3 1,49,767 1,09,011 89,863 establishment of large nurseries having herbs, shrubs been proactive towards biodiversity conservation. During as well as trees and a tissue culture lab. Percentage and Volume of Water Recycled and Reuse the reporting year 2017-18, we undertook the following initiatives at and around our manufacturing locations: The presence of this fauna within and adjacent to our plant premises is an indicator of the protected and Total Volume of Recycled and Total Volume of Recycled and Reused Subsidiary Name hh Interventions at Pune plants have helped in nurturing undisturbed conditions within the plant area. Reused Water in m3 Water as a % of Total Withdrawal biodiversity and conserving the ecosystem. Two large water-bodies in Pimpri, Pune are home to water birds Going forward, some selected Biodiversity Management TAL 29,256.4 21.11 such as small waterhens to storks for approximately Plans, will be taken up for implementation as we believe 30 years. We developed a small hide structure for in enhancing the biodiversity in areas of operation. TMLDL 921.1 0.188 bird watching at Sumant Sarovar, near our plant These projects would be aimed at enriching the location. The intervention played a positive role in diversity of species and conservation of habitat of the TMML 18,107 17.59 supporting faunal diversity. endemic species. TTL 18,000 20.03 78 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 79 Environmental Expenditure We understand the impacts our business has on the Environment Management Systems and we have transitioned Environment. We make concerted efforts to minimize to the new 2015 version of ISO-14001 at our Pantnagar and the impacts by undertaking numerous Environmental Sanand plants. conservation measures. We developed our Environment Our expenditure towards environmental protection amounted Policy in line with our commitments towards meeting legal, to INR 317.555 million in FY 2017-18. Though there has been regulatory and other environmental requirements. All decrease in expenditure related to external services, the cost Manufacturing Plants in India are certified to ISO 14001 of treatment and disposal of waste has increased significantly. 80 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 81 Raw Material Material Consumption at TML In the long term the cost of material resources can be expected Tata Motors Ltd. is committed to conserving natural to rise as resources deplete and consumption increases. resources by reducing the consumption of virgin materials Quantity in Quantity in Quantity in Material Name Consumed Units Growing urbanization may force communities to prioritize and optimizing its use to reduce the wastage as much 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 access to natural resources. This creates opportunities for as possible, guided by its Environment policy and us to relook at our manufacturing processes and come up Tata Code of Conduct. Steel Tons 1,04,432 75,707 82,692 with solutions. Steel Tubes Tons 6 5 7 Non-Ferrous Alloys Tons 3,237 3,679 3,982 Ferrous Alloys Tons 3,449 2,802 2,391 Steel Melting Scrap (recycled) Tons 63,436 62,256 62,551 Metal Scrap and Forging MT 22,333 23,644.19 10,099.32 (Recycled) Tons 2,353 2,409 2,527 Paints, Oils and Lubricants Kilo Liters 8,475 12,729 23,747 Tires, Tubes and Flaps Numbers 36,27,759 38,98,472 48,73,022 Engines Numbers 1,18,911 1,26,972 1,47,103 Sand Tons 66,726 50,451 48,923 Alignment with Circular Economy Tata Prolife We have embedded the principles of Circular Economy in our operations through Reduce-Reuse-Recover initiatives. Our integrated approach to circularity addresses hh Risks associated with shortfalls of raw material supply by minimizing dependence on virgin materials hh Adverse environmental impacts during production and disposal by manufacturing quality products and Management Approach for increasing the useful life of product Raw Materials Management & Conservation: hh Environmental impacts during the use of vehicles by ensuring Tata Prolife business division remanufactures auto In addition, we seek to reduce the weight of vehicles which natural resources. The recyclability quotient of our products that our vehicles adhere to applicable emission norms. components which have reached the end of their useful leads to significant improvement in fuel efficiency which in is continuously monitored by our Research and Development hh Sustainability (particularly socio-economic) aspects life. Aimed at commercial vehicle (CV) owners, Tata Prolife return results in reduction in GHG emissions. team and verified by European VDA agency. Our teams by generating employment opportunities at our extends the life of vehicles and aggregates through overlooking supply chain and purchase work in tandem with dedicated refurbishment and reconditioning units. systematic overhaul that leads to optimum performance We adopted the principles of Reduce-Reuse-Recover that our R&D team to identify and source materials that are more while also adding to the life of the products. enable us to manufacture products with materials, 85% sustainable from total life cycle perspective, i.e. recyclable Tata Prolife, Tata OK and Tata Assured, branches of of which can be recycled thus minimizing the pressure on and renewable. the company help reduce our dependence on natural Salvaging department, carries out remanufacturing of resources by refurbishing and reconditioning the vehicles vehicular aggregates that have expended one useful manufactured by us. life. Remanufacturing restores factory-like settings for 82 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 83 aggregates to run again with designed efficiency levels. Tata Motors Assured TATA OK provides a single window solution to exchange, value to environment and society by reducing the need Engines, gearboxes, clutch pressure plates, truck cabins etc. sell or buy pre-owned commercial vehicles at a right price. to manufacture additional units in conditions when a preare remanufactured. Refurbishment and other services are done scientifically to owned vehicle can be refurbished to perform optimally. enhance safety, efficiency of the vehicle, thereby creating Tata OK operates through its channel partners spread In 2017-18, an equivalent of 26,993 vehicles have been reused an ecosystem for reuse of the vehicle. This can bring across India while ensuring that the quality of service is maintained or recycled under our take-back program resulting in revenue generation of INR 215 cr. In terms of energy consumption, prolife business has utilized 50 kWh electrical energy per Refurbished Vehicles Sold equivalent engine for remanufacturing, a reduction of 33% over 2011 levels. Number of Vehicles sold Number of Vehicles sold Number of Vehicles sold Types of Vehicles till FY 2016-17 in FY 2017-18 till FY 2017-18 Tata Motors Assured is a one-stop solution for customers to: hh Buy and sell preowned cars with requisite documents at SCV 51,887 4,623 56,510 right value LICV 6,980 331 7,311 hh Exchange pre-owned car of any brand with new or used Tata vehicle HCV 3,353 154 3,507 hh Get price evaluation and assessment of road readiness of pre-owned car Non Tata Vehicles 0 1147 1,147 Through Tata Assured, we facilitate reuse of the pre-owned cars by ensuring that used cars pass stringent certification Total 62,220 6,255 68,475 norms. Our robust 100 check point certificates on make, age, mileage, previous ownership, efficiency, etc. ensure that Exchange Volume 1,712 51,87 6,899 refurbished/retrofitted cars meet necessary environment norms and operate efficiently while providing best value for money for its prospective customers. A thorough approach Consumption of raw material such as steel sheets and Material Packaging of refurbishment extends the useful life of the vehicle by 3 to 4 years. plates, castings, forgings etc. are calculated based on the We are aware that the packaging materials used for our In the year 2017-18, we have taken numbers of initiatives to volume and number of material conversion operations. products have an environmental impact. Therefore, we promote usage of old cars and attract customers: In 2017-18, we reduced our consumption of ferrous aim to reduce our packaging requirements while also alloys by 14.66 %. Although our consumption of steel has looking out to establishing processes to reclaim the hh We have conducted specific campaigns for upgrading increased by a notch in the reported year as against the same. We have replaced all our wood packaging with existing customers by exchanging old vehicle with new previous reporting period, this is largely due to increase plastic and metal cases that can be reused multiple times model of the cars. in production. We strive to reduce our dependence before being dumped. Attempts have also been made hh Best price challenge on non-renewable virgin materials by optimizing our to reduce our usage of corrugated boxes which can be hh Mobile campaigns to reach out to larger mass for material usage and enhancing our recycling capabilities. used only once and substitute them with alternatives exchanging cars. The use of high strength steel and engineering plastic not that are reusable and offer same level of durability. only reduces the weight of our vehicles but also reduces We could cut down packaging waste generated at our Tata OK our impact on the environment. manufacturing locations by using only reusable cases for internal movement of the components and parts to the assembly area. Together with our suppliers, logistics partners and packaging companies, we have launched an initiative to use returnable FLC packaging instead of expendable material. This has resulted into reduced waste, lower lifetime costs and faster turnaround time. 84 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 85 Subsidiaries’ Performance in 2017-18 TMLDL TTL, being a design firm, does not procure or consume raw material. Type of MaterialTAL Quantity in Quantity in Quantity in Material Consumed Renewable/NonUnits 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Renewable Material Type of MaterialQuantity in Quantity in Quantity in Material Consumed Renewable/Non-Renewable Units 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Steel Renewable MT 342.92 261.68 68.25 Material Steel including Forgings Renewable MT 62.85 65 2.92 Paints Non-renewable KL 29.65 36.26 5.40 Casting Renewable MT 332 50 NA Oil Non-renewable KL 587.67 405.65 152.76 Paints and Thinner Non-renewable KL 16.95 13 39.34 Lubricants Non-renewable MT 576.21 139.1 50.2 Steel Shot Renewable MT 131.38 158.96 133.105 Oil and Lubricants Non-renewable KL 15 31 52.68 Wood Renewable MT 32,452 30,806.56 147.988 All the materials are externally sourced. Material usage optimization is a key concern for all our subsidiaries. Composite Material Non-renewable MT 59.223 85.737 90.596 Titanium Renewable MT 33.78 84.042 79.173 Aluminum Renewable MT 24.8 34.788 1,038.20 TMML Type of MaterialQuantity in 2017-18 Quantity in Quantity in Material Consumed Renewable/Non2015-16 2016-17 TMML TMML Renewable Material Dharwad Lucknow Galvanized Steel Renewable 10,724 MT 15,215 MT 5,077 MT 2,800 MT FRP Non renewable 248 MT 1,336 MT 64.53 MT 110 MT (Fibre Reinforced Plastic) Plywood Renewable 1,88,886 m2 2,59,848 m2 1,58,692 No.s 41,332 m2 Glass Renewable 59,037 MT 2,446 MT 89,326 No.s 342 MT Plastic Renewable 27,49,644 MT 5,40,145 MT 29,86,404 No.s 157 MT Aluminium Renewable 225 MT 453 MT 3,259.31 MT 141 MT Thinner Non renewable 73,529 L 1,91,153 L 72,425 L 0 Paint Non renewable 2,13,888 L 1,19,806 L 1,76,355 L 67,132 L 86 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 87 Workforce Add value to your men and value-addition to your product will take care of itself. Sumant Moolgaokar 88 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 89 Workforce Breakup at TML (FY 2017-18) Workforce on merit and is governed by the pay scale of that particular grade. All statutory benefits are extended to our employees such as pension, gratuity, insurance as well as health benefits. TML personnel can avail accommodation in plants where we maintain our own townships. At Jamshedpur, for example, we operate schools, hospitals and other public amenities which can be accessed either for free or at a nominal cost Permanent Employee Breakup by Category, Age and Gender (FY 2017-18) by TML employees and their family members. Additionally, we ensure that the entire contract workforce is entitled to Employee Category <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Total Male Total Female benefits such as provident fund and insurance. Senior Management 0 62 65 125 2 Dignity & Collective Bargaining: The right to freedom Middle Management 14 1,992 313 2,241 78 of association is proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We fully recognize this as well as the right to Junior Management 2,614 5,310 770 8,092 602 organize and to collective bargaining. Our company’s policy Non-Management 1,448 9,541 2,793 13,641 141 to deal fairly and honestly with our associates is embodied in (Permanent Blue Collar) Tata Code of Conduct and Human Rights Policy. As per the Total 4,076 16,905 3,941 24,099 823 collective agreement/relevant legislation, we communicate major changes in our management to the labour union. We organize a management-labour council meeting, where Workforce Breakup at Subsidiaries (FY 2017-18) It is a well-known fact that a committed and technically sound union and management discuss key issues to find solutions. TAL TMLDL TMML TTL workforce forms the bedrock of any successful business. At We also hold management briefings on a regular basis to Employee by the core of our success lies a hardworking pool of dedicated keep the labour union up to date on the market situation and Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Categories employees and associates. It is our constant endeavour to business practices. Permanent 896 81 2059 34 1710 16 4065 669 attract and retain the best talent through comprehensive training and development opportunities and good longTemporary 393 23 1116 75 40 251 67 term career prospects. We seek to enhance professional Full time NA NA NA NA 554 22 NA NA development of high potential and managerial staff through our systematic career management. This enables us to fill key Part time NA NA NA NA 300 NA NA positions at all our locations with qualified specialists. Human Rights: We strictly adhere to our policy of having no New Hires & Attrition at TML (FY 2017-18) Approach Towards Employees child labour and forced labour. All the security personnel have As part of our human resources (HR) planning, on a yearly basis been trained to ensure no underage workers enter the plant New Hires we assess and determine skill sets needed basis our corporate premises and even our contractors are given strict instructions Male Female and locational strategies. We then align our young talent, which prohibit them from employing underage workers. For Employee Category training programs and hiring plans accordingly. Providing any operation, the only exceptions to the 18 years age bar are <30 years 30-50 years >50 years <30 years 30-50 years >50 years a favourable environment for our workforce to realise their those who are part of the government approved apprenticeship Senior Management 0 5 1 0 0 1 full potential and grow in their career paths is of paramount schemes and internships. We conduct training on human rights importance for us. In line with our Affirmative Action Policy, periodically for all employees and security personnel. Middle Management 1 36 2 0 5 0 we adhere to our commitment to non-discrimination and Junior Management 584 111 0 106 9 0 recruit solely based on merit. Opportunities for career growth are based purely on individual excellence. Non-Management 9 222 0 2 28 0 Benefits: Remuneration for any employee is strictly based Total 594 374 3 108 42 1 90 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 91 Attrition Attrition at TMLDL Employee Category Male Female <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Employee Category <30 years 30-50 years >50 years <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Senior Management 0 0 0 0 0 Senior Management 0 8 39 0 0 0 Middle Management 8 7 3 16 2 Middle Management 3 159 95 1 7 3 Junior Management 7 7 17 31 0 Junior Management 531 484 253 77 37 3 Non-Management 7 96 417 1 0 5 Non-management 0 2 45 47 0 Total 541 747 804 79 44 11 Total 15 16 65 94 2 New Hires & Attrition at Subsidiaries (FY 2017-18) New Hires at TTL New Hires at TAL Employee Category <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Employee Category <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 7 0 7 0 Senior Management 0 3 4 7 0 Middle Management 3 40 0 42 1 Middle Management 1 20 6 25 2 Junior Management 772 61 0 629 204 Junior Management 43 8 6 48 9 Non-Management 95 11 6 80 32 Non-Management 148 2 0 130 20 Total 870 119 6 758 237 Total 192 33 16 210 31 Attrition at TTL Attrition at TAL Employee Category <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Employee Category <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 9 3 10 2 Senior Management 0 3 4 6 1 Middle Management 0 102 2 95 9 Middle Management 1 5 6 12 0 Junior Management 370 92 2 375 89 Junior Management 23 5 5 32 1 Non-management 227 59 5 223 68 Non-management 25 2 8 35 0 Total 597 262 12 703 168 Total 49 15 23 85 2 New Hires at TMLDL Employee Category <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female Senior Management 0 0 0 0 0 Middle Management 22 1 0 21 2 Junior Management 0 0 0 0 0 Non management 0 44 0 39 5 Total 22 45 0 60 7 92 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 93 through focused hiring from smaller towns and villages New Hires at TMML Employee Category and world-class training under the NEEM program. <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female TML is not only recruiting women on the shop-floor, but Senior Management 0 4 0 4 0 is highly focused on skilling them through structured Middle Management 6 2 0 7 1 technical education programs run in collaboration with the Automotive Skill Development Council (ASDC). 70% Junior Management 6 0 0 5 1 of those trained in the pilot batch of TML – ASDC that Non management 461 6 0 464 3 graduated in August 2017, were women. Temp/Trainees/FTC 93 0 0 93 0 We also emphasize on providing a culture and Total 566 12 0 573 5 environment that is conducive to striking a work life Training and Skill Development balance, with progressive policies such as: six months’ Business needs and strategic decisions drive our training maternity leave, sabbatical, work from home (corporate and skill development. Meeting the changing demands Attrition at TMML employees) and half-day work. In alignment to this, Employee Category of business and skill development of our workforce are <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Male Female dedicated initiatives are planned for expecting and critical to business continuity. returning mothers and facilities like Crèche tie-ups across Senior Management 0 3 0 3 0 locations near our corporate, commercial and area offices Management of Training and Skill Development Middle Management 4 15 0 17 2 are to be made available. At TML we have a learning governance body called as Junior Management 15 8 0 20 3 We are currently utilizing the Tata Group’s The Second Learning Advisory Council (LAC). As a means of Non-management 509 8 0 483 34 Career Inspiring Possibilities (SCIP) channel for women ensuring business relevance and value of learning offered, Temp/Trainees/FTC 141 0 0 141 0 who wish to come back after a career break exemplifies efforts are taken to closely align learning & development the company’s commitment to gender diversity. TML Total 669 34 0 664 39 with business needs and priorities through this learning also encourages women who have had a career break to governance body. LACs play a threefold role namely – come back and explore second career options with the designing, implementing and reviewing the learning flexibility of working part-time or full time. agenda and is responsible for overall skill development. GENDER DIVERSITY @ TML LAC meets regularly to set direction and review progress. Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) has been on the radar of Tata Training requirements, driven by various business Group for a few years now & in recent months the impetus needs and relevance are assessed through the 6Ds has grown significantly to work on various initiatives in this (Define, Design, Deliver, Drive, Deploy and Document) space across group companies. program, which provides disciplines of learning. While selecting the employees to undergo training and skill While TML has already embarked on its journey to focus on development, there is strict adherence to our policy of initiatives on Gender Diversity, “GEAR UP” is first of its kind, non-discrimination. which is a women focused development program designed We have increased focus on women hiring through for mid-management level women. As part of “GEAR UP”, the campuses from 13% in 2016 to 19% in 2017 and a target of Blue Collar: We have established Functional Skill participants undergo a management development program 25% for 2018 batches. We are also on the outlook to hire Training at each plant to enhance the skill set of (MDP), receive inputs through mentoring from seasoned more women through the lateral route across levels, for our blue-collar employees. We have also deputed a seniors who help young women build on their individual which we plan to run sensitization and culture building National Employability Enhancement Mission (NEEM) development plan (IDP) as they get ready to take charge. communication campaigns. agent to initiate training and enhance the knowledge of employees. We assess the effectiveness of the training The pilot batch which was launched last year reported 14 The women agenda focuses on three pillars: and skill development exercise through improvement in women who were nominated by their managers, out of performance index and knowledge index. We conduct hh Becoming an employer of choice for women In the coming year, we desire to formalize launch of which 12 continue to undergo this program which is targeted programs on vehicle integration which are approved by hh Transformation of culture and mindset to create a initiatives, forming Diversity Councils with measurable to end in July 2018. Govt. (DGTT) for our blue-collar employees. positive cultural momentum and sustainable targets under the umbrella of “Women@ Work” with MD’s sponsorship, and thereby TML will White Collar: A dedicated Chief Learning Officer is There is a planned closure to be conducted for GEAR UP so hh Development and retention continue to remain focused on this agenda that responsible for managing the skill development and that we receive appropriate feedback in order to improvise While we are bringing in more number of women, 50 % of encompasses all facets including support systems, training needs of our white-collar employees by way the overall process & proceed with scheduling the next GEAR whom are primarily from rural/small towns, to work in our policies, infrastructure, cultural & mindset change as well of an academy concept. The specific training needs UP Batch in FY 18-19. plants, blue collared women workforce increased by 16% as getting statutory clearances wherever required. are assessed through inputs from People Managers on 94 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 95 leadership behaviour and various sessions with managers on support to convert trainers’ knowledge in training material. strategy and technology. Learning is conducted in four major Location Employee Category Average Training Man-hours (FY 2017-18) c) “B-HR” and “HR-VP” programs, related to Human functional areas: Operational Excellence, Product Leadership, Resource, focused on conceptual learning on workforce Permanent Employees 23.23 Customer excellence and Management Education. management and TML’s way of working. Contract Labour 193.8 We assess effectiveness of the learning and skill development TMLDL To make the learning process more inclusive and efficient, and programs through feedback on the trainings from participants, Temporary / Fixed Term Contract 10.72 inculcate a culture of self-learning, Tata Motors Academy has instructors, superiors and the program evaluation process. launched E-learning programmes for managerial staff and Trainees / Apprentices 1.46 The Learning Management System (LMS) platform manages the dealer personnel. Formal performance management and overall training and skill development. development reviews are done on an annual basis for our workforce. Remaining employees have access to a range of We have conducted three noteworthy programs for our opportunities aimed at developing a workforce with the right white-collar employees: Tata Motors & ASDC Certifies First Batch of skills, experience and training. Performance management a) Leadership+, a focused program for techno-functional among this segment is largely team-based. Superannuating Trainees for Skills in Automotive Assembly skill development of leaders. employees get adequate support to help them manage the b) “i Teach” is a train the trainer program to provide end of their careers better. As part of a unique initiative to promote “Skill (National Skills Development Corporation) and India Mission”, Tata Motors and Automotive NAPS (National Apprenticeship Promotion Skills Development Council (ASDC) certified the Scheme), for various skill development programs Average training man-hours at TML (FY 2017-18) in the automotive sectors first batch of trainees under their collaborative Employee Category Permanent Employees Contractual Employees skills development and certification program. hh 166 trainees (94 boys and 72 girls) as a pilot Introduced in 2016, the program is currently batch at Pune plants of Tata Motors have been Training Man Hours (Male) 432961.59 48615 training around 4000 apprentices, out of awarded the ASDC Certification in automotive which 166 trainees (94 boys and 72 girls) at assembly skills & similar assessments are being Training Man Hours 24414.51 1972 Pune Plant of Tata Motors Ltd have been (Female) conducted in Tata Motors Sanand Plant. We would TML awarded the ASDC Certification in automotive be certifying around 500 trainees by March 2018. Total Training Man Hours 457376.1 49053 assembly skills. The trainees, after completion hh TML plans to skill 40,000 people in next 3 to 4 Avg. Training Man Hours / of their first-year training at Tata Motors’ skill 11.54 3.67 years across all plants, subsidiaries and dealer Employee development center were assessed through an network. online test, a practical examination and a viva Average training man-hours at TML subsidiaries (FY 2017-18) conducted by the external ASDC nominated assessor. Trainees that successfully passed Subsidiaries Category of Employment Permanent Employees Contractual Employees these examinations were felicitated at a special Training Man Hours (Male) 28279.56 5079.23 function in the presence of top officials from TML and ASDC. Training Man Hours (Female) 2065.75 222.78 TAL Total Training Man Hours 30623.30 5302 The first batch of trainees were awarded the Avg. Training Man Hours / ASDC certification in presence of Mr. Gajendra 24.98 13.09 Employee Chandel, Chief Human Resource Officer, Tata Training Man Hours (Male) 9936.5 11004.5 Motors, Mr. Satish Borwankar, Chief Operating Officer, Tata Motors Ltd and Mr. Sunil Training Man Hours (Female) 395.5 0 Chaturvedi, Chief Executive Officer, ASDC. TMML Total Training Man Hours 10332 11004.5 Avg. Training Man Hours / Key Highlights: 5.88 11.18 Employee hh TML has partnered with ASDC (Automotive Training Man Hours (Male) 56184 4298.00 Skills Development Council), NSDC Training Man Hours (Female) 10520 1078.00 TTL Total Training Man Hours 66704 5376.00 Avg. Training Man Hours / 14.15 17.01 Employee 96 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 97 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 99 hh ‘My Road My Discipline’ Road Safety Week Workplace Safety campaign organized on April 23 to 29 at all locations including all Plants, Offices, Dealerships, Warehouses, Vendors. hh Through our ‘senSHEtize’ initiative on Women’s We are committed to provide a safe and healthy working Management Approach Towards Safety Safety Awareness, more than 1800 women employees environment for our employees and associates. We ensure Encouraging safe & healthy workplace is paramount to were trained on Women Safety and Self-Defence that none of our employees or workers are subjected to our business. A dedicated Safety, Health & Sustainability topics in 60 sessions across Offices & Plants. high incident or high risk disease related to their individual (SH&S) Committee at the board level oversees the overall occupation. A company-wide occupational health and implementation of our safety policies & reviews its performance safety policy exists in order to ensure increased vigilance quarterly. We follow a threetier approach to review our SH&S and awareness on health and safety. We recognise that to performance First review by the Factory Implementation achieve our target in safety, it is crucial to internalise safety committee followed by plant level Apex Committee/suband engage with our employees. committee; then by SH&S council & finally by SH&S committee. Key Initiatives in 2017-18 hh Initiated a process of second party audits, involving Our key initiatives in 2017-18 have been centered auditors from other TML plants, for enhancing on enhanced governance, awareness and further governance mechanisms in monitoring safety parameters. internalizing safety. The initiatives are as follows: hh Launched Safe20, a 20 minutes safety engagement hh Top 10 critical risks are identified across all the program, to make safety at work place a culture. manufacturing locations. Each plant has laid down Sessions on Road Safety were conducted at 9 offices action plan to mitigate these risks. across India engaging 1,000+ employees. Flexi Work Force were mentored by Permanent Blue-Collar Work At the plant level, safety is ensured by the plant-level system, that ensures detection of any major safety incident. hh Through our campaign ‘i-drive safe’ an initiative force / Group leaders under MY BUDDY program. subcommittees that functionally report to corporate level Internal Safety Audits are conducted periodically by the safety on building a safe driving culture we have trained sub-committee, headed by CVBU plant head. Every month, coordinators against these safety standards followed with a 1800 employees and associates on defensive driving 100 safety Factory Implementation Committees across CV Second Party, Third Party external audits. The results of the in 81 Defensive Driving Training (DDT) sessions. plants meet to review and improve the safety management audits are monitored by Corporate Standards & Procedures system and similarly 27 such committees across PVBU meet Sub-committee and SHE Council. to take on safety culture transformation agenda. At each We affirm our commitment to safety by including aspects such plant, about 50% of the workforce is represented in the as Performance Based Payment Scheme (PBPS), Discipline safety committee. Use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs), medical facilities Coverage under Employees State Insurance (ESI) hh Celebrated National Safety month in March 2018, TML has implemented 22 Safety standards covering Act, Training, Development and Morale of Workmen, Worktargeting workers and local communities around our managerial, cultural, technical and behavioral aspects of men Compensation, Safety and Environment, and Joint plants. Posters and banners on safety, containing safety. For the ease of access, all the standards are made Committees & Grievance Procedure under local agreements social message for people on safety, were published centrally available on a portal. We have a robust investigation with Trade Unions. for creating awareness. 100 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 101 Safety Performance of TML Safety Performance of TML Subsidiaries Safety Performance of all Employees (FY 2017-18) Safety performance for Employees (2017-18 & 2016-17) Lost time Total recordable TMML TAL TTL TMLDL Total Lost time injury rate cases frequency Occupational recordable Fatalities Man-days lost Lost day rate Location/Region injuries (Nos.) (per million cases (Nos.) rate (per million disease rate FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2017 FY 2018 name manhours) manhours) M F M F M F M F M F M F M F M F M F M F M F M F M F M F M F M F Lost Time Injuries 11 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 3 0 7 0 Pune 6 0 0.13 0 45 1 1.01 1.04 0 0 192 0 0 0 0.86 0 (Nos.) Jamshedpur 11 0 0.29 0 43 0 1.13 0 0 0 476 0 0 0 2.50 0 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Lucknow 2 0 0.15 0 21 0 1.56 0 1 0 6187 0 0 0 91.92 0 Including Fatalities 2.27 0 0.42 0 0 0 0 0 0.15 0 0 0 0.2 0 0.61 0 (per million Pantnagar 1 0 0.08 0 19 0 1.48 0.00 0 0 52 0 0 0 0.81 0 man-hours) Dharwad 0 0 0.00 0 2.00 0 0.84 0.00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total Recordable 39 0 14 0 7 0 1 0 9 3 9 3 21 0 24 0 Pune PV 0 0 0 0 15 0 2.41 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Cases (Nos.) Sanand 0 0 0.00 0.00 21 0 2.35 0.00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total Recordable Cases Frequency 4.41 0 3.18 0 2.28 0 0.66 0 0.61 0.57 1.18 1.38 0 2.1 0 Rate (per million man-hours) Man Day Lost 51 0 13 0 0 0 0 0 19 0 0 0 201 0 341 0 Absentee Rate 0.03 0 4.31 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Occupational 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Disease Rate Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Safety performance for all Workers (Excluding Employees) (2017-18 & 2016-17) TMML TAL TTL TMLDL Safety Performance of all Contractors (FY 2017-18) 2016-17 2017-18 2016-17 2017-18 2016-17 2017-18 2016-17 2017-18 Total recordable Lost time Lost time injury Total recordable cases frequency Occupational M F M F M F M F M F M F M F M F rate (per million Fatalities Man-days lost injuries (Nos.) cases (Nos.) rate (per million disease rate Region manhours) Lost Time Injuries manhours) 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (Nos.) M F M F M F M F M F M F M F Lost Time Injury Frequency Pune 0 0 0.00 0.00 2 0 0.15 0.00 0 0 0 0 0 0 Rate Including 2.51 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities (per Jamshedpur 0 0 0.00 0.00 6 0 0.41 0.00 0 0 0 0 0 0 million manhours) Lucknow 0 0 0.00 0.00 2 0 0.36 0.00 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total Recordable 15 0 4 0 3 0 1 0 0 0 5 2 1 0 0 0 Pantnagar 0 0 0.00 0.00 2 0 0.36 0.00 0 0 0 0 0 0 Cases (Nos.) Total Recordable Dharwad 0 0 0 0 2 0 0.73 0.00 0 0 0 0 0 0 Cases Frequency 9.75 0 1.47 0 22.35 0 1.09 0 0 0 0 0 0.43 0 0.39 0 Rate (per million Pune PV 0 0 0.00 0.00 2 2 0.61 4.13 0 0 0 0 0 0 man-hours) Sanand 1 0 0.15 0.00 8 0 1.21 0.00 0 0 246 0 0 0 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 102 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 103 Safety Trainings Communication, Consultation Training and awareness across the organisation is considered and Participation as a key element of Safety Strategy. Key leaders trained on Workers participation and consultation are ensured through safety management aspects such as Safety Management various forums such as shop level safety committees, Safety Fundamentals, Incident Investigations, Contractor Safety Action Meetings (SAM), AECT forum and HIRA committee. Management, Actions Employees Can Take (AECT) etc. Safety performance is reviewed by all levels of management. To sustain this drive, 500+ internal trainers from different (e.g. Senior leaders review the safety performance of the line). functions are certified to deliver Safety trainings apart from the safety professionals. Videos are developed for 10 standards The strategic push to Occupational Health (OH) is guided & showcased to enhance impact of the trainings and create by the Corporate Safety & Health Policy which is governed more awareness. Video films have been made in Hindi for by the established matrix SH&S structure at Corporate blue collar employees to have better understanding. Training Office. The ‘Health Vertical’ has a Single Point of Contact on e-modules to complement training efforts are developed. Occupational Health for ensuring uniform deployment of Safety is a part of induction programme for all employees company’s health strategy across all manufacturing & nonworking in operations. AECT (Actions Employees Can Take), manufacturing sites. SAM (Safety Action Meetings), TTT (Train the Trainer) for Incident Investigation Trainings and Safety Observations, etc. are few methods to develop people to impart training. As part of statutory requirement, personnel operating on hazardous operations are sent to Regional Labour Institute (RLI) for training. On the Health & Safety management system OHSAS 18001, identified employees are trained as Lead auditors and internal auditors. Enabling Immunization, imparting First-aid training and creating general health awareness amongst employees is an ongoing activity across plants. All the offices are enabled with AED (Automated Electronic Defibrillators) to attend any cardiac related situations with trained people. Health index is Emergency Preparedness, Response monitored across plants . and Crisis Management On site emergency response procedures have all possible Lectures and Health talks by experts and specialists are emergency scenarios viz. Fire, Explosions, Spills, Natural organized on chronic and lifestyle diseases, example Know calamities etc. and important telephone contacts along your Heart, Diabetes & Women, Hypertension etc., for the with list of emergency response team members. Roles benefit of employees, especially women employees and their families. and responsibilities are communicated to respective employees; mock drills are conducted periodically to ascertain preparedness of the workplace. It helps in conditioning employees for faster response to To keep pace with the new technologies and stay updated curtail losses in terms of human life and asset losses. This on latest improvements in safety, a refresher training is facilitates faster recovery. The de-briefing after the mockorganised by divisional safety coordinators/shop heads drills helps in identifying opportunities for improvement to impart training to employees. Refresher training boosts and closures. All Plants are OHSAS 18001/IMS certified. self-confidence and morale of employees. All the standards Emergency preparedness plans have been put in place developed in the 1st & 2nd phase have been capsuled and employees have been trained. in e-learning modules for refreshing the concerned employees. Training & Capability Building sub-committee In Offices/Warehouses, Emergency Preparedness Drills monitors the deployment of the safety training process are conducted at regular intervals in compliance with across the company. internal/regulatory requirements. 104 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 105 ‘i-care’ Programme As part of TATA Motors “Safety Excellence Journey – Level NeXT”, we have initiated a Holistic programme, on JSA/HIRA, Lesson Learnt, AECT (Actions Employee Can Take)/SAM (Safety Action Meeting), Value Chain Sustainability i-Care covering Blue collars – the vulnerable group Incident Investigations. for injury. • Setting up of AECT & SAM Register and Reporting i-Care Progamme includes detail workshops for Process: Improvement in the robustness of AECT & Specific workgroup on Care Culture, Personal SAM Process. Safety, Safety Rules at workplace, and various group • Structured Coaching/Interactions. activities to sensitize and improve employee hazard recognition and improve Risk perception. • Recognition of Performance on Safety. Overall intention is to improve awareness on Safety • Review and Monitoring on Regular basis. at personal front, improve Care culture, raise up Risk perception, and bring more ownership of Safety amongst the workforce. Following are the component of i-Care Programme: • Capability Building: Focus Training by Safety Team/Best Trainers on following subjects: 106 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 107 Value Chain Sustainability (ERC), Strategic Sourcing (SS) & Purchase & Supply Chain (P&SC). Our communication & business transactions with the suppliers are managed through a dedicated internet portal called Supplier Relationship Management. TML engages with dealers through an integrated CRM-DMS, which enables us to monitor finances & inventory at dealer level, & services, spares & complaints at the customer end. Our supply chains are characterized by technology driven suppliers of proprietary components (fuel pumps, tires, adhesives, sealants, electronic controls etc.) & wellestablished tier structure inherent to manufacturing sector & large number of Small & Medium Enterprises (SME’s). At TML we are committed towards making our products more sustainable than ever. To produce high quality vehicles while minimising the environmental impact during our production cycle, TML has taken steps towards adopting a comprehensive environmental management system. A significant part of the supply chain is manufacturing companies that are technology driven & energy intensive. Continuous efforts are undertaken to increase the energy efficiency & develop innovative mobility solutions to reduce the GHG emissions. To As a leading automobile company with a wide range of further reduce the indirect emissions, TML has taken products, we interact with a large base of suppliers in the a strategic decision to source most of its components, entire length of our value chain. We take care to monitor constituting about 92% from India. Dealers are supported our relations based on supplier performance & market to the fullest extent to build their knowledge & capacity to demand. This section covers our strategies regarding the perform sales & also communicate to customers efficiently entirety of our value chain starting from sourcing raw about our product & brand. TML places strong focus to materials to dealers who manage our end products. improvise its logistics system which leads to reduced cost & improved efficiency. Value chain describes the full range of activities which are required to bring a product or service from conception, Conflicts Mineral Management through the different phases of production (involving a combination of physical transformation & the input of The United States Dodd-Frank Act, Section 1502, is various producer services), delivery to our consumers, & a landmark legislation that requires manufacturing final disposal after use. companies to identify & disclose to the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC) the source of 3TG minerals Tata Motors Value Chain (Tin, Tantalum, Tungsten & Gold) used in their products when those minerals originate from or around the war-torn Our wide network of supplier base is periodically region of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). rationalized on the basis of performance & market requirements. We engage with our supply chain on a As a Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) registrant, we range of issues through our Engineering Research Centre need to be in compliance with the requirement of the 108 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 109 aforesaid section. In this regard, we have developed companysteel bins, pallets, trolleys, plastic bags are used. Also, wood Sustainable Supply Chain Initiative wide Conflict Minerals Policy & have a Conflict Minerals packing is replaced by steel rack packing design. As we are a global automotive company, we have a diverse Compliance Program in place to implement our Conflict and complex multi-tiered supply chain. Environmental, Minerals Policy. This is necessary for auto components/subAnother step in this direction includes setting up of Social and Governance (ESG) performance of supply systems sourced by TML may have 3TG minerals. consolidation centres at key geographical locations across the chain is one of the key sustainability issues for us. In country to streamline material receipt inline with production order to ensure compliance with ESG and avoid business Packaging & Logistics Management plans. ‘Milk Runs’ for local runs transportation were established continuity and reputation risks we have taken up this (Kolhapur region for Pune CV, Pune PV, TML Dharwad from sustainable supply chain initiative to track and improve Integrated packaging has a significant effect on the efficiency Pune etc.), in which transport vehicles collect components ESG performance of the supply chain. & effectiveness of the supply chain. This is fairly a new concept from suppliers as per requirement & transport to our also known as packaging logistics which could contribute in increasing the sustainability of the supply chains. manufacturing plant, which avoids use of multiple vehicles Management Approach Towards & material handling. To optimize number of trucks entering Sustainable Supply Chain Integrated packaging includes: the manufacturing plants, special containerized vehicles (32’ In line with our Sustainability Policy and Environmental 1. Process of planning & 52’) were introduced for optimum payload utilization. Procurement policy, we are committed to adopt a 2. Implementing & controlling the coordinated packaging procurement process integrating Ethical, Environmental system of preparing goods Local Sourcing and Social principles. We are engaging with our suppliers Procurement is a strategic function to help improve to sensitize them on issues of environmental impact, Objective of this function is to maximise consumer value & Engagement with dealers is done through periodic profitability. Our seven manufacturing plants across India social impact and ethical conduct of the business which sales by ensuring secure, safe, efficient & effective process National Dealer Council, Regional Dealer Councils and source material from hubs located in north, west and south can pose a threat to their business continuity and brand dilution. for the following: Annual Dealer Conference and these interactions serve of the country and hence promote the local industry and To make the upstream supply chain more sustainable and community. To establish the supply chain base at greenas a platform for discussing strategic and tactical plans increase awareness among suppliers on Environmental, field locations, vendor parks were set up at Sanand and for business growth. Social and Governance (ESG) issues, a focused initiative Pantnagar. All these steps have resulted in the growth of has been taken up by our corporate SHE to SH & the local economy, promoted local procurement, reduced Sustainability team, with support from plant level Purchase and logistics complexities and have minimized packaging and Supply Chain teams. transportation. In FY 2017-18, our manufacturing plants sourced 57.88% of materials and services by suppliers based Our Sustainable Supply Chain Initiative is being implemented within the state where our plants are located. In addition to in phases. In Phase I, during FY 2016-17, we had built all the above mentioned principles, Dealer code of Conduct the foundation for engaging and sensitizing our supply includes the aspect of Fair competition as well. TCoC has chain on ESG issues through formulation of Guidelines, been communicated to dealers and suppliers and are preparation of data template, conducting workshops for expected to ensure compliance. Dealers and suppliers can suppliers and training sessions for local TML’s purchase notify TML about their ethical concerns and grievances to & supply chain team, data collection from suppliers and ethicsoffice@tatamotors.com on-site sustainability assessment of suppliers. During FY 2017-18 we have expanded our supplier outreach from 52 suppliers in FY 2016-17 to 66 suppliers in FY 2017-18 under Value Chain Engagement on-site Sustainability Assessment. We have modified our To strengthen the quality of the components supplied by our systematic approach based on the feedback received from value chain, we launched the Tata Motors Integrated Supplier different stakeholders during implementation of Phase I of Quality Manual. The manual provides a common 16 step this initiative. process to ensure that TML requirements are complied with The details of Phase II are given as follows: P&SC has initiated global actions centrally for optimizing by all the partners to achieve the highest quality standards. logistics, packaging, cost & reducing damages to auto hh We have modified the “Sustainability Guidelines for Vendor councils have been established in the -North, South, components. Several factors such as labour, material flow, pull Suppliers”, covering key topics like governance, legal East and Western regions of India to provide a platform for systems, layout, cost, safety, ergonomics etc. are considered compliance, TCoC, management system certification, the top-level management and suppliers to interact. Periodic before finalising the design of packaging & labelling. transparency & reporting, Occupational Health vendor meets are held at every location to communicate on Returnable type of packaging such as polypropylene boxes is and Safety, labour and human rights. Furthermore, key issues likesupply schedules, quality and vendor ratings. gaining more importance over single use type of packaging. TML’s policies related to Sustainability, Environment, This is done to achieve reduction of expendable packaging TML has a dedicated code of conduct for suppliers as well Safety & Health, Climate Change and Environmental dunnage for components such as fender, rear wall, dashboard, as dealers. All the suppliers are expected to adhere to the Procurement are also shared with suppliers as a part fuel tanks etc. For heavier components, returnable & foldable Principles of TCoC such as: of this guideline. 110 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 111 safety, packaging & logistics and social obligations of suppliers are also collected. hh Workshops were conducted to sensitize our suppliers on the importance of sustainability and threat posed by ESG factors on business continuity and brand reputation. Through these workshops, we felicitate our suppliers and provide them a platform to share their success stories and exchange best practices. In order to expand our supplier outreach, Tier II suppliers were also invited to attend these workshops. This year, we had organized workshops at Sanand, Pantnagar, Jamshedpur, Dharwad, Tata Marcopolo Dharwad and Lucknow plant wherein more than 90 suppliers participated actively. hh Sustainability data template was updated based on learnings from engaging with suppliers during Phase I of Sustainable Supply Chain Initiative. The template covers information and topics on organisational profile, roles and responsibilities, review mechanisms, legal compliance related to economic, environmental and social, TCoC Suppliers Code of Conduct, Management system certification -ISO 14001, ISO 18001, ISO 9001, ISO hh After participating in the workshops, suppliers shared 50001 and SA 8000. The template also seeks information the sustainability data which was reviewed and on-site on transparency and reporting, audit mechanism and sustainability assessment of 66 suppliers was conducted availability of any sustainability disclosure related to across different locations of TML. During on-site CDP, GRI etc. In addition, data related to energy and assessment, we not only verify the data shared by them GHG emission, environmental (including waste, water but also sensitize them on sustainability and provide and hazardous chemicals), labour condition, health and opportunities for improvement in their sustainability performance. Mahle Behr India Pvt Ltd. was felicitated by Mr. Satish Borwankar, COO & ED, for active participation in Sustainable Supply Chain Initiative of Tata Motors. 112 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 113 Our Supply Chain Performance in 2017-18 Phase-II performance of Sustainable Supply Chain Initiative, reflects our success in creating awareness As aforementioned, we have conducted site assessment of 66 suppliers and the combined performance is as below: among our Tier I suppliers on Environmental, Social & Governance issues. Five of our suppliers have already made the transition to ISO 14001:2015. Fourteen suppliers achieved 7.3% reduction in their annual carbon footprint i.e. approximately 2,684 tonnes of CO2 saved. There were no incidents of labour and human rights violations and non-compliance with environmental and social regulations. The adherence with TCoC – Supplier code of conduct and legal compliance with economic, environmental and social norms and regulations Way Forward With Our Supply Chain has been assessed by TML. Moreover, 12 suppliers By the end of FY 2017-18, we have completed site participated in Phase I of this initiative were felicitated for assessments’ of 118 Tier I suppliers. In FY 2018-19, we aim their noteworthy sustainability performance. to target an additional 82 of our total 200 critical Tier The above 66 suppliers have even shared TML’s I suppliers. We shall continue to conduct workshops & “Sustainability Guidelines for suppliers” with 120 Tier II provide platform to suppliers to share their best practices suppliers and assessed them through questionnaire on based on our current study of critical suppliers. Through management system certifications, namely ISO 14001, this initiative we are ensuring consistent legal compliance & OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001 and TCoC. reducing energy consumption and carbon footprint of our supply chain. Sustainability at Gabriel India Limited Gabriel India Ltd., one of our critical Tier I suppliers, who has been evaluated as part of our on-site sustainable supply chain assessment, is making commendable progress towards environmental sustainability. As a step towards reducing their carbon footprint, Gabriel has incorporated the usage of Renewable Energy (RE) to meet part of their total energy demand. In addition to RE procured through Power Purchase Agreement (PPA), roof top solar panel installations have also been made for in house RE generation. They have also been focussing on elimination of other air emissions and waste generation through the installation of green technologies like Autophoretic painting (which has eliminated phosphate sludge & VOC’s) and Dynamo Chrome Plating Facility (zero chrome discharge). Solar Installations AutoPhoratic Plant Plating Plant 114 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 115 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 117 is done with a view of taking our message of social good CSR to a larger base. Ongoing dialog with stakeholders and experts, and Guided by the philosophy of inclusive community benchmarking our performance, are key foundations development, meaningful social engagement has been at for our work. Open communication with community the heart of our corporate social responsibility efforts. Pan members and our implementing partners helps us to India presence (seven manufacturing locations and one obtain valuable insights to improve our programme. corporate location) helps in engaging with diverse social Health, education, employability and environment are groups and maximising social welfare footprint by deploying the four pillars of our CSR programme “Ankur”. Aarogya Common Minimum Programmes across these locations. The focuses on enhancing the health of infants, adolescent thrust areas of these programmes are Health (Aarogya), girls, pregnant women and lactating mothers. We also Education (Vidyadhanam), Employability (Kaushalya) and hold awareness sessions for community members on Environment (Vasundhara). Inclusive development is ensured preventive measures for better health. Amrutdhara, through our Affirmative Action programmes (under the our flagship programme undertaken by the Sumant umbrella of Aadhar initiatives) for the marginalised SC/ST Moolgaonkar Development Foundation, facilitates communities. In line with our TCoC and values of Tata group, sustainable drinking water solutions. we are committed to build responsible business that meets the needs of our stakeholders. We are all aware that there is a high dropout rate In line with our CSR policy, we believe in actively assisting in among students at the higher secondary school stage. the improvement of the quality of life of the people in the Vidyadhanam, our education programme strives to Communities by giving preference to local areas around our improve the accessibility and quality of secondary business operations. We constantly work towards adding The CSR committee comprises of 2 Independent Directors, education and aims to counter this problem. Special value to each one’s life. At the heart of all our endeavours 1 Executive Director and 1 Managing Director. This coaching classes are conducted to help students to excel are members of the community who actively participate in committee meets 3 to 4 times a year to approve policy in competitive exams. Financial support is also extended the planning and execution of our initiatives. Our planning, and budget related to CSR activities. to students to pursue engineering courses. Mentoring with a focus on the community, helps us to understand its sessions with senior Tata Motors management help changing needs better and thus we develop programmes The selection of the community engagement activities is students understand challenges in their area of interest. which address these. done on 5 key criteria: The objective of Kaushalya, the skill development hh Proximity of the local community; programme is to enhance the employability of youth by hh Alignment with our four focus areas; training them in automotive and non-automotive trades. hh Deprived section of the society (SC/ST) under our Most popular among the training courses are the driver Affirmative Action; and motor mechanic courses. Community members are hh Innovation in our value chain and also offered agriculture and allied training which helps hh Measurable and clear outcome. them to pursue income generating activities like animal husbandry, floriculture and kitchen gardening. Skill Through our affirmative action programme “Adhar”, we development courses include the component of on-thereach out to groups (scheduled castes and scheduled job-training (OJT) where the students are placed in the tribes) which have been marginalized, historically. Out Tata Motors ecosystem and are paid a stipend for the of our CSR budget, 40% is earmarked for programmes period of their apprenticeship. designed to uplift them through education, making them employable and entrepreneurship. Vasundhara, our environment programme promotes We see employee volunteering as character building environmental consciousness among community At the Tata Group, we always believe that our core values and activity that helps all our employees become socially members, school students and our employees by community centric approach, forms the bedrock to broaden responsible individuals. For programme execution, we rely engaging them in plantation and cleanliness drives. our CSR footprint and enhance our contribution to sustainable heavily on our implementing partners who are experts in Our CSR teams encourage community members to use development. As a leading automobile manufacturer with a their domain. Guided by the motto of More from Less renewable energy products by distributing solar lamps. presence in 175 countries we continuously align our strategies for More, we collaborate with dealers, subsidiaries and We also promote innovative products like smokeless to meet international and national development goals. vendors who are the main players of our ecosystem. This chulhas that reduce the carbon footprint. 118 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 119 Tata Motors strives for inclusive development through automotive trades, in line with our philosophy of ‘More from World Bank data indicates that malnutrition is rampant its affirmative action programmes under the umbrella of Less for More’ among children in India. We fare abysmally on the World Aadhar. Affirmative Action focuses specifically on dalit Hunger Index and India ranks 100th out of 119 countries & tribal communities & as a strategy it ensures 40% We provide financial aid though scholarships & also conduct on the global hunger index (Global Hunger Index, 2017). beneficiary coverage & budgetary allocation from its CSR special coaching programmes for students belonging to More than one-fifth of Indian children under five weigh expenditure. The initiative falls under the direct purview of SC/ST background drop-outs of schools (as high as 50%) too little for their height and over a third are too short the CSR committee of board and is championed by senior due to insufficient funds. This helps them to complete their for their age. Our health programmes tackle malnutrition management across all plants. education. In FY 2017 -18, we have given scholarships to 1092 through a holistic approach that involves children, AA students. We have increased our outreach of special adolescent girls, pregnant women and lactating mothers. The objective of our Affirmative Action (AA) programme is to coaching classes & presently, 21511 AA students across To ensure better nutrition and health awareness for mainstream Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes communities locations are enrolled in it. children, pregnant women and lactating mothers we tiethrough focused programmes in the area of Employment, up with anganwadis and nutrition rehabilitation centres. Entrepreneurship, Employability & Education. We also train and mentor enterprising SC/ST youth & At some locations we have set up malnutrition treatment encourage them to become entrepreneurs. Our Strategic centres where infants suffering from severe acute We have developed business-linked programs which are Sourcing Team has undertaken several initiatives to include malnutrition are taken care of and efforts are directed implemented across the country in partnership with our them in its vendor base. The team identifies AA vendors at improving their health status. Our initiatives also focus dealers & NGOs/Technical training agencies, to bridge this who can supply auto components & on clearing the initial on holding awareness sessions for adolescent girls to gap. Every year we recruit around 5,000 youth under the verifications and quality checks they are registered in the address their queries on puberty, health and hygiene Apprentice Training and NEEM Program. TML database. Efforts are then taken to build capacity of Tier-2 AA vendors to enable them to become Tier 1 suppliers. Currently, We have also partnered with various State Governments, Twenty AA Vendors are associated with our Tier-1 supply such as Bihar Mahadalit Vikas Mission & West Bengal chain & their share of business has progressively increased Scheduled Castes & Scheduled Tribes Development & over the years. Finance Corporation for skill development of SC/ST youth in 120 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 121 Day Care Centre at Pantnagar Drought Mitigation at Osmanabad Rampur and Shiv Nagar slums that neighbour the Pantnagar plant were found to have high number of Osmanabad district falls in Marathwada region and was facing drought for the fourth consecutive year. malnourished children. To support their nutritional needs, improve health status in the district and encourage SMDF along with Paryay undertook the project of water conservation by reviving the age old practices control feeding, a day care centre was established in collaboration with ICDS, district officials, Institute of Social of nalla deepening to augment the water storage capacity of the structure. The feld team selected three Development (ISD) and medical practitioners. The centre facilitates outreach services through a team of medical villages Wagholi, Nagjarwadi and Shingoli which faced severe water scarcity, high rate of migration, and nutrition experts, provision of nutrition THR on fxed days for SAM and MAM children residing in the project decreasing cultivable land on one hand and willingness of villagers to pool in resources on the other hand. area. The day care centre under the supervision of the ICDS serves 50 SAM/MAM children, where they are The team worked to cater to immediate requirements through building and repair of existing infrastructure, monitored regularly and receive monthly medical consultancy. To leverage the services in the rural pocket, introduction of better farming practises and inputs, long term solutions through capacity building to ensure mobile outreach health camp was conducted in 5 cluster pockets of the district providing medical, nutrition and sustainability of the projects and formation of monitoring and maintenance committees. Nallas were referral services to the SAM/MAM children on monthly basis. deepened and the farmlands were improved with bunds and farm ponds in the three villages for better catchment. The villagers participated in the infrastructure development phase by shram daan. Combination of availability of better inputs and irrigation increased the crop yield in the villages. A total of 293 farmers were impacted by the project. hh 7.5 km nallas been dug and deepened with Kharif Rabi Village Name storage capacity of 25 crore litres of water Season Season No. of Farmers hh Recharged 201 wells, 303 bore wells, 20 249 389 Benefited hand pumps Acre of land Irrigated 453 787 hh Soil moisture improvement on 730 acres of land Total Production in 2,247.95 7,562 hh 1.6 times (Rabi and Kharif crops) improvement in Quintal production Mobile outreach health camp provided services to more than 250 SAM/MAM children in the rural Previous Production in 805.55 1,833 hh Over 40 kms of farm bunding has facilitated inpocket of the district Udham Singh Nagar. Quintal situ water Per Acre Productivity in 20.16 57.74 hh conservation resulting in double/multi cropping Qtl. Prv. Year in Qnt. Amrutdhara (National Drinking Water Programme Through Sumant Moolgaokar Devepment Per Acre Productivity in hh 5,000 lives positively impacted 55.11 1,221.61 Foundation (SMDF)) Qtl. This Year in Qnt hh Has arrested out migration of youth to 40% SMDF through its Amrutdhara programme aims to provide safe drinking water to water stressed villages across the country on a sustainable basis. The diversity in the geographical landscape gives SMDF an opportunity to innovate on water solutions. Depending up on the terrain, the water solution could be installing RO plant, developing percolation wells or rebuilding water reservoirs. 122 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 123 TATA Samarth Scholarship Through our Kaushalya initiatives, we partner with skill development centers to support students with technically Tata Samarth Scholarship is a mentorship based rolling as well as financially, to address this skill gap. Centres scholarship programme jointly instituted by Tata Motors, for automotive trades like driver training and mechanic Tata Communications and Tata Henderickson. The courses have us on board as knowledge and technical objective of this programme is to support bright young partners. We also promote non-automotive, market budding engineers from economically weak & socially driven courses such as electrician training, computer skills disadvantaged sections of the society. Till date 100 scholars and beautician training. An additional area that we are have been supported financially, imparted soft skills and involved in is agriculture and allied training in the field of intense mentoring from the senior leadership of these horticulture, floriculture, dairy development and animal companies. Of these, 54% are from SC/ST communities and husbandry that helps the cultivators earn supplementary 42% are women. 3 Samarth scholars found employment at income for the household. Tata Motors upon completion of their graduate degree. Features of Samarth Scholarship hh Scholarship worth INR 25000/ year hh Mentoring from Senior Leadership of Tata Motors, Tata Communications and Tata Henderickson hh Inputs on soft/life skills hh Internships & projects at Tata Motors and Tata Communications Holistic Education Development Tupudang is a tribal hamlet which fares poorly across the human developmentindicators. Six more such villages shared the fate of Tupudang in the East Singhbum district of Jharkhand. Team Jamshedpur took on itself to alter the developmental landscape across these seven villages by instituting programmes which cater to health, Despite a huge labour pool, employability continues to education and livelihood. Improvement of educational standards was identified as the top priority as it was be a major concern in India mainly due to the absence found that pass percentage and enrollment ratios were low, drop out rate among students was high, and the of a proper linkage between the formal education system school had poor infrastructure. Coupled with this was prevalence of apathy towards education in the community and vocational training. A lack of formal skills makes resulting in poor governance at schools. To address these challenges Tata Motors adopted a holistic approach this population largely unemployable. Ministry of Skill which included instituting need based scholarships for students (especially for girls); introduction of support Development and Entrepreneurship reports that only classes to augment learning in English, Mathematics and Science and improvement of school infrastructure 2.3 percent of the workforce in India has undergone through basic amenities like water, sanitation and classroom furniture. Tata Motors also started night schools formal skill training. Labour Bureau’s fifth employmentto encourage adult learning. This infused interest in parents towards education. To bring in efficiency in school unemployment survey reported that 13.2% of people management Tata Educational Excellence Programme (TEEP) was introduced. TEEP follows a graded and time between 18 32 years of age were unemployed. bound approach to management of schools thereby institutionalising better management and governance practises. 124 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 125 Driving Their Way To Break Gender Barriers Breaking Gender Stereotypes 81685 people are trained through this programme across the country Renugadevi is a mother of two school going children in Villivakkam Block of Tiruvallur District of Tamil Nadu. Her husband’s meagre earning as an auto rickshaw driver was insuffcient for running the household. She learnt of the driver training programme with AB Trust, a driver training partner of Tata Motors from her friend and without any second thought enrolled herself. At the driver training centre, she felt reassured when she saw other women who chose this path. “I was very excited to learn with the simulator” – exclaimed buoyant Renugadevi. In her 40 days training, along with driving skills their batch was taught soft skills which she found was equally useful in life. Upon completing her training she was offered job by a well known cab service. Some of the participants from the batch were employed at shopping malls as valet parking stewards. As part of the driver training programme, Tata Motors trained an exclusive batch of 120 women as drivers of which 50% belong to the SC/ ST communities. Apart from augmenting their annual income by 1.2 lakhs they have rediscovered themselves. With new found confdence they hope for a better tomorrow. Adding another feather to the driver training programme, Tata Motors in partnership with Pratham and Ola have leveraged on each others’ capability to provide placement linkages to trained set of drivers in Mumbai. This programme focuses on grooming novice drivers on nuances 81685 people are trained through this programme across the country of cab service with an earning of over Rs 15000 per month. The ﬂagship driver training programme is conducted across 75 locations in India with the help of 38 partners. Tata Motors helps in developing infrastructure and Automobile is considered to be a male dominant industry and girls trained at Little Flower institute in equipping at these institutes, the trainers are trained by Tata Motors employees. To ensure that facilities at these Kerala are trying to break this notion. These female trainees are altering the perception that women training centres meet the global standards, the centres are equipped with simulators for better learning and cannot undertake heavy duty work especially when it comes to being a good technician (motor mechanic). dexterity. The programme has two modules : novice driver and refresher driver training. These girls are seen fully greased while attending to a vehicle breakdown brought at Popular Motors. The customers are found awestruck. In the course of nine months of OJT (On-the-Job Training) these girls have proven their mettle as they have already been offered placement with Popular Motors. They also earned huge respect amongst the participants who showcased their skills during the technical festival held at Kolkata. These girls are part of Learn, Earn and Progress (LEAP) programme which imparts automotive skills (service technician) to school dropout youth. This is a one year course jointly run by Tata Motors and dealers. Students get theoretical inputs in industrial training institutes for three months and are placed with dealers to get hands on training through an OJT with Tata Motors dealers and Tata Authorised Service Stations (TASS) for nine months. Post training completion they are assessed by ASDC (Automotive Skill Development Council). 126 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 127 Lab To Land The objective of our environment initiatives is to promote and build environmental consciousness among communities especially young and impressionable students. We also promote large scale plantation drives and support the development of community infrastructure. Our CSR teams promotes and distributes devices that function on renewable sources of energy like solar lamps to the underprivileged. Story of Smriti Van (Urban Forest) Lab to Land is an unique approach for promoting sustainable livelihood amongfarming community in seven identifed tribal villages of Jamshedpur. The rural populationis predominantly engaged in agriculture andcompletely dependent on rainfed irrigation.In absence of quality inputs and technicalknow-how these farmers fail to grow qualityproduce and remain susceptible to nature’svagaries (rain, pest infestation and cropfailure). Due to their over dependence ofmonocropping, they are solely dependenton single source of income.Collaboration with Flora HorticultureSociety aims to train these farmersas agripreneurs. The project partnerbrings high end technical know-how andinfrastructure comprising of training labs& demonstration centres and experiencebased learning of various pilot projects.Livelihood security is ensured bydiversifying efforts in income generatingactivities like bee keeping, duck & quailfarming, mushroom cultivation, fruitplantation and pisciculture. Theincubation phase of new projects at Floraensure their high performance whenimplemented on the lands of the farmers.On the land granted by Tata Motors,several farming innovations are testedwhich were developed in laboratoriesby the technical partner. Technical knowhow and quality inputs are shared withthe benefciary farmers and sustainability46 TATA MOTORS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 2018 477484. The project is poised to scale up and reach 1000 farming households across 7villages and enhance their income level by INR 12,000 INR 15,000 per month bythe year 2019.is ensured by upskilling them. The projectwith a coverage of 100% tribal farmersand more than 80% female benefciariesupholds the Affrmative Action policy andsimultaneously meets the larger agendaof inclusion and women empowerment.The business interests of the companyare linked with peaceful and harmoniousrelationship with different stakeholdersincluding the neighbouring communities.It also facilitates meaningful engagementof employees in CSR initiative Till date 254 tribal farmers (196 female and 49 male) have attended training sessions. 100% farmers are engaged in fruit plantation activities whereas 30% of the farmers are engaged in vocations like mushroom cultivation and pisciculture. First harvest of mushroom cultivation yielded approximately 20 kg per farmer worth 15 acres of land near Warje, Pune was transformed to an urban forest with the help of TERRE Policy Centre A6,000 per month. and Forest department. The local residents planted saplings in the memory of their family members thus earning the forest its name. The forest department collaborated through construction of water storage structures for watering the plants and laying the jogging track. Over the past two years this 15 acre patch The project is poised to scale up and reach 1000 farming households across 7 villages and is ﬂourishing with rich biodiversity which includes 28 varieties of birds, 15 varieties of butterﬂies and 10 enhance their income level by INR 12,000 INR 15,000 per month by the year 2019. varieties of reptiles. It has emerged as a mini lung in the area and attracts over 1000 visitors on a daily basis. 128 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 129 Environment Olympiad Entrepreneurship To sensitise future generations on environmental issues hh Tata Motors engages with SC/ST entrepreneurs and infuse a sense of social responsibility by adopting with an objective to extend business both within sustainable lifestyle an environmental olympiad was and outside its ecosystem. organised in collaboration with TERRE policy. More hh The capabilities of these vendors are enhanced than 1,25,000 students took the online quiz which was through training and mentoring. available in 5 different languages. Students from classes V to VIII participated in the olympiad & Tata Motors hh Quality cost and delivery being equal, preference collaborated with the west region team to ensure its is given to SC/ST vendors over others success in Maharashtra. To ensure greater reach an hh Till date, 27 vendors have been developed. online portal was set up for registration & study material Cumulative business worth 42 crore has been was disseminated in 5 languages. 25,000 students from extended till date. Maharashtra participated in the olympiad & 58% of them were girls. To sustain this, many schools have started eco hh 10.8 crore business to 20 vendors in 2017-18. clubs which work on the issues of waste management, Horizon Enterprises water management & reduction in usage of plastic. Mr Kanifnath Jawale heads Anom Enterprise whose company supplied oversized safety shoes to Tata Motors. Tata Motors connected him to DICCI & groomed him to diversify their operations to supplying hand gloves, bags & other items. This resulted in an increase of his revenue to well over 6 lakhs annually. In 2015, Tata Motors referred Anom Enterprise to Thermax & John Deere which resulted in an increased income of 3.5 lakhs annually. In 2016, Mr Jawale registered a new enterprise Horizon Plastic Industry that produces plastic moulds. He was also connected with Tata Capital which funded 18 lakhs towards The volunteering activities undertaken by employees fall under retirees, channel partners, dealers and vendors participate. his capital costs. The volunteering activities undertaken by employees fall under two formats TVW & two formats – Tata Volunteering Week (TVW) Pro-Engage. Pro-Engage is a pro bono volunteering assignment where Pro-Engage. Tata Volunteering Week refers to month long volunteering activities that employees & their Tata Volunteering Week refers to month long volunteering employees invest their professional/domain expertise to family members, retirees, channel partners, dealers & vendors participate in. Pro-Engage is a pro bono activities wherein employees and their family members, address social issues. volunteering assignment where employees invest their professional / domain expertise to address social issues. Pulse Polio Drive As part of Tata Volunteering over 300 employees in Pune volunteered to further the mission of eradicating polio from the country. To action this they organised an awareness drive through cycle rally & administered polio drops at various polio centres & sub centres. Family members of employees also participated in these drives. Through this drive the team was able to reach out to 30,000 citizens in Pune. 130 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Business with Responsibility [3Ps] 131 132 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Independent Assurance Statement Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Independent Assurance Statement 133 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Section Name Page Number UNIVERSAL STANDARDS GRI 102: General ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the Organization 6 to 7 102-2 Activities, Brands, Products, and Services 6 to 7 102-3 Location of Headquarters 6 to 7 102-4 Location of Operations About Tata Motors Limited 6 to 7 102-5 Ownership and Legal Form 6 to 7 102-6 Markets Served 6 to 7 102-7 Scale of the Organization 6 to 7 102-8 Information on Employees and Other Workers Workforce 89-97 102-9 Supply Chain Value Chain Sustainability 109-115 102-10 Significant Changes to the Organization and It’s About Tata Motors Limited 6 to 7 Supply Chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or Approach Governance 10 to 15 102-12 External Initiatives Sustainability Strategy 48-50 102-13 Membership of Associations List of Membership Association 18-19 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from Senior Decision-maker Message from CEO & MD 2 to 3 Key challenges: faced and 102-15 Key Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities 40-41 emerging ETHICS & STRATEGY 102-16 Values, Principles, Standards, and Norms of Mission, Vision and Values 8,13-15 Behaviour 102-17 Mechanisms for Advice and Concerns GovernanceEthics & Integrity 13-15 About Ethics 134 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Independent Assurance Statement Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix 135 GRI Standard Disclosure Section Name Page Number GRI Standard Disclosure Section Name Page Number GRI 102: General GOVERNANCE GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Disclosures 2016 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-18 Governance Structure 10 to 17 Governance, Sustainability Management & Initiatives 102-19 Delegating Authority 10 to 17 102-40 List of Stakeholder Groups 42-43 102-20 Executive-Level Responsibility for Economic, Governance 16-17 Environmental, and Social Topics 102-41 Collective Bargaining Agreements 42-43 102-21 Consulting Stakeholders on Economic,EnvironStakeholder Engagement 42-43 mental, and Social Topics 102-42 Identifying and Selecting Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagament 42-43 102-22 Composition of the Highest Governance Body 10 to 12 and It’s Committees 102-43 Approach to Stakeholder Engagement 42-43 102-23 Chair of the Highest Governance Body Governance 10 102-24 Nominating and Selecting the Highest Gover102-44 Key Topics and Concerns Raised 46-47 10 to 12 nance Body GovernanceTata Code of REPORTING PRACTICE 102-25 Conflicts of Interest 13 Conduct 102-26 Role of Highest Governance Body in Setting 102-45 Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial Governance 10 to 12 About the Report 1 Purpose, Values and Strategy Statements 102-27 Collective Knowledge of Highest Governance About the Report: Scope & Body 102-46 Defining Report Content and Topic Boundaries 1 Boundary Annual Report 2017-18 54,55, 72, 77-78 102-28 Evaluating the Highest Governance Body’s Performance 102-47 List of Material Topics Material Topics 45-47 Key Challenges: Faced and 102-29 Identifying and Managing Economic,EnvironEmerging; Sustainability Man16-18,40-50 No restatement is mental, and Social Impacts 102-48 Restatements of Information NA agement & Initiatives applicable Key Challenges: Faced and 102-30 Effectiveness of Risk Management Processes 40-41 102-49 Changes in Reporting Emerging 102-31 Review of Economic, Environmental and Social 17 Topics Sustainability Management & 102-50 Reporting Period Initiatives-Our Sustainability About the Report 1 102-32 Highest Governance Body’s Role in Sustainability Governance 17 Reporting 102-51 Date of Most Recent Report 102-33 Communicating Critical Concerns 13-15 GovernanceEthics & Integrity 102-52 Reporting Cycle 102-34 Nature and Total Number of Critical Concerns 15 102-53 Contact Point for Questions Regarding the End Cover of the 102-35 Remuneration Policies End Cover of the Report Report Report 102-36 Process for Determining Remuneration 72,77,78 102-54 Claims of Reporting in Accordance with the GRI About the Report 1 Standards 102-37 Stakeholders Involvement in Remuneration Annual Report 157-159,225, 102-55 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index 135-153 102-38 Annual Total Compensation Ratio 242,249 102-39 Percentage Increase in Annual Total Compensa157-159,225, Independent Assurance tion Ratio 242,249 102-56 External Assurance 132-134 Statement 136 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix 137 PerforJustification for PerforJustification for GRI Page mance Exclusions of GRI Page mance Exclusions of Disclosure Section Name Disclosure Section Name Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Coverage Information Coverage Information ANTI CORRUPTION & ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Boundaries “Materiality AssessGRI 103: 103-2 The management ment 103-1 Explanation of the 44-47,13Management approach and its comGovernance material topic and its 15,132-134 Approach 2016 ponents Independent AssurThis is not a part of our Boundaries ance Statement” “Materiality Assessmateriality matrix however, ment 103-2 Evaluation of the TML chose to voluntarily GRI 103: 103-2 The management ECONOMIC PERFOR44-47,53management approach disclose on anti-competitive Management approach and its comMANCE 54,132-134 behaviour. All the Tata Approach 2016 ponents Independent Assurcompanies needs to adhere ance Statement “ 205-1 Operations asto Tata Code of Conduct for sessed for risks related business ethic and integrity. 103-2 Evaluation of the to corruption Since this is not a part of the management approach Annual reports of each of the TML India materiality matrix we chose subsidiaries are published not to include the disclosure separately and economic 205-2 Communication 201-1 Direct economic GRI 205: and training about for our subsidiaries in the perfomace of each of the sustainability report. We value generated and subsidiary is available in inAnti-corruption anti-corruption policies distributed and procedures shall evaluate the intensity of divdual annual Report. Since linkage of each indicator with TML, India all the annual reports are not Governance 13-15 the subsidiaries and based on published at the same time as 205-3 Confirmed inciour study, we shall gradually 201-2 Financial implithat of Tata Motors Limited, dents of corruption and include applicable indicators GRI 201: cations and other risks we have not included ecoactions taken in the disclosure. Economic and opportunities due nomic perfomace of all the Performance to climate change subsidiaries in TML’s sustaian2016 ECONOMIC biltiy report. 206-1 Legal actions 53-54 GRI 206: PERFORMANCE for anti-competitive Anti-competibehavior, anti-trust, and 201-3 Defined benefit tive behaviour monopoly practices plan obligations and retirement plans ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIALS 201-4 Financial Assis103-1 Explanation of the tance received from the material topic and its government Boundaries “Materiality Assessment TTL being in design PROCUREMENT PRACTICES GRI 103: 103-2 The management Sustainability Man44-47, 48development, raw material Management approach and its comagement & Initiatives 50,82-87,132TML India consumption is not 103-1 Explanation of the Approach 2016 ponents Raw material 134 applicable. The amount of material topic and its Independent Assurrecycled material used in the Boundaries ance Statement” process of manufacturing are “Materiality Assess103-2 Evaluation of the not been completely tracked ment We have started enagagment management approach for the subsidiaries. Currently, GRI 103: 103-2 The management Value Chain Sustain44-47,109with suppliers for sustaianble evaluating the intensity of Management approach and its comability 115,132-134 supply chain in 2016-17. We linkage of each indicator with Approach 2016 ponents Independent Assurare in process to include all TML India, packaging materials are not 301-1 Materials used by ance Statement” TML India our Tier 1 suppliers in coming TAL, TMLDL, reclaimed by our subsidiaries. weight or volume 3 to 5 years. Currently, we TMML We shall initiate the process 103-2 Evaluation of the are not enagaging with our of the subsidiaries. Based on management approach subsidiaries’ supply chain. We GRI 301: our study, we shall gradually 301-2 Recycled input Raw material 82-87 include applicable indicators intend to do it in future. Materials 2016 TML India materials used in the disclosure. GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of Value Chain 301-3 Reclaimed prodProcurement spending on local 109-115 Sustainability ucts and their packagTML India Practices 2016 suppliers ing materials 138 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix 139 PerforJustification for PerforJustification for GRI Page mance Exclusions of GRI Page mance Exclusions of Disclosure Section Name Disclosure Section Name Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Coverage Information Coverage Information ENERGY BIODIVERSITY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 103-1 Explanation of the “Materiality Assessmaterial topic and its 103-2 The management ment Boundaries approach and its comSustainability ManGRI 103: 44-47, 48ponents agement & Initiatives “Materiality Management 50,58-67,132TML India “Energy consumption outside Energy and EnvironAssessment Approach 2016 134 the organisation is applicable ment Sustainability Independent Assurfor all our subsidiaries how103-2 The management GRI 103: Sustainability ance Statement” ever, currently the mapping approach and its 44-47,48103-2 Evaluation of the Management Management & of the energy consumption components 50,79,132-134 management approach Approach 2016 Initiatives outside the organisation Biodiversity is not tracked. TML shall Independent support all the subsidiaries Assurance Statement” TML India, in implementation of process 302-1 Energy consumpTAL, TTL, for tracking the indicator and tion within the organi103-2 Evaluation of the TMLDL, gradually include it in our zation management approach TMML future disclosure. The reducBiodiversity has been tion of energy consumption identified as the least critical 302-2 Energy conwithin each of the subsidiaries topic as per our materiality sumption outside of the TML India is not currently tracked. We assessment. TML has organization shall initiate the process of voluntarily decided to include assessing the subsidiaries for biodiversity as a material topic GRI 302: tracking the relevant informa304-1 Operational 58-67 TML India, for Tata Motors Limited. As Energy 2016 tion and gradually include the sites owned, leased, Energy and Emission TAL, TTL, per Tata Group sustainability 302-3 Energy intensity disclosure for subsidiaries. managed in, or policy, all the Tata companies TMLDL, “ adjacent to, protected are to assess the natural TMML areas and areas of capital, including biodiversity, 302-4 Reduction of high biodiversity value for all its locations. Since the energy consumption outside protected areas TML India biodiversity has not been 302-5 Reduction in TML India identified as medium or high energy requirements of critical issue, we have opted products and service not to include this disclosure for our subsidiaries. We WATER shall initiate the process of 103-1 Explanation of the evaluating the intensity of 304-2 Significant linkage of each indicator with material topic and its “Materiality impacts of activities, Boundaries Assessment the subsidiaries. Based on GRI 304: products, and services our study, we shall gradually Sustainability BIODIVERSITY on biodiversity Biodiversity 79 GRI 103: 103-2 The management Management & 44-47,48Since water is not a part include applicable indicators approach and its TML India 2016 in the disclosure Management Initiatives 50,76-78,132of materiality matrix and Approach 2016 components Water and Effluent 134 considering the relevance, Management we have not included the 103-2 Evaluation of the Independent disclosure on significant management approach Assurance Statement” water source affected by our 304-3 Habitats subsidiaries’ operations in our protected or restore TML India sustainability report for 2016303-1 Water withdrawal TAL, TTL, 17. We shall evaluate the by source TMLDL, intensity of linkage of each TMML indicator with the subsidiaries and based on our study, 303-2 Water sources we shall gradually include 304-4 IUCN Red List GRI 303: Water and Effluent significantly affected by 76-78 TML India applicable indicators in the species and national Water 2016 Management withdrawal of water disclosure. conservation list species TML, India with habitats in areas 303-3 Water recycled TAL, TTL, affected by operations and reuse TMLDL, TMML 140 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix 141 PerforJustification for PerforJustification for GRI Page mance Exclusions of GRI Page mance Exclusions of Disclosure Section Name Disclosure Section Name Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Coverage Information Coverage Information EMISSIONS EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the 103-1 Explanation of the Approach 2016 material topic and its material topic and its “Materiality Boundaries Boundaries Assessment “Materiality Sustainability Assessment GRI 103: Sustainability 44-47,48103-2 The management Sustainability Management Management & 50,69-75,132TML India approach and its 103-2 The management Management & 44-47,48Approach 2016 Initiatives 134 components approach and its Initiatives 50,58-67,132TML India Waste Management components Energy and 134 Independent Environment Assurance Statement” Independent 103-2 Evaluation of the Assurance Statement” management approach 103-2 Evaluation of the management approach 306-1 Water discharge by quality and 69-75 destination NA 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) 306-2 Waste by type 58-67 69-75 GHG emissions Since the energy and disposal method TML, India consumption outside the TAL, TTL, organisational boundaries of TMLDL, No significant subsidiaries are not tracked, 306-3 Significant spills TML India, 305-2 Energy indirect TMML GRI 306: Waste Management, spills we are unable to calculate TAL, TTL, (Scope 2) GHG 58-67 Effluents and Water and Effluent the Scope 3 GHG emission TMLDL, emissions Waste Management No internafor each of the subsidiaries. TMML Since the reduction of tional trans306-4 Transport of energy consumption is not portataion hazardous waste tracked, the reduction of of hazardous 305-3 Other indirect GHG emission could not be waste (Scope 3) GHG Energy & Emissions 61 TML India calculated. We shall initiate emissions the process of assessing 306-5 Water bodies the subsidiaries for tracking affected by water 69-75 the relevant information discharges and/or and gradually include the runoff TML, India 305-4 GHG emissions TAL, TTL, disclosure for subsidiaries. 62 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE intensity TMLDL, TMML 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 305-5 Reduction of Boundaries “Materiality 62 TML India GHG emissions Assessment Sustainability GRI 103: 103-2 The management Management & 44-47,48Management approach and its Initiatives TML India 305-6 Emissions of Energy & Emissions: 50,80,132-134 Approach 2016 components Environemental ozone-depleting Ozone Depleting 66 Expenditure NA substances (ODS) Substance Independent TML India Assurance Statement” TAL, TTL, 103-2 Evaluation of the TMLDL, management approach TMML 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides Energy & Emissions: GRI 307: 65-66 307-1 Noncompliance TML India, (SOX), and other Air Emissions Environmental Environmental significant air emission with environmental laws 80 TTL, TMLDL, Compliance Expenditure and regulations TMML 2016 142 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix 143 PerforJustification for PerforJustification for GRI Page mance Exclusions of GRI Page mance Exclusions of Disclosure Section Name Disclosure Section Name Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Coverage Information Coverage Information SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1 Explanation of the 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its material topic and its “Materiality Boundaries “Materiality Boundaries Assessment Assessment Sustainability Sustainability GRI 103: Management & 44-47,48We have started the process GRI 103: 103-2 The management 44-47,48103-2 The management Management & Management Initiatives 50,108-115,132of engaging TML supply chain Management approach and its 50,99-106,132TML India approach and its Initiatives Approach 2016 Value Chain 134 in the financial 2015-16 and Approach 2016 components 134 components Workplace Safety Sustainability we are targeting to cover 100% of TML’s critical tier 1 Independent Independent Assurance Statement” Worker with high rate 103-2 Evaluation of the Assurance Statement” suppliers. Engagement with 103-2 Evaluation of the incident and high risk related management approach supply chain is a continuous management approach to occupation and health process and we shall continue to increase the coverage of and safety topic covered TML, India. the engagement gradually in formal agreement have 308-1 New suppliers and increase our coverage to 403-1 Workers not been disclosed in that were screened subsidiaries. We have already representation in formal this year’s sustainability 108-115 report. TAL, TMLDL, using environmental started engaging with supply joint management– 99-106 TML India criteria chain of TMML. For TTL, TAL worker health and TMML are manufacturing GRI 308: companies and have proper and TMLDL the number of safety committees Supplier Value Chain representation of the workers. Environmental Sustainability suppliers are insignificant as compared to TML and All our subsidiaries have Assessment proper safety standards. 2016 thus, are not included in the 403-2 Types of 308-2 Negative Since this is our transition disclosure injury and rates of TML India environmental impacts from GRI G4 to GRI standard, 108-115 injury, occupational TAL, TTL, in the supply chain and we have prioritised to align actions taken diseases, lost days, 99-106 TMLDL, “GRI 403: our sustainability report and absenteeism, and “Management TMML Occupational as per GRI standard and number of workrelated Systems Health and provide maximum disclosure fatalities Workplace Safety” SOCIAL Safety 2016 coverage for Tata Motors “ Limited. We shall gradually EMPLOYMENT start covering this indicator 403-3 Workers with for our subsidiaries in our high incidence or high future reporting. 99-106 TML India 103-1 Explanation of the risk of diseases related material topic and its to their occupation Boundaries “Materiality Assessment Sustainability 403-4 Health and safety GRI 103: 103-2 The management 44-47,48Management & topics covered in formal Management approach and its 50,89-97,131TML India 99-106 TML India Initiatives agreements with trade Approach 2016 components 135 We have not covered Workforce unions benefits and parental leaves Independent for our subsidiaries for the Assurance Statement” financial 2016-17 sustainability 103-2 Evaluation of the report. Employee benefits TRAINING AND EDUCATION management approach at our subsidiaries are as per Tata Group’s policy. We 103-1 Explanation of the TML India, shall include the disclosure material topic and its 401-1 New employee on employee benefits and Boundaries TAL, TTL, “Materiality hires and employee 89-97 parental leave applicable to TMLDL, Assessment turnover our subsidiaries in our future TMML Sustainability sustainability report. GRI 103: 103-2 The management 44-47,48GRI 401: Management & 401-2 Benefits provided Management approach and its 50,89-97,132TML India This is a voluntary disclosure. Employment Workforce Initiatives to full-time employees Approach 2016 components 134 2016 Workforce that are not provided to 89-97 TML India Independent temporary or parttime Assurance Statement” employees 103-2 Evaluation of the management approach 401-3 Parental leave 95 TML India 144 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix 145 PerforJustification for PerforJustification for GRI Page mance Exclusions of GRI Page mance Exclusions of Disclosure Section Name Disclosure Section Name Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Coverage Information Coverage Information FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR (for supply chain) TML, India 404-1 Average hours TAL, TTL, 103-1 Explanation of the of training per year per TMLDL, material topic and its employee TMML Boundaries We have started the process 103-2 The management “Materiality of engaging TML supply chain GRI 404: 404-2 Programs for approach and its Assessment in the financial 2015-16 and Training and upgrading employee WorkforceTraining & components Sustainability we are targeting to cover TML This is a voluntary disclosure. Education 2016 skills and transition Development 95-97 GRI 103: Management & 44-47,48100% of TML’s critical tier 1 assistance Programs Management Initiatives 50,99-113,132suppliers. Engagement with Approach 2016 Workforce, Value 134 supply chain is a continuous Chain Sustainability process and we shall continue Independent to increase the coverage of 404-3 Percentage of Assurance Statement” TML India the engagement gradually 103-2 Evaluation of the employees receiving and increase our coverage to management approach regular performance TML subsidiaries. We have already and career started engaging with supply development reviews chain of TMML. For TTL, TAL and TMLDL the number of suppliers are insignificant CHILD LABOR (For Supply Chain) as compared to TML and 409-1 Operations and thus, are not included in the GRI 409: Forced suppliers at significant disclosure. Value Chain or Compulsory risk for incidents of 90,109-113 103-1 Explanation of the Sustainability Labor 2016 forced or compulsory material topic and its labor Boundaries “Materiality HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT (For Supply Chain) Assessment Sustainability We have started the process 103-1 Explanation of the GRI 103: Management & 44-47,48of engaging TML supply chain material topic and its Management 103-2 The management Initiatives 50,99-113,132approach and its in the financial 2015-16 and Boundaries “Materiality Approach 2016 Workforce, Value 134 we are targeting to cover components Assessment Chain Sustainability 100% of TML’s critical tier 1 Sustainability We have started the process Independent suppliers. Engagement with GRI 103: 103-2 The management Management & 44-47,48of engaging TML supply chain Assurance Statement” supply chain is a continuous Management approach and its Initiatives 50,99-113,132in the financial 2015-16 and process and we shall continue Approach 2016 components Workforce, Value 134 we are targeting to cover to increase the coverage of Chain Sustainability 100% of TML’s critical tier 1 TML India the engagement gradually Independent suppliers. Engagement with 103-2 Evaluation of the and increase our coverage to management approach Assurance Statement” supply chain is a continuous subsidiaries. We have already 103-2 Evaluation of the process and we shall continue started engaging with supply management approach to increase the coverage of chain of TMML. For TTL, TAL TML India the engagement gradually and TMLDL the number of and increase our coverage to suppliers are insignificant subsidiaries. We have already as compared to TML and started engaging with supply thus, are not included in the chain of TMML. For TTL, TAL disclosure. 412-3 Significant and TMLDL the number of 408-1 Operations and investment agreements suppliers are insignificant GRI 408: GRI 412: suppliers at significant Value Chain and contracts that as compared to TML and Child Labor 90,109-113 Human Rights risk for incidents of child Sustainability include human Value Chain thus, are not included in the 2016 Assessment 90,109-113 labor rights clauses or that Sustainability disclosure. 2016 underwent human rights screening 146 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix 147 PerforJustification for PerforJustification for GRI Page mance Exclusions of GRI Page mance Exclusions of Disclosure Section Name Disclosure Section Name Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Standard Number Disclosure Subsidiary Coverage Information Coverage Information LOCAL COMMUNITIES MARKETING AND LABELING 103-1 Explanation of the 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its material topic and its This is not a part of our “Materiality Boundaries Boundaries materiality matrix however, Assessment “Materiality TML chose to voluntarily Sustainability Assessment disclose on our community Management & Sustainability GRI 103: 103-2 The management engagement and impact GRI 103: 103-2 The management Initiatives 42-45, 46-47, Management & 44-47,48Management approach and its of business to the local Management approach and its Governance, 10-15, 28Initiatives 50,117-131,132Approach 2016 components communities. Since this is not Approach 2016 components Sustainable Mobility 30,131-135 CSR 134 a part of the materiality matrix Solutions Independent we chose not to include the Independent Assurance Statement” TML, India disclosure for our subsidiaries Assurance Statement” 103-2 Evaluation of the in the sustainability report. 103-2 Evaluation of the “All our subsidiaries follows management approach We shall evaluate the intensity management approach Tata Code of Conduct and of linkage of each indicator quality assurance for the with the subsidiaries and products. 413-2 Operations with based on our study, we shall 417-1 Requirements for We shall start the process of GRI 413: Local significant actual and gradually include applicable product and service TML, India. evaluating the intensity of Communities potential negative CSR 117-131 15, 28-30 linkage of each indicator with indicators in the disclosure. information and 2016 impacts on local labelling the subsidiaries based on our communities study, TML shall gradually include applicable indicators 417-2 Incidents of nonin the disclosure.” CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY compliance concerning GRI 417: product and service 15, 28-30 Sustainable Mobility 103-1 Explanation of the Marketing and information and Solutions material topic and its Labelling 2016 labelling Boundaries “Materiality Assessment Sustainability GRI 103: 103-2 The management Management & 417-3 Incidents of 42-45, 46-47, non-compliance Management approach and its Initiatives 28-34, 131-135 15, 28-30 Approach 2016 components Sustainable Mobility concerning marketing Solutions communications Independent 103-2 Evaluation of the Assurance Statement” management approach SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE All our subsidiaries follows Tata Code of Conduct and 103-1 Explanation of the quality assurance for the material topic and its 416-1 Assessment of products. We shall start the Boundaries “Materiality the health and safety process of evaluating the Assessment TML, India impacts of product and intensity of linkage of each Sustainability service categories indicator with the subsidiaries. GRI 103: Sustainability 44-47,48Based on our study, TML shall 103-2 The management Management approach and its Management & 50,10-17,132gradually include applicable Approach 2016 Initiatives 134 indicators in the disclosure. components TML India Governance GRI 416: TAL, TTL, Independent Customer “Sustainable Mobility TMLDL, NA 28-34 Assurance Statement” Health and Solutions 103-2 Evaluation of the TMML Safety 2016 416-2 Incidents of nonProduct Stewardship” management approach compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 419: 419-1 Noncompliance Socioeconomic with laws and Governance 13-17 Compliance regulations in the social 2016 and economic area 148 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix 149 NVG Mapping Area Advanced Criteria Page Reference Principle Description Page No Criterion 5: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of human rights Principle 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability. 13-17 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout Principle 2 28-34 their life cycle All the employees adhere to Tata Code of Conduct Criterion 6: The COP describes effective management (TCoC) which covers topic such as Human Rights, systems to integrate the human rights principles Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination in Principle 3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees 89-106 Employment, Bribery and Corruption etc. TML has Human Rights an Environmental Policy, Climate change policy, Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are Implementation Sustainability policy, Safety and Health policy to align Principle 4 117-131 disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized the organizations goals with UN goals and targets. Criterion 7: The COP describes effective monitoring Details on Human Rights Implementation can be found Principle 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights. 109-113 and evaluation mechanisms of human rights in Governance (Page 10) and Workforce (Page 89) integration sections of the report. Principle 6 Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment. 58-80 Criterion 8: The COP describes key outcomes of Principle 7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner. 18-19 human rights integration Principle 8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development 117-131 Criterion 9: The COP describes robust commitments, Principle 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner. 28-34 strategies or policies in the area of labour Criterion 10: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the labour principles UNGC-COP Mapping Details on Labour Principles Implementation can be Labour Principles found in Governance (Page 10) and Workforce (Page Implementation Area Advanced Criteria Page Reference 89) sections of the report. Criterion 11: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of labour principles Criterion 1: integration Details on our high-level sustainability strategy can The COP describes key aspects of the company’s highfound in Managing Director's Statement (Page 2) and level sustainability strategy in line with Global Compact Material Issues (Page 45) sections of the report. principles Criterion 12: The COP describes key outcomes of integration of the labour principles Details on effective decision-making processes and Criterion 2: Strategy, Governance systems of governance for corporate sustainability can The COP describes effective decision-making processes and Engagement be found in Corporate Governance (Page 10) of the and systems of governance for corporate sustainability report Criterion 13: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of environmental stewardship Criterion 3: Details on engagement with all important stakeholders The COP describes engagement with all important can be found in Stakeholder Engagement section stakeholders (Page 42) of the report. Criterion 14: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the environmental principles Details on Environmental Stewardship Implementation All the employees adhere to Tata Code of Conduct can be found in Governance (Page 10), Product (TCoC) which covers topic such as Human Rights, Equal Environmental Stewardship Stewardship (Page 28), Energy and Environment (Page Opportunity and Non-Discrimination in Employment, Implementation 58) and Environmental Expenditure (Page 80) sections Bribery and Corruption etc. TML has an Environmental of the report. Policy, Climate change policy, Sustainability policy, Criterion 15: The COP describes effective monitoring Criterion 4: Safety and Health policy to align the organizations and evaluation mechanisms for environmental UN Goals and Issues The COP describes actions taken in support of broader goals with UN goals and targets. Actions taken in stewardship UN goals and issues support of broader UN goals and issues can be found in Governance (Page 10), Economic Performance (Page 52) Product stewardship (Page 28), Energy and Environment (Page 58), Environmental Expenditure Criterion 16: The COP describes key outcomes of (Page80), Workforce (Page 89) and CSR (Page 117) integration of the environmental principles sections of the report. 150 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix 151 Area Advanced Criteria Page Reference Sustainable Section name Page number Development Goals (SDGs) Criterion 17: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of anticorruption Affordable and Clean Energy “Energy and Environment” 58 “Economic performance”, “Tata Code of Conduct”, “Energy and Decent Work and Economic Criterion 18: The COP describes effective Environment”,“Workforce”, “Workplace safety”, “Value Chain 53,58,13,89,100,109 Growth management systems to integrate the anti-corruption Sustainability” principle We have implemented Policy on Bribery and antiAnti-corruption Corruption in support of broader UN goals and issues. Industry, Innovation and “Sustainabile Mobility Solutions” 28 implementation Details on implementation can be found in Governance Infrastructure (Page 10) section of the report. Criterion 19: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the integration of anticorruption Reduce Inequality “CSR”, “Workforce 89 Sustainable Cities and Sustainabile Mobility Solutions” 28 Communities Criterion 20: The COP describes key outcomes of integration of the anti-corruption principle Responsible Consumption “Raw material” and “Waste Management” 76,82 and Production Details on Value Chain Implementation can be found Criterion 21: The COP describes implementation of Value chain implementation in Stakeholder Engagement (Page 42) and Value Chain the Global Compact principles in the value Chain Climate Action “CSR”, “Energy and Environment”, “Value Chain Sustainability”’ 118,58,109 Sustainability (Page 109) sections of the report. Life On Land “CSR” and “Biodiversity”, “Energy and Environment 118,79,58 Details on company’s profile and context of operation Criterion 22: The COP provides information on the can be found in About Tata Motors Limited (Page 6) company’s profile and context of operation and Governance (Page 10) sections of the report. Peace, Justice and Strong Tata Code of Conduct,Value Chain Sustainability 13,109 Institution Transparency and Criterion 23: The COP incorporates high standards of This report uses GRI Standard in-accordance – Partnerships for Goals CSR”, “Environmental Expenditure 118,80 Verification transparency and disclosure comprehensive” Reporting Guidelines Abbreviations Criterion 24: The COP is independently verified by a This report is independently assured by M/s TUV India credible third party Private Limited AA Affirmative Action ADAS Advanced Driver Assist System SDG Mapping ARAI Automotive Research Association India Sustainable Section name Page number BS III Bharat Stage III Development Goals (SDGs) No poverty “ CSR”, “Value Chain Sustainability, “Workforce” 117,119,89 BS IV Bharat Stage IV BS V Bharat Stage V “Workplace safety”, & “CSR” , “Energy and Environment”, “Water and Good Health and Well-Being 100,107,58,76 Effluent Management” BS VI Bharat Stage VI Quality Education “CSR” 118 BIW Body in white Gender Equality “Gender diversity” 91 CAE Computer Aided Engineering Clean Water and Sanitation “CSR”, “Water management” and “Waste Management” 118,76,69 CAFE Corporate Average Fuel Economy CCI Competitive Commission of India 152 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix 153 CDP Carbon Disclosure Project HSD High speed diesel CFC Chlorofluorocarbon IIT Indian Institute of Technology CFT Cubic Feet IR Integrated Reporting CHWTSDF Common Hazardous Waste Treatment Storage and Disposal Facility IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change CII Confederation of Indian Industries ISO International Organization for Standardization CMVR The Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989 ITI Industrial Training Institute CNG Compressed Natural Gas JV Joint venture CRM Customer Relationship Management KL Kilo litre CSC Corporate Steering Committee LAC Learning Advisory Council CSR Corporate Social Responsibility LCA Life Cycle Assessment CV Commercial vehicles LCV Light Commercial Vehicle DDT Defensive Driving Training LDO Light Diesel Oil DMS Dealer Management System LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate DRFM Domestic Regulation Forecast Matrix LNG Liquefied Natural Gas EMS Energy Management System LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas ENCON Energy Conservation MCV Medium Commercial Vehicle ESG Environment, Social and Governance M&HCV Medium and Heavy Commercial Vehicle ETP Effluents Treatment Plant MW Mega watt ERC Engineering Research Centre NCAP New Car Assessment Programme ELV End of Life Vehicle NDC Nationally Determined Contribution FLC Foldable Large Container NGO Non Governmental Organization FO Furnace Oil NVG SEE National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic FY Financial Year NOx Oxides of Nitrogen GJ Gega joule ODS Ozone Depleting Substance GHG Greenhouse gas OEM Original Equipment Manufacturers GRI Global Reporting Initiative OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series HCV Heavy Commercial Vehicle PCBU Passenger Car Business Unit HR Human Resource PCRA Petroleum Conservation Research Association 154 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix 155 PM Particulate matter PV Passenger Vehicles RAM Responsibility Assignment Matrix RACI Responsible, accountable, condult and inform R&D Research & Development REC Renewable Energy Certificate RRR Recovery, Recycling and Reuse SBA Seat Belt Anchorage SCOE Standing Committee on Emissions SDG Sustainable Development Goals SHE Safety Health Environment SIAM Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers SMDF Sumant Mulgaonkar Development Foundation So2 Sulphur Dioxide SRM Supplier Relationship Management SRoI Social Return on Investment STP Sewage Treatment Plant TAL TAL Manufactuting Solutions ltd. TAT Turn Around Time TBEM Tata Business Excellence Model TCoC Tata Code of Conduct TDP Technology Development Programme TML Tata Mtors Limited TMLDC Tata Motors Limited Distribution Company TMLDL Tata Motors Limited Drivelines Limited TMML Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited TPM Total Particulate Matter TTL Tata Technologies Limited VCA Vehicle Certification Agency VOC Volatile Organic Compound 156 Sustainability Report 2017-18 | Appendix
