Sustainability is embedded in our products, operations Impact Report and people. Here’s how we measured up in 2017. 2017 Impact Report Approach Message from Mike 03 About Bloomberg L.P. 04 Sustainability governance 05 Stakeholder engagement 06 Materiality assessment 07—08 Sustainability strategy 09—10 2020 progress 11—12 Thought leadership Strength in numbers 13—14 TCFD: Advancing the conversation on climate risk 15—18 Impact Product highlights 19—22 Case study Pioneering carbon solutions 23—24 Operations highlights 25—32 Case study London calling 33—38 People highlights 39—42 Case study Investing in the future 43—44 About this report 45 Visit bloomberg.com/impact for the interactive digital version of this report Approach Message from Mike. Recent events have made These two efforts reveal the demand that exists within the marketplace for more detailed and clear that the role of the reliable data on how climate change will affect commerce — and, at Bloomberg, we are working to private sector in building meet it. We now provide our clients with transparent environmental, social and governance data on more a more sustainable world than 9,500 companies; tools to analyze the green bond market; and in-depth research and analysis is more important than on emerging clean energy trends via Bloomberg New Energy Finance. ever. At Bloomberg, we As we invest in sustainability through our products, are determined to lead the we also invest in it through our operations. We began tracking and managing the environmental impact way and, over the past year, of our operations a decade ago and have saved $103 million as a result. And our new European we‘ve helped drive critically headquarters, which opened in London last fall, is the world‘s most sustainably designed important progress. office building. I‘ve always believed that businesses have a Following the White House announcement that the responsibility to be good neighbors, and we’ve U.S. would withdraw from the Paris Agreement last also seen how being a sustainable company is just June, Bloomberg Philanthropies helped rally business good business. Nearly all of our company‘s profits and civic leaders to affirm our collective support go to support the work of our philanthropic efforts, for the Agreement. The result is a coalition, called including on climate change. Our employees also America’s Pledge, that includes 455 cities, 16 states, make important contributions to these efforts directly, 325 universities and more than 1,700 businesses. All volunteering more than 145,000 hours of service in have pledged to do their part to ensure the U.S. can 2017 to their local communities. In the year ahead, meet its emissions reduction goals, regardless of what we‘ll continue to look for ways to strengthen our happens in Washington. company — and the world. Companies are taking action individually, but they are also working together. Two industry-led organizations that I chair — the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the Financial Stability Board Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) — are helping companies better understand and reduce the risks they face from the changing climate, while also making investors aware of new opportunities from sustainable projects. More than 240 companies, responsible for assets over $80 trillion, have expressed public support for the standards developed by the TCFD. 3 GRI: 102-14 About Bloomberg L.P. Bloomberg, the global Our products Bloomberg Professional Services business and financial Bloomberg Professional Services — the Bloomberg Terminal® and our enterprise data management information and news and integration services — provide real-time data, breaking news, in-depth research and powerful leader, gives influential analytics to help financial professionals make smarter, faster and better-informed decisions. decision makers a critical Industry products We operate five web-based services — Bloomberg edge by connecting New Energy Finance, Bloomberg Government, Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Tax and Bloomberg them to a dynamic Environment — that provide industry-leading news, analysis and data about energy, network of information, government, laws and regulation to help subscribers navigate these complex and evolving people and ideas. areas. Our venture capital firm, Bloomberg Beta, invests in companies that make work better, with a focus on machine intelligence. Our company Media Bloomberg L.P. is a privately held Limited Bloomberg Media, the company’s consumer-facing Partnership headquartered in New York City. business, draws on the work of 2,700 journalists and We have more than 19,000 employees based in analysts in more than 120 countries to deliver news 186 locations around the world, with a significant across digital, TV, radio, print and mobile channels presence in the United States, United Kingdom, and live events. Germany, Japan, China, Singapore, Australia, Our operations Brazil, India and the United Arab Emirates. Our business operates in 5.4-million owned and Our business philosophy leased square feet of space in 72 countries, which Since its founding in 1981, Bloomberg has been includes two significant data centers crucial to guided by the principle that transparent markets our operations and customers. We also publish empower investors, fuel entrepreneurs and support two magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and economic growth. Better data leads to better Bloomberg Markets, printing and distributing almost decisions. As the world changes, we are committed 36 million copies globally in 2017. to making sure that our clients have the data To learn more about Bloomberg, they need to navigate the evolving landscape. visit bloomberg.com/company. This includes decision-useful sustainability news, data and analytics. GRI: 102-1; 102-2; 102-4; 102-5; 102-6; 102-7; G4-2 4 Approach Sustainability governance. Our company’s leaders and stakeholders drive our sustainability efforts. Governance Every division within Bloomberg has responsibility Bloomberg‘s Management Committee, which for sustainability — our policies and operating consists of our Founder, Chairman and Vice guidelines include these issues in our strategic Chairman, operates the company. Representatives considerations and day-to-day operations. from each division report to the Management Sustainable Business & Finance partners with Committee. The Global Head of Sustainable Operations and our business units to enhance Business & Finance has responsibility for the Bloomberg’s sustainability efforts. The Management company’s overarching sustainability strategy, Committee, which is consulted and updated on including addressing climate-related risks and a regular basis, provides direction and opportunities. allocates resources. Bloomberg’s environmental and social strategy is primarily driven by four groups: Sustainable Business * & Finance, Workplace Operations, Human Resources Climate-related governance and Philanthropy & Engagement. Sustainable Bloomberg considers short-, mediumand longBusiness & Finance reports directly to the term climate-related risks and opportunities at the Chairman’s office, while Workplace Operations, Management Committee level. The Management Human Resources and Philanthropy & Engagement Committee leverages a number of groups within report to the Chief Operating Officer. the company to help identify climate-related issues These groups, along with the Finance, Legal and and determine the most sustainable solutions and Risk & Compliance departments, work internally and paths to explore. These include Sustainable Business externally to identify areas of risk and opportunity & Finance, which develops climate-related targets at Bloomberg and to support other operating and strategies around mitigating risks and fostering groups in accomplishing their business goals. The opportunities across the organization; Operations, groups continually engage Bloomberg stakeholders, which develops infrastructure that will be resilient including employees, customers, suppliers and in the face of both physical risks posed by climate communities, on sustainability issues. change and market risks posed by a transition to a low-carbon economy; and business units, which identify opportunities and develop climate-related products and content. *Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures; 5 GRI: 102-18; 102-20; 102-21; 102-23; 102-27; 102-28; 102-33; 102-40 see “TCFD: Advancing the conversation on climate risk“, page 15 Approach Stakeholder engagement. Collective wisdom Our stakeholders help shape our sustainability efforts by sharing valuable feedback on new ideas, best practices, emerging technologies and industry trends. Channels Example Customers Bloomberg Professional Services We interviewed approximately 35 clients this past year to annual customer survey; specifically understand investor needs for ESG information. market research; customer education; This feedback informed products that we launched in 2017. help desk tickets; sales visits. On an ongoing basis, our sales and help desk teams collect customer feedback that helps enhance our ESG products. Employees Events and training; emails We launched an internal Sustainable Business & Finance and newsletters; employee e-newsletter in September 2017 to share news of our ambassador meetings. sustainable finance activities; it’s distributed monthly to 400+ internal subscribers. Suppliers Our Supplier Code of Conduct; We work with our suppliers to reduce the impact of our sustainability requirements in select products on the environment. For example, our flat panels requests for proposal and master meet Energy Star qualifications, and we’ve made our service agreements. keyboards more energy efficient. Our magazines are printed on 100% FSC–certified paper and printed at facilities that maintain FSC certification. Communities Community meetings. During the construction phase of our new European headquarters in London, we met with neighborhood residents to hear their concerns about dust, noise, traffic and the social impact of our building. Based on their feedback, we implemented processes to mitigate the impact of construction. Nongovernmental Sustainability conferences; nonprofit Bloomberg’s observer status with the International Capital organizations (NGOs) and industry group collaboration; Markets Association (ICMA) Green Bonds Principles inspired newsletters and other publications; us to create a “Green Bond” tag in the Terminal, which allows consultation and collaboration on subscribers to easily identify and analyze green bonds. sustainability projects. In 2017, Bloomberg created new green bond portfolios, following consultation with the green fixed income community. The portfolios enhance discoverability of green securities and categorize bonds in alignment with the Green Bond Principles. GRI: 102-29; 102-3; 102-42; 102-43; 102-44 6 Approach Bloomberg materiality assessment. Our approach Our materiality assessment identifies and describes these areas of impact. This information shapes our sustainability strategy and helps us to sustainability prioritize our activities. begins with a question: Our initial sustainability materiality assessment in 2015 focused on environmental mitigation. What environmental, Stakeholder feedback and evolving definitions of sustainability led us to expand the scope social and governance of our sustainability reporting to reflect a much broader array of potential material issues. issues are material We believe data is most useful if it is market-relevant, high quality, consistent and to our business? comparable, so we’ve based this assessment on concepts of materiality drawn from the major sustainability reporting frameworks used by public companies around the world. We use the following reporting frameworks Through initiatives such as the Corporate Reporting in an integrative fashion to identify and report Dialogue, we anticipate greater alignment on on material issues: these frameworks going forward. • The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index and GRI G4 Media Supplement reporting guidelines • The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) provisional disclosure standards for three industries (Professional Services, Internet Media & Services and Media Production & Distribution) How material climate-related • The Financial Stability Board Task Force on issues could impact a company’s Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) financial performance Audience: Financial market The concept of materiality is defined in different participants ways under these reporting frameworks. We do not attempt to formally reconcile divergent uses of the term in use by the GRI, SASB and TCFD. Rather, we SASB have developed an implementation methodology How material sustainability issues impact a company’s financial performance that enables the use of all definitions in the context Audience: Financial market participants of a single report by a private company. GRI How a company impacts a range of economic, environmental and social issues 7 GRI: 102-12; 102-47; 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 Audience: Government, vendors, non profits, investors and communities Reporting framework Potential material issues for Bloomberg GRI SASB GRI Bloomberg-relevant SASB topics general topics industries topics Media All Standard Professional Internet + Media Services Media & Production & Sectors Services Distribution High-impact issues Issues that will likely impact our company and our employees from a business, environmental and/or social perspective. Energy • • • • • Professional / Ethics / • • • • • • Competitive Behavior Employee Well-being / Development • • • • Economic / Financial • • • • Risk Management / Compliance • • • • • Customer Welfare / Data Privacy • • • • Medium-impact issues Issues that may not impact our company directly but impact our strategic partners. Marketing Communications • • • • Materials • • • • Supply Chain Management • • • • Emissions • • • • • Workplace Safety • • • External Human Rights • • • Employee Rights • • • • • • Low-impact issues Issues that may not have a significant, direct impact on our company or strategic partners, but those for which we recognize our organization has a unique opportunity to make a positive impact. Environmental / Social Grievance • • • Mechanisms Product & Services (Labeling) • • • • Waste & Water • • • • • Biodiversity • • • Public Policy • • • • • • • 8 Approach Our sustainability strategy. We manage our business Product strategy Provide timely, reliable and actionable information better by integrating on sustainability-related financial risks and opportunities. environmental, social and Key activities: economic considerations Develop and deliver sustainable finance products We’re constantly working to expand the universe of high-quality environmental, social and governance (ESG) into our operations and data and analytical tools and further the field of sustainable finance. products and services. Improve our clients’ use of ESG data We provide news, data and analysis and host events throughout the year to share the latest ideas and best As a financial information and technology company practices on sustainable business and finance with our clients. with a relatively small operational footprint, some of our most significant impact comes from serving Lead market infrastructure as an innovator and a champion of new sustainability We actively work with the leading sustainability reporting solutions — pioneering new technologies, spreading frameworks to enhance the quality, comparability and new ideas and leading collaborative efforts financial relevance of sustainability-related information. with business and civic partners to develop Bloomberg is a contributing member of the GRI, SASB and TCFD, with senior executives serving in formal roles sustainable practices. We seek out, invest within SASB and TCFD. in and lead opportunities to advance the sustainability conversation. People strategy Engage our employees in addressing social and environmental issues that are relevant to the business and the communities in which we work. Key activities: Invest in our employees Bloomberg invests in talent development and offers comprehensive benefits to ensure the health, well-being and financial security of our employees and their families. Embrace diversity and inclusion We’re building a culture that values difference, fosters inclusion and promotes collaboration to drive business results. Give back to our communities We focus our philanthropic efforts in four key areas where we believe we can achieve the greatest good: arts & culture, education, human services and sustainability. 9 GRI: 102-15; 201-2 Operations strategy Decouple our growth from environmental impact, while demonstrating the business case Climate-related strategy for sustainable operations. Our strategy positions our business for success not only today, but also in a future transformed by climate change. We are increasing the sustainability Key activities: of our products, operations and workforce to Reduce our emissions optimize the financial impacts of climate change. We’re working toward reducing our emissions Our agility allows us to adapt to changing markets by 20% from a 2007 baseline. and provide solutions as markets evolve. To help Increase renewable energy use us plan for potential climate scenarios, we conduct We’ve pledged to obtain 100% of our electricity scenario analysis; for more on our resilience to from renewable sources by 2025. climate change, see our 2017 assessment on page 17. Invest in energy-efficient buildings Risk management We build or renovate all new office space to meet green building standards. As the Earth’s climate changes, extreme weather events, rising seas and disrupted ecosystems present Improve operational resilience potential physical risks to our infrastructure and We prepare our business to withstand severe weather employees that must be addressed. events and other climate-related disruptions by fortifying key facilities, building in network redundancies Bloomberg assesses risks to existing facilities and and confirming that our suppliers are preparing for potential new locations. We implement appropriate climate change. mitigation and resiliency measures to ensure the safety of our employees and uninterrupted service Measure relationship between environmental and economic performance to our customers. We have increased the number We’re tracking our progress in reducing emissions and of disaster recovery sites, enhanced network energy consumption in our facilities, business travel, functionality to ensure our employees can work paper use, supply chain and waste and measuring the remotely, implemented building upgrades to impact of these activities on our operating costs. To date, our upstate New York data center, created full our sustainability work has helped the company avoid $103 million in operating costs. redundancy across data centers and moved out of a waterfront data center in New York City. Additionally, we manage our internal operational risk. Proactive risk-mitigation measures include resource utilization reduction, infrastructure upgrades and renewable energy procurement. To manage climate-related market risks to our business, our Sustainable Finance product strategists work with prospects, existing customers and our product groups to identify and develop products and services that will allow our customers to effectively analyze climate change risks and participate in new markets that develop. 10 Approach 2020 progress. Impact beyond Bloomberg Our 2020 targets support these broader sustainability goals: Our founder’s ethos of Develop innovative leaders Inspiring and training our employees and “If you can’t measure it, community partners to address complex societal issues using data, innovation and technology have you can’t manage it” an impact that far exceeds our business efforts. To date, 569 employees have participated in our is at the core of Impact Accelerator, a skills-based service program. everything we do — Increase sustainably-managed assets including sustainability. under management (AUM) Globally, just 26% of assets are being We measure our impact professionally managed utilizing responsible investment strategies, according to the Global Sustainable Investment Alliance. to accelerate our results. Increase global investment in clean energy In 2013, we announced 17 sustainability goals Global clean energy investment reached $333.5 for our people, products and operations that billion in 2017, according to BNEF. That’s just half we aim to reach by 2020. These targets are what is needed annually to meet the minimum achievable goals that keep us focused on objectives of the Paris Agreement. advancing our sustainability strategy and help us identify areas where we’re falling short and should rethink our approach. Lower global carbon emissions The chart on these pages shows our progress In 2017, the world generated an estimated over the past five years. We are advancing 41 billion tonnes of CO2 emissions, according to the toward our goals, but not without some University of East Anglia/Global Carbon Project. challenges along the way. We encourage our suppliers and customers to adopt sustainable business practices with us. Ninety-one of the 119 companies that have joined RE100 and pledged to move to 100% renewable power are Bloomberg partners. Approach Goal 2020 progress. Engagement Expand employee engagement programs across Highlights all major offices 1 In 2017, we relaunched Sustainability Squads, 1 Establish employee ambassadors to ingrain our employee ambassador program. Squad engagement programs into our culture members promote regionally and culturally relevant Increase engagement of the global employee population sustainability activities and identify opportunities across all employee programs and initiatives to partner with local businesses and communities. Additional ambassadors promote Philanthropy & Engagement and Diversity & Inclusion activities. Extend reach of employee engagement initiatives to Bloomberg families, engaging spouses & dependents Leadership development Drive participation in Impact Accelerator, our skills-based service program, in all major offices Complete Impact Accelerator projects 2 We determined that the diversity & inclusion 2 Incorporate employee engagement into metrics we incorporated into the evaluation process the management evaluations system for team leaders and managers in 2016 are the Product development most relevant engagement metrics for business performance. Currently, there are no plans to Integrate sustainable finance across incorporate additional engagement metrics into all financial products and asset classes our management evaluations. Be the leading voice on sustainability in business across news and media platforms 3 Our industry product offerings have increased 3 Expand sustainability analysis into from three to five (Bloomberg Law, Tax, Government, all major industry products and services Environment and Bloomberg New Energy Finance), Operations with sustainability embedded in each. Reduce emissions vs. 2007 baseline (MT of CO₂e) 4 Phase 1 of this target is complete. Bloomberg first 4 Ensure that suppliers abide by set out to ensure that the vendors manufacturing Bloomberg sustainability policies and standards our proprietary and branded products were in compliance with our policies and standards. We are now working with Supply Chain, Compliance Return on investment and Procurement to identify the next stage of this program and the best way to expand our reach. Cost avoidance 2014–2020 Renewable energy 5 We are working with the Renewable Energy Buyers 5 Clean energy projects developed Alliance, Rocky Mountain Institute, Business by our partners Renewables Center and Corporate Renewable Energy Buyers’ Principles to share best practices Institute an internal price on carbon and allocate across around the corporate renewables landscape. business units for planning purposes 11 GRI: 102-26; 308-2 SASB: TC0401-13; SV0102-08 Target 2013 baseline Progress against target % to target 17 offices 0 Programs rolled out March 2015 100% to all major offices. 17 offices 0 Employee ambassadors are now embedded 100% in 17 offices globally. 75%, 2 or more groups 20% 45% of employees engaged with 2 or more 60% employee groups. 90%, at least 1 group 50% 92% of employees engaged with at least 1 group. 102% 50% increase 1,700 2,721 “friends and family” attended at least 1 event, 120% in participation a 60% increase over baseline 17 offices 6 We have completed projects in 20 offices. 118% 50 projects 2 34 total projects completed since 2013. 68% 0 Incorporated diversity & inclusion metrics into the 100% evaluation process for team leaders and managers in 2016. 7 asset classes 1 Equities and Fixed Income are integrating sustainable 43% finance; we also published a Sustainable Finance Brief in 2017 on the topic of green real estate. Most influential source 1 We are a leading voice on sustainable finance 80% for business, policy & in the investment industry and are making continued finance leaders progress in policy and business coverage. 5 industry products 1 Sustainability is embedded in all industry products. 100% 20% 187,257 2017 emissions are down 7% vs. 2007 baseline. 35% 75% of suppliers Most recently, we have focused this effort on our core product manufacturers and premium vendors. To date, we have ensured compliance with our policies and standards for 75% of this vendor pool. 20% 65% ROI on 2014–2017 capital projects. 325% $100 million $48 million in cost avoidance in 2014–2017. 48% 35% 1% 11% of electricity from renewable energy. 33% 10MW Plan has evolved to partner with NGOs focused on this space. $20 target Currently evaluating the right way to do this within our company‘s structure. 12 Thought leadership Strength in numbers. No company can The Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance (REBA) Bloomberg was an original signatory of the Renewable Energy Buyers’ Principles and actively solve sustainability works with the Rocky Mountain Institute’s Business Renewables Center on its mission to help streamline challenges alone. and accelerate corporate purchasing of off-site, large-scale wind and solar energy. Bloomberg seeks out, supports and leads rebuyers.org collaborative efforts with business and civic partners to develop sustainable practices. In some instances, our business and operating divisions connect with nongovernmental SASB and The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board organizations and like-minded businesses; (SASB) and the Financial Stability Board Task Force in other cases, our foundation, Bloomberg on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Philanthropies, takes the lead in launching both work to improve the quality and usefulness of and funding partnerships that our employees environmental, social and governance data, focusing work on. We work with thousands of on how ESG factors impact financial performance. organizations each year; here is a sampling Bloomberg has been a steady SASB partner since of some of the organizations we work with its founding in 2011, providing crucial expertise from Bloomberg specialists and significant grant support to tackle climate change. through Bloomberg Philanthropies. RE100 sasb.org Bloomberg is a member of RE100, a collaborative group of global companies that have committed In 2015, the governor of the Bank of England, to using 100% renewable power. The group is Mark Carney, appointed Mike Bloomberg as chair managed by the Climate Group, a nonprofit that of the TCFD. Working with 31 private-sector partners promotes climate action, in partnership with on the Task Force, Bloomberg L.P. helped develop environmental disclosure advocate CDP, as part recommendations for climate-related financial of the We Mean Business coalition. Ninety-one disclosures. We are now encouraging companies of the 119 companies that have joined RE100 and investors to adopt these recommendations. are Bloomberg business partners. The more companies that join the growing effort to there100.org measure and share climate risks, the faster we’ll make progress toward a lower-carbon world. fsb-tcfd.org 13 Bloomberg Philanthropies 100% Bloomberg employees contribute to local communities and help fuel the groundbreaking work of Bloomberg Philanthropies, which works to ensure better, longer lives for the renewable energy by 2025 — our collective RE100 goal Beyond Coal In November, Bloomberg Philanthropies announced a $50 million commitment to partners worldwide to catalyze a global effort to reduce coal dependency and shift to renewable energy sources. greatest number of people. The vast majority Initially, Bloomberg Philanthropies will work with the of Bloomberg L.P.’s profits are contributed European Climate Foundation to accelerate Europe’s to Bloomberg Philanthropies, funding transition to coal-free energy. The international initiatives and engaging with partners Beyond Coal campaign will expand to other to create lasting change. countries later on. To learn more about these Bloomberg Philanthropies We Are Still In initiatives, visit bloomberg.org. In June, the Trump Administration announced its intention to withdraw from the Paris Agreement Our founder’s personal activism inspires us on climate change. Immediately following the and connects us with the world’s leading announcement, Bloomberg Philanthropies worked change agents. In 2017, Mike Bloomberg: with 20 partners, including the American Sustainable Business Council, Ceres and the We Mean Business coalition, to coordinate a public statement of • Served as U.N. Special Envoy American support for tackling climate change. The for Cities and Climate Change group released the “We Are Still In“ declaration on June 5; more than 2,500 civic and business • Chaired the TCFD and SASB leaders from all 50 states have signed it. • Served as President of the Board of C40, The signatories represent more than 127 million a network of the world’s megacities committed Americans and $6.2 trillion of the U.S. economy. to addressing climate change • Co-chaired the board of the Global Covenant America’s Pledge on Climate Change of Mayors for Climate & Energy, the largest Mike Bloomberg and California Governor global coalition of cities committed to climate Jerry Brown have launched America’s Pledge, issues, with European Commission Vice-President an initiative to report to the UN on the scope and Maroš Šefčovič scale of actions taken by U.S. businesses, cities and states to cut carbon emissions and stay on track • Co-wrote Climate of Hope, a New York Times for America’s goals under the Paris Agreement. best-selling book on local solutions to climate The America’s Pledge initiative released a report in change, with Carl Pope, former executive director November that maps current non-federal activity to of the Sierra Club decarbonize the economy. More than 100 American • Secured commitments with the Sierra Club leaders affiliated with America’s Pledge attended the to retire more than half of the coal-fired 23rd annual United Nations Conference on Climate power plants in the U.S. Change, with Bloomberg Philanthropies hosting more than 40 events outside the conference center. • Produced From the Ashes, a documentary film on the people and issues behind the war on coal 14 Thought leadership TCFD: Advancing the conversation on climate risk In 2017, Bloomberg supported the Climate change poses both risks and opportunities development of new climate-related financial for business. Currently, however, investors, lenders disclosure recommendations to promote and insurers don’t have a clear view of which a smooth transition toward a lower-carbon companies will endure or even prosper as the economy. We’re now calling on businesses environment changes, regulations evolve, new to join us in adopting them. technologies emerge and customer behavior shifts — and which companies are likely to struggle. TCFD Recommendations Governance Strategy Risk Management Metrics and Targets Disclose the organization’s Disclose the actual and Disclose how the organization Disclose the metrics and governance around potential impacts of identifies, assesses and targets used to assess climate-related risks climate-related risks and manages climate-related risks. and manage relevant and opportunities. opportunities on the climate-related risks and organization’s businesses, opportunities where such strategy and financial information is material. planning where such information is material. Recommended Disclosures Recommended Disclosures Recommended Disclosures Recommended Disclosures a. Describe the board’s a. Describe the climate-related a. Describe the organization’s a. Disclose the metrics used oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities processes for identifying by the organization to risks and opportunities. the organization has identified and assessing climateassess climate-related over the short, medium and related risks. risks and opportunities long term. in line with its strategy and risk management process. b. Describe management’s b. Describe the impact b. Describe the organization’s b. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 role in assessing and of climate-related risks processes for managing and, if appropriate, managing climate-related and opportunities on the climate-related risks. Scope 3 greenhouse gas risks and opportunities. organization’s businesses, (GHG) emissions and the strategy and financial related risks. planning. c. Describe the resilience c. Describe how processes c. Describe the targets of the organization’s strategy, for identifying, assessing used by the organization taking into consideration and managing climateto manage climate-related different climate-related related risks are integrated risks and opportunities scenarios, including a 2°C into the organization’s and performance or lower scenario. overall risk management. against targets. 15 GRI: 201-2 Without this information, financial markets cannot As of 2017, more than 240 companies, with a price climate-related risks and opportunities combined market capitalization of more than $6.3 correctly and may potentially face a rocky transition trillion, have publicly expressed support for the to a low-carbon economy, with sudden value shifts TCFD recommendations, with many putting the and destabilizing costs if industries must rapidly recommended disclosures in their company reports adjust to the new landscape. this year. The companies, based in 30 countries, include more than 150 financial firms — responsible In 2015, Financial Stability Board Chair and Bank of for more than $80 trillion in assets. England Governor Mark Carney established the FSB Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures At Bloomberg, we’ve chosen to integrate our TCFD (TCFD) to help the financial markets better disclosures into this annual Impact Report, in print understand climate-related financial risks. and online. Our climate-related governance, strategy and risk management processes can be With Mike Bloomberg serving as chair, the Task found in the Approach section. We disclose Force spent 18 months developing recommendations multiple climate-related metrics in our Operations to guide companies in disclosing climate-related highlights section. And we discuss our company‘s financial information that is decision-useful, resilience in different climate-related scenarios comparable and consistent. In June, the group on the following two pages. released its final recommendations. (See “TCFD Recommendations,” left.) Created by the market for the market, the voluntary disclosures align with existing climate-related reporting frameworks so that companies can use data they are already tracking to describe their climate-related financial risks. They are also intended to spark a conversation between investors and companies. Fitting into companies’ financial filings or sustainability reports, the disclosures bring climate-related financial reporting to a mainstream audience, promoting investor engagement. Encouraging companies to think about how sustainability factors into risk management and strategy decisions, the TCFD disclosures promote discussion between a firm’s financial officers and sustainability experts, two groups that don’t always talk. 16 2017 Thought leadership Scenario analysis A closer look: Bloomberg’s What will the world look like in the future? Here are the potential global scenarios we used in our analysis. scenario analysis A 2° Celsius world: • Global emissions are halved by 2050 A unique feature of the TCFD framework is the recommendation that organizations • Extreme weather events occur at conduct scenario analysis to assess how current frequency resilient their businesses might be in different • New policies and regulations target climate scenarios. Here is our inaugural businesses to limit allowed amount of climate scenario analysis following greenhouse gas emissions the TCFD guidelines. • Advances in technology provide wider access to energy-efficient resources at lower costs We looked at the viability of Bloomberg’s strategies under two divergent climate scenarios: • Businesses with carbon-intensive operations A transition to a low-carbon economy, where have revised business models technological advances and policy changes limit • New financial markets develop to support the the warming of Earth’s temperature to below transition to a low-carbon economy 2° Celsius above pre-industrial levels, and a limited mitigation scenario, where little or no concerted mitigation action is taken and climate change continues on its current projected path With limited mitigation efforts: with Earth‘s temperature warming significantly •Global emissions continue rising at current rates more than 2° Celsius. • Extreme weather events occur more frequently and at a more damaging scale These scenarios are not forecasts or predictions of the future, but a way for us to imagine plausible • Policy and regulation do not adequately address future worlds and plan for resilience. greenhouse gas emissions • Higher levels of pollution impact human health To help us determine when certain portions of our business may be most impacted we have • Rising sea levels displace coastal populations analyzed these scenarios over three time frames: and businesses short (1—3 years), medium (4—7 years) and long • Water and food scarcity in climate-stressed (8—10 years). In our scenario analysis, we have regions indicated when the scenario will most significantly • Increased global temperatures impact each type of risk or opportunity, but the lower productivity impact quantification applies to the full 10-year period of analysis. Our scenario analysis is a short, high-level evaluation of climate-related risks and opportunities. TCFD recommends that organizations in industries more likely to be affected by a transition to a low-carbon economy or extreme weather (energy; transportation; Bloomberg, as a private company, does not release segment financials materials and buildings; and agriculture, food due to confidentiality constraints. In lieu of exact figures, a best practice recommended by the TCFD, we have provided directional percentages. and forest products) prepare more in-depth scenario analysis. 2° Celsius scenario Risks Impact quantification Timeline Potential result Transition Policy and <1% impact Europe: Our current initiative to transition all of the energy used Legal on business 1—3 years in our offices and data centers to renewable sources will limit Other: the impact of any policy changes that may increase the cost 4—10 years of greenhouse gas emissions. Technology <1% impact on 4—7 years Advances in technology would not present a material risk to costs associated our business. If advances occur faster than anticipated and with renewable the price for renewable energy drops, we may be locked into energy technology higher-than-market rates for our current contracts. However, with 11% of our business currently run on renewable energy, we will be transitioning the majority of our business under the new market prices. While we may be able to complete the transition sooner, this would not significantly impact costs. Market 20% increase in 1—7 years Demand for financial tools and data for markets such as oil and sustainable gas will decrease as global demand for these commodities business and declines. To hedge this risk, we must stay ahead of client finance-related R&D preferences and invest more in the near term to advance the development of our renewable market tools. Reputation <1% impact 7—10 years As a current leader in corporate sustainability, our on business reputational risk is low; however, if we do not work to match our sustainability-related climate offerings with market changes we could risk losing this position. Physical Acute 10% increase in 1—10 years Bloomberg has already prepared data centers and offices to capital investment withstand severe weather events and has formulated plans at key facilities to ensure the safety of our employees and continuity of services to our customers should such events occur. These preparations include investing in wind-resilient buildings, additional fuel tanks and more resilient construction for key facilities and will continue as we add new locations. Chronic <1% of an impact 4—7 years Chronic climate changes such as increases in sea level and on business global temperature will be less impactful than in more extreme scenarios. Additionally, our business is not water-intensive, centered in climate-stressed regions or reliant on outdoor labor. Opportunities Impact quantification Timeline Potential result Resource efficiency Additional $10 4—7 years With our plans to fully transition to renewable energy by 2025, and energy source million in avoided we may avoid more energy costs — and realize those changes energy costs more quickly — if new technology drives down renewable energy prices faster and further than expected. Products and services 20% increase 1—7 years An increase in demand for our existing products that help in revenue from clients navigate the transition to a low-carbon economy. sustainable finance Tools such as our ESG scorecard, BNEF research, carbon products footprinting applications and climate-change-related data may see an increase in use with expected revenue growth over the current growth path. Markets 10% increase in 4—7 years Financial markets such as green bonds, carbon trading or revenue from tools carbon capture may expand, increasing our revenue as we for sustainable continue to enhance our tools that allow clients to participate markets in these markets. Resilience No discernible 1—10 years Investing in sustainable products, services and infrastructure, quantified impact combined with our clients’ dependence on us to provide tools for the changing markets, will strengthen our sustainabilityfocused business models. 17 Limited mitigation scenario Risks Impact quantification Timeline Potential result Transition Policy and No discernible Europe: Policy changes may happen at different times across Legal quantified impact 1—3 years different geographies. Regardless, we will continue our Other: path toward renewable operations and do not anticipate 4—10 years meaningful impact. Technology <5% decrease in 4—7 years Renewable technology will not advance as far, and renewable costs avoided from energy prices may not continue to decline as they have over using renewable the last decade. Costs avoided from using renewable energy energy technology may be tempered or take longer to realize. Market Revenue loss 4—10 years If the renewable market does not grow as much as we mitigated by other anticipate, there is a risk that our current tools and planned market changes investment will not generate as much revenue as projected. Increased demand for other tools that help deal with heightened physical risk will mitigate revenue changes. Reputation No discernible 1—10 years Even in the absence of policies to promote a low-carbon quantified impact economy, Bloomberg will continue to incorporate sustainability into our business and business offerings, so we do not anticipate reputational risk. Physical Acute 15% increase in 1—10 years Businesses may experience losses in productivity or working capital investment days due to severe weather events. While our contingency at key facilities plans protect against a loss in revenue due to such events, increased spending on resiliency beyond what is described in a 2° Celsius scenario could be necessary. Chronic <1% of an impact 4—7 years The majority of Bloomberg’s business dealings and operations on business are not in areas that are stressed by water or extreme temperatures; our own business is not resource-intensive, so chronic changes are not likely to have a large impact. Opportunities Impact quantification Timeline Potential result Resource efficiency <1% increase in 8 —10 years Renewable energy prices may stagnate, but climate stress may and energy source avoided energy costs cause non-renewable resources to increase in price, ultimately leading to greater cost avoidance from our renewable operations. Products and services <5% increase 4—7 years Our clients invested in markets such as real estate and insurance in revenue from will need new products to analyze drastic market changes. We sustainable finance currently offer tools such as MAPS, a geo-insight resource that products helps investors analyze physical climate change risks, and we will continue to develop products to capture increased demand. Markets <1% increase in total 7—10 years As markets such as real estate and commodities become more product revenue volatile, the need for timely, transparent data and marketdriven news could potentially increase; however, this will not have a significant impact on our business, which already provides solutions for volatile markets. Resilience <1% increase in value 7—10 years Our current resiliency practices have led us to build and of physical assets renovate our buildings to extremely high physical stress standards. If climate change continues on its current path, this investment in resilient infrastructure may increase the value of the real estate assets we own. 18 Impact Product highlights. As investors, policy makers Nearly 15,000 investors use ESG data on the Terminal to make more-informed decisions. Meanwhile, business and government leaders rely and citizens seek out more on our innovative coverage and in-depth analysis of sustainability and related issues to stay on top information on sustainability, of environmental and social trends. Bloomberg is providing BNEF reports Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) launched new and expanded datasets, two key reports in 2017 — the Electric Vehicle Outlook (EVO) and the Global LNG Outlook (GLO). news and analysis. EVO forecasts passenger electric vehicle adoption out to 2040 and the impact of electrification on the automotive and power markets. GLO examines the latest trends in the global liquefied natural ESG data gas (LNG) market and forecasts the world’s LNG We make environmental, social and governance demand and supply to 2030. BNEF also published (ESG) data relevant and actionable for the financial “Digitalization of Energy Systems,” a white paper on community by providing ESG data for almost 9,500 how digital technologies impact the energy system. companies in 83 countries on the Bloomberg BNEF publishes more than 700 reports and research Terminal. Investors can seamlessly integrate this pieces a year, including the annual State of Clean information into their financial analysis, generating Energy Investment report. critical insights into risks and opportunities in the evolving global economy. 14,935 customers are using ESG data This graph shows the growth in the number of ESG users over the past six years. Please note that this is just one proxy for determining the adoption of ESG analysis. As the field matures, we are developing more granular metrics to explain uptake. 15k 14,935 12,242 12.5k 11,894 11,542 10k 7.5k 7,500 5,172 5k 2.5k 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 19 940 Sustainable Business Summits Bloomberg hosted four Sustainable Business Summits in 2017, adding events in two new locations, Seattle and London, and returning to Toronto and New York City. The summits convened more leaders sharing innovative ideas at our Sustainable Business Summits To further extend the reach and impact of the summits, we launched our first Sustainable Business & Finance survey, which was completed by nearly 400 investors and corporate executives, and published “Seizing the Opportunity: How Industry than 940 senior business leaders, investors and Can Lead a New Era of Sustainable Development,” top government officials for conversations on how a white paper informed by New York City summit companies are innovating in their sustainable content. The Sustainable Business Summit will business models and adopting practices that expand to five cities in 2018 — Seattle, Amsterdam, prioritize sustainable value. Toronto, New York City and London. BNEF: $333.5 billion invested in clean energy Global clean energy investment reached $333.5 billion in 2017. This was a 3% increase from 2016 levels, primarily attributable to the solar boom in China. 350B 300B 250B 200B 150B 100B 50B 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 20 Impact Product highlights. Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index launch Climate Changed website In May 2016, we launched the Bloomberg Financial Bloomberg’s digital team launched Services Gender-Equality Index (BFGEI), a first-of-itsClimate Changed, a website about climate science kind reference index measuring the gender equality and the future of energy. The digital platform shares performance of global financial services companies. news, interactive graphics, video and data from In 2017, we opened up our 2017 data survey to Bloomberg journalists across the world about how companies in all industries. The new Bloomberg our changing climate is shaping the way economies, Gender-Equality Index (GEI), launched in 2018, businesses and people work. Climate Changed recognizes member firms’ commitment to disclosure receives approximately 1 million unique visitors per and best-in-class practices, providing investors with month, drawn to the site by innovative features like valuable data on gender-related internal statistics, its Carbon Clock, the only real-time estimate of employee policies, external community engagement the global monthly atmospheric CO2 level on the and gender-conscious product offerings. internet. In 2017, Climate Changed won a Kantar Membership has doubled in one year to 104 member Information is Beautiful Award for its Arctic coverage. firms headquartered in 24 countries and regions. Green bonds marketplace Green bonds issued in 2017 topped the previous Credit Agricole CIB was the top underwriter of green record of $97 billion set in 2016. bonds in 2017, arranging $7.8B of corporate, municipal and supranational green bond deals in the U.S. and overseas. $175B Underwriters Deals Value in Billions $163.1B Credit Agricole CIB 60 7.8 HSBC 54 7.3 150B BNP Paribas 45 5.6 JP Morgan 45 5.4 Bank of America Merrill Lynch 33 4.9 125B Societe Generale 22 4.3 Citi 28 4.3 100B $97.3B Barclays 24 4.2 SEB 39 4 Natixis 19 3.2 75B Morgan Stanley 16 3.1 CITIC Securities Co Ltd 26 3 $49.9B China Securities Co Ltd 15 2.2 50B $36.8B Goldman Sachs 12 2.2 Industrial & Comm Bank of China 16 2.1 25B Deutsche Bank 20 2 Banco Santander 14 2 $4.3B $14.6B TD Securities 16 1.8 0 Nordea 20 1.8 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria 11 1.7 Note: Lead underwriter volumes only Source: BNEF 21 104 GEI member ﬁrms in 24 countries and regions Sustainable Finance Brief redesign In August, Bloomberg’s Sustainable Finance Brief — the first newsletter from a major U.S. financial media company focused on sustainable finance for institutional investors — debuted a sleek new redesign that optimizes it for mobile. The weekly newsletter highlights the latest sustainability news and data from Bloomberg News, BNEF, Bloomberg Intelligence and our industry products and includes Q&As with industry leaders and an event calendar. Improved transparency for green bonds Bloomberg identified $163.1 billion worth of new green bonds sold in 2017 — the fifth consecutive year of record issuance. Green bond issuance grew 67% in 2017. We continue to enhance the data and insights we offer around green bonds — bonds that fund projects with environmental benefits — driving transparency in the rapidly evolving and unregulated green fixed income market. Bloomberg’s green bond label and additional green disclosures on the Terminal help users identify green securities and assess alignment to the globally adopted Green Bond Principles. In 2017, Bloomberg added new green bond portfolios to help users locate various types of green bonds and a wider universe of green fixed income opportunities. BNEF provides increased transparency by assessing the reporting commitments of existing bonds and evaluating their reporting frameworks. It remains to be seen if the market can sustain its impressive growth levels in 2018, but BNEF’s new quarterly green bond report will provide a step-by-step commentary on market progress. Case study Pioneering carbon solutions. We provide robust data about companies’ carbon emissions and innovative tools to help analyze this information on the Bloomberg Terminal. Reducing emissions of carbon dioxide is essential to stabilizing the climate. Excessive CO2 emissions are causing global warming that, in turn, is increasing sea levels, changing precipitation patterns and destroying ecosystems. As the private sector increasingly views climate change as a material risk to business, more leading companies and investors are keen to measure, monitor and analyze their carbon emissions. Carbon data can help companies identify and reduce waste and inefficiency in operations and supply chains; it can also help investors understand the climate-related risks in their portfolios — and pivot to more sustainable investments. Bloomberg provides robust and transparent data about carbon emissions on the Terminal that users can seamlessly integrate into their financial analysis, driving smart decisions as the economy moves toward a lower-carbon future. In 2017, we released two tools to make assessing and disclosing carbon emissions even easier. Portfolio Carbon Footprint Tool XLTP XPCF <GO> Useful for: Investors who want to measure a portfolio’s carbon footprint to see how much carbon is emitted from the companies they are investing in. With this information, investors can respond to clients and adjust investment weights and allocation as environmental regulations evolve. Capabilities: Using portfolios created in Generate carbon estimates Identify areas where your Understand where your PORT, link to the Carbon by deriving carbon values portfolio is performing better carbon exposure exists — Footprint Tool and drill into from peer companies when or worse than a benchmark does it come from your sector the most carbon-intensive a company in your portfolio across a range of metrics. weightings or stock selection? sectors and stocks. does not disclose carbon emissions data. Carbon Tracker 2D Scenario Analysis Tool APPS TRACK <GO> Useful for: Oil and gas companies and energy sector analysts who increasingly need to assess the resiliency of their holdings in a low-carbon transition scenario. Oil and gas companies are highly exposed to this transition, in which businesses and governments cut carbon emissions to prevent the average global temperature from rising more than 2° Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Capabilities: Examine an oil and gas Explore how variations Identify what portion of a Investors can use insights company’s potential exposure in oil price could affect company’s potential future generated by this tool to carbon transition risk, based the net present value capex is inside or outside to help engage with their on a range of quantitative (NPV) of a company’s a “2D budget,” the limited portfolio companies and metrics derived from detailed, upstream operations. amount of CO2 that can determine the potential forward-looking analysis of its be emitted to keep global financial impacts that climate capital expenditures (capex) warming below 2°C. Capital change might have on their and current portfolio. invested in high-cost projects businesses, in line with the that are outside the budget TCFD recommendations. carries a greater risk of delivering poor returns or being stranded. 24 $ Impact Operations highlights. We’re focused on Energy In 2017, Bloomberg’s total energy emissions were 101,256 metric tonnes. This represents 55.5% of increasing the efficiency total company emissions, justifying a global focus on energy management. As a company with more and resilience of our than 19,000 employees in 186 locations, reducing our energy-related carbon emissions globally is critical to operations in a changing reducing our total environmental impact. world while reducing our Renewable energy Bloomberg is a member of RE100, a global initiative environmental impact. of influential businesses committed to 100% renewable electricity. We have pledged to obtain 100% of our electricity from renewable sources by 2025. Our initial internal target was to procure 35% Since 2008, our global efficiency measures and electricity from renewables by 2020. To date, we environmental projects have resulted in 834,209 have invested in five onand off-site solar and wind metric tonnes of avoided CO₂e emissions — the projects. Our most recent project, a wind installation equivalent of more than 4.5 years of Bloomberg’s in Hidalgo, Texas, started providing energy in 2017. carbon emissions — and avoided $103 million in operating costs. Through our efforts, Bloomberg is In 2018, we will begin purchasing the energy proving the business case for sustainability. generated by a 20MW portion of the Arkwright Summit Wind Project in Chautauqua County, N.Y. In December 2017, we signed a 15-year power Emissions by activity purchase agreement to buy energy from a 17MW Energy and travel dominate Bloomberg‘s emissions profile, portion of the HillTopper wind farm powered by accounting for 87% of our total. Enel Green Power in Illinois, which is expected to be built in 2018. In 2017, we received 11.4% of our Energy consumption 55.5% electricity, 33,452,524 kWh, from renewable sources. Our renewable energy projects reduced our 2017 operating expenses by $77,000. Business travel 31.4% Publishing operations 10.3% Other 2.7% GRI: 302-1; 302-4 SASB: TC0401-01 RE100 Began investigating First projects commitment renewable energy projects completed announced 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 103 Path to RE100 Bloomberg renewable energy at year-end Bloomberg renewable energy projects 2010 2011 2012 2013 million in avoided operating costs since 2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 Projected 2018 2019 2020 Owned MW 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.23 renewables MWh 0.00 0.00 38 64 60 60 221 242 242 242 242 Power Purchase MW 0.00 0.00 1.8 1.8 1.8 3.5 3.5 8.5 43.5 60.5 65.5 Agreements (PPAs) MWh 0.00 0.00 2,425 2,472 2,606 2,929 4,719 21,565 59,565 161,565 172,565 Renewable MWh 145,247 211,060 208,262 211,513 90,747 94,763 88,612 85,000 85,000 6,500 6,500 Energy Credits (RECs) 20MW Arkwright Summit 17MW Wind Project HillTopper Wind Project 1.5MW Queens Solar Project 184KW Princeton Maintenance Building Solar Project 1.8MW 41KW Princeton Solar San Francisco Project Solar Project 5MW Hidalgo Wind Project Internal goal: RE100 goal: 11% renewable energy 35% renewable energy 100% renewable energy 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Impact Operations highlights. Data centers Buildings Our data centers, which handle the large volume Bloomberg has invested in a portfolio of of data and analytics we provide to more than environmentally certified office spaces to ensure 325,000 customers through Bloomberg Professional that we are limiting the environmental impact of Services, consume 43% of our energy, so data center both construction and occupancy. All new office efficiency is a clear priority for Bloomberg. In 2014, developments, refurbishments and expansions are we built our Leadership in Energy and Environmental built to LEED or Building Research Establishment Design (LEED) New Construction data center Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) in upstate New York to LEED v4 specifications standards. To date, we have completed 35 LEEDto drastically improve our data center efficiency, or BREEAM-certified projects; in 2017, we received which is measured by power usage effectiveness five new LEED certifications (two Platinum, three (PUE). Bloomberg’s PUE has improved 17% Gold) for offices in Arlington, Virginia, New York since 2010, which translated into a savings City, San Francisco and Washington, D.C. Our new of approximately 28 million kWh in 2017. European headquarters became the first office building in London to receive a BREEAM rating of “Outstanding,” with a 98.5% score. LEED and BREEAM office space 64% of Bloomberg employees sit in environmentally certified office space. Total headcount % of employees in environmentally certified space 20k 19.4k 18.8k 18.3k 17.5k 17.3k 15.6k 15.7k 15.3k 15k 12.7k 12.5k 64% 11k 10.3k 10k 7.5k 32% 29% 5k 28% 26% 27% 2.5k 9% 3% 5% 2% 0k 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 27 SASB: TC0401-03 Business travel Employee travel is a key component of our business model and generates 31.4% of our total emissions. In 2017, Bloomberg emissions from employee business travel were 57,309 metric tonnes, 28 million kWh of energy saved by our data centers However, we look for opportunities to mitigate the impact of our travel where possible. For example, we promote travel by rail rather than air for short distances, such as New York City to Washington, D.C. and London to Paris/Brussels. In 2017, 55% of our a 125% increase from 2007 levels and a 14% increase New York City to Washington travel and 93% of on a per-employee basis. Supporting customers our London to Paris/Brussels travel was by rail. through our sales force is central to our business, We also encourage using public transportation which limits opportunities for travel-related rather than car service. In 2017, car service usage emissions reductions. These pressures will continue was down 25% in the U.S. and 66% in the U.K., to grow as our headcount increases. compared with 2007 baseline levels. Bloomberg business travel Miles traveled and CO2e emissions by year Year Miles CO2e Metric Tonnes/Full-Time Employee 2017 190,101,748 57,309 3.00 2016 174,073,931 51,971 2.80 2015 188,722,901 55,489 3.08 2014 153,383,876 45,151 2.76 2013 143,588,688 42,757 2.73 2012 128,650,352 35,063 2.26 2011 122,272,565 37,973 2.76 2010 113,077,208 38,289 3.21 Travel by mode since 2010 Miles by air Miles by rail Miles by car 4M 12M 200M 100M 2.5M 8M 28 Impact Operations highlights. Publishing operations Product transportation In 2017, we published two magazines — In 2017, Bloomberg emissions from non-publishingBloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets related logistics were 2,524 metric tonnes, a 4.4% — consuming more than 12 million pounds of decrease from the prior year and a 24.4% reduction paper; we distributed almost 36 million copies from our 2007 baseline. Our logistics team works of our magazines globally. Publishing operations with our vendors to manage the environmental generated 18,753 metric tonnes of CO2e, or 10.3% impact of our emissions related to shipping B-Units, of total company emissions. This represents a flat panels, keyboards, PCs and other customer35.3% reduction in emissions versus the prior year, facing products by using less impactful shipping the result of employing a number of strategies to methods, like ground and sea, whenever possible. reduce the environmental impacts of our publishing Our purchasing department looks to source operations in addition to printing all magazines materials locally whenever possible to reduce on Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper. transportation distances; our average shipment distance has declined 18.7% from 2007. Shipping by In 2017, we transitioned a third print magazine, Bloomberg Ink, our internal print shop, increased Bloomberg Pursuits, to a digital-only publication, 23.7% in 2017 from 2016, a result of increased while Bloomberg Businessweek’s digital printing activity. subscription percentage increased by 10%. Bloomberg Businessweek also printed 47 issues Supply chain instead of 48 and reduced the average print run Our Supplier Code of Conduct and Sustainable of each issue by 26.4%. Bloomberg Businessweek Operating Guidelines ensure that we obtain moved to regional printing and distribution in goods and services from vendors that operate in Europe and Asia, which, combined with these a responsible and sustainable manner. In 2017, we print reductions, reduced its distribution updated each of these documents; we plan on emissions by 65%. implementing our updated guidelines in 2018. We also strive to reduce the environmental impact of our equipment, including its design, durability, recyclability and water use. Bloomberg conducted life-cycle assessments of its customer hardware in 2011 and 2015; we plan to do so again when the next iterations of our equipment come to market. 2017 magazine impact Distribution impact per issue Magazine Paper usage % change vs. Paper CO2e % change vs. Distribution % change vs. per issue (lbs) 2007 per issue (kg) 2007 CO2e per 2007 issue (kg) Bloomberg 0.32 (7.51) 0.42 (19.71) 0.04 (62.89) Businessweek* Bloomberg 0.41 (58.02) 0.55 (63.55) 0.26 (71.80) Markets * Bloomberg Businessweek comparisons to 2010, first full year Bloomberg published this magazine. 29 GRI: 102-9; 102-11; 204-1; 301-3; 303-1; 306-2; G4-EN1 SASB: TC0401-02 35% Office paper Paper consumption by our internal print shops and office use represents just 0.4% of Bloomberg’s emissions, but it is still an area where we can mitigate our environmental impact through responsible reduction in publishing operations emissions Our data center in upstate New York has a rainwater capture system that utilizes rainwater in its HVAC system, saving us more than 5 million gallons of water annually. sourcing and printing. Specifically, office paper Waste consumption has seen a 60.5% per-headcount Waste sent to landfills from Bloomberg facilities decrease and 21.9% reduction in total usage since resulted in 1,723 metric tonnes of CO₂e in 2017, 2007. We implemented a major office printing a 5.5% increase over the prior year. On a perinfrastructure upgrade in 2017, which included a employee basis, this represents a 5.3% increase broad printer reconfiguration and the roll out of over 2016, but still a 64.7% reduction from 2007. “Follow-Me Printing” to key offices globally. With This is attributable primarily to a move to zero“Follow-Me” technology, employees scan their landfill, waste-to-energy disposal of all our waste badges on any printer to access their print jobs. in New York City and London and composting Early results show a savings of 5% in print jobs, with in 20 global locations, reaching 76.6% of our the overall initiative yielding an annualized cost employees. Our overall diversion rate increased to avoidance of approximately $1.1 million. 84%, progressing toward our 2020 target of 90% diversion. To reduce waste from snack wrappers, Water we partner with TerraCycle at some of our offices We look for opportunities to reduce water to “upcycle,” or reuse discarded wrappers consumption in our facilities. Bloomberg in new products. In 2017, we upcycled 89,023 used an estimated 122 million gallons of water snack wrappers, or 1,804 pounds of waste. in 2017, largely driven by our employees and facilities. We reduce water consumption through Additional operations information and data are available at our comprehensive LEED strategy for new and bloomberg.com/impact. existing buildings, where efficient fixtures have a projected 37% savings over traditional fixtures. Annual employee paper usage Pounds of office paper used per year, per all-in employee 35 30 25 20 15 10 -60.5% since 2007 5 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2016 2016 2017 30 Impact Operations highlights. Performance summary by department 45% CO2e 834,209 MT $103M Percentage reduction in CO2e emissions and emissions Intensity Avoided CO2e Cumulative net intensity by department (2017 vs. 2007 baseline) with reduction from BAU avoided costs* cumulative cost avoidance since 2008 (2008–2017) *Net avoided costs include additional cost avoidance of $17.9M and expenses Absolute Intensity Cost avoidance of $17.5M not represented below -10% Facilities–Offices $20.8M -48% -6% Information Systems $24.6M -48% -24% Facilities–Data Centers $9M -73% 9% Engineering Systems $0 -73% -1% Networks $0 -30% -23% Broadcast $550K -23% Employee 125% $32.4M Business Travel 14% -51% Bloomberg Businessweek $2.9M -28% -78% Bloomberg Markets $10.2M -82% 14% Bloomberg Ink $498K -19% -36% Asset Management $2M -59% -92% Pantry $0 -96% -21% Waste $0 -60% 125% 100% 75% 50% 25% 0 -25% -50% -75% -100% 31 2020 carbon reductions/targets From 2008–2013, our emissions reductions were reliant on demand-reduction initiatives, achieving energy efficiencies and infrastructure upgrades in key facilities globally. Since 2014, our focus has shifted to an aggressive pursuit of renewable energy opportunities. The historical impact of our early initiatives plus our growing renewable energy portfolio has broadened our emissions reductions and will allow us to achieve our goal of 20% absolute emissions reduction by 2020. 2020 emissions reductions: Absolute and from Business as Usual (BAU) 2008–2013 reductions Demand reduction 94.5% Solar/wind 1% Infrastructure 4.8% Other renewables 0.0% 2014–2020 reductions Demand reduction 83.6% Other renewables 0.5% Solar/wind 10.5% Infrastructure 5.5% 400K 350K 40.7% Facilities/ 300K technology 4.8% Publishing 250K operations 3.1% Infrastructure 200K 150K -0.3% Travel/other 100K 13.3% Renewable energy Identified projects, if completed, 50K will offset growth and result in a 25.3% reduction in emissions* vs. 2007 baseline 0 2017 2018(P) 2019(P) 2020(P) *Represents market-based emissions that include renewable energy projects. Case study London calling. Our new European headquarters, located in the heart of the City of London, is a place that is as innovative and forward-looking as our company. Sustainability is central to its design. Our founder Mike Bloomberg conceived the building project a decade ago as an opportunity to push beyond the conventions of current office towers to create a building that would maximize the well-being and productivity of our employees while minimizing the company’s impact on the environment. Where sustainable technologies didn’t exist, we invented them, collaborating with experts around the world to source, test and manufacture new materials and designs. During construction, we experimented with new, data-driven waste-minimizing processes. Our 4,600 London employees began moving into the building in October, and the space is proving to be as sustainable and energizing as we had hoped. The building uses 73% less water and 35% less energy than a typical office building of its size. Independent sustainability ratings agency BRE Global has awarded it a BREEAM score of 98.5%, the highest design-stage score ever achieved by a major office development. Grid design inspired by the London building ceiling 1 4 3 2 5 1 Roof rainwater collection We collect, treat and reuse rainwater from the roof and gray water from sinks, saving 25 million liters of water a year. 2 LED lighting 500,000 LED lights are integrated into the ceiling, using 40% less energy than typical office fluorescents. 3 Smart airflow CO2 sensors on each floor allow us to adjust airflow in response to the number of people in different zones of the building throughout the day. We expect this system to save 600—750 MWh of power per year, avoiding 300 metric tonnes of carbon emissions annually. 4 High-tech toilets Our airline-style vacuum toilets use 75% less water than typical toilets. 5 Recycling station Our bins encourage separation of waste into recyclables, general waste, food waste and compostables, paper waste and coffee cups. Coffee cups are sent to a specialist mill that converts the paper into high-grade paper and transforms the plastic lids into new plastic products. 6 Power generation center Our on-site power-generation center 6 converts gas to power in an efficient system. We then use the waste heat from the power-generation process to heat and cool the building. Impact: Carbon emissions reduced by an estimated 500—750 metric tonnes of CO2 annually. 35 Petal tiles Window blades Our innovative ceiling tiles When the weather is mild, feature 2.5 million polished we can turn off our aluminum “petals” that save mechanical ventilation energy by reflecting heat and cooling equipment, and light and circulating open the bronze window air and also absorb noise. blades shading the windows and ventilate the building with natural cool air, significantly reducing energy consumption. 36 Hypertrichoid ramp When the building is in natural ventilation mode, the nine-story ramp acts as a chimney, drawing air from the atrium up and out through the roof. 37 Green wall Arcade The “living wall” in the We seized the chance Bloomberg pantry is a space to contribute to the for impromptu meetings and dynamic energy of our social interactions. new London neighborhood by creating public spaces around the building. 38 Impact People highlights. To shape the future Supporting the next generation Bloomberg Startup, our global education engagement and mentoring program, and drive breakthrough offers a wide range of activities designed and led by our employees and in collaboration with performance, we rely nonprofit partners to support academic achievement and prepare students for further education and on creative, collaborative career development, especially in STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, the Arts and Mathematics). employees with diverse Bloomberg volunteers teach Startup workshops for students in coding and Java, business journalism, experiences and a global project management and robotics, among other areas. In 2017, Bloomberg’s mentor network grew outlook. We inspire our to 3,650 employees in more than 40 cities around the world. We created a pilot career-readiness program with the Fortune Society, establishing workforce by providing a fellowship for justice-involved individuals returning to the workforce that consists of a 12-week full-time opportunities to make position at Bloomberg. In addition, employees funded 35 college scholarships for high-achieving, a difference and low-income high school seniors through the Bloomberg Startup Scholars initiative. enhancing their impact Preserving green spaces in the communities where More than 2,000 employees dedicated more than 12,000 hours of hands-on action supporting local greening efforts in 21 cities around the world in 2017. we live and work. Bloomberg employees were dedicated to preserving and restoring our local green spaces throughout the year. In April 2017, nearly 100 Bloomberg employees Philanthropy & Engagement and clients in Tokyo participated in a cleanup Bloomberg’s Philanthropy & Engagement program and tree planting at Mt. Fuji. In London, builds on the philanthropic and service-focused Bloomberg sponsored Buckhill Meadow with the commitment established at the company by founder Royal Parks Foundation, keeping it maintained Mike Bloomberg and focuses on four key areas: and thriving throughout the year. In New York City, Arts and Culture, Education, Human Services and employees helped Governors Island with a number Sustainability. In 2017, more than 12,000 employees of major green infrastructure projects and helped in 92 cities around the world dedicated over 145,000 create and install a new rain garden and bioswale hours of service to helping those in need, protecting with a 500-square-foot garden to improve drainage the environment, strengthening our communities across 5,000 square feet of the urban farm. and volunteering for a wide variety of community-based efforts. 39 Global reach. Local impact. 145,765 2,300 Volunteer Hours Nonprofit Partners 12,041 83,768 Investing in the arts Unique Volunteers Individuals and Our new European headquarters in London Families Served is located on the site of the ancient Roman Temple of Mithras. When we acquired the land, 52 92 we committed to reinstate a publicly accessible Countries and Regions Cities Engaged reconstruction of the temple in its original spot. In November 2017, we opened the London Mithraeum Bloomberg SPACE underneath 565,767 $915,700 our building. This new cultural hub showcases Pounds of Garbage Disaster Relief and Mulch Collected Funds Raised the temple, a selection of the 14,000 Roman artifacts that we unearthed from the site and a series of contemporary art commissions. Since its opening, 15,360 10,000 KM Run / Biked / Walked Students Served the museum has booked more than 24,000 for Charity individual and group visits. We also re-launched the Bloomberg Arts Club, which provides our clients with special access to cultural events and 568 75 BMIA Journalists Local Parks and opportunities at some of the most exciting Trained Waterways Cleaned institutions around the world. 3,650 20,884 Responding to natural disasters Employee Mentors Articles of Clothing In 2017, climate-related natural disasters disrupted Collected for Charity life in many parts of the world. Bloomberg employees responded to extreme flooding 1,861,699 35,408 in South Asia, drought and famine in Africa, Meals Served / Care Packages wildfires in Europe and the U.S. and hurricanes Prepared Assembled and earthquakes in North America by raising more than $915,000 for 15 disaster relief organizations, 73,059 8,802 including the International Medical Corps and the Trees / Plants Planted Arts Club Client Members American, British, Mexican and Portuguese Red Cross organizations, and assembling more than 35,000 emergency hygiene kits for hurricane 2,721 1,081 victims in Puerto Rico, Florida and the Caribbean. Friends and Family Animals Cared For When strong hurricanes devastated the U.S. Virgin Volunteers Islands, Bloomberg stepped up, deploying what Forbes called one of the most dramatic examples of 1,525 257 “all-in philanthropy.” We mobilized a team of Bikes Built Arts and Cultural for Children Memberships volunteers to provide guidance and expertise in rebuilding for long-term sustainability, as well as organizing donations of medical equipment, 4,998 2,400 Potential Lives Saved Hours of Pro Bono food and supplies to the island. Through Blood Donation Legal Services 12,189 2,500 Hours Spent on Hours of Pro Bono Environmental Stewardship Coaching for in Local Communities Small Businesses 40 Impact People highlights. Diversity & Inclusion Amplifying women’s voices Our Diversity & Inclusion initiatives help us promote Women’s opinions are strikingly under-represented and develop a work culture that values difference, in media coverage of hard-news subjects; according fosters inclusion and encourages collaboration to a Grattan Institute study, women wrote just 11% to drive business results. We work across regions of commentaries on the economy. To increase the to ensure we are addressing local priorities and number of female experts and officials we feature are consistent with local cultures. We focus on in our stories and broadcasts, the Bloomberg education, recruiting diverse talent, supporting News team in our Asia Pacific region has brought business innovation and leveraging partners new urgency to our Women’s Voices project. Over and research to drive our mission. the past year, we made significant progress in finding more female experts and featuring their Building an inclusive culture voices on the Terminal and on TV, improving the We foster an inclusive culture in a number of ways. relevance and quality of our coverage. We’re now Employees can participate in various initiatives, formalizing the program globally, building out the including mentoring programs, and more than definitive database of women experts in business 200 employee events per year that facilitate and finance and creating new tools to track their dialogue and share research and thought leadership appearances across our platforms. The News team broadly. To drive diversity and inclusion principles has set ambitious goals for increasing the number and behaviors into all company processes, of women who appear on our broadcasts and now Bloomberg has incorporated diversity and inclusion requires that there‘s at least one female panelist on objectives into the performance evaluations of any panel our journalists participate in. Also in the all our managers. We also offer eight employeeworks: Bloomberg-funded media training for women run networks, called Bloomberg Communities, executives at financial firms to help Bloomberg TV structured around different dimensions of diversity meet the targets we have set. while leaving room to explore interconnected identities. Employees across all businesses can Supporting Brazil’s future workforce join our Abilities Community; Black Professional More than 50% of Brazil’s population is black or Community; Latino Community; LGBT and Ally Afro-descendant, yet just 11% of black Brazilians Community; Military and Veterans Community; are managers and executives at global companies Pan-Asian Community; Women’s Community; based in Brazil. One way to close this gap is to and Working Families Community. Each Community provide diverse students with language tools and develops a business plan for the year to show support. In 2017, Bloomberg joined with Goldman how it will support company goals in five key areas: Sachs and Linklaters to help improve social mobility commercial impact, recruiting, marketing for low-income black students in Brazil through the and communications, leadership development LIFT (Language, Inspiration, Focus, Transformation) and community engagement in partnership with Initiative. Bloomberg employees help recruit and Philanthropy & Engagement. Communities are a key select college students from greater São Paulo part of our diversity and inclusion strategy because for two years of English classes and mentoring they give employees the opportunity to solve and serve as volunteers in the program, working problems, innovate, and develop and showcase alongside a variety of local partners. The second their leadership skills regardless of seniority LIFT program class (2017—19) is twice as large as or managerial status. the first. Bloomberg is working to bring in more corporate partners and expand the program even more to show the business case for developing black professionals. 41 GRI: G4-56; G4-M3 SASB: SV0302-06 D&I focus areas Inclusive culture & education Business Diverse innovation talent Partnerships & research Communities 5,721 members in 2017 (4,962 in 2016) Community members increased by 15% and represent 32% of total employees Investing in the future. This year, Bloomberg became the first U.S.– domiciled corporate retirement plan sponsor to incorporate the United Nations’ six Principles for Responsible Investment into its investment practices. We've integrated environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors into our retirement plans and processes, including adding an ESG-themed equity fund to our U.S. 401(k) plan options. This helps us provide more diverse and sustainable retirement benefits for our employees. The six Principles for Responsible Investment Incorporate Be active ESG issues into owners and investment incorporate analysis and ESG issues decision-making into ownership processes. policies and practices. GRI: 102-12; 201-3; 401-2 Why sign the Principles for Why haven’t more corporate pension and Responsible Investment (PRI)? retirement providers signed on to the PRI? We think it’s the right thing to do for our plan Studies show that investing in sustainable companies participants. We have employees who are interested leads to better outcomes over the long term, in investing in funds that align with their beliefs. but many investors still worry that responsible That prompted us to add an ESG-themed equity investing could limit market performance. As fund to our menu of U.S. retirement plan investment retirement plan sponsors, we have a fiduciary options in 2015. Signing the PRI also showcases responsibility to make decisions that are in the our efforts in this space to the wider investor plan participants’ best interest. At Bloomberg, we community and beyond. firmly believe we can balance the concerns around sustainable investing. Every decision we make, The PRI has been around for more than a decade. including adding or removing funds that consider Why not sign on earlier? ESG factors, is done solely with the interests of Bloomberg has actually been a PRI signatory since the plan participants in mind. Any ESG-themed 2009, but as a “service provider,” an organization fund must go through the same rigorous selection that offers products and services to asset owners and evaluation process as all our funds before and managers. Joining the PRI as a “retirement plan it can be added to our plan lineup. sponsor” is an extension of this commitment. What impact are the principles having What are Bloomberg employees’ ESG at Bloomberg? investment options? We integrated ESG considerations into our U.S. employees can choose to invest some 401(k) management and monitoring decisions or all of their retirement plan investments before we signed the PRI as a retirement sponsor. in the Parnassus Core Equity Fund, a fund that The principles have reinforced our commitment includes companies with positive performance to transparency and discipline in how we monitor on business ethics, environmental impact and other and assess our investments. We updated our factors. Interestingly, the majority of our active investment policy statement to clearly state our plan participants in this fund are millennials. approach to funds that have ESG factors, including Additionally, we assign a sustainability rating our standards for considering funds. We also have to all core investment options in our plan lineup, a renewed focus on increasing awareness and allowing U.S. employees to further consider employee education around sustainable investing. sustainability factors in their investment decisions. Seek Promote Work together Report appropriate acceptance and to enhance on activities disclosure on implementation effectiveness and progress ESG issues of the principles in implementing towards by the entities within the the principles. implementing in which investment industry. the principles. we invest. 44 Impact About this report. Bloomberg L.P.’s 2017 Impact Report provides Sustainable printing a brief overview of our efforts to promote a more We took a number of steps to reduce the sustainable economy through our products, environmental impact of this report. The cover of our operations, our people and our partnerships, the report was printed on Neenah Classic Crest with a specific focus on 2017 highlights. Digital Recycled 100 Bright White 80# Cover and the inside pages were printed on Neenah Classic Crest The report features content about business, Digital Recycled 100 Bright White 80# Text. This environmental and social issues that have a direct paper is FSC-certified, contains 100% PCW and is and significant impact on our company, manufactured using renewable biogas energy. our employees and/or our strategic partners Please recycle this report. as well as issues that our organization has a unique opportunity to influence. We identified these What do those numbers on the bottom issues through a materiality assessment we initially of the page mean? conducted in 2015. Where the report fulfills specific GRI or SASB standards, we note the standard at the bottom Our business units and operational divisions of the page. provided content and data for this report. The annual data presented here and in our 2017 Impact Report online covers our 2017 fiscal year (January 1 to December 31, 2017). This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Comprehensive Option (GRI Standards Content Index and G4 Media Sector Supplement); the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards and its industry-specific accounting standards; and the Financial Stability Board (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) guidelines. Bloomberg is a signatory of the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI) and the UN Global Compact; we believe that sustainability presents a market opportunity. The sustainability data, disclosures and claims in this report have been verified by Cventure LLC. Our verification statement is available online. For more in-depth content and additional data across our Product, Operations and People, This was printed on Neenah Classic Crest Digital including our GRI and SASB frameworks Recycled 100 Bright White 80# Cover and 80# Text. and other supplemental information, Classic Crest is FSC certiﬁed, contains 100% PCW. visit bloomberg.com/impact. 45 GRI: 102-12; 102-49; 102-50; 102-54; 102-56; 103-1 © 2018 Bloomberg L.P. All rights reserved. Cover pattern inspired by the energy–saving ceiling tiles at Bloomberg’s European headquarters. Learn more: bloomberg.com/impact
