Period Covered by UltiSat’s Communication on Progress From: September 16, 2018 To: September 15, 2019 Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) March 29, 2017 To Our Stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that UltiSat, Inc. supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. UltiSat will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress on an annual basis according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely yours, Mr. Mohammad G. Abutaleb Chief Executive Officer/President 708 Quince Orchard Road, Suite 120, Gaithersburg, MD 20878 Human Rights Principles  Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights  Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals  Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e., human rights risk-assessment)  Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on human rights UltiSat Corporate Directive on Human Rights Risks and Impacts:  Identify areas of risk and how staff can positively impact the organization  Inform organization of human rights commitment and strategies  Establishes business partners, vendors and markets for comparable directives  Increases effectiveness by incorporating annual trainings and discussions  Identify specific risks, impacts, and opportunities  Detect areas of prevention, acknowledgement, and intervention plans for issues Organization Employee Vendor Level Level Level Commitment Commitment Commitment 708 Quince Orchard Road, Suite 120, Gaithersburg, MD 20878 2019 Goals for Global and Domestic Human Rights I. Initiation – Introduce the steps to be taken to create a human rights culture A. A top down commitment into culture change B. Communication of the importance in the arena of human rights C. Adhere to the legislative requirements II. Define – Institute a structured approach A. Policies are implemented and processes established B. Structure in place and discussions with organizational staff C. Resources committed to implementation of required directives III. Administration and Acceptance – Managing a proactive approach to identify human rights issues A. Leadership acts in line with roles and responsibilities B. Proactive communication and counsel with entire company C. Multi-disciplinary approach involving all aspects of business IV. Anticipated and Maintained – Ingrain human rights principles into the daily operations of the company A. Relations with external partners built on identified directive on human rights B. Supplemental sharing of performance measurement framework C. Internal and external policies and practices regarding human rights are distributed V. Continual Improvement – Achieve a culture of bettering organizational understanding of human rights both daily and annually A. Leadership continues to demonstrate commitment to human rights initiatives B. Promotion of human rights principles C. Concepts and processes to extend human rights into sectors outside of what has been defined 708 Quince Orchard Road, Suite 120, Gaithersburg, MD 20878 Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement human rights policies, reduce human rights risks and respond to human rights violations. I. UltiSat currently uses a suggestion box and Human Resources “Open Door” policy, regarding human rights violations, questions, and concerns II. UltiSat has introduced annual training and discussions for employees on human rights directives III. Human resource policies and procedures supporting human rights Measurement of Outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance I. In respect to conducting business with more of a global presence, UltiSat has continued to make progress in the area of human rights II. UltiSat leadership and human resources provide company wide information about how each member of the organization handles incidents of human rights violations III. UltiSat’s senior leadership conducts a periodic review of human rights training and survey results Labor Principles Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of force and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labor rights for the company (i.e., labor rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labor rights 708 Quince Orchard Road, Suite 120, Gaithersburg, MD 20878 UltiSat Corporate Directive on Labor Rights Risks and Opportunities:  UltiSat adheres to company policies to uphold the State of Maryland Employment and Labor Laws  Resources and support guidance is provided for working in Maryland  UltiSat follows the statutes and regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) that affect businesses and employees.  The Guide is designed mainly for those needing “hands-on” information to develop wage, benefit, safety and health, and nondiscrimination policies for businesses  Under the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) and State of Maryland mandates, UltiSat’s policy requires business partners and suppliers to adhere to the labor principles identified. 2018 Goals for Fair Labor Practices I. Initiation – Introduce the steps to be taken to follow fair labor practices A. A top down commitment into culture change B. Communication of the importance of fair labor practices C. Adhere to the legislative requirements II. Define – Institute a structured approach A. Policies are implemented and processes established B. Structure in place and discussions with organizational staff C. Resources committed to implementation of required directives III. Administration and Acceptance – Managing a proactive approach to identify labor rights issues A. Leadership acts in line with roles and responsibilities B. Proactive communication and counsel with entire company C. Multi-disciplinary approach involving all aspects of business 708 Quince Orchard Road, Suite 120, Gaithersburg, MD 20878 IV. Anticipated and Maintained – Ingrain labor rights principles into the daily operations of the company A. Relations with external partners built on identified directive on labor rights B. Supplemental sharing of performance measurement framework C. Internal and external policies and practices regarding labor rights are distributed V. Continual Improvement – Achieve a culture of bettering organizational understanding of labor rights both daily and annually A. Leadership continues to demonstrate commitment to labor rights initiatives B. Promotion of labor rights principles C. Concepts and processes to extend labor rights into sectors outside of what has been defined Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labor policies, reduce labor risks and respond to labor violations I. UltiSat currently uses a suggestion box and Human Resources “Open Door” policy, regarding labor rights violations, questions, and concerns II. UltiSat has introduced annual training and discussions for employees on labor rights directives III. Human resource policies and procedures supporting labor rights Measurement of Outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance I. UltiSat leadership and human resources provide company wide information about how each member of the organization deals with incidents and violations of the Global Compact Labor principles 708 Quince Orchard Road, Suite 120, Gaithersburg, MD 20878 II. UltiSat’s senior leadership conducts a periodic review of human rights training and survey results III. UltiSat continues to make progress made in the area of Labor practices by remaining current on governmental and state regulations. Additionally, reviewing internal policies and comparing them against the domestic and global industry standards. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly challenges Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e., environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Assessment of the Environmental Footprint and Impact of UltiSat and Its Competitors  Economics and policy  Emerging technologies  Natural environment  Environmental and social risks Policies Requiring Business Partners and Suppliers to Adhere to the Environmental Principles Policies are outlined in Service and Teaming Agreements, requiring prospective business partners and suppliers to adhere to the environmental principles. This includes the foreseen circumstances and unplanned cases. 708 Quince Orchard Road, Suite 120, Gaithersburg, MD 20878 Specific Goals in the Area of the Environment for the Upcoming Year I. Enhancing reputation and brand awareness II. Increasing market access III. Reducing operating costs IV. Improving productivity and staff morale Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents I. UltiSat continues to announce programs and initiatives towards reducing company waste, use of resources and protection of the work and personal environment II. UltiSat will research and pursue local county green business certification program III. UltiSat’s senior leadership conducts a periodic review of environmental concepts, discussions, and company survey results IV. UltiSat continues to make progress made in the area of environmental protection practices by remaining current on governmental and state regulations. Additionally, reviewing internal policies and comparing them against the domestic and global industry standards. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption rights for the company (i.e., anticorruption risk assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. 708 Quince Orchard Road, Suite 120, Gaithersburg, MD 20878 I. In respect to conducting business within a global presence, UltiSat has continued to make progress in the area of anti-corruption. We have achieved this by creating a more transparent organization and requiring the same from our business partners. A. Implementation of communications channels and avenues for reporting B. Creation of internal accounting and auditing policies, controls, and related anti-corruption mechanisms available to assist with monitoring capabilities. C. Continued commitment, training, and policies put into place to work against corruption in all of its forms, including (bribery and extortion) Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, reduce anticorruption risks and respond to incidents II. UltiSat currently uses a suggestion box and human resources “Open Door” policy regarding anti-corruption situations, questions, and concerns III. UltiSat leadership and human resources provide company-wide protocols to assist employees in situations and how to handle incidents of corruption IV. UltiSat’s senior leadership conducts a periodic review of anti-corruption training and goals in the next year Measurement of Outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance I. UltiSat leadership and human resources provide company wide information about how each member of the organization deals with incidents and violations of anti-corruption. 708 Quince Orchard Road, Suite 120, Gaithersburg, MD 20878 II. UltiSat’s senior leadership conducts a periodic review of organizational commitment with anti-corruption and progress being made. III. UltiSat continues to make progress made in the area of anti-corruption by remaining current on governmental and state regulations. Additionally, reviewing internal policies and comparing them against the domestic and global industry standards. 708 Quince Orchard Road, Suite 120, Gaithersburg, MD 20878
