Abigaël Sustainable Development Report 2016/2017 Sustainable Development Report 2016/2017 Editorial MEASURING AND PLANNING p 08 «However beautiful the strategy, you should occasionally look at the results.» Arc is kicking off a great year in 2018, with significantly improved financial Winston Churchill results and major brand anniversaries. RAISING STAFF AWARENESS AND INVOLVEMENT p 12 2017 was a great year for Arc; we kept our Man and the Environment. Like anything else, making sustainability and «Everyone wants to save the planet, factories saturated around the world, delivered Safety remains the Group's priority for both human values central to our mission works only but no-one wants to take the trash out.» Jean Yanne solid performance and launched innovative new employees and guests. This core value is when we set ourselves goals and measure our products. 2018 is going to be a really exciting embedded in our daily operations. Many progress towards these goals quantitatively. SATISFYING CUSTOMERS p 20 year for the company. This year, we will launch preventive actions are carried out every day and Without goals and KPIs, it’s hard to see whether «Ask not what your customers can do for you, tremendous innovations. Arc will demonstrate have reduced the risks related to the working or not we are making progress. In 2018, we will but what you can do for your customers. » its ability continually to reinvent itself to deliver environment on each site. develop clear mission, ownership, and goals Faith Popcorn great value for its customers around the world Reducing environmental impacts is one of to support our shift to focus the business on and to be deserving of its position as world the company's priorities and initiatives are sustainability and human values. For our 2019 PRODUCING BETTER p 24 leader. multiplying throughout the Group. Whether on report, good or bad, our current metrics will «The little we can do, the very little we can do, Arc now benefits from the full impact of its the improvement of atmospheric emissions, the be visible, and we will start the endless path of should be done. » strategic plan for sustainable growth and management of energy or more generally on finding ways to improve. Théodore Monod measures taken in the previous year, such as environmental management systems, actions In this report you will be able to learn the Group's continuous production improvements, product are under way or will unfold in the months to good practices, which are already the pride of DEVELOPING THE POTENTIAL OF MEN AND WOMEN p 30 innovations and new designs and collections come. our employees. «If you are planning for a year, plant rice; if you are planning for twenty years, plant a tree; if you are planning for centuries, develop people.» throughout all Arc’s brands. Production sites around the world are involved in Chinese proverb Since its inception, the company’s mission the life of their territory by participating actively has been to bring beauty and design to its in sports, cultural or solidarity operations in Tim Gollin SHARING OUR VALUES p 38 consumers at affordable prices while respecting partnership with associations and civil society. President & CEO Arc Group «When two forces unite, their efficiency doubles. » Isaac Newton 3 LOCATIONS AROUND THE WORLD 2017 PROFILE Arc The Arc Group employs 10 565 people products, service providers –with a wide range worldwide, including, 5 265 in France. The of tailor-made solutions to meet their specific Group, whose head office is located in Arques needs (industry, advertising, premiums, loyalty). in the French Pas-de-Calais region, achieved The Arc Group is present in five continents gross sales of €882.8 M (unaudited) in 2017. with its production sites (France, United Armed with its know-how in glassware, it States, China, United Arab Emirates, Russia) developed globally and currently markets its distribution subsidiaries (United States, Spain, complete tableware ranges to more than 160 Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Japan, South Africa, countries. China, Malaysia, Russia, Italy, Ireland) and sales Moscow The Group covers the Consumer Goods and Food offices. Luton Brondby Gus-Khrustalny Service markets through a portfolio of brands The Group has adopted a stategy of sustainable Dublin Arques – Luminarc, Arcoroc, Crisstal d’Arques Paris, development in order to balance economic Pine Brook Zaragoza Milano Eclat and Chef&Sommelier. For over 40 years, requirements, social responsibility and respect Lisboa Istanbul Millville the Group has also been serving professional for the environment, and joined the U.N.’s Global New Cairo Gurgaon customers – industrial groups, wholesalers, Compact in 2003. Ras al Khaimah manufacturers of semi-finished and finished Dubai Seoul ARC AT A GLANCE Tokyo 200 OFYEARS Nankin Shanghai Taipei Designing, producing and distributing Ho Chi Minh Tableware items And professional grade glassware HISTORY 63 Kuala Lumpur Singapore Sao Paulo Johannesburg Jakarta 938.8 M€ * Luminarc® Arcoroc® CONSUMER GOODS FOOD SERVICE 2017 GROSS BRANDS ArcopalTM BUSINESS B2B 10 565 CONSOLIDATED TURNOVER Chef&Sommelier® Eclat® LINES EMPLOYEES * Unaudited figure Cristal d’Arques® Paris Sydney PRODUCTS FRANCE 1 860 M DISTRIBUTED USA CHINA 5 IN MORE THAN Production sites 160 UAE OF SOLD RUSSIA Distribution subsidiaries GLASS PRODUCTION PIECES IN Offices 2017 COUNTRIES SITES AROUND THE WORLD 4 5 THE GLASS PROCESS BRANDS From earth and fire: Glass is composed of 70% sand, 20%soda and 10% lime. The material is 100 % recyclable and possesses superior properties such With almost 20,000 references marketed, the Arc Group offers a comprehensive portfolio of concepts for tableware, storage and decoration, aimed at as: good insulation, non-flammable, transparent, hard, delicate and pure. both the general public and at professionals in the hotel and restaurant sectors. The Group also produces tailored products for companies. The Arc Group produces white glass, opal, glass ceramic as well as Kwarx, Zenix, Diamax and crystalline. Brands for the general public Luminarc® is the world’s leading tableware brand. It includes stylish and innovative products for wine and creative cuisine, The bubblers ensure the intended for daily use. Various ranges are designed according to the habits, customs and tastes of local consumers. homogeneity of blending The articles undergo in annealing Cristal d’Arques®. Since 1968, Cristal d'Arques Paris has been a byword for French elegance and affordable beauty. or a tempering process The glass drop, perfectly calibrated, to improve their properties Whilst remaining true to its values, the brand will henceforth incorporate a spirit of relaxed chic; inspired by the Art falls into the mold via the funnel BURNER deco movement and by a Parisian lifestyle. Building on its deep knowledge and experience, Cristal d'Arques Paris is MERGER TANK The rims are heated in order to have round shape spontaneously transforming itself through a new and up-to-the minute interpretation of what luxury means. Everyday chic... REFINING Silkscreen printing TANK PRESSED PROCESS Arcopal TM is born in 1958. ANNEALING GOB DELIVERY SYSTEM The drop of glass is pressed by the core and takes the shape of the mould. It is cooled LEHR Since 1968, Cristal d'Arques Paris has been a byword for French elegance and affordable beauty. Whilst remaining true to down by air to solidify thus permits the removal of article from the mould its values, the brand will henceforth incorporate a spirit of relaxed chic; inspired by the Art deco movement and by a Parisian DOG-HOUSE lifestyle. Building on its deep knowledge and experience, Cristal d'Arques Paris is spontaneously transforming itself through GOB FEEDING a new and up-to-the minute interpretation of what luxury means. Everyday chic... FEEDERS MOULD Eclat®. ECLAT Cristal d’Arques Paris is the new brand of the Group Arc. It joins in a current lifestyle for consumers who ROTATION OF THE TABLE look for elegant, quality products with moderate prices. With the pledge of the brand Cristal d’Arques Paris established BLOWING PROCESS The drop of glass is pressed by the core Flat organic transfer in 1968, ECLAT benefits at the same time from the know-how of the group and of its French-style creations. The iconic, Introduction of the composition in a blank mould and takes its final shape in the dog-house: vitrifying element (sand) by blowing in the finisher mould timeless or contemporary collections of ECLAT guarantee glittering and spontaneous moments. + thawing (sodium, silicofluoride, etc.) + stabilizers (limestone, alumina, etc.) The feeders are used to bring the glass to its working level and carry it towards the different forming method until Professional brands the drop of glass Arcoroc® is today the second-ranking tableware brand that offers a range of strong and functional design products CENTRIFUGED PROCESS meeting the needs of professionals in the hotel and restaurant sectors, institutional and catering. Arcoroc is today the The drop of glass falls into the mould which starts turning. The glass takes the shape second-leading tableware brand for the professional sector. It is extremely present in Scandinavia (where it has a 70% of the mould and is cooled down by pulsated air glass market share), in France (60%) and in Spain (50%). HEAT DECORATION PACKAGING FIRE-FINISHING OVEN SETTING UP OF THE ARTICLE MACHINE TREATMENT Chef&Sommelier® created in 2007, includes complete and innovative collections of crockery, glassware and cutlery. This brand is aimed at professionals in the hotel and restaurant sectors, but also at retailers and wine enthusiasts. It has successfully developed products with iconic shapes such as Open Up. This brand achieves 65% of its turnover internationally. 6 7 B Le développement Sustainable development durableis est an un areadomaine which can qui seem peut sembler difficult difficilement to quantify. quantifiable. Evaluation mesurer Afin dehave methods to beles putévolutions, in place inil order est nécessaire to measure deprogress. mettre enInœuvre some des moyens areas a quantitative approach d’évaluation. is appropriate, Certains sujets se prêtent others whilstbien auxmay be better données chiffrées et suited MEASURING to d’autres a qualitative à des audits ou données approach. or audit-based qualitatives.These Différents outilsinternal different internesand external ou externes AND PLANNING nous permettent measures give us ainsi de mesurer the ability to measure la progression the progressde of nos our actions actions etand de planifier to prioritize les our projets projects en fonction des résultats as a function of the results obtenus recorded. et de la stratégie de l’entreprise. New name and new logo This change in the Group’s visual identity joyful, Arc’s new visual identity reflects the It has gradually been deployed throughout the represents more than just redesigned graphics; Group’s core mission: to make French design Arc Group, and is present on 5 continents where it comes at a time when the Group is going affordable to everyone, all over the world, it blends perfectly with the new premises and through a period of profound transformation through high-quality, innovative products. The communication tools used in the different sites. and aiming to reconquer many markets new visual identity plays with colours, shapes around the world. Simple, pure, elegant and and transparency using interweaving graphics. IKEA® Lean Audit Ikea has implemented a Lean Management benchmark system was used for the first time 2016, Arc France was assessed during an audit approach with its ISOS benchmark system, which on the Arques site in November 2016. As the at the JPRU on the following criteria: Quality, has become a genuine shared tool for driving company’s main supplier of glassware, with more Manufacturing, Logistics and Purchasing. improvement between IKEA and ARC. The ISOS than 266,000 pallets delivered to 16 countries in 9 Florine Official visits to Arc France and Arc Middle East Eco-designed products Official visits not only underline the importance In June 2016, Emmanuel MACRON (who was at the Group’s innovative and constructive labourAn eco-design policy has been in are defined according to different yet environmental impacts of the items produced of the production sites in the areas in which they the time the French Minister of Economy, Industry relations dialogue, which had contributed to the place for several years and two complementary criteria such as CO2 emissions, by Arc France. The results can be exploited by are based, but also highlight support for their and Digital Affairs) visited us at Arc France, along success of the site and the 5,000 jobs it represents, official assessments have been carried out by eutrophication (excessive nutrients) of water, R&D or production teams to reduce the most development and corporate strategy. with elected representatives from the region, Kirill with a production increase of approximately 20% in AFNOR (French standards authority). These impact on the climate and human health. significant impacts, and they can also be used These visits give important personalities the Dmitriev (President of the Russian investment 2016 compared with 2015 and the recruitment of have made it possible to better appreciate the Once the data was collected, a model was as a basis of comparison for improving future opportunity to go around the production sites, meet fund RDIF) and Laurent Vigier (President of the apprentices and young people. actions already in place and those still to be created with CD2E, our partner specialised in processes in terms of energy or raw materials, employees and pass on certain messages concerning investment fund CDC IC). A third official visit took place in May 2017. This deployed, as well as areas of improvement. this field. The aim of this model was to allocate for example. the company, or general government policy. After visiting Furnace H and meeting several Arc time, Bruno Le Maire, the French Minister of the In 2015, a team of employees took part in a energy and material consumption and emissions • They make it possible to compare the employees, the Minister re-asserted his support Economy, came to the Arc site to re-assert his MOOC. This gave them the opportunity to learn for each item, at each stage of its life cycle. environmental impact of items with similar for the company and its new Russian and French support. In the company of Tristan Borne, the about eco-design and above all to measure the functions, such as an opal-glass plate and a investors. These investments will enable the Group Managing Director for France, and several elected benefits and results of the actions undertaken Using dedicated software, the specialists were melamine plate or soda-lime glass and plastic to modernise and expand. regional representatives and journalists, the in order to promote them. At the same time, able to work on the model and analyse the tumbler. This will enable us to advise our In November 2016, Arc France received a visit from Minister met with employees and the trade unions. a Research & Development project (called life cycle of the products. At the same time, environmentally-committed customers in their the President of France, François Hollande. After MOTION) addressed the issue of Life Cycle similar items such as melamine plates and choice of tableware. visiting the factory, he gave a speech highlighting This is a reminder of the importance of the Arc Analysis (LCA). This was conducted on glass polypropylene storage boxes were analysed This study was beneficial for the marketing and his initiatives to help revitalise industrial production Group in the region, and its place in French industry moulds with a view to then applying the principle using data from worldwide databases, along the sales teams as well as the technical teams. Now, Emmanuel MACRON on visit in Arc France facilities. He also stressed the mutual benefits of and heritage. to the glass items produced on site. same basis. we must analyse and fine-tune all the results Indeed, in 2016 and 2017, a major study was obtained and use them as a tool to support For the first time, in order to launched on different product categories such The results have dual benefits: design, innovation, and decision-making. commemorate “Ramadan”, Arc Middle as soda-lime glass tumblers, opal glass plates • They provide a precise analysis of the East celebrated this special occasion by inviting and glass storage boxes. The initial purpose various personalities, including H. H. Sheik Saud of this study was to collect a large amount of Bin Saqr Al Qasimi, the leader of the Emirate of Rasprecise data about the production, distribution Al-Khaimah and a member of the UAE Supreme and use of the items in question. Council, and several shareholders and local partners. Other personalities and officials from government A Life Cycle Analysis is: departments such as the RAK Municipal Council and • multi-stage; it takes into account all the the Ministry of Economy also attended the event. different stages of a product’s life, from the The event included a visit of the site and an official raw materials through to the steps required for ceremony. Once again, this was an opportunity to the product’s production and distribution, right re-assert the good relationship between the Ras-Althrough to its use and end of life. Ramadan celebration in AME Khaimah plant and the government. • multi-criteria; this means that the results 10 11 The Arc Group has always paid particular attention to respecting people and the RAISING STAFF Sustainable development is one of the Group’s values, in just the same way as innovation or quality. It is an area in which the active environment. This translates into tangible initiatives concerning our products and AWARENESS AND involvement of all employees is a key factor for success. Raising awareness is one of the means used to change the company production facilities. At the same time, for our staff, this also means adopting best culture and attitude of staff. This addresses both professional behaviour and best practices that are also applicable in private life. practices and environmentally-friendly behavior. INVOLVEMENT It’s down to each individual to act! Mobility, an issue that affects the environment and quality of life Air quality has become not only an be deployed in the coming years, providing themselves with this healthy transport mode environmental issue but also a public solutions to improve carpooling and soft mobility, that everyone can adopt. The Conurbation health issue. Public authorities have addressed in conjunction with the local authorities. Council (CAPSO) presented the Mouvéo bus this issue by asking companies to draw up travel lines and prices, as well as the carpooling sites plans, in order to improve mobility. Awareness-raising actions are being conducted in the region. Arc France conducted this study using a in parallel. With this in mind, an operation was questionnaire about the mobility habits of its organised in September as part of European employees and by analysing access to the Mobility Week. It enabled employees to discover Arques site, internal and external transport flows soft, economic mobility solutions that are and a review of the internal situation. A meeting beneficial for everyone. Partners came to the CARPOOLING with local communities helped identify solutions site to present their solutions. Décathlon (French being developed in the region as an alternative sportswear retailer) introduced employees to to personal vehicles. their range of electric bikes and organised a An action plan has been established and will walk around the city so they could familiarise Bus network Like many industrial sites that are not bus transport network for the employees. This number of journeys made and meet the needs always easy to reach for employees system operates 24h/24 in order to meet the of employees who live in different areas of Gus who have no vehicle or who work shifts, the needs of staff and facilitate their daily lives. The Khrustalniy and who wish to benefit from this OSZ factory in Russia has organised its own network is being monitored in order to adjust the service. 13 Jade No more waste! International exchange programme National and European-wide events such as the Sustainable Development Week, the French Week against Food Waste and the «Green Living» in China European Week for Waste Reduction provide platforms for internal awareness-raising actions. In the United Arab Emirates, the environment is becoming an In June 2017, during the European increasingly important concern. Sustainable Development Week, The Human Resources Department organised Arc France organised several events addressing an event called “Green Living” to raise awareness the subject of “Better”. How to eat better, use about environmental issues among employees. resources better, recycle better, etc. This was the The employees at AME were encouraged to starting point for a partnership with AUDO-TRI, explore their creative talents and take part in a local association dedicated to social insertion a competition on the theme of “best waste.” and recycling, which installed two used-clothing Creativity, presentation, value and quality were recovery points. In 2017, more than 6m3 were the criteria used to select the winning team. collected: a quarter is resold directly in stores, An existing mould that was no longer used was two thirds are reused as raw materials and less given a second life by becoming the mould for than 10% is discarded. This shows how a service PAPREC stand, waste recycling another item. This avoided generating waste but that benefits the employees may also benefit the also reduced the use of raw materials. environment. Waste Reduction came to Arc France. It was In November 2017, the European Week for an opportunity for our service providers and partners, such as Elior, Paprec and D Multiple, to Photo of group : employees and students raise our employees’ awareness about our joint actions to reduce waste and improve recycling The Nanjing site in China received a opportunity to share their vision and plan for rates. A quiz was organised so that employees group of students for 2 weeks as part future recruitments. could come and discover the services that each AUDO-TRI stand, clothing bank of a Young Persons Exchange scheme organised This type of scheme is in place on several partner was presenting. They could win prizes by the municipal government of the city. The Group sites. For example, the Arques site has offered by the organisers: purchase vouchers, young students were able to visit our factory, partnerships with schools at various study levels visits to a waste sorting centre or a wooden picnic learn and exchange ideas. The students were as well as with Engineering Schools such as the table. given a good insight into the industrial world, and Ecole des Mines de Douai. These events reminded staff about simple a good understanding of the culture and values gestures to combat wastage and reduce waste, so Prize delivery to the winners of AGC. they would adopt the right attitude and behaviour These exchanges are important for both the at home and at work. students and the companies, who have the AUDO-TRI container Info NRJ stand (Energy information) 14 15 Major causes supported Pink Days Informing and raising employees’ awareness about their health and the health of their families is one of the company’s values. As In the United States, the “Pink Days” mobilise the population in such, prevention schemes and screening for breast cancer and prostate cancer are causes that the Group actively supports, in the fight against breast cancer. Various challenges were organised France and in the United States. during the Pink Days in order to collect funds in a relaxed and fun environment. In 2017 these operations made it possible to donate 2,400 USD to breast-cancer associations. Diva night is an event for women over 40 years old. It gives them access to annual breast-cancer screening in a more relaxed atmosphere. The “Mammogram Bus” walk in a very friendly, fun atmosphere. The parked up in the car-park of DGMC for a day in October and offered free breast purpose of these operations is twofold. Firstly, to X-rays to women who so wished. A total of 17 women took advantage of the provide financial support: a total of €1700 was service in 2017. For the 24th edition of the campaign donated to this cause thanks to the efforts of the Mammography bus against breast cancer in France, the employees and the additional contribution made Arques site teamed up with Audomarose, a local by the company. The second goal is to raise DGMC health programme Modifier par The check is handed to Audomarose association involved in the fight against breast awareness among employees and their families/ cancer. For the second year in a row, Arc France supported by its Verr’Elles women’s network friends about the need for prevention and The site in Millville in the United Regular initiatives are carried out, such as influenza, and information about dental hygiene organised the sale of tableware items for the mobilised the employees for a major walk. Some screening schemes, in a friendly atmosphere States, in addition to its actions in screening for high-blood pressure, campaigns to and eye-care. benefit of the association. In 2017, the company forty employees completed an 8-kilometre based on solidarity and generosity. support of the fight against breast or prostate get people to stop smoking, and presentations These health-care programmes are important cancer, has put in place a free health-care about the harm caused by drugs or alcohol. for employees and give them easy access to free programme throughout the year, in order to In September, during the Health Week, the treatment. Movember Challenge promote access to health care for its staff. company proposed vaccination against and combats mental illnesses and suicide. The aim of the Movember Foundation is to raise funds in a committed but off-the-wall way. Access to treatment and screening at AME The goal is to shave yourself clean on the first day In the United Arab Emirates, access Solidarity is also strong, and some 50 AME and to let your moustache grow throughout the Jury Movember DGMC to health care is facilitated by AME’s employees took part in a blood-donor operation month of November in order to show support for initiative, with many employees motivated to agreements with the local clinic and through organised by the Saif Hospital in collaboration Arc France Movember team the cause. The moustache competition is now get involved in this new type of challenge. The specific periodic initiatives. In November, the with the Jazeera Shifa medical clinic. well known around the world. It was launched Arc France efforts raised €659 for the benefit of company provided free diabetes screening for The Movember Foundation is an association that at DGMC in the United States in 2015. Some 16 the association. The site in Millville raised 1,400 more than 500 of its employees. Screening is the tackles men’s health on a global scale. It notably men let their moustaches grow in 2017. USD with its No Shave November challenge. first step to receiving suitable care, along with an fights against prostate and testicular cancer, In 2016, Arc France joined DGMC to support this adapted diet. Screening for diabetes in AME 16 17 Biodiversity Arc photo Sport is beneficial for the morale and physical health of employees. As such, employees are regularly encouraged to do sport and sports activities are organised on the work It is not always easy to protect or competition sites in partnership with the local authorities. These include volleyball, basketball, promote biodiversity on an industrial In May 2017, the Sustainable Development cricket, etc. site. And yet biodiversity exists and needs to be Department launched a photo competition taken care of. Above all, the issue of biodiversity is an excellent way of raising employees’ awareness aimed at all the Group’s employees. Volleyball match at OSZ The photos had to be based on one of the In Russia, volleyball is very popular The OSZ volleyball team finished first this time! about the environment. Over the last few years, Big discovery today for me. Change the ideas, exchange and laughter following themes: due to the success of the national This is a great way to motivate other employees bees have become fabulous ambassadors for the between colleagues, learn. A great moment of relaxation V.P. -Reconciling our products with nature team. In 2016, a local tournament sponsored by to play this sport a bit more. environment. -Capturing an example of biodiversity or a Employees dressed in their pea jacket the Russian site was organised by the municipal Therefore, in June 2016, five beehives were remarkable natural area on one of the Group’s council, involving several companies in the area. installed on the batch site at Arc France. distributed among the workshop participants, or fauna, flora and their habitats; how to reconcile sites After several matches, the OSZ team came Their arrival is part of a project aimed at given as a prize during contests. A few customers an industrial activity and the protection of -Staff in their work environment or an initiative second in this friendly competition. Due to its protecting biodiversity. The project will be even received a jar when they visited the site. biodiversity; how to lay out and manage green with local associations success, the initiative was renewed in 2017. deployed over the coming months on the Arques For this biodiversity project, Arc France and spaces and nature parks; listening to and The Jury selected one winner by geographical site, particularly around the batch site its partner “Le Rucher de Ruby” (Ruby’s observing animals around the pond; bees and area and a “Jury’s favourite”. From April to September, workshops were apiary) were awarded the “Marais Audomarois their hives. available to employees during the lunch hour Biosphere Reserve” award. An initial awards In blue, the OSZ basket team enabling them to discover the world of bees ceremony took place at Arc, attended by local Cricket at Arc Middle East (bees, pollination, honey, the profession of beeofficials, members of the Biosphere Reserve and keeping,…). Dressed in a protective jacket and journalists; a more official ceremony then took gloves, the employees get up close to the hives. place at UNESCO in Paris, with other “Biosphere Sporting traditions and preferences factory has won the tournament. Congratulations Since 2016, more than 70 people have Reserve” award winners from around France. are different in each country and to our batters, bowlers and fielders! participated in the various workshops. This award will give impetus to the biodiversity therefore on each site. With this in mind, the A total of 30kg of honey was harvested in the circuit project: explanatory panels and site in Ras-Al-Khaimah played host to a cricket spring and summer of 2017 and put in jars. The observatories will be installed along the circuit tournament. Sponsored by AME in collaboration honey was made from a mixture of flowers and according to the following themes: discovering Biosphere Reserve award with the Arabian Healthcare Group, the event brought together 15 of the city’s companies, divided into 24 teams. A total of 31 matches World Environment Day were played with all the teams giving their utmost. The competition was fierce but the On 5 June 2017, the AME site employees got actively involved and became planted on the site, where there is a great need “Luminarc®” team coached by Akhtar came out celebrated World Environment gardeners for a few hours. for shaded areas and nature. on top and was declared 2016 Champion! Day by organising a tree-planting day. The Thanks to this initiative, a hundred trees were Photo: “Jury’s favourite”, by Ron Covey, DGMC It is the 7th time in 12 competitions that the AME AME cricket team 18 19 Bringing beauty within the grasp of everyone is firmly in the DNA of the Arc Group. Thus every day our expert glassmakers design and manufacture products which SATISFYING Arc makes products that are original, innovative, simple and affordable. The Group uses its know-how to make products that all families can afford, celebrating tableware in every shape and form. Customers and consumers are increasingly aware of and inspire and delight our customers all over the world. The Arc Group brings all its CUSTOMERS interested in the impact their purchases have on the local community and the environment. The Arc Group shares these values technical know-how to bear in order to conceive the most responsible products which respect both people and the planet. which safeguard the health of consumers and make their lives easier. While remaining true to their core values, the brands have changed how they look: new logo, new design, new collections. The new collections have a contemporary Chef&Sommelier, these items are carefully style, and are designed with a new distribution designed to provide a unique tasting experience, channel in mind. The brand’s positioning is whether for wine tasting, to enhance special based on casual chic, Parisian style. The crystalline glass ensures long-term dishes, or for “baristas” (Italian-style coffee brilliance, total transparency, perfect acoustics, and resistance to shocks. barmen) serving hot drinks. designs collections of glasses and tableware that fit with the times; they are innovative and fun, combining functionality Krysta, a new material and originality for dressing bright and colourful tables: simple, trendy and Arc has succeeded in overcoming its latest challenge; smart. the company has developed an elegant, fine, extremely transparent material that withstands impacts and daily is reviving the brand by bringing back washes. “Krysta” is the next generation of crystalline emblematic models, while at the same glass, combining aesthetic excellence and high time adding new collections. Arcopal also resistance. announces the return of its mascot “Archibald the elephant”, which symbolises the durability of these day-to-day products. The R&D department and the production teams have developed an exclusive material: crystalline glass. For a thickness of , combining professionalism and a passion for 1mm, the edge is 30% more resistant than similar products on the market; collective catering. equally, a stem made of Krysta, with a diameter of approximately 6mm, At Arcoroc, the brand’s Zenix products will be extended across different is twice as strong as normal glass. With an extremely high transparency ranges, notably with speciality plates. Products specifically aimed at index, Krysta is one of the most transparent crystalline materials on the catering in the health-care sector will be developed in opal glass. market, while also boasting the pure and clear acoustics of crystal. After Arcoroc now produces products aimed at beer drinkers with the introduction a long period of development and tests, this crystalline glass is now of its “Brewer” range, especially designed for beer tasting. produced in France and the United States. 21 Paul Presence on social networks: Everyone knows Arc tableware, but not so much our A major presence to create the link with our communities washing-machine windows. With more than 11 million items proparency of the glass or the moulding expertise Today the company and its brands have a strong duced (essentially at Arc France but required. Designing a mould for a window that presence on social media. Subscribers can kep also at AGN in China), the Group produces 23% weighs nearly 2kg and meets strict technological up to dte via Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and of the world’s annual output of washing-machine requirements is much more technically-chalLinkedIn. We share Group news and events, but windows! In France, two production lines are perlenging than designing a mould for a stemmed also, and more importantly, marketing updates, Luminarc Arcopal manently devoted to this product, for customers glass… This therefore drives us to constantly cookery and tasting tips, interior design hints and Cristal d’Arques Paris such as Bosch or Samsung. Moreover, their techpush back our limits! analysis of the latest design trends affecting our Chef&Sommelier nological requirements enable us to continually brands. The goal is to connect with our customers move forward in the field of glassware, due to the and fans and to facilitate discussion with them. specific dimensions of the windows, the transRegular competitions give them the chance to win prizes, whilst partnerships with social media influencers have shown that the revival of our brands is widely appreciated ! Furthermore Arc’s environmental approach Luminarc already has more than 380 000 supports its customers Many customers are sensitive to sustainable development and expect their suppliers to followers on Facebook around the world! Luminarc Cristal d’Arques Paris make commitments towards the environment, Get signed up! Installation of 5 hives Chef&Sommelier Beekeeping workshops biodiversity, and working conditions. The Post FB Luminarc Biodiverstiy pathway Arcoroc Sustainable Development Department is at their service to answer all their questions, Post instagram Chef&Sommelier through questionnaires, audits or customer Audit and food certification visits, or in a more personalised way depending on the requests. Arc’s commitments and There are various different standards to ensure the processes and procedures are actions therefore support the customers’ own and audits used to certify products correctly controlled and managed (logistics, communication, whether in-house or aimed intended for the food industry. These ensure that maintenance, management involvement, etc.). Within the framework of its Sustainability policy, the supplier have set up 5 hives on its site in France. A monthly workshop directly at consumers. of awareness allows the employees to discover or to the products sold are compliant and can be used Furnace D has been certified for several years rediscover bees. Workshops of harvest of the honey or still The Sustainable Development Report gives of wintering are also proposed to the coworkers to deepen directly by the food producer. now and the Decoration Autonomous Unit their knowledge. an overall vision of the Group’s actions and also obtained Hygiene Management System By a few months a pathway of biodiversity will take place a few steps away from hives and around a pond. An sometimes a specific topic needs to be developed observatory, information boards on the flora and fauna of this Any factors that may impact the product certification in December 2017. EN 15593 environment will allow to know better the local biodiversity or expanded upon to support a customer’s and so to respect it. in any way (from the raw materials to the approach in this field. manufacturing) are studied by the auditors Autonomous unit D Information provided to a Scandinavian customer concerning biodiversity. 22 23 In a manufacturing company, the production phase is crucial in terms of product quality, costs, deadlines and environmental impacts. With this in mind, innovation is a key focus in order constantly to improve the processes and PRODUCING Energy Management products. Effectively managing production and its impacts is essential since BETTER Energy is probably one of the main societal issues of our time. Like many countries, organisations or even individuals, businesses this makes it possible to manufacture increasingly environmentally-friendly must be committed to improving how they use energy to make their products, and contribute to developing technologies that will reduce consumption and promote more economical and sustainable energy sources. products that also safeguard the well-being of the people who make them. Energy efficiency As long as glass cannot be consumption its energy policy and commissioned a team manufactured cold, energy will The project will ultimately enable the Arques of external auditors to perform an overall represent a significant share of production costs site to improve energy efficiency, reduce its audit of the energy management system for and be one of the industry’s main environmental environmental impacts and reduce its carbon the whole site. The auditors appreciated the impacts. footprint. professionalism of the operational teams in At the start of 2016, on the French site, an energy As preparation, in 2016, a general audit of the field. The implementation of the energy project called Arc SOLWATT was launched with the site was conducted. This resulted in a management policy is on the right track and will a view to: plan to improve energy consumption, through be consolidated in the months to come, thanks reducing energy costs technical, behavioural and organisational to the commitment of all the operational and implementing the energy management system changes. The second phase was oriented support teams. 1. Energy management tools (indicators, towards implementing the energy management objectives…) system. Consequently, at the beginning of 2. A change of culture in terms of our energy 2017, Arc France was able to put in place Lighting At DGMC in the United States, decrease in energy consumption for this budget have also adopted this practice, while also energy is also a key issue. The line, while maintaining equivalent lighting recycling the old bulbs. site has addressed the issue of lighting by conditions. In addition, the bulbs last 10 times changing the bulbs in the workshops and the longer and provide instant light. manufacturing units. This has led to an 80% In France, the JPRU and D autonomous units 25 Léo Green electricity Multi-manufacturing: when flexibility goes hand in hand Improving energy consumption is essential reduce its environmental impact by purchasing improving the environmental footprint of opal with environmental protection and one of the focuses is also to consume green electricity, equivalent to the electrical glass, which already emits less CO2 than sodaIndustrially produced glass goes been working on a multi-manufacturing project, production losses. energy differently. Since 2016, the JPRU consumption of the P furnace. This was an lime glass. through several technical processes, aimed at producing from 2 to 6 different items The moulds used for manufacturing items autonomous unit on the Arques site decided to important and symbolic action aimed at according to the product models desired. at the same time on the same machine. This represent a significant financial investment The forming machines are rotating systems means having several different moulds on the and require the use of a lot of metal. For small Cold-end chamber under video surveillance equipped with several identical moulds (from 10 to 18 depending on the processes and the same machine, adjusting the weight of the glass drop and the working speed of the machines. production runs, this reduces the number of moulds needed. In 2016, the company used 18 The cold-end chamber is part of conveyor and basket. After a few trials in France, consumption of the burners and the conveyor items). In the conventional process, the same This technical feat improves flexibility making it tonnes less metal to manufacture its moulds. a tunnel furnace in which items the camera was sent to Ras-Al-Khaimah, where by recording the settings and controlling the amount of molten glass is placed into the possible to perform smaller production runs and Even though the moulds are recycled at the end that have just been made can pass through in it helped improve analyses of production-line temperature of the refractory surface in the moulds, which are strictly identical. In this case, to pack a set of several items at the end of the of their lives, the best kind of waste is no waste! order to cool down slowly to remove stress in breakdowns. It also helped optimise the energy furnace control system. only one type of item is manufactured during the line directly. Finally, the Logistics Department also benefits, the glass. In March 2016, the R&D department entire manufacturing order, which can last for There are benefits throughout the value chain since this reduces intermediate transport and was commissioned by Arc Middle East to Towards the packaging area a few hours or several days. The items are then and for the environment. packaging, and the handling operations for Illustration of a cold-end chamber find a mobile thermal camera that could be either packed directly, or packed later with other First of all, when launching new products, repackaging. used at very high temperatures. The objective items to form a dinnerware set (6 flat plates, 6 this makes it possible to start with smaller was to obtain a greater number of real-time bowls and 6 dessert plates, for example). quantities and test the product. Industrialisation temperature measurements concerning the The Research & Development Department, with tests can be carried out at the same time as glass items and handling equipment, such as the the support of the Production Department, has the production, thereby eliminating waste or Improvement of water discharges in China Resource Management The AGC site in China is improving level and the output rate. Thus, the quality of quickly. This monitoring highlights the extent to Standardised packaging its monitoring of the quality of the discharged water and the effectiveness of which environmental impacts are being taken wastewater and reprocessed water. A continuous the physico-chemical treatment are monitored into account in all the Group’s sites and also by A project launched in 2016 aimed to standardise units of the Group enabled the experts involved packaging lines. measurement and control system has been in real time. The treatments can be adapted governments around the world. packaging and thereby improve stock to meet on the Chinese site to address the issues The development phase was launched in 2017 installed. It measures several parameters such if necessary and potential problems with the management, and ultimately reduce cardboard and propose possible solutions. and will continue over the next few years. as dissolved organic carbon (DOC), the Ph process or treatment system are detected more consumption. Guidelines were defined for packaging and This collaborative project involving different packaging tests, and for the layout of the 26 27 Air quality Lean Management In the mould workshops, we operations must be extracted and treated, better for the environment. The Group’s priorities are also quality, costs and staff. These are the pillars on which the balanced policy has resulted in a set of methods and tools manufacture… moulds. The blocks to protect the employees who work in the In the United States, the DGMC site installed a deadlines, in order to better serve customers by development of our company is built. that Arc uses in its different autonomous units of metal are shaped using machining tools and workshops and the environment. AGN in China similar system in 2016. improving working conditions and safety for the To achieve this, our continuous improvement and other departments. the finishing is carried out by polishing, so the has installed a new dust collector in order to mould is ready to receive the drop of glass and reduce the concentrations of dust in the ambient form its shape. The dust generated by these air by almost 40%. Better for the employees and At Arc France, Lean workshops are The adaptation or installation of specific regularly organised over intensive machines to reduce the repetitiveness of the periods lasting several days. The continuous work on “Pure Box” items in the packaging unit. Waste management Improvement managers and project managers Modifications to valves in the HL unit to facilitate in each department share information about the certain measurement readings and analyses. In terms of the environment, the subject of the workshop and the tools used. In Creation of a prototype to reduce the risk of focus in 2016 was primarily on order to move forward together, staff can enrol burns, on the initiative of operators. This initiative energy and waste on the Arques site. The and participate. So, they are actively involved was welcomed by the STN Management. 73% recycling rate in 2015 highlighted the in the issue and can transfer the methods and The use of day-to-day methods or tools to Workshop before Lean project importance of waste management. In two actions locally. improve working conditions, such as a wideyears, the rate increased by 11 points to reach On the subject of sharing, the Arc Lean Support angle or thermal camera to facilitate the work 84 % (not including the internal recycling of Department at Arc France has set up a shared of operators and the preventive maintenance the cullet which would increase this figure). inter-subsidiary network, where members of teams in the HL and JPRU units. The organisational change in 2015, with the the continuous improvement teams can submit The adaptation of paint guns to reduce the creation of autonomous units, also altered the their best practices or consult those of others, consumption of paint used for decorations by Mobile waste reception center Paprec and Arc France in order to put them in place in their own units. 35%. responsibilities and jobs of all staff. Autonomy The OSZ site has also worked on improving The structures and sign-posting were updated, The continuous improvement teams work with and performance now need to be monitored its waste management, notably by improving procedures written, and areas of improvement the operational teams on a daily basis to provide at unit level, and not just at site level. Indeed, identification signage on containers within the Workshop after Lean project identified for each autonomous unit. This longbest practices and improvements to processes seeking solutions to reduce and recycle waste factory. As such, sorting is now much easier or working conditions within their autonomous term work continued through 2017 with the requires closer monitoring of the processes in for employees, unit. Below are a few examples: implementation of a new service, new operating the field. Each HSE department worked with who will be able methods and new indicators. The foundations the operational environment and purchasing to make further support departments in order to clearly define are in place to continue to improve waste sorting progress through its expectations and future organisational and recycling. recycling. structure for managing waste. Identification of wastes in OSZ 28 29 DEVELOPING The expertise and commitment of our staff are valuable assets for the Group. THE POTENTIAL 2017 Progress of accident severity index (Arc Group) 0,60 Protecting their health and safety, providing a pleasant working environment OF MEN AND 0,50 and developing their skills are priorities for the company. This key management Safety 0,40 objective must be shared by all the staff so as to form part of the company’s culture. WOMEN 0,30 Across the group, on all the key safety metrics, 2017 marked 0,20 a year of progress over 2016. For example, by October of 2017 0,10 the accident severity index (TG) which measures the number of days lost to accidents and occupational health problems 0,00 compared to the total number of hours worked had reached its 7 7 7 -1 7 17 7 17 -1 7 7 17 -1 7 -1 -1 -1 ay -1 -1 b ar Ju Au p tN Ja n Fe M Ap r M Jun lg Se Oc ov lowest level for four years. 2017 also marked a new emphasis in our safety fire safety. Based on the APSAD standard required the whole factory (over 1000 employees) had management on systematically identifying and by our insurers, this covers areas including fire achieved over 600 days without a lost-time eliminating potential hazards to employee safety. prevention and protection, as well as monitoring accident. Some of the key elements in achieving Each month in 2017 over 300 preventive and and emergency responses. It is now being this success included a comprehensive system of corrective actions were carried out across the implemented in all our plants around the world. safety cross-audits between departments – often Group to ensure safer working conditions for our teams. One area of concern in all of our industrial activity is the occupational health impact of the level of As part of the on-going effort to improve and noise generated by our machines and processes. standardise our safety management system In AGC in August of 2017 a comprehensive survey across the whole Group, new Safety committees of noise levels across all areas of the factory was were created both in DGMC and in Arc France. undertaken. Some of the mitigation measures now These provide an opportunity for employees to being undertaken include the construction of noise voice their safety-related concerns, as well as for – isolation cabins in the hot end areas (see below) senior management to review progress and decide and the construction of separation walls to screen actions. Furthermore, all the monthly senior areas from high noise levels. In 2018 we will be management review meetings now start with a looking to find ways to reduce further noise levels ‘safety first’ reminder to foster commitment to a ‘at source’ through the design and specification of ‘safety first’ culture. our machines and equipment. Another safety milestone at the beginning of 2017 The year 2017 marked a milestone for the OSZ Noise-isolation cabin in AGC was the release of the first Group-wide standard for factory in Guz, Russia. By the end of the year 31 Clémence the eye of the outsider is better able to spot risks safety performance across the Group. Automation and ergonomics and hazards which otherwise go unnoticed. New Making up tableware sets requires several different shapes and sizes in the same box. This and comprehensive systems were deployed for In August, to celebrate these good results, operations in order to create packages innovation makes it possible to replace the most ensuring employee safety through LOTO (lock out employees’ families were invited to visit the factory comprising several types of items. In China and strenuous work, and improve working conditions / tag out) disciplines and through thorough Job (see below) – a good and above all a safe visit was France, the packaging workshops have installed and load-carrying operations. Hazard Assessment (JHA) procedures. The safety enjoyed by all the participants a new robot capable of packaging products of team from OSZ have also visited AME, DGMC and AGC to share their practices and help improve our OSZ families day Polishing tables The quality of the products depends also improves productivity and responsiveness. Ergonomics and working conditions on the quality of the moulds. The Most of the moulds can now be polished in preparation and maintenance phases are approximately 30 minutes, which enables the “Adapt the machine to the person ergonomics, and this means training and France. They can now provide 2-day training essential and the moulding teams require great teams at DGMC to polish complete sets of moulds and not the person to the machine,” raising the awareness of employees so that courses to employees in their sector, so that expertise to carry out these operations. However, six times faster than previously. The soft polishing Karine, ergonomist at Arc France. Here is a brief they can then take action in their daily working they can be actively involved in prevention, by these workstations that involve arduous tasks are action of this vibrating table also increases the definition of ergonomics. Taking employees’ environment. The teams of the Operational understanding how to analyse their workstations now equipped with a vibrating polishing table. life-span of the moulds. Better for the employees safety, comfort of movement and postures into Excellence Department are the ergonomics and making suggestions for improvements. Let there be light! This reduces the arduous nature of the work and and also better for the environment! consideration when designing or adjusting work ambassadors in the autonomous units. PRAP The training is based on the 9 principles of The Logistics Department at Arc tools is essential for protecting human health training (Prevention of Risks linked to Physical general risk prevention: France has renovated several and safety but also for improving the efficiency Activity) is the starting point for every employee warehouses. The floors have been levelled out, of the production facilities. involved in a physical activity. In 2016, 10 new Things get hot! the signs renewed, and metal structural panels Prevention is a central component of in-house PRAP trainers were certified at Arc Near the glass fusion the fatigue induced by excessive heat. have been replaced to let natural light into the furnaces, heat is In the United Arab Emirates, heat is part of warehouse. The working environment has been ➊ Avoiding risks ➋ Assessing risks which cannot be avoided ➌ Combating risks at source omnipresent, and particularly in the summer every-day life. Air conditioning is used to enable improved for the employees who work in these ➍ Adapting the work to the person ➎ Taking technical developments into account ➏ Replacing what is dangerous with something that is not (or less) dangerous season, when the climate can be very hot. The people to bear the extreme temperatures. warehouses, while the reduced need for artificial ➐ Planning prevention ➑ Giving priority to collective protection measures ➒ Giving appropriate instructions to workers human body is greatly affected by heat; it can In order to improve the effectiveness of the lighting contributes to protecting the planet. make people less vigilant and less responsive. systems in place, a special insulated door has PRAP courses train employees in risk prevention solutions in terms of layout or protection. conditions, such as wet, hot or machine In Nanjing, China, the factory has therefore been installed in one of the workshops. In this and enable each individual to play an active role However, many improvements are put in place at environments. The HL decided to purchase implemented prevention measures which way, the cooled air is kept inside the area and and suggest improvements. An ergonomist is Group level by all the employees on a voluntary safety caps for all its staff: while lighter than involve distributing cool drinks with vitamins, the temperatures are more bearable. present on the French site. She helps precisely basis. Below are a few examples: helmets, they are reinforced and protect the and installing fans in the areas that do not have identify the riskiest situations, and works with The JPRU plant has provided more suitable wearer from knocks to the head; they also have air conditioning. These measures have improved the HSE managers to propose more ergonomic safety shoes for employees working in specific a visor. working conditions for employees, and reduced The newly renovated Z10 warehouse 32 33 Acknowledging the employees’ skills Meeting young people When the Logistics Autonomous it called on Olivier’s video-filming talents; he cardboard and semi-finished products and the It is essential that we promote this industrial The Group took part in an inaugural event devoted to Unit (AU) decided to highlight its produced and edited a series of clips to illustrate preparation of shipments. sector to young people in order to enable them to industry, organised by the Chamber of Commerce activities and its employees' expertise in the the different stages of the logistics processes, discover the diversity of professions in the industry, and Industry, entitled the CCI Industry Days. This “Magie Verrière” (Glass Magic) training module, how the production units are supplied with particularly on the Arques site, which combines both enabled: manufacturing activities and the Group’s research • employees from the R&D Department to and development department. Partnerships with demonstrate the Group’s innovations in real life Training universities, high schools or middle schools are situations. Arc Stand at The Cité des Sciences et de l'Industrie , Paris Replacing employees arriving at retirement important to promote a better understanding of • members of the Verr’Elles network to promote the delegation, made up of motivated employees from the industry and encourage young people to take role of women in industry to the students present various departments and members of the Verr’Elles Arc France is faced with the problem presentations, and contributing to local training The exercises reproduce the workstation an interest and see a future for themselves in the • the Human Resources Department to inform network, participated in this 3-day event in the main of an inverted age pyramid and and employment support systems in order to concerned by the recruitment and place the sector. In parallel, there are also opportunities to young people about the hundreds of job offers hall of this major Parisian venue. It provided an many staff will be retiring in the next few years. raise awareness about what these professions candidates in a simulated work situation in order meet students during specific events. available opportunity to promote the rewarding profession of Today, the company is ensuring its expertise are truly like. to demonstrate their ability to do the job. The The event was a genuine success and should be glass-making and the various industrial processes is safeguarded through the transmission of At the same time, a programme has been set idea is to detect a young person’s capabilities repeated, in order to raise awareness about the to a diverse audience: high school science students, knowledge. up to meet the expectations of the wide variety as regards the target profession, without taking company and the jobs and career opportunities families with children of different ages who were The industry in general suffers from a slightly of profiles by offering a diverse range of career into account their CV. The recruitment interview available. delighted to discover how their favourite glasses “dusty, old-fashioned” image and, unfortunately, paths, the objective being to give everyone an that follows is aimed at checking the candidate’s The Universciences programme at the City of are made. A truly wonderful experience which was the diversity of the professions and career opportunity, with training used as a key tool to motivation and soft skills. Sciences and Industry in Paris provided another highly rewarding for everyone, on a professional and development prospects are not sufficient to achieve the operational objectives. The training given by the in-house trainers opportunity.This programme aims to give the general human level. attract young people. Traditional recruitment operations are provides trade-specific skills. The preferred Stand Arc au CCI Industry Days public a greater insight into science. An Arc France As part of its AIF project (French: Attirer Intégrer supplemented by simulation-based recruitment. teaching method alternates practical and et Fidéliser [Attract, Integrate and Retain]), This scheme has been developed by public theoretical phases, and the apprenticeship Online training the Arques site, in conjunction with all its organisations and approaches recruitment in managers and tutors play a key role in developing In China, the spoken working partners, is actively promoting its industrial a different way, by not taking experience and the skills of the young trainees. Validation of Acquired Experience language is English, and this is professions, hosting company tours, giving qualifications into account. In addition, employees can also have the value diplomas and several colleagues will be following also the working language across the Group. of their experience and skills acknowledged the process in the months to come. Language training is therefore essential for First-aid training through a CQPI (Inter-branch Certificate of In a context of transformation (organisation, employees. At AGN, online courses have been put AIME, in the United Arab Emirates, aid gestures and actions required to deal with a appropriate actions while waiting for the rescue Professional Qualification). The certificate is technological developments, etc.), the Arc in place for 37 employees in order to help them has built an excellent safety culture. In dangerous situation, while protecting themselves, teams. They are also important in private life, validated after an assessment of the person’s Group provides training programmes aimed perfect their English; three of them were awarded order to maintain this positive momentum, a total and helping others. Blending theory and practice, where being able to assist a family member or professional experience and expertise in at each sector of the company: R&D, sales, the title of “Best Student” due to their excellent of 60 employees were trained in first aid. During a these courses are essential in professional life, friend could save their life. specific professional areas (logistics, industry, production, logistics, finance, purchasing. performance. This is another string to their bow to 1-day course, a professional taught them the firstwhere they enable employees to carry out the etc.). In 2017, a total of 7 people obtained their help them move upwards in the company. 34 35 Well-being Social and internal networks A healthy, pleasant meal break service helps create a friendly, community area meals, which is particularly important for shift In Russia, employees whose homes within the workplace. OSZ recently changed workers whose biological rhythm is disrupted. are a long way from OSZ often take their meal its catering provider. Today, the new caterer as corporate history and values, quality, safety, combine an online course with a face-to-face break inside the factory. A company catering provides employees with more balanced, filling and the autonomous units (or mini companies). course, to do homework assignments that will It also provides profession-specific courses, be corrected by an in-house trainer, or to advise which are prepared in conjunction with in-house employees about pre-requisites before starting In the United Arab Emirates, has built a recreation hall with various leisure hall supplements the sports equipment already experts or via the CrossKnowledge support a course. Each profile can be customised and many employees come from other facilities. Employees can play billiards, tablein place and gives the site a more pleasant, Today, digital technologies and social networks package. the number of connections or regular course countries, such as Nepal, India or Pakistan. With tennis, table football, chess and carrom. This welcoming atmosphere. are a key part of professional and private The online university is open to nearly 1,500 Arc attendance enables employees to accumulate this in mind, AIME provides accommodation communication. The company has gradually Group subscribers, it is at this beginning of 2018 points in the Leaderboard, which congratulates for employees on its site. They live there for a initiated its digital transformation and the staff about 2 800 employees who have access there. “the steady learners”, “perseverance” and the large part of the year. To enable them to occupy are getting used to the new communication The modules are essentially available in French “top of the class”. their free time in a pleasant, friendly way, Arc tools. and English, with some in Chinese and Russian. Outside the marketing and sales aspects, two The aim is to provide online training courses that new internal social networks were launched in can be viewed and reviewed by the majority of 2016. staff, to share documents or exchange ideas via Yammer is a corporate social network, and every the blog. The courses are not set in stone and Arc Group employee has access to it through a can be updated as time goes by. It is possible to personal account. This informal tool for sharing and communicating enables employees to learn about technical subjects such as flexibility and productivity, and also to share documents and presentations, best practices, news such as the success of Ambiente 2017 (Tableware Trade Fair) in Frankfurt or press articles. This tool has « Recreation Hall », AME made it possible for all employees from every site around the world to communicate with each Changeover Challenge Each team won an evening out karting. All the of fun and fair-play. A friendly casual dinner other. The inter-subsidiary challenge to team members, along with Nicholas Hodler, the rounded off the evening. Arc University is an online corporate training reduce the time needed for manufacturing Site Director, Tim Gollin, the Executive President system. It provides training modules concerning changeovers was won by the teams at AIME. of the Group, took part in a kart race in a spirit basic information about different fields such 36 37 Sharing, solidarity and regional investment have always been core company values. These are the anchoring points that stabilize the SHARING Businesses obviously have economic objectives, but their societal role is increasingly appreciated by employees, who seek company during periods of change and mobilize employees around OUR VALUES meaning and value in their work, and the regions in which they are located. Win/win partnerships with public authorities or associations are essential for a company’s balance and that of its employees. local projects. Win-win partnerships at Arc France ESATs (disability-friendly enterprises) At Arques, the packaging unit has worked with forming the boxes, labelling, sealing. help people with disabilities find different structures in the region for several Employees from the packaging unit organise work and develop their professional skills. These years. In 2016, a total of 48 million products these operations and almost 200 disabled people enterprises provide many services to businesses were packaged by ESATs. The items and all the work for Arc France in 12 ESATs. Opportunities on who want to play an active civic role and have a necessary materials are sent to the workshops the Arc site are being explored for some of these clear policy in favour of disability; these services of the associations concerned. Specific support partners, so they can perform their missions in an include sewing, the upkeep of green spaces and is sometimes needed from Arc’s specialists. The adapted workshop on the company premises. packaging. ESAT workshops regularly work on packaging, i.e. A special partnership training schemes. The Hazebrouck centre is The partnership has continued and the company located just a few kilometres from the Arques donated decorated glasses for the festive endfactory and asked the company for support when of-year celebrations. The students made flower creating its training restaurant. The restaurant arrangements to go in the pretty “made in acts as a learning workshop for the young Arques” containers. people, but like any restaurant it also welcomes diners. Arc France provided the dinnerware for the kitchen and restaurant service. In order to better understand how industry The IME (Medico-educative Institute) takes in operates and how the dinnerware used in their young disabled persons. Its goal is to help these restaurant is made, the young people were young people improve how they approach their given a tour of the factory. This was a rewarding daily life and to find general and vocational moment for all those involved. 39 Lyson Drawing is a universal means of communications. It allows people to share messages and emotions or just have fun expressing themselves. In 2016, Arc unearthed several expert or amateur artists. Family Day in Ras-Al-Khaimah The factory in the United is an event where all employees are invited with Arab Emirates has a specific their families to take part in various fun activities Plastic arts at Arc Middle East characteristic: many employees live on the site, on site: shows, games for children, etc. The day either alone or with their families. Consequently, is great fun and builds wonderful memories! The sustainable and “made in Arc”! there are many events and activities that bring environmentally-friendly nature In the painting below several items are visible: the employees together to promote the wellof glass inspired Ahamad Mahamood, from the Ambiente dessert plate serves as a green being of all the people on site. The Family Day the New Product Development Department hill, the multi-purpose bowl forms a bird’s nest, at AME, to create artistic works blending the New Morning mug captures the waterfall, Diversity and Gender Equality drawing and Arc products. This creative and the Evolutions cup is used as a flower pot, the ingenious employee created works based on Amsterdam is used for buds, the Tivoli mug as landscapes, with some paintings incorporating a tree trunk, the Calice saucer as the sun and On the initiative of female staff at Arc France, a ways of increasing the proportion of women order to support female staff in building their an electronic system reproducing the twitter another saucer as a flower. women’s network named Verr’Elles was officially in the company. The conference attracted careers and confidence. of a bird. Congratulations to this artist created at the start of 2017. an audience of about 100 people, composed Verr’Elles is present on social networks and The network is supported by the Human of Arc employees and people from outside has a Twitter account: “Verrelles”. Resources Department. It contributes to the company. The (diverse) audience left the monitoring developments in the company in conference convinced of the importance of Budding artists at Arques terms of diversity and professional equality. fostering equality and combating prejudices. In June 2016, Arc France teamed up with the winning drawings. The One of the network’s first actions was to establish The event was a great success and it will help to City of Arques to organise a drawing competition young artists were given a training programme for women with the aim of change the attitude of even the most sceptical. for the children and grandchildren of employees their prizes by Caroline improving their confidence and self-assertion. A Hive of Arc France, as well as pupils from the city’s Saudemont, Mayor hundred female employees have benefited from Other actions have been organised, such as schools. of Arques, and Timothée Durand, Business these high-quality training courses. They came network lunches to get to know each other and The competition was open to children from 3 to Development Director, at an official ceremony at out more confident and motivated as regards share ideas, mentoring schemes to help new 18 years old. It was divided into 3 age categories the Arques City Hall. their work. recruits quickly feel at home in the company, and 2 themes: “Bees and their hives” for the The drawings were then circulated to all of the Verr’Elles organised a conference on the topic and debates with female students to reassure youngest and “Your city and your factory of employees and exhibited in the company. of gender and performance in June 2017 at them as regards their choice of studies. tomorrow” for the others. The pictures were used by the City Hall for Arques. After an introduction by Tristan Borne, The 2018 programme of the Verr’Elles network The employees and the schools participated certain communication campaigns, such as the Managing Director for France, the experts is currently being established, but it will continue actively and 60 drawings were received. A their greetings card, and by Arc to illustrate this invited for the conference exchanged ideas to drive the company forward as regards the joint jury, made up of representatives from Sustainable Development Report and even to and demonstrated the benefits of promoting subject of gender equality, and help employees Hive the City Hall and Arc France, selected the 12 decorate the beehives of Arc France. diversity within the company, and proposed gain a better understanding of the issues in 40 41 The magic of glass at Arques A member of the global compact The glass industry is a magical devoted to industrial tourism. Visitors can find Furnace L; the art of glass-making weaved its Arc was quick to understand the importance of industry. Glass is formed using base out how an everyday object such as a glass is magic. Many company volunteers looked after sustainable development and was one of the first raw materials, such as sand, melted to very high manufactured. This workshop, generally used for the visitors and explained the processes. The French companies to sign the United Nations Labor conditions Anti-corruption temperatures. Through this transformation it industrial tourism, hosted the 1st open-day on event was greatly appreciated by both visitors ● Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the free● Principle 10 : Businesses should work against Global Compact in 2003. This voluntary initiative becomes a noble, bright, transparent material, the Arques site. On Saturday 30 April 2016, some and staff. dom of association and the effective recognition corruption in all its forms, including extortion was driven by Philippe Durand, then Chairman that is both resistant and fragile. With this in 740 people were welcomed to the site and had of the right to collective bargaining and bribery and CEO of the Group and shareholder. The mind, the Arques site has a workshop area the opportunity to admire the newly refurbished ● Principle 4 : Businesses should contribute to the The principles are universal and apply to all our Group’s values were and remain similar to those elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory activities and sites. The United Nations Global of the Global Compact’s principles. As such, labor Compact is recognized around the world and by the company’s employees fully understood and 1 edition of the Glass-makers’ Fair st integrated the Group’s membership. ● Principle 5 : Businesses should contribute to the effective abolition of child labor all our customers, for whom it is a guarantee of good social and environmental practices. In the years that followed, actions for The first Glass-makers’ Fair organised by the city anecdotes. The next edition is already being ● Principle 6 : Businesses should contribute to These ten principles are illustrated through improvement were identified and implemented, of Arques took place at the end of August 2017. prepared. the elimination of discrimination in respect of the different initiatives presented in this report. and a first sustainable development report was The 35 exhibitors impressed visitors with their employment and occupation In order to make reading the report simpler, published in 2005. Since that time, a report unique and original creations. More than 2,000 the table below shows the links between best has been published each year and posted as people came to see how glass could be worked practices and the principles of the Global Communication on Progress (CoP) on the Global in several different ways: flame-worked spun or Compact. Compact website. blown glass, stained glass, fusion, molten glass, The 10 principles of the Global Compact are etc. divided into 4 main themes: Environment Arc had a stand at the fair and the company’s ● Principle 7 : Businesses should support a different brands exhibited their latest precautionary approach to environmental innovations. The company was also represented challenges through the “Association of glass-and crystal ● Principle 8 : Businesses should take initiatives to makers” , made up of former Arc employees. For the fair, they created a fantastic presentation Human rights promote greater environmental responsibility ● Principle 9 : Businesses should encourage the highlighting the history of the company through ● Principle 1 : Businesses should support and its various models, and the development of the respect the protection of internationally development and diffusion of environmentally WE SUPPORT friendly technologies site and tools over the years. The visitors were proclaimed human rights delighted to be able to consult the company’s ● Principle 2 : Businesses should make sure that archives and plunge into the company’s history. they are not complicit in human rights abuses Some visitors had the opportunity to meet up with former colleagues and share memorable Glass-makers' Fair in Arques 42 43 Correspondence table CATEGORIES PRINCIPLES POLICIES AND BEST PRACTICES REFERENCES CATEGORIES PRINCIPLES POLICIES AND BEST PRACTICES REFERENCES Human rights 1. Business should support and respect the Internal regulations and HR policy ID Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary Energy efficiency Page 25 protection of internationally proclaimed human Ethical code ID approach to environmental challenges Lighting Page 25 rights Green electricity Page 26 Resources efficiency Page 26 2. Business should make sure that they are not Internal regulations and HR policy Aqueous discharges Page 27 ID complicit in human rights abuses Hifh-risk a tour “high-risk” Regular adits of Air quality Page 28 ID 'high risk' suppliers Environment day Page 18 ID Ethical Code 8. Businesses should take initiatives to Biodiversity route Page 18 International 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Internal regulations and HR policy ID promote greater environmental responsibility Sustainable week and wastes reduction : Page 14 Labour Standard association and the effective recognition of the Verr’Elles network : Diversity and Equality Page 41 activities and awareness raising initiatives right to collective bargaining Waste management Page 28 Green living Page 15 4. Businesses should contribute to the Safety policy and approach ID Mobility Page 13 elimination of all forms of forced and Improvement of the working conditions: Pages 32, 33 compulsory labor ergonomics, well-being and health et 36 9. Businesses should encourage the Eco-conception Page 11 development and diffusion of environmentally Multi-manufacturing Page 27 friendly technologies 5. Businesses should contribute to the effective HR policy ID abolition of child labor Lutte contre la 10. Businesses should work against corruption Ethical Code and purchases confidentiality ID corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Ethical Code Group ID 6. Businesses should contribute to the International Exchanges in China Page 15 elimination of discrimination in respect of Engineer school exchange in France Page 35 ID : internal documents employment and occupation Partnership with ESAT France Page 39 Verr’Elles network : Diversity and equality Page 41 44 45 Environmental indicators Recycled wastes including production wastes (for the Group) EVOLUTION CO 2 emissions This represents the propostion of waste generated by the company that has been recycled. In this proportion are included the production waste, cullet, and other recyclables, such as cardboard for VS 2008 Metric tons of CO 2 emitted per metric ton of 1 st choice example. This share is important and is improving, particularly with the actions of cullet recycling. The 1,25 t 1,02 t glass produced (for the Group) few % points gained this year have been achieved as a result of advanced research on the recycling FLUID EVOLUTION 18,7% CO² emissions continue gradually to decline. The reduction is almost 17% since 2008. Actions to stream. VS 2011 impove energy efficiency are bearing fruit. 95,6% 96,3% 95,2% 97,8% 95,6 % 97.8% 1,25 t 1,07 t 1,03 t 1,02 t +2,3% 2008 2017 2011 2017 2011 2015 2016 2017 OPEN’UP 2008 2015 2016 2017 Production of recycled wastes Metric tons (for the Group) EVOLUTION Water consumption VS 2008 m 3 of water per metric ton of 1 st choice glass produced In 2017 the reductions in waste generation 10348 t 5689 t 7061,85 t 6638 t 10 348 t 6638 t (for the Group) (vs 2008) are more that 51% for metals, 36% 35,9% Water consumption is directly linked to the activity of furnaces. When the industrial process is not for paper and 4% for plastic. This significant 3 238 t 1597 t fully loaded, the associated water consumption deteriorates, which has the case in the past year. reduction is a reflection of a general awareness 50,7% MAGICIEN 3238 t 1251 t 2115,25 t 1597 t of the collection, sorting and reprocessing of 875 t 841 t 6,3 m3 6,98 m3 7,62 m3 6,47 m3 waste. Over the same period glass production 3,9% EVOLUTION VS 2008 875 t 697,27 t 803,42 t 841 t in metric tons increased by some 25% across 2008 2017 the whole group. 6,3 m3 6,47 m3 + 2,7% 2008 2015 2016 2017 2008 2015 2016 2017 Paper Metals 2008 2017 Plastics STORING BOX 46 47 Social indicators Training Investment in training % of payroll (Arc France) EVOLUTION Employees of the group EVOLUTION VS 2012 Distribution of the staff of the Group VS 2012 13692 10565 2,79 % 3.82% 13 692 10 162 10565 10565 2,79% 2,15% 3,8% 3.82% COCA COLA +1.03% -22,6% 2012 2017 2012 2017 2012 2015 2016 2017 the rate of training is stable in 2017. 2012 2015 2016 2017 KEEP’N BOX Inclusion Employment of people with disabilities (Arc France) Safety Frequency rate of the Group number of accidents with lost time x 1 000 000/ 9,48% 9,88% 9,37% 8,92% number of working hours MACARON NUEVO EVOLUTION 5,62 4,8 9,04 6,94 EVOLUTION VS 2012 VS 2012 5,62 6.94 2012 2015 2016 2017 9,48 % 8,92% +23,5% Taux légal français : 6 % Ageing of the overall population of employees at Arc France explains a slight increase in the number 0,56% of people declaring an impairment and also includes associations that help and employ disabled workers. 2012 2017 2012 2017 2012 2015 2016 2017 48 49 Notes Léa www.arc-intl.com CONTACT Caroline BARBIER CSR Manager Arc 104 avenue du Général de Gaulle Arques France AN 40/18 Conception graphique et photos : Arc Design Rédaction : S. Leleu et C. Barbier Tél : +33 3 21 95 46 67 GSM : + 33 6 50 69 13 42 caroline.barbier@arc-intl.com Luminarc Arc Arcopal Cristal d’Arques Paris Chef&Sommelier Luminarc Cristal d’Arques Paris Chef&Sommelier, Arcoroc, Chef&Sommelier Cristal d’Arques, Eclat , Luminarc, Arcopal, Imprimé sur du papier Arcoroc are brands of the Arc Group. 100% recyclé
