November 25, 2017 H.E. Antonio Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Pinni Group Company Limited through our daily business activities and our stakeholder relationships, reaffirms our support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas covering Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption issues. In Pinni Group Company’s third Communication on Progress (COP), please find a description of our actions and steps taken to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategies, culture and our daily operations. Additionally, we commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Period covered by Communication on Progress (COP) From November 16, 2016 to November 16, 2017 Yours Sincerely, YIN YIN AYE Managing Director Pinni Group Company Limited Overviewing to the precious two year as a UNGC participant, combined with a strong management system, Pinni Group Company successfully achieves the standard in: -Policy -Procedures -Documentation -Monitoring -Communication and Training in the business process. By using this management system, company implements to the GC’s The Ten Principles on the following: HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure Businesses are not complicit inhuman right abuses Assessment, policy and goals Pinni practices on following policies: -No Workplace Discrimination -Focus on Universal Declaration of Human Rights -Protect on Human Rights -No discrimination of gender, age, race and religion on employment process. Implementation Pinni program No Workplace Discrimination is practiced in our production process so that to avoid discrimination among workers. In our employment process, strongly emphasize on Non-discrimination on workers and among workers. We don't discriminate on Religious, Ethnic, Gender and Vulnerable Group in our employment process. Moreover, all workers have right to belief and right to religion. Managing the risk of harm or unfair treatment to our employees is good business practice of our Pinni Group Company. Pinni opens library for workers and its generation. It has several kinds of books for knowledge and information including general concept of Universal Declaration of Human Right. Moreover, management team strongly encourages and supports each individual’s creative design on weaving, innovation and development, enabling each individual’s strengths to build creative thinking and sound character for the overall to flourish, without compromising its underlying principles. Our new program is that invites Human Right experts to deliver knowledge and information to my workers annually. Moreover, we invite other business partner to know about The Ten Principles of UNGC and ethical business. Conflict Resolution among the Pinni Weaving Industry is practiced effectively. Constructive manner is practiced, i.e.to submit unsatisfactory, displeasure, unfairly treated, grievance, resentment, injustice and all complaints to Complaint Center, anonymously in Pinni Weaving Industry. Special Tasks of Management Team Measurement of outcomes is emphasized and annual reviewed of our management system to make sure it is effective and achieving our objectives, and to make any required adjustments. Our Human Resources Management and other management teams emphasize on the following: -Ways to track and understand national labour laws and international standard. -A process to identify the risks in our business processes that could lead to violations of social responsibility standards. -Written Human Resources procedures that implements policies in each of the labour standard. -A formal process to screen and select our stakeholders based on their ability to meet company policies. -A formal process for workers, managers, stakeholders to anonymously report any concerns about the implementation of our company’s policies. Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Pinni Weaving Company strongly emphasizes on: Company policy to uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining No child labor Creates secure work-place for workers Provided the written company policy to all the employees Educates our staffs that our company supports and adopts UNGC the 10 principles Help out in emergency response for safety Right to Rest and Leisure Respect disability and responsible business Supports educational fund -Commitment to avoid all forms of forced labour, -Statement that all overtime work not listed in the employment agreement is strictly voluntary. -Commitment to only work with licensed labour brokers who comply with all applicable laws and company codes of conduct. Implementation A management system is the set of interdependent policies, processes, and procedures that a company uses to achieve its business objectives which include social responsibility. A well designed management system approach also has business benefits such as: (a) Improving our company’s image and reputation. (b) Achieving both our business and social responsibility objectives. (c) Improved labour relations. (d) Cost savings through improvements in system efficiency. We practice the Capacity Building (worker awareness, effective industrial relations) and identifying problems in the supply chain (risk assessing and sharing, monitoring and evaluation, worker complaint mechanisms). Improvement actions enabling remediation, time bound remediation, tackling root causes). Transparency (fair and accurate reporting, response to violations) is practiced. We give permission to organize Trade Union among workers so that to gain collective bargaining. We created Workers Manual through the updated of Ministry of Labors to address responsibility of employers and employees. We create favorable workplace (fresh air, fresh drinking water, rest-room, dining room and toilet) for all workers and frequently detected by committee. Human resource manual refers under “Personnel Recruitment,” it is stated that opportunity to each individual regardless of race, color, gender, religion, age, sexual orientation, national or ethnic origin, disability, marital status, veteran status, or any other occupationally irrelevant condition. Maintain and improve diversity in our company, Policy of freedom of Association and activism based on individual freedom of associations and actions are practiced in Pinni. Personnel Recruitment employs over 18 years old only and practices no force labor; 48 hours per week and under relevant existing law. Moreover, Pinni encourage workers to earn more salary upon business share and (monthly salaries + commission on sales) & overtime allowances, uniform and bonus are provided depending on their skill and good effort. Under new program, let workers to know about knowledge, information and worker rights by supporting respective books and annual seminar on industrial, health care, work-place security and others. We supports educational fund to CBO in work-placed village. And provide health care to workers’ family. An effective process to verify that all workers and managers are working according to Code and legal requirements is included in company policy. And the followings are added to the company policy; Ability to know if our company is meeting standards on an on-going basis. Elimination of root cause to prevent the same compliance issues from occurring again and again. Ability to measure system performance and improvement Working conditions are safe and hygienic. Child labour shall not be used. Living wages are paid. Working hours are not excessive. Regular employment is provided. No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed. Communication and Training Awareness In third step, Pinni has celebrated Training and Awareness Program as a seminar on CSR& UNGC Development, Literacy & Management and Weaving & Its Health Impact, at Hanzar Township, Meittila District, Mandalay Division on May 11, 2017. We provide introductory training for new managers, supervisors, and newly hired workers on our company’s labour policies and procedures. And we make sure that the training covers all applicable labour laws and regulations. Display factory labour policy and local laws and regulations in areas where workers will see them and in Myanmar language what they understand. Communicate our company’s labour requirements, as well as laws and standards to our stakeholders using our media channel, in contract terms and conditions, and periodic meetings. Communicate the company’s grievance procedure and explain how to report issues related to how your company policies are carried out Measurement of outcomes Semi-annual review completed by Management Team. Environment Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Awareness raising or training of employees on environmental protection; Always try best to inform progress and latest technology on environment Reduce waste materials Reduce consumption of electricity Reduce consumption of fuels – efficient usage of vehicles and generators Creates green-environment and grow more trees Implementation Managing the risk of harm or damage to the environment is good business practice of Pinni Group Company. And we demonstrate corporate social responsibility (CSR) awareness. Pinni follows and practices The Environmental Conservation Law laid down in The Republic of the Union of Myanmar. Newsletters are now distributed via email, no hardcopy is provided. Especially, we use of the environment or any element or segment of the environment after making required protections from the adverse effects of wastes, discharges, emissions and deposits so as to cause public health, safety or welfare. We apply the continuous application of multi-strategy on environmental conservation to processes, products and services to improve the use of resource efficiently, minimize waste, polluted water and emissions and conserve the healthy nature and human environment; to enable to manage and implement for decrease and loss of natural resources and for enabling the sustainable use beneficially. According to new program, Pinni practices clean environment of inner and outer parts of the work-place. Industrial waste and rubbish are collected in systematic way and dust bins and waste boxes are put to the suitable parts of the factory. Moreover, we plant trees and create green-environment in factory surrounding. Measurement of outcomes Semi-annual review completed by Management Team Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals -Provide continued education for all level of employees up to about corruption Implementation Company promotes anti-corruption environment within the company’s personnel. We feature articles on corruption and bribery to let the people know current affairs of the state; feature informative and investigative reports on corruptions and its destructive consequences on society and encourage develop. For knowledge and information, we create small library for all workers. As all above mention, Pinni practices the Ten Principles of UNGC as CSR initiative including tube wells donation to surrounded area of weaving factory in dry-zoned area. Measurement of outcomes Semi-annual review completed by Management Team. Pinni’s Improvement. Documentation and Records We are meeting standards required proper documentation. And we are keeping the following type of documentations on our company premises: Copy of our labour policy signed by senior management. Copies of key Human Resources procedures, such as recruitment, selection and hiring, discipline and grievance, termination and others as described in the chapters that follow. All applicable laws, regulations and customer codes of conduct and other requirements. Copies of internal audit reports, inspection reports by regulatory agencies. Corrective action plans and reports. CSR seminar for local business partners, owners and students.
