ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABI ITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 E TRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILI REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 EST SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY R PORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SU LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO TAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPO 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAI ABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABI ITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 E TRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILI REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 EST SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY R PORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SU TAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPO SUSTAINABILITY 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAI ABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABI ITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 E TRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILI REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 EST SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY R PORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SU TAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPO 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAI ABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILI REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 EST SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY R PORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SU TAINABILITY REPORT 20172017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPO 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAI ABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 ESTRE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ESTRE SUSTAINABI CONTENTS 2017 Highlights cover About this report 2 A word from the Chairman of the Board 4 Message from the CEO 6 Estre and sustainability 8 About Estre Commitment to sustainability Timeline New ownership structure and enhanced corporate governance Ethics and compliance Estre for the environment 26 Solid waste in Brazil Environmental solutions and innovation Sanitary landfills Estre for cities 42 Waste management for cities Street cleaning and waste collection Estre for businesses 50 Connecting with market trends Waste management Estre for people 56 Caring for and valuing our people Health and safety: Core values ​​of our strategy Estre for society 64 Community presence The importance of environmental education and Instituto Estre Estre for the economy 76 Economic and financial results GRI Content Index 81 Credits and report production 87 The data in this report is for year 2017 LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO GRUPO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO GRUPO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO ÇO GRUPO MEÇO GRUPO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO GRUPO GRUPO LIXO É LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO GRUPO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO OVERVIEW ECO-EFFICIENCY HIGH-QUALITY, EFFICIENT ENVIRONMENTAL 2017 HIGHLIGHTS 31 MILLION Generated OPERATIONS EDUCATION PEOPLE 412.1 THOUSAND 1.2 MILLION 340,000 PEOPLE served by the public collection system CARBON CREDITS CUBIC METERS REACHED of leachate treated in 10 years of Instituto Estre Generated 8 MILLION 82 GWH OF 2 EFFLUENT 52 CITIES METRIC TONS ELECTRICITY treatment plants reached in 2017 of waste collected or received from biogas, enough to serve a city of Present in 180,000 7 BRAZILIAN INHABITANTS STATES 13.3 THOUSAND employees Aerial view of the Paulínia (SP) landfill, May 2018 INNOVATION IN GOVERNANCE, HEALTH AND 2017 HIGHLIGHTS WASTE MANAGEMENT TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICS SAFETY 116,000 LISTED 50% METRIC TONS ON NASDAQ REDUCTION of waste processed in blending and Certified to ISO 37001 in injuries Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF) processes Anti-bribery Management Systems 45,71% LOWER injury rate 85,3% REDUCTION in days lost Aerial view of the Paulínia (SP) landfill, May 2018 ABOUT THIS GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 102-46 REPORT STAKEHOLDER SURVEY E stre’s Sustainability Report 2017 is a tool to communicate with shareholders, market analysts, Throughout this report, we reiterate our commitment to advancing the Agenda 2030 and T his report has been informed by an extensive stakeholder survey used as the basis for managers and members of the Paulínia community. Lastly, a broader online survey covered customers, employees, suppliers indicate how what we do connects building our materiality matrix. customers, employees, partners and other stakeholders about to the Sustainable Development Our internal strategic topics and communities surrounding sustainability. The content of this Goals. Estre contributes towards were intersected with issues our operations. report covers the period from 12 of the SDGs, and any activities deemed material by our different 7 priority issues were derived January 1 to December 31, 2017. connected with the Goals are stakeholders. The materiality by intersecting the issues deemed The content refers only to the flagged by icons in the relevant exercise included a document most material by external operations of Estre Ambiental S.A. chapters. For further information, review and deep-dive interviews stakeholders and by senior in Brazil, including data about our see the GRI Content Index. with senior management, advisors management , and these informed socioenvironmental, economic and experts. Focus groups were the selection of GRI disclosures in and operational performance as also held with commercial this Report (read more on page 80). well as about our relationship with stakeholders. As in 2016, this Sustainability GRI 102-47, 103-1 MATERIALITY MATRIX Report has been prepared in 3.0 accordance with the Core option Environmental of the Global Reporting Initiative Social impact education 2.5 on communities (GRI) Standards, and with reference surrounding our landfills to the Integrated Reporting Waste management Governance, innovation and Framework advocated by the 2.0 technology Transparency & Ethics company perspective International Integrated Reporting Operational Council (IIRC). GRI 102-45, GRI 102-50, quality and Eco-efficiency efficiency GRI 102-52, GRI 102-53 , GRI 102-54 1.5 Health & Safety 1.0 0.5 0 0 0,5 1,0 1,5 2,0 2,5 3,0 stakeholder perspective 2 3 GRI 102-14 LEADERSHIP AND ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ESTRE RECOGNIZES ITS VITAL ROLE IN PROTECTING IN BRAZIL THE ENVIRONMENT AND ADVANCING SUSTAINABILITY FOR EVERY BRAZILIAN T he Brazilian waste market has institutionalization of the industry environmental stewardship and As a US listed company with MESSAGE FROM THE developed rapidly in recent with large investment capital sustainability management plays International investors, Estre has years and shares many common inflows. “Waste” has evolved to an important role in the economic strengthened and expanded characteristics with the US be viewed as a resource – for development and prosperity its compliance policies and market, including the way waste is example where value can be of Brazil. procedures – even beyond the collected, transported, processed extracted from recycling, for Estre is a leader at the forefront industry-leading levels that and eventually disposed of. In the use as a fuel, as well to produce of Brazil’s consolidating and were in place at the company CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD US, after the passage of strong electricity from landfill gas. fast-developing solid waste previously. While Brazil’s slow environmental regulations during While Brazil has rapidly followed industry. Through Estre’s recent economic recovery may constrain the 1960’s, 1970’s and early 1980’s, the US development cycle, we public listing on NASDAQ, we future projects, it is important rapid efforts were undertaken to are still tackling the challenges of have demonstrated our role as a that we continue to pursue our replace the existing “dumps” with legacy open dumps, their adverse pioneer in attracting institutional ambitions and further deliver on sophisticated sanitary landfills that impacts on the environment, foreign capital to the tremendous our strategy as an industry leader. would protect the environment and the toll they have had on opportunities in Brazil. This listing and the citizens. public health. People who earn will enable Estre to strengthen its The resulting requirement for a livelihood from or live near capital base, continue to invest, investment capital to undertake these dumps are exposed to and expand the markets it serves this transformation, as well as illness and disease that spread in Brazil – particularly those the economies of scale resulting through the water, soil and air. areas where compliant waste Andreas Yutaka Gruson from this opportunity, saw a rapid Waste management – through management does not yet exist. Chairman of the Board 4 5 GRI 102-14 COMPLEX OPERATING CONDITIONS WE ARE COMMITTED DEMANDED DARING AND TO LEAVING FUTURE EXCELLENCE GENERATIONS A HEALTHIER PLANET THAN THE ONE WE KNOW TODAY T he waste management and environmental solutions industry is seeing profound and agile solutions. Estre Ambiental has delivered consistent results since 2015 by implementing to be explored. In our efforts to fill this gap, we continually strive to deliver commitment to environmental stewardship, which has been with us since our company was first rapid change. New technologies, management strategies operational excellence through founded nearly 20 years ago. enhanced governance, new underpinned by operating our human capital. Following the Estre is helped by partners and MESSAGE FROM THE sustainability guidelines and cost excellence, compliance, reformulation of our occupational trusted by customers to care for reduction, among other issues, and a strong environmental health and safety programs to the environment each day. We are challenging companies to find commitment. meet OHSAS 18001 requirements, are committed to leaving future increasingly efficient and profitable These management programs we have successfully exceeded our generations a healthier planet CEO solutions. paved the way for Estre’s public accident reduction targets year than the one we know today In In the Brazilian market, listing on NASDAQ in December after year. the following pages, we describe conditions are even more 2017. The merger with Boulevard Also significant was our the journey we have traveled to challenging given the still Acquisition Corp II has helped certification to ISO 37001, the transform waste back into resource significant effects from the to significantly reduce our international gold standard for for the economy, delivering long-running and multifaceted indebtedness and strengthened anti-bribery management systems. sustainable benefits to broader economic crisis, which has our capital base. Estre was the third company in society in the regions where we continued to constrain Now with access to the largest Brazil, and the first in the waste operate. I hope you will also join us government spending and capital market in the world, and management industry, to obtain on this journey. infrastructure investment. In our with the most comprehensive certification. Achievements like industry, one of the most dramatic range of waste management these are a testament to our efforts effects is illustrated by the fact services in the market, Estre is to implement best-practice internal that over half of municipal waste preparing to lead the consolidation controls and compliance. volumes in Brazil are not properly of Brazil’s solid waste industry. Our continuing drive for disposed of or even collected. Unmet demand for compliant operational excellence and These complex operating waste management in over half of continual improvement in conditions require companies Brazil’s municipalities provides a compliance is delivering further Sergio Pedreiro to develop bold, creative and broad horizon of opportunity on our original, overarching CEO 6 7 Aerial view of the Paulinia (SP) landfill ESTRE AND SUSTAINABILITY Related Sustainable Development Goals in this chapter: 8 9 ABOUT GRI 102-7, 102-8, 102-6 ESTRE The Jardinópolis (SP) E stre’s relationship with sustainability goes back to our beginnings. Approximately 40% the Brazilian waste market, Estre sees waste as the beginning of a cycle. Through our services for energy plants, Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF) operations, reverse electronics manufacturing, and how we contribute to the wellbeing of our communities. Ethics, compliance, safety landfill of waste volumes in Brazil are cities—including waste collection, construction waste recycling, and and people are further pillars of not properly disposed of, causing treatment and value recovery— healthcare waste treatment are just our strategy. Throughout this serious harm to the environment, we help to build cities that are a few examples of our world-class Report, you will learn more about communities and public health. cleaner, more sightly, and more waste treatment technologies. our vision for sustainability and Fortunately, the solid waste sustainable. For citizens, we provide GRI 102-2 creating value for the environment industry has evolved and matured, greater quality of life, well-being Instituto Estre celebrated its and society through solutions for and Estre is leading at the forefront and health. And for businesses, 10 anniversary in 2017. The th cities and companies. of this consolidating market. we help to reduce impacts Institute was created to provide Efforts to implement compliant from their value chain, enhance information and raise awareness waste disposal and to develop environmental stewardship, and about the challenges of waste 31 MILLION and invest in waste recovery help organizations transition to a management in society, and is people served by the technologies create enormous circular economy. recognized as a thought leader in public collection system value for society and our planet. We deliver a host of social and Brazil for environmental education. This is our purpose: to care for environmental benefits through Our relations with communities our environment with integrity, a range of technologies, which surrounding our operations are 4,000 efficiency and respect for we describe throughout this also a priority; we work consistently Customers in the private sector stakeholders. GRI 102-1 Report. Optimally efficient Waste to build trust and communicate With a 20-year presence in Management Centers, waste-totransparently about our activities 141 government customers 10 1111 COMMITMENT TO GRI 102-12 SUSTAINABILITY ALIGNED WITH UN INITIATIVES In 2017, Estre reaffirmed its commitment to the UN Global Compact and to implementing corporate policies and practices that are aligned with universally agreed and internationally applicable values and goals, through initiatives in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Our letter of commitment Estre panel at the Ethos Conference to join the UN Global Compact was signed by our CEO and the terms 2017 and conditions for use of the Global Compact logo were signed by our Legal and Compliance Director. The 17 SDGs are listed below, and the 11 related to Estre's business are A n important sustainability milestone between 2016 and 2017 was the publication of our waste management. In 2017 Estre had the opportunity to sponsor the Ethos explained throughout the Report. For further details, see the summary on page 80. Sustainability Report in accordance 360º Conference 2017, during with Global Reporting Initiative which we led and moderated a (GRI) guidelines. “Sustainability round table themed: “Innovation reporting has taken us a great and the Circular Economy in Waste deal further in strengthening Management”, and were invited our position as a leader in to attend a round table themed sustainability”, says Sustainability “A private-side perspective on Manager Mariana Rico. public procurement mechanisms”. Another important milestone Throughout the two-day event, was the introduction of our Instituto Estre exhibited an Group-wide Sustainability educational scale model depicting Policy. In it, we reaffirm our the waste cycle. It was a golden role in transforming society by opportunity to position the developing the environmental Company in one of Latin America’s industry with a focus on compliant foremost sustainability forums. 12 13 GRI 102-16 ABOUT ESTRE Estre Ambiental S.A. is the largest environmental services company in Brazil. While most still see waste as the end-result from production or consumption, Estre sees it as the starting point for a whole range of opportunities. OUR MISSION To provide innovative environmental solutions safely, responsibly and ethically, and improve people’s quality of life by promoting awareness and engagement, and creating value for our customers and shareholders. OUR VISION To be the leading provider of environmental solutions in Brazil, while promoting innovation, ethics and sustainability. OUR VALUES We recognize and value our people; we do the right thing, safely; we are passionate about our business; we act as business owners; we act with humility, simplicity and ethics; we encourage innovation. The Paulínia (SP) landfill 14 15 Aerial view of the Tremembé TIMELINE (SP) landfill 1999 – Estre is established 2000 – The Paulínia landfill starts operation 2003 – The Itapevi and Santos landfills start operation 2004 – First certification to ISO 14001 2006 – E stre acquires the Guatapará and Jardinóplis Waste Management Centers 2007 – Instituto Estre is established 2008 – A  cquisition of Oxil (reverse logistics for electronic waste) 2009 – Partnership established between Angra Infra and Estre; followed by acquisition of Veolia assets 2010 – L andfills in Maceió, Curitiba and Itaboraí start operation 2011 – A  cquisition of Cavo, followed by investment from BTG (Estre initiates street cleaning and waste collection services) 2012 – Estre acquires Itaboraí, Viva Ambiental and Geo Vision; Tyranossaurus value recovery unit starts operation 2015 – Estre Energia starts operation 2016 – Estre subscribes to the UN’s Global Compact and the Ethos Institute Business Pact for Integrity and Against Corruption 2017 – Estre lists on NASDAQ and achieves certification to ISO 37001 (Antic-bribery management system) for its Headquarters and Capão Redondo units 16 17 GRI 102-7 BRAZIL ESTRE IS PRESENT IN 7 STATES Maceió Nossa Senhora do Socorro Rosário do Catete Aracaju Alagoas Key Feira de Santana Salvador Sanitary Landfill Sergipe Transfer Station Aparecida de Goiânia Recycling Bahia units Municipal Waste Collection/Street Cleaning Catanduva Goiás Biogas Facility Jaú Ribeirão Preto Sertãozinho Jardinópolis Guatapará Bebedouro Araraquara Américo Brasiliense Piratininga Itaboraí Rio de Leachate treatment Sarandi Paulínia Sorocaba Itapevi Taboão da Serra Tremembé São Paulo Santos Janeiro plant Fazenda Rio Grande Co-processing Balsa Nova Campo Largo Curitiba São Paulo Healthcare waste treatment Paraná Regional Chapter of Instituto Estre 18 19 GRI 102-18 NEW OWNERSHIP Board of Audit STRUCTURE Directors 2018 This committee is responsible for oversight and decision-making • Andreas Yutaka Gruson in matters related to financial reporting and disclosures and other (Chairman of the Board) matters related to risk and compliance. • Fabio Pinheiro Compensation and Nominating AND ENHANCED • Gesner Oliveira • John Morris, Jr. This committee is responsible for evaluating and nominating candidates to senior-management positions, and for periodically reviewing CORPORATE • Dr. Klaus Pohle • Ricardo Pelúcio Estre’s rewards and compensation plan, including bonuses. Governance GOVERNANCE • Richard Burke The Governance committee assesses Estre’s overall development, in• Robert Boucher, Jr. cluding the development of Executives and the Board of Directors. It is • Sergio Pedreiro also responsible for assigning roles and responsibilities and developing • Stephen S. Trevor procedures to improve synergy across Group operations. N ear the end of 2017, Estre underwent a major change in its ownership structure when it and corporate responsibility as the Company continues to grow as a partner to the environment. Executive Board 2018 Estre currently has 5 executive positions: Sanitary Landfills, Value Recovery, Health Waste, Private Business ESTRE AMBIENTAL S.A. OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE ESTRE ambiental, Inc listed on NASDAQ under the ticker and Environmental Services – Alexandre Ferreira Bueno symbol “ESTR” through Cayman BOARD OF Financial – Fábio d’Ávila 66,6% Islands-incorporated holding DIRECTORS Legal, People & Management, Compliance, Sustainability, Treasury Road Participações company Estre Ambiental, Inc. Estre The Board of Directors is our and Corporate Affairs – Julio César de Sá Volotão 6,1% 27,3% received a significant contribution highest advisory and management Communications & Marketing – Marcello D’Angelo from an investment vehicle formed body. It meets at least five times Waste Collection – Thiago Fernandes by Avenue Capital Group. per year to discuss relevant The changes have been a business matters. The Board of Marcello Julio César Sergio Alexandre Fábio Thiago D’Angelo de Sá Volotão Pedreiro Ferreira Bueno d’Ávila Fernandes watershed for the company and Directors is composed of ten have allowed us to restructure members, most of whom are our capital base, with ownership independent directors and all of no longer concentrated in a whom serve a term of three years. single controlling shareholder. The board is actively responsible Our public listing has also led for Group strategic and financial to a transformation of our planning and is advised in corporate structure and corporate performing its duties by three governance framework, including subject-matter committees. These a complete reorganization of committees, each composed of our Board of Directors and the three members, help to expedite creation of new committees. decision making and bring the The changes have improved Board closer to the Group’s day-totransparency, equity, accountability day activities. 20 21 ETHICS AND GRI 103-415 COMPLIANCE Estre was the first company in the waste management industry to obtain certification to ISO 37001 In 2017, Estre became the third company in Brazil, and the only company in our industry, an internal audit was conducted by an independent committee appointed by the Board of employees adhere to our anticorruption policy, code of ethics and other policies and standards. management attends meetings (scheduled and extraordinary), with the CEO being ever present. to obtain certification to ISO Directors. “Compliance guardians will act as 37001, an international standard Based on the committee’s focal points at our business units, Compliance Program on anti-bribery management assessment on integrity in supplier helping to disseminate these The Compliance and Risk systems. The certification covers relations and on our compliance practices,” says Eduardo Azevedo, Management function reports our Headquarters and the Capão standards, a reorganization Head of Risk and Compliance. periodically to the Ethics Committee Redondo business unit in the was implemented within the In the second half of 2017, Estre and the Board of Directors on south side of São Paulo city. Soma Consortium, and supplier organized a Supplier Compliance the management of the hotline, Successful certification has been onboarding policies were Day to disseminate our Supplier implementation of the Integrity the result of continuing efforts to enhanced. Code of Ethics and discuss issues Program aligned with Antistrengthen our Risk & Compliance Estre also grew in compliance around ethics, labor practices and corruption Act 12846/2013, training function with expanded maturity in 2017, implementing sustainability. in anticorruption policies, creation administrative capabilities. For action plans and targets with GRI 102-9 of metrics to monitor corruption 70% the past three years, a robust Integrity program has been widely a focus on prevention. This helped to reduce the amount of Following our recent public listing, Estre has become subject to risks, monitoring internal controls combating corruption and preparing reduction in disseminated through company environmental fines imposed on stringent international regulations Estre to achieve integrity program environmental communications covering all levels our landfills by 70%. such as the Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) certification. fine notices of the organization, as well as Our Compliance function Act, which has further enhanced suppliers. Risk assessments on our has also been active on other our financial controls and efficiency Integrity Program business units and processes have fronts, including our Leadership in corporate governance. Established as a corporate target at supported the implementation Development Program (LDP), the company, the program pursues of an Integrity Program across which featured a module Ethics Committee compliance with the Anti-corruption subsidiaries. GRI 205-1, GRI 205-2 dedicated to ethics and Created by the Ethics Committee Act and in 2017 was successfully After receiving tax notices compliance, and was attended Policy, this committee is primarily implemented leading to the payment toward the end of 2017 and by 90% of executives; and our tasked with ensuring Estre's of bonuses for executives and profit following the Federal investigations Compliance Guardians Program, integrity program is implemented shares to other employees as a result as part of Operation Descarte, which aims to ensure our and monitored. Senior of 90% of this program’s controls 22 2323 Estre Institute’s waste cycle scale model exhibited at the Ethos Conference 2017 department. Professionals and for integrity and against corruption service providers were given work group, organized by Instituto training on the Integrity Program Ethos to raise awareness about this by 2017, in the same year a remote issue. Companies undertake the course was also administered. commitment to disclose Brazilian anticorruption legislation to its staff Conflict of and stakeholders their order to interest Policy ensure complete compliance with having been performed. These where contracts with commercial Introduced in 2017, this policy it. Companies also undertake to controls are also established partners were terminated or not embraces our staff and service thwart bribery in all forms as individual targets for certain renewed as a result of corruptionproviders, who should not be and to strive for legality and executive levels. The program related violations. GRI 205-3 involved in any conflicts of interest information transparency, and consists of metrics that make it that could adversely affect our to collaborate in investigations possible to objectively monitor Scope business. Due diligences are where necessary. activities, and the consultancy All company professionals are conducted on eligible or high risk firm Ernst & Young was engaged required to sign the Accountability positions to detect conflicts of Brazilian Institute for to carry out an independent and Affirmation Statement related interest, which can be used as a Corporate Governance assessment. The evolution of the to the corporate code of ethics criteria by the Company. (IBGC) Integrity Program and greater and conduct and Anti-corruption Estre has recently joined IBGC internal disclosure of the Hotline Policy. Hard copies of the code Business Pact for integrity so it could join the debate about enabled the company to identify are given to all staff, including and against corruption the best corporate governance cases of corruption in 2017, which service providers, during the (Instituto Ethos) practices. Estre's representatives led to the professionals involved induction process conducted by Since 2016 Estre has also actively participate in the being punished, and other cases the personnel and management participated in the Business Pact Legal Commission. 24 2525 ESTRE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Related Sustainable Development Goals in this chapter: Street sweeping in Curitiba (PR), where Estre has been responsible for city cleaning for more than 20 years 26 27 SOLID WASTE IN BRAZIL A DEVELOPING INDUSTRY D isposing of solid waste in open dumps has been a crime since the Environmental Crimes Act sanitary landfills in Brazil, providing an alternative for cities seeking to achieve waste disposal compliance. (Act 9605/1998) was promulgated According to a study carried out by in 1998. This has compelled the ABLP 1, 448 new regional landfills A milestone for our industry, Brazil’s National Solid Waste Policy (PNRS) set a new direction through specific waste taxes and budgets, requiring companies to implement reverse logistics, market to develop new solutions and sanitary landfills. Despite the tougher regulations, are still needed to eradicate open waste dumps in the country. IMPROPER DISPOSAL for the generation, reduction, promoting shared responsibility however, 60% of waste volumes OF MSW IN BRAZIL2 treatment and compliant for waste generation throughout in Brazil were still disposed of in final disposal of solid waste. the value chain, implementing open dumps in 2003. 60% However, a number of challenges municipal waste segregation Since then, continued remain to be addressed to systems, and replacing open implementation and expansion of 45% 42% 41% achieve full compliance with dumps with sanitary landfills regional sanitary landfills—such as PNRS requirements. These by 2021. The 2016 solid Estre's own operations—helped include advancing municipal waste survey by the Brazilian to reduce non-compliant disposal implementation of integrated Association of City Cleaning to 41% of total volumes by 2016. waste management systems, Companies (ABRELPE) found The private sector has a crucial role achieving financial sustainability that: to play in the regionalization of 2003 2008 2012 2016 41.6% 81,000 78.3 MILLION 1.040 KG THE of waste volumes are improperly METRIC TONS of waste go to irregular metric tons of waste materials were of household waste per DECLINE is explained $ disposed of dump sites daily generated in Brazil person (declining by declining by 2.9% compared (2.04% less than in 2015) with 2015) 2.9% consumption as a result of the economic crisis 2.04% 1 Limpeza Pública n. 95 (2016) – Brazilian Association of Solid Waste and City Cleaning. 2 The percentage of improperly-disposed-of-waste is calculated based on daily MSW volumes, which vary with economic conditions and consumption. Source: “Snapshot of Solid Waste in Brazil” ABRELPE. 28 29 ENVIRONMENTAL WASTE TO ENERGY SOLUTIONS AND D ecomposing waste from capacity of 14 MW. The power INNOVATION homes, tree pruning and output is partly used by Estre's other organic compounds own operations, but most is in landfills generate a biogas exported to the grid for use by composed of methane and end consumers. carbon dioxide, which contributes The electricity these plants to the greenhouse effect if directly produce is enough to supply released into the atmosphere. 180,000 people with clean and In 2017, 82 GWh of electricity renewable energy. This has were generated by our landfill avoided 15,800 metric tons of F inding optimal solutions to exhaust all waste treatment and value recovery possibilities before which waste is minimized and discarded products are cycled back into the value chain. gas plants in Guatapará, São Paulo, and Fazenda Rio Grande, Paraná—each has an installed methane emissions, or 395,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions, into the atmosphere. waste goes to landfill is part of our Estre is at the forefront of many innovation process at Estre. We of these value recovery processes, recognize Brazil’s potential for, and such as energy generation from 15,800 METRIC TONS of methane emissions avoided, invest in solutions that contribute landfills and production of fuel equivalent to 395,000 METRIC TONS OF CO2 toward, a circular economy, in from waste. 82 GWH OF ELECTRICITY PRODUCED, enough for a population of 180,000 412,100 CERTIFIED EMISSION REDUCTIONS (CER) GENERATED Biogas power plant in Paulínia (SP) Fazenda Rio Grande (PR) Waste Management Center, which handles waste from 30 the Curitiba area. 31 The Tyranossaurus operation, producing Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF) PIONEERING REFUSE DERIVED FUEL (RDF) DISPOSAL OF ELECTRONICS: I n 2010 Estre became the first company in Brazil to invest in Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF) energy recovery processes. Estre's RDF meets all applicable state regulations and has a high REVERSE MANUFACTURING production technology. The calorific value of more than 4,000 Tyrannosaurus, as the unit has been christened, is capable of crushing large quantities of kcal/kg, exceeding the energy content of other alternative fuels such as wood chips and sugar cane In 2017, Oxil, an Estre Group reverse logistics and manufacturing company, recycled tax and asset write-off accounting, de-characterization, dismantling and disposal. municipal solid waste (residential bagasse and trash. 93% of the 534 metric tons of E-waste is classified as highand commercial) and nonThe use of RDF reduces waste it received, largely consisting priority waste due to the high level hazardous industrial waste (Class environmental liabilities, increases of electronic waste including of environmental contamination it 46,000 IIA and IIB). Waste entering the unit the useful life of sanitary landfills, printers and toner cartridges. can cause. This waste classification METRIC is screened by a tightly controlled and helps to conserve nonThe small percentage of nonsystem, and the requirement to 534 TONS gravimetric system (based on renewable natural resources, salvageable waste is co-processed implement reverse logistics for METRIC TONS of nonhazardous waste composition), sorted, and such as petroleum coke. The in kilns to produce clinker (for high-priority waste groups, were received, of which waste processed mechanically blended with an Tyrannosaurus is housed at the cement) or sent to recycling introduced as part of Brazil’s into fuel for optimal proportion between dry complex in Paulínia (SP) and has facilities. National Solid Waste Policy (PNRS). 93% industrial use and wet materials. In 2017, 46,000 a daily processing capacity of Oxil provides a range of services With 1.5 million metric tons of were recycled metric tons of non-hazardous between 300 and 600 metric tons including asset inventory taking, e-waste produced per year (only waste were processed by waste-toof solid waste. warehousing, destruction of 2% of which is recycled), Brazil confidential documents, supervised generates more of this type of destruction, custom projects for waste than any other country in clients, sorting, management of Latin America. 32 33 CO-PROCESSING: BLENDING OPERATION R esicontrol Soluções Ambientais is an Estre Group co-processing company that specializes in product with no distinctive marks, safeguarding clients’ brands and the value chain involved. blending non-hazardous or The output is similar to the hazardous waste (Class II or I) product from the Tyrannosaurus containing paint and oil sludge, unit: a solid or liquid blend resins, glues, latex, cosmetics, that is high in calorific value drugs and contaminated soil for and low in chlorine, moisture use in the production of cement. and ash, and compliant with Materials received at facilities in applicable regulations. In 2017, Construction waste recycling Sorocaba (SP) and Balsa Nova Estre processed approximately (PR) are first analyzed at an ISO 70,000 metric tons of waste at our 17025-certified laboratory. They blending units, producing are then sent for processing, enough alternative fuel to de-characterization and blending generate the equivalent of NEW VALUE FROM using state-of-the-art facilities that 350,000 MW of electricity, provide customers and partners while helping to conserve CONSTRUCTION WASTE with a safe and high-quality end natural resources. A ccording to the Brazilian Association for Construction and Demolition Waste Recycling 3.7 million low-budget houses. Estre has a mechanized recycling system capable of processing (ABRECON), Brazil produces various types of construction around 84 million cubic meters materials. Sand, gravel, crushed of construction and demolition rock, mortar, concrete and ceramic 70,000 METRIC TONS waste each year. If all this waste materials are crushed and can be of waste, enough to were recycled, it would be enough used again. A total of 46,234 m³ generate 350,000 MW of electricity to build 7,000 ten-story buildings, of construction waste were 168,000 kilometers of highways or processed in 2017. 46,234 m3 of construction waste recycled 34 35 Aerial view of the Fazenda Rio D-MRF TECHNOLOGY: Grande Bioremediation Unit ADVANCING A CIRCULAR ECONOMY E stre’s Dirty Material Recovery separators, optical separators, Facility (D-MRF) recovers reversible conveyors, magnetic recyclable materials in a separation equipment and process that combines reverse inductive separators. logistics with circular economy The facility will have a capacity principles, producing a clean, safe, traceable and tax-compliant to process more than 120 metric tons of recyclable waste daily, SOIL product. The technology cycles waste back into the market as producing more than 35,000 metric tons of recycled materials DECONTAMINATION high-quality raw materials usable per year. The unit will be installed 40,000 in producing paper, plastics and metals. Between 2016 and 2017, Estre invested over R$ 15 million in an 8,000 square-meter facility within the Estre complex in Paulínia (SP), operating in B ioremediation is a biological treatment for contaminated soils that leverages the ability and maintaining appropriate temperature, humidity and oxygenation in processed soils. metric tons of soil in building and automated waste tandem with the Refuse of microorganisms, especially Gas emissions from the Fazenda treated separation an sorting unit for Derived Fuel (RDF) unit. fungi and bacteria, to break Rio Grande Bioremediation Unit recyclable materials. The unit has Operation is scheduled to down organic compounds are captured by an exhaust a range of sorting equipment commence in the second into carbon dioxide, water and system and retained by special including rotary screens, ballistic half of 2018. biomass. Typically, infed soils are biofilters. Atmospheric emissions contaminated with petroleum are monitored periodically in hydrocarbons (gasoline, diesel, accordance with SEMA Resolution kerosene, lubricants, oils); 016/2014 and SEMA/IAP Directive polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons IAP 001/2008. (PAH) and BTXE aromatics. The Fazenda Rio Grande 120 METRIC TONS producing more than of waste to be 35,000 METRIC TONS Bioremediation management Bioremediation Unit covers an area procedures include controlling of 12,000 ​​ m² and has a capacity processed daily, of recycled materials per year waste receipt, determining to treat 6,600 metric tons of pollutant concentrations, adding contaminated soils per month. appropriate amounts of nutrients, In 2017 the unit received 40,000 adequately handling soil material, metric tons of contaminated soils. 36 37 SANITARY GRI 102-11, GRI103-304, GRI 103-306 EFFLUENT TREATMENT PLANTS LANDFILLS IMPROVE LANDFILL EFFICIENCY E stre operates thirteen sanitary landfills (known as Waste Management Centers) throughout that our sanitary landfills operate in accordance with international best practice, and to preventing E ffluent treatment plants have been built at two of our Waste Management Centers— stages (anaerobic, aerobic, physicochemical, filters) before it is discharged into water bodies. Brazil, some with healthcare waste any contamination risk for the Fazenda do Rio Grande (PR) and Treated effluent will not impact disposal units, power generation environment and communities. Maceió (AL)—for on-site leachate river biology and is safe for reuse in facilities and effluent treatment In 2017, our landfills treated 1.2 treatment. At at these facilities, irrigation, for example. At our other plants. million cubic meters of leachate. landfill leachate—which has a landfills, leachate is treated at offSanitary landfill efficiency Our commitment also extends to high organic load and poses a risk site plants that are duly licensed and safety is ensured by soil mitigating impacts as required by of groundwater contamination— by the appropriate environmental waterproofing; leachate drainage, our operating licenses. undergoes multiple treatment protection agency. 1.2 collection and treatment Special precautions are taken systems; surface water drainage at our nine landfills located near Our landfills at a glance: systems; biogas extraction as protected areas. These landfills fuel; geotechnical monitoring have environmental protection and 6.1 million metric tons and periodic reporting to environmental agencies; and fauna recovery measures in place to ensure the preservation of million of class II (non-hazardous) waste and ﬂora control. existing ecosystems. cubic meters We are committed to ensuring GRI 304-1 of leachate treated 39,700 metric tons of class I (hazardous) waste Our landfill in Tremembé (SP) 38 GRI 103/304 Biogas burners at the Guatapará (SP) landfill Final disposal of incoming waste (in metric tons) GRI 306-2 Material 2017 ESTIMATED GHG Nonhazardous waste EMISSIONS AVOIDED Recycling 1 2,967.88 Recovery 2 46,994.00 Landfilling 6,080,959.70 At Estre’s 13 sanitary landfills, Total 6,130,921.58 OVER 100,000 METRIC TONS of methane emissions are estimated to be avoided Hazardous waste by burning methane as biogas, compared with open waste dumps Co-processing 3 70,215.00 Landfilling 39,692.00 Treatment of healthcare waste 6,353.87 Bioremediation 4 39,875.30 That’s equivalent to the emissions from 461,872 VEHICLES, Total 156,136.17 enough to form a line from São Paulo to Salvador. 1 Products such as scrap metal and plastics, drums, containers, plastic carboys and pallets. 2 Waste sent to waste-to-energy and RDF facilities. 3 Waste sent to blending for de-characterization and customer brand protection. 4 A process that uses live organisms to reduce contamination in, or decontaminate, soil. 40 41 ESTRE FOR CITIES Related Sustainable Development Goals in this chapter: Waste collection in Curitiba (PR) 42 43 WASTE MANAGEMENT FOR CITIES B razil’s National Solid Waste Policy, a legal framework for proper waste management, has been in force since 2010, but remains a challenge for many municipal governments as they struggle to meet the requirement to eradicate open waste dumps between 2018 and 2021 (depending on the municipal population) and implement other methods of treatment, Beach cleaning such as waste segregation and in Maceió (AL) composting. And while a grace period has been allowed to implement can deploy widely proven solutions account for the bulk of Estre’s confident the economy will recover the Policy requirements, legacy to greatest advantage,” says public revenues. In 2017, some municipal and has continued to invest in dump sites are already considered commercial manager Breno Palma. governments became delinquent innovative technologies that will irregular as they contaminate the Estre's other operations are in the due to falling tax revenues. “Many be increasingly in demand in environment (air, soil and water) states of Paraná, São Paulo, Rio municipalities cut down on street the future. and are places of high social de Janeiro and Goiás. In these cleaning services to cut costs,” vulnerability for people who earn locations, Estre offers a range says Rodrigo Miata, a specialist SERVICE OFFERING a livelihood from or live near these of services to its many public at Estre’s waste collection and Cleaning dumps. The situation is most dire in clients (municipal governments), street cleaning department. Street sweeping, manual and mechanized waste the Northeast, where most waste including waste transportation Because city cleaning services collection, waste segregation, and city cleaning. materials are improperly disposed of. and landfilling, municipal waste are discretionary and do not Treatment Estre already operates landfills collection and street cleaning have specific municipal budget Sanitary landfills, healthcare waste treatment in Aracaju (SE), Feira de Santana services, healthcare waste allocations, delinquency will often and disposal. (BA) and Maceió (AL), but sees treatment, and construction increase during economic crises. Value Recovery an opportunity to expand in the waste recycling. Despite Brazil’s currently adverse Construction waste recycling and mechanized region. “The Northeast is where we Currently, public clients economic conditions, Estre is sorting of segregated waste 44 45 STREET CLEANING AND WASTE COLLECTION I n 2017, Estre was responsible for municipal solid waste collection in eleven cities (São Paulo, Taboão da Serra, Ribeirão Preto, Sertãozinho, Américo Brasiliense, Aparecida de Goiânia, Aracaju, Campo Largo, Curitiba, Maceió and Salvador), through either its own or jointly owned operations. A total of 1.9 million metric tons of waste were collected in the year (including household, healthcare and segregated waste), which includes 558,000 metric tons of city cleaning and street sweeping waste collected by SOMA SPE in the south and east regions of São Paulo City. 1.9 MILLION METRIC TONS of waste collected* Waste collection in Ribeirão Preto (SP) * This amount does not include Loga’s operations. 46 47 WASTE MANAGEMENT FOR SMART CITIES IMPROPER WASTE DISPOSAL AND PUBLIC HEALTH RISKS A study published in 2016 established a connection between waste disposal and public water, soil, air, fauna and flora. The study looked at solid waste volumes in Brazil between health. The public healthcare cost 2010 and 2014 and found, as a City cleaning of treating diseases related to conservative estimate, that at in Aracaju (SE) improper garbage disposal was least 1% of people served by estimated to be US$ 370 million open waste dumps, or about 750 T he concept of smart cities has emerged in the context of today’s highly connected and datainternational and local market developments. A number of successful solutions have already per year. The study, a collaboration between the International Solid Waste Association (ISWA), the thousand people, develop diseases. In addition to the added public health care burden, the study also US$ 370 MILLION spent per year on driven world. been deployed, such as garbage Brazilian City Cleaning Union and estimated the environmental costs public healthcare A combination of Big Data containers with underground vaults the Brazilian Association of City from CO2 emissions and damages and emerging technologies is that prevent garbage from building Cleaning Companies, assessed the caused to water bodies, the soil, reshaping the way transportation, up on sidewalks and make waste impact of more than 3,000 open flora and fauna: an average of US$ US$ 3.2 TO utility, infrastructure and municipal collection logistics more efficient. waste dumps on health and the 2.1 billion between 2010 and 2014. US$ 4.65 BILLION: waste services are managed. Cities Smart cities are also on environment. The survey estimates that in is the estimated are now seen as complex operating the Agenda 2030 as SDG According to the survey, waste 2020 the average cost from legacy average cost of systems, in which different 11, “Sustainable cities and produced by 75 million Brazilians is waste dumps in Brazil will range legacy waste dumps industries can be integrated communities”. The UN has disposed of in open dumps or other from US$ 3.2 to US$ 4.65 billion. in 2020 together to achieve more efficient emphasized the importance of non-compliant sites. The biggest These funds would be sufficient and sustainable solutions. compliant waste management impacts are on people living near to wind down all of Brazil's Estre sees this trend as an in urban spaces to achieve these dumps, waste pickers, and city legacy dumps and significantly opportunity for innovation, and sustainable development as urban cleaning workers because of the modernize its waste management has evolved in tandem with expansion continues. diseases spread by contaminated infrastructure. *Source: Saúde desperdiçada – O caso dos lixões (Abrelpe and ISWA, 2015). 48 49 ESTRE FOR COMPANIES Related Sustainable Development Goals in this chapter: Soil bioremediation operation Jardinópolis (SP) 50 51 CONNECTING ON A PATH WITH MARKET TO A CIRCULAR TRENDS ECONOMY T he principle that waste should be minimized and discarded products should be cycled back The diversified range of industries we serve—from technology to agriculture—means we inherently into the value chain defines the have a vested interest in this circular economy, a new model subject. “Waste from one process that is prompting profound is resource for another,” says Lucas changes in production processes. Herman. While some industries in The concept emerged from the Brazil are already waking up to the I n 2017, much effort was focused on expanding our business client portfolio through our newly Brazil's National Solid Waste Policy (PNRS), companies are responsible for implementing reverse logistics realization that simply decreasing environmental degradation and improving process efficiency is not opportunity and the value that can be captured from the circular economy, only a handful of related created Private Business division, for their products and waste, enough to preserve our planet. projects have been implemented which saw a 20% increase in ensuring they are reused or This poses a huge challenge for so far. Estre is alert to this trend revenue compared with 2016. properly disposed of. Companies companies, government agencies, and its enabling technologies Reverse electronics manufacturing in “Much of the year was dedicated must also inform their consumers and third-sector organizations. and services. Sorocaba (SP) to structuring the business and about the proper disposal of we are now poised for growth in products and packaging. 2018, says Lucas Herman, head of In this context, one of the private business unit. Among our greatest challenges is the division's new clients are auto developing circular economy parts maker Mahle, steelmaking solutions for businesses. Estre's company Gerdau, and new business service offering operations with mining company includes waste management Vale, in Pará. services for manufacturing and Our service offering for consumer goods and services companies includes solutions companies, Refuse Derived Fuel for value recovery or compliant (RDF) production, blending for disposal of all types of co-processing, reverse electronics waste (industrial, healthcare. manufacturing, construction construction), ensuring minimal waste recycling, and power environmental impact. Under generation. 52 5353 WASTE MANAGEMENT O ur waste management services are used by manufacturing and consumer goods and services companies of all sizes and span 45% the entire value chain, from waste generation to final disposal, in a recycled or fully traceable process. Services recovered include assessment, characterization, environmental licensing, on-site handling, temporary storage, collection, transportation, final disposal at approved sites and waste recovery. In 2017, 89,000 metric tons of waste were handled and 45% were either recycled or send for value recovery. Our processes are continually reviewed for environmental and economic efficiency, with a focus on potential circular economy opportunities, in which waste becomes a resource An effluent treatment for production. plant at the Fazenda Rio Grande landfill (PR) SERVICE OFFERING Value Recovery Refuse derived fuel (RDF), blending for co-processing, reverse electronics manufacturing, construction waste recycling, and power generation. 89,000 METRIC TONS Soil Decontamination Contaminated land remediation. of waste materials Treatment Sanitary landfills for hazardous or nonhazardous waste, healthcare waste treatment, and liquid effluent treatment. 54 55 ESTRE FOR PEOPLE Related Sustainable Development Goals in this chapter: Ribeirão Preto (SP): employee meetings to disseminate our safety culture 56 57 VALUING AND GRI 103-403, GRI 103-404 LOOKING AFTER OUR EMPLOYEES O bjectives and targets are inconceivable without the involvement of people, who at and recognitions, and so on. Meanwhile, a series of training courses enable staff to recognize developing their careers. In 2017, the focus was the Operations and Corporate departments, and 83% the aim of preparing the our future talents by seeking to align staff with company Estre are crucial to our growth. or develop their own potential. of participants were promoted to values from day one of their As of 31 December 2017, we Among them are the People management positions after six careers, the internship program had 13,314 employees. Cycle, which assesses employee months of the program. was reinforced. Each trainee We have a number of career development based on targets Another important action is receives 52 hours of training, development programs in and skills, and the Leadership the Develop program, which divided into three parts: place, and apply a performance Development Program (LDP), was introduced in the second preparation (understanding management model. This enables focused on promoting managerial half of 2017 and today comprises the business), experiential targets to be drawn up and skills to ensure that targets are 40 topics. The initiative includes and enhancement activities, measured for all departments, achieved more effectively. courses and training for staff on and support and personal thereby ensuring close alignment PEX Landfill and PEX two fronts: a distance learning improvement plans. with business strategies and strong Collect assess and recognize platform (comprising various To train staff in the Operations motivation to rise to challenges. the company’s best operations, subjects, such as compliance, department for the role of driver, One action to strengthen the awarding prizes to the winning occupational health and safety, the Right Direction Program has company’s management has facilities. environmental education, etc.) been in place since 2012. In five been to introduce Individual Also worth highlighting in and the Multipliers program, years, 83 employees have qualified. Development Plans (IDP). 2017 are the career fast-tracking which offers staff the opportunity Another action to have left GRI 404-2 initiatives, the recognition of ideas to voluntarily share their an important legacy is the The performance assessment linked to cost-cutting initiatives, expertise and gain access to new PROA Project. Carried out model also makes it possible to and the reinforcement of the knowledge that will contribute in partnership with the PROA direct staff career development internship program. to the career development of all Institute, this vocational training information. To that end, the One of the most important those involved. program for young people on low People Committee meets career development projects is As well as skills training, Estre incomes came to an end in 2016, periodically and adopts a series the Fast Track Program, which is committed to inclusion and to having first provided six young of approaches, such as alignment aims to identify and speed up preparing our human capital for apprentices with the opportunity of performance, career, merits staff development with a view to current and future challenges. With to start their very first job at Estre. 58 59 GRI 103/403, GRI 103/404 THE IMPORTANCE OF OUR Workforce by geography * North: 2% OPERATIONS STAFF 2% Northeast: 28% Midwest: 3% 28% Southeast: 35% 3% South: 33% 35% Time to Learn Making a Difference For over 20 years, the Time to The Making a Difference 33% Learn program has contributed to program is geared to ensuring staff development by providing that Operations staff recognize Workforce by age range Workforce by length of service free schooling and courses on socio-environmental topics. At the value of their own work for society, the company and 14% (in years) 4% Up to 25 Above 20 the end of each cycle, students the environment. The program have their school history officially comprises four pillars: recognized by the State Education • Social support (experts 11% 12% Department. In two decades, over on medical, legal and Over 29% 11 to 20 3,000 employees have taken part in welfare issues take part in 55 26 to 34 30% the program in order to complete informal chats to answer any 0 to 1 their primary or secondary questions) 18% education. In 2017, Time to Learn encompassed the Curitiba, Maceió, • Education and career (encouraging employees 19% 6 to 10 45 to 54 Ribeirão Preto and Taboão da and their families to go 27% 36% Serra collection facilities, with 265 back to school or obtain 35 to 44 Street sweeping 2 to 5 in Curitiba (PR) participants. technical qualifications, as well as raising awareness about accident prevention in conjunction with the Workforce by gender occupational health and 9% 91% safety department) women men • Recognition (celebration The larger percentage of men is explained by the fact that 71% of day for administrative and our workforce is employed in waste collection services operational staff and their families to socialize together) Absentee rate Turnover • Leisure and quality of life 30% Industry average in Brazil 2.2% Industry average in Brazil (encouraging staff to take 1.6% 25.2% part in leisure activities and 1.4% 1.3% 18.7% 18.3% access free health and dental care at the SESC, one of the benefits of working for the company) 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 60 * This data do not refer to Estre’s affiliates. 6161 HEALTH & SAFETY: CORE VALUES OF OUR STRATEGY An employee working at the effluent treatment plant In 2017, we restructured all of positive, Estre is mindful that it in Maceió (AL) our Occupational Health and must go on cutting accident rates. Safety processes and, in March, One of the resources behind the Employee health and safety indicators by gender GRI 403-2 launched our new policy. With it, effectiveness of our Health and occupational health and safety Safety Policy is the assessment Rates 2015 2016 2017 ceased to be merely a priority for model devised in-house, based Men and Women Men and Women Men and Women the company, to become one of its on the OHSAS 18001 standard, to values. Twenty-five procedures and measure the level of maturity of Lost-time injury rates 30.57 29.18 15.84 46 forms were drawn up, with the the company. In 2017, the result of aim of standardizing all activities that assessment rose from 24 to 65 and reducing the risk of accidents. points out of 100. “We structured The company’s intention was the safety sphere to achieve ever Occupational Safety Program Objectives to initiate a process of cultural better results through planning, • Prevent injuries change, and to that end it invested over 55,000 hours of training for measurement and discipline, in an effort to make advances,” says • Improve work practices operational staff—those most Marlon Silva. • Manage risks exposed to risk. R$ 1 million was By reinforcing the theme of • Maintain compliance also invested in structures and health and safety, backed up by • Standardize and control equipment to reduce the risk various initiatives (monitoring of accidents. The impact of all of health and safety risks, these efforts adopted by top working practices and incident management was a reduction management, for instance), injury 55,000 HOURS of training in the number of accidents rates were able to be cut by 45.71% (280) compared to 2016, and and working days lost by 85.3%, Injury rate down 45.71% no fatalities. compared to 2016. Although the outcomes were GRI 403-2. Days lost down 85.3% Number of accidents down 50% 62 * This data do not refer to Estre’s affiliates. 63 Recreational activities within the Varre Grota program in Maceió (AL) ESTRE FOR SOCIETY Related Sustainable Development Goals in this chapter: 64 65 PRESENCE IN THE GRI 103-203, GRI 103-413 COMMUNITY I n order for Estre to manage and dispose of waste safely, thereby protecting the environment that benefit and bring together stakeholders. The department also provides information and the population’s health, a about the venture and carries constructive and transparent out environmental education relationship is essential with the initiatives. local communities surrounding Working with communities takes sanitary landfills. place from the very start, passing It should not be overlooked through several stages: that operating a sanitary landfill • Mapping stakeholders and can have negative impacts, such diagnostics; Sustainable as unpleasant smells (as it takes a • Engaging stakeholders and Community while before the waste is buried), community representatives and program activities and traffic due to the circulation leaders; of garbage trucks. Local people • Creating the local development Other projects are implemented dates, such as Mothers Day and are not familiar with the workings committee; at the Rosário do Catete (SE) Children's Day, and to implement a of landfills either, which creates • Local development plan; plant. The company provided homework help program mistrust and a feeling of insecurity. • Social initiatives and investments consultants to help associations for children. Estre believes it can use its according to the established regularize, carried out social On another front, Estre is institutional relations department plan. engagement initiatives involving assisting waste picker cooperatives and Instituto Estre to approach the GRI 203-1, GRI 203-2 the government and engaged in in installing sorting units and local community to ameliorate any Estre strives to support works related to the parish, which developing operating procedures, such feelings and help develop it. communities in several ways, provides coaching activities (IT, in addition to providing training GRI 413-2 one of which is engaging with English language, and modeling in environmental education and The institutional relations associations, as is the case of and sewing classes). cooperativism, with a focus on department focuses on social Associação dos Unidos pelos NGO Associação Comunitária entrepreneurship. conditions and uses a proprietary Moradores and Amigos de Rosário de Moradores do Conjunto Santo Cooperlínia Ambiental do Brasil, in methodology to engage do Catete (Aumarc). In this case Onofre e Comunidade São Rafael Paulínia (SP), is a program partner communities. The core objective the company helps strengthen the (Asconoel) in Maceió (AL), which and has become a benchmark is to foster local development by organization institutionally and serves the community hosting for the sector (both in Brazil and listening to the community and carry out activities, such as extra our Varre Grota program, received internationally) as the first recycling nurturing sustainability issues, in classes for schools, music, lectures a financial donation from Estre to cooperative in the world to be order to carry out social projects etc. GRI 102-13 organize events to mark special certified to ISO 14001. 66 6767 Varre Grota According to Institutional Relations Investing in This program is run by Viva Analyst Inaimara Medrado, it is education Ambiental, an Estre Group important that residents realize the company responsible for waste positive impact the program has Investing in collection in Maceió (AL). had on their neighborhoods. ‘‘Those education has been The program is designed to areas where the Varre Grota program a long-standing engage residents in low income was implemented were less affected practice at Estre. In communities, which in Maceió are by flooding because storm water 2017, we invested known as grotas , in cleaning up systems were not obstructed by more than R$ 3.16 their neighborhoods. The improperly discarded waste. The million in education, program has been implemented heavy rains would have had a much including initiatives in three grotas (Rafael, Onofre and greater effect on these families if run by Instituto Estre, Conjunto Ipanema), where 12 storm water channels were littered Ponto Vivo, Tempo de community street sweepers serve with garbage. The program aims to Aprender, as well as 5,260 families. The program has raise awareness, engage and mobilize graduate programs directly contributed to improving community residents to make a for employees. quality of life for residents, has difference,” she says. helped community leaders Street sweepers in action as part of the More recently, Estre organized a SPE, this program has helped to enhance their social outreach, Ponto Vivo Varre Grota program network of different stakeholders improve quality of life in host and has become a benchmark Another important program run in Maceió (AL) to support implementation of communities. The program program for the local municipal by Viva Ambiental is Ponto Vivo, the Rosario de Catete Recycling currently reaches approximately government. which aims to reduce the number of Cooperative, working with the 67,000 people. Varre Vila provides In 2017, Estre joined the SOS irregular dump sites in Maceió (AL) State Environment Department, communities with information Maceió campaign when heavy through educational community the Small Business Support Service about waste storage, solid waste rains left 2,000 people homeless initiatives. It also helps to revitalize (SEBRAE) and the municipal management and disposal, urban in the city. The Company donated neighborhoods by planting trees government. This helped to cleaning and environmental 1,000 cleaning and personal and performing maintenance at 67,000 expedite the formal organization education. Street sweepers hygiene kits, and canvasses for former dump sites. In 2017 the team of the cooperative and provided are hired from the community slope stabilization. In the Rafael worked on 23 dump sites, adding people an opportunity for further and also play a role as stewards community, the Varre Grota team to the now 163 dump sites and 23 benefited discussion on the municipal and environmental educators, pitched in to help revitalize areas neighborhoods served since project by the Varre Vila Waste Segregation Act and the engaging other residents. that had been buried in mud. inception in 2010. program Local Environment Committee, During the course of the Cooperativa 23 helping to ensure the financial program, many street sweepers Cooperlínia at the Paulínia sustainability of the cooperative. expressed a desire to initiate or DUMP GRI 413-1 complete their studies, and this Waste Management Center sites in 2017, led to the implementation of for a total of Varre Vila a literacy education pilot as a Created in 2012 in the district of subcomponent of the program. In 163 Santa Inês, in Ermelino Matarazzo total, 20 people received literacy to date (SP), with support from SOMA education in 2017. 68 6969 THE IMPORTANCE OF GRI 103-203, GRI 103-413 ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION AND INSTITUTO ESTRE In 10 years of service, Instituto Estre (a not-for-profit, publicinterest, civil society organization currently works with a wide range of stakeholders and its educational initiatives cover a variety of created by Estre in 2007) has interests (environmental education, directly benefited more than consumption, waste, sustainable 340,000 people—including education venues, and civic 47,000 people in 2017—through engagement). environmental education initiatives The Institute works on two in the South, Southeast, Midwest different fronts: and Northeast of Brazil. A scale model Initially created to provide Dialogue & Knowledge exhibited at Instituto Estre in information about waste to The Institute works to promote Paulínia (SP) students and teachers, the Institute and engage in dialogue about has since grown and diversified, environmental education, waste waste management is also Environment Week (SIPATMA) 10 YEARS and now interfaces with the and consumption with a wide important. In 2017, the Institute events. An educational scale of environmental public sector, the private sector, range of stakeholders, and was attended by more than 900 model depicting the waste education and civil society. “Environmental helps to produce and co-create people, including universitycycle was also exhibited at a and more than education provides an opportunity knowledge in these fields. and associate-level students, number of venues, including at for dialogue with a range of In 2017, the Institute attended and attended a number of the 10th Instituto Ethos Social 340,000 different stakeholders, engaging five academic forums and made Internal Accident Prevention and Responsibility Conference. people them around our causes”, says presentations in three of them. benefited Instituto Estre Education Manager Dialogue with stakeholders For further information, see the Alciana Paulino. Instituto Estre with an academic interest in Instituto Estre Activities Report 2017. 70 7171 A LIVING SCHOOL 47,108 IS ONE THAT IS NOT people CONFINED TO ITS reached WALLS.” Professor Andrea Herculano, 52 CITIES Program and Project Coordinator at SME – Caucaia, reached in speaking of the partnership at the Environment Symposium. 4 regions of Brazil Students during a visit to the Paulínia Waste Management Center organized by Instituto Estre “Where’s the garbage developed by the Institute for that was here?” students and teachers. In 2017 the This is the Institute’s oldest and bestprogram reached more than 12,230 Stories to belong to school communities through known program, and is designed participants. to the world environmental education, to raise awareness and discussion Through its three regional A storytelling roadshow that tours providing the opportunity about two of the biggest social chapters—in the Southeast, at our schools, city theaters, parks and to make their schools more and environmental challenges headquarters in Paulínia (SP), in the public spaces using an entertaining sustainable. Participants are today, consumption and waste. South, in Fazenda Rio Grande (PR), approach to engage the audience invited to think and act on the The program encompasses training and in the Northeast, in Rosário around subjects such as civic four pillars of a sustainable for teachers, development of do Catete (SE)—the Institute has engagement and environmental school: civic engagement, classroom activities, a workshop consistently fulfilled its mission education. In 2017 the program management, curricula (lesson with the Instituto Estre team of promoting awareness and reached 14,604 people. content) and facilities. In 2017, and a study at one of our Waste dialogue about contemporary social the program reached 14,747 Management Centers. With a focus and environmental challenges Sustainable schools people in Rosário do Catete (SE) on basic education students, the through critical and empowering This program aims to mobilize and Campinas (SP). program offers educational materials environmental education. GRI 413-1 72 73 INSTITUTO ESTRE 2017 RESULTS In 2017, Instituto Estre reached 47,108 people—32,692 directly and 14,416 indirectly—through its outreach activities. The year 2017 saw strong results on the “Dialogue & Knowledge” front, with a particularly large number of universityand associate-level visitors, demonstrating the reputation that the Institute has earned as an expert in environmental education and waste. Below are the Institute’s figures for 2017. DIALOGUE & KNOWLEDGE Visit from Universidad Espiritu Santo (Ecuador) ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION PROGRAM to the Fazenda Rio Grande Landfill Academic Forums & University Internship Sustainable Events visitors Program Schools • 143 people • 938 people • 708 people registered for the Program • 14,416 people • 5 events • 48 technical visits • 3 selected • 31 education institutions • 3 cities • 31 education institutions • 12 co-creation workshops • 3 papers presented Pedagogical Workshops Stories to belong Dialogue with Integration Program Pescar & Formare Where’s the garbage that was here? to the world companies and and Estre em Família • 496 workshops held • 70 presentations • 196 students other institutions • 237 education institutions • 14 cities • 11 events • 23 t eachers and volunteer educators • 4,098 people • 129 people • 10,600 students • 14,604 participants • 1,630 teachers and educators 74 75 Photo Waste caption forgarage collection the Estre Sustainability in Ribeirão Preto (SP) 2017 Report ESTRE FOR THE ECONOMY Related Sustainable Development Goals in this chapter: 76 77 ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL RESULTS N et revenue declined by 2.0% from R$1,393 million in 2016 to R$1,365 million in 2017, largely reflecting reduced revenues from the Oil & Gas segment and a modest reduction in revenue from public waste collection contracts as a result of certain newly concluded contracts being postponed to 2018. The decrease was partly offset by higher revenue from the sanitary landfill and private waste collection client segments. Adjusted EBITDA rose 7% to R$ 414 million, reflecting lower operating costs and expenses compared with the previous year. As a result, Adjusted EBITDA Margin for the year was 30%. Effluent Treatment Plant: combined NET REVENUE ADJUSTED EBITDA AND Estre turned around prior-year division results helped to balance ADJUSTED EBITDA MARGIN (R$ million) losses into net income of R$ 52 Group financial performance (R$ million and percent of net revenue) million in the year, largely as a result of the Company joining the 1,393 1,365 414 PERT/PRT (Federal tax settlement) 386 program. 30% Following the corporate 28% reorganization at year-end 2017, Estre also reduced and restructured the Company's debt to end the year with a Net Financial Debt to 2016 2017 2016 2017 Adjusted EBITDA ratio of 3.3x. * The information presented in this chapter is for Estre Ambiental, Inc., a NASDAQ-listed company, and includes Estre Ambiental S.A. 78 7979 CORRELATION OF MATERIAL TOPICS GRI CONTENT INDEX AND GRI DISCLOSURES General disclosures Organizational profile Material Topic GRI Disclosures Selected disclosures GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Sustainable Development Goals GRI 201-1 Economic performance 102-1 Name of the organization 5, 10 GRI 201-4 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and 11 GRI 203-1 services Indirect economic impacts GRI 203-2 102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover Governance, transparency and ethics GRI 205-1 102-4 Location of operations 12 Anti-corruption GRI 205-2 102-5 Ownership and legal form Incorporated GRI 205-3 102-6 Markets served 11 102-7 Scale of the organization 11, 19 Public policy GRI 415-1 GRI 102: General disclosures 2017 102-8 Information on employees and 11 8 GRI 302-1 Energy other workers GRI 302-2 102-9 Supply chain 23 Operational eco-efficiency Water GRI 303-1 102-10 Significant changes to the None Biodiversity GRI 304-1 organization and its supply chain GRI 305-1 102-11 Precautionary principle or 39 approach Emissions GRI 305-2 102-12 External initiatives 13 GRI 305-3 102-13 Membership of associations 67 Operational quality and efficiency GRI 306-1 Strategy Effluents and waste GRI 306-2 Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission GRI 306-5 Goals GRI 403-1 GRI 102: General 102-14 Statement from senior decision5, 6, 7 Health & Safety Occupational health and safety disclosures 2017 maker GRI 403-2 Ethics and integrity GRI 404-2 Sustainable Development Human Development* Training and education GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission GRI 404-3 Goals Social impact on surrounding commuGRI 413-1 GRI 102: General 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 15 16 Local community disclosures 2017 norms of behavior nities GRI 413-2 Governance Estre Indicator (number of peoExtent of program impacts ple involved and reached, and Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission initiatives undertaken) Goals Environmental Education GRI 102: General 102-18 Governance structure 20 Knowledge generated through environmenEstre Indicator (number of reladisclosures 2017 tal education ted publications) Stakeholder engagement Estre Indicator (value recovery Recycling and value recovery Sustainable Development volumes) GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals Innovation & Technology Estre Indicator (amount inves102-40 List of stakeholder groups 3 Investment ted in innovation and new technologies) 102-41 Collective bargaining 3 8 agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting 3 GRI 102: General stakeholders disclosures 2017 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 3 80 81 Reporting practices Anti-corruption Sustainable Development Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals Goals 102-45 Entities included in the 2 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 3 consolidated financial statements and its Boundary 102-46 Defining report content and 3 GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its 23 topic Boundaries Management components Approach 2017 102-47 List of material topics 3 103-3 Evaluation of the management 23 102-48 Restatements of information Any approach restatements were described 205-1 Operations assessed for risks relaAll operations 16 in the respective were assessed for chapters. ted to corruption risks related to corruption GRI 102: General 102-49 Changes in reporting None GRI 205: Anti205-2 Communication and training on 22 16 disclosures 2017 102-50 Reporting period 2 corruption 2017 anti-corruption policies and procedures 102-51 Date of most recent report 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption 24 16 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 and actions taken 102-53 Contact point for questions Back cover Energy regarding the report Sustainable Development 102-54 Claims of reporting in 2 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals accordance with the GRI Standards 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 3 102-55 GRI Content Index 82 and its Boundary Information not availa102-56 External Assurance None ble: Estre Group has energy generation data available GRI 103: for 2 landfills only. Other operations and the use of Management Material topics 103-2 The management approach and its energy by vehicle fleets and Approach 2017 machinery have not been Economic performance components computed. There are plans to implement an integraSustainable Development 103-3 Evaluation of the management ted approach to monitoGRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission approach ring consumption data to Goals inform the development of an energy management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 3 302-1 Energy consumption within the plan. Energy consumption 7, 12, 13 and its Boundary GRI 302: Energy organization for lighting is not considered relevant for reporting GRI 103: 2017 103-2 The management approach and its 78 1, 5, 8, 16 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the purposes. 7, 12, 13 Management components organization Approach 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management 78 Water approach Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission 201-1 Direct economic value generated Not available 3, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12 Goals and distributed 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 3 Information not available: Estre Group has informaGRI 201: Economic 201-4 Financial assistance received from Estre Group and its Boundary tion available only on water performance 2017 government received no GRI 103: discharge and treatment of financial assis103-2 The management approach and its landfill leachate. Water contance from Management sumption for cleaning is the governcomponents Approach 2017 not considered relevant for ment in 2017 reporting purposes. 103-3 Evaluation of the management Indirect economic impacts approach Sustainable Development GRI 303: Water 2017 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 6, 7 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals Biodiversity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 3 and its Boundary Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission GRI 103: Goals 103-2 The management approach and its 67 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 3 components Approach 2017 and its Boundary 103-3 Evaluation of the management 67 GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its 39, 41 approach Management components 203-1 Development and impact of 66 3, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12 Approach 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management 39, 41 infrastructure investments and services GRI 203: Indirect ecoapproach supported nomic impacts 2017 GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, 38 6, 15 203-2 Significant indirect economic 66 3, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12 2017 managed in, or adjacent to, protected impacts areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 82 83 Emissions Training and education Sustainable Development Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Goals Sustainable Development 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 3 Information not available: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 3 Information is available only and its Boundary on methane emissions avoiand its Boundary GRI 103: ded by burning biogas. The GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its company is considering 103-2 The management approach and its 59, 61 Management the future development Management components components Approach 2017 of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Approach 2017 103-3 Evaluation of the management Emissions inventories to pro103-3 Evaluation of the management 59, 61 vide a better understanding approach of and improve on our emisapproach sions performance. 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 3, 12, 13, 15 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee 58 8 GRI 305: Emissions 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 3, 12, 13, 15 skills and transition assistance programs 2017 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emis3, 12, 13, 15 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving Performance 8 assessments are sions regular performance and career developperformed for ment reviews positions incluGRI 404: Training and Effluents and waste ded in our variaeducation 2017 ble compensaSustainable Development tion program. GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Other employees Goals receive informal performance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 3 reviews through day-to-day feeand its Boundary dback. GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its 38, 39 Local communities Management components Approach 2017 Sustainable Development 103-3 Evaluation of the management 38, 39 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Sustainable Development approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 3 306-1 Water discharge by quality and Information not available: 3, 6, 12, 14 and its Boundary Estre is responsible for prodestination perly treating leachate proGRI 103: duced by our landfills; at 103-2 The management approach and its 67 Management 2 of our landfills, leachate components GRI 306: Effluents is treated on site. at our 11 Approach 2017 other landfills, treatment is 103-3 Evaluation of the management 67 and waste 2017 handled by third-party companies. approach 306-2 Waste by type and disposal 40 3, 6, 12 413-1 Operations with local community 68, 73 8, 12, 16 and 17 method GRI 413: Local engagement, impact assessments, and communities 2017 development programs Occupational health and safety 413-2 Sustainable Development GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission Operations with significant actual and 66 8, 12, 16 and 17 Goals potential negative impacts on local 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 3 communities and its Boundary GRI 103: Public policy 103-2 The management approach and its 59, 61 Management components Sustainable Development Approach 2017 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omission 103-3 Evaluation of the management 59, 61 Sustainable Development approach GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 3 403-1 Workers representation in formal All employees are 8 Management and its Boundary represented in forApproach 2017 joint management–worker health and mal health and 103-2 The management approach and its 23 safety committees safety committees components GRI 403: (CIPA). Occupational health 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 62, 63 Information not available: 3, 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management 23 and safety 2017 occupational diseases, lost days, and Information by gender is not approach available. absenteeism, and number of work-relaGRI 415: Public policy 415-1 Political contributions Estre Group made 16 no political contrited fatalities 2017 butions in 2017. 84 85 General Supervision Agenda 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Julio Volotão – Executive Officer, Sustainability, Institutional Affairs, 1. No poverty Compliance, Legal, and People & Management 2. Zero hunger Marcello D’Angelo – Executive Officer, Communications & Marketing 3. Good health and well-being 4. Quality education General Coordination 5. Gender equality Mariana Rico – Manager of Sustainability and Instituto Estre Cecília Braga – Assistant of Sustainability 6. Clean water and sanitation 7. Affordable and clean energy Communications Maurício Gonçalves – Communications & Marketing manager 8. Decent work and economic growth 9. Industry, innovation and infrastructure Editorial coordination and GRI consulting Report Sustentabilidade 10. Reduced inequalities 11. Sustainable cities and communities Graphic Design 12. Responsible consumption and production Fajardo Ranzini Design 13. Climate action Content and GRI Disclosures Images 14. Life below water André Bonelli – Legal Paulo Vitale – p  ages 8, 11, 14, 16, 21, 26, 30, 31, 32, 35, Alciana Paulino – Instituto Estre 36, 38, 40, 43, 44, 48, 51, 52, 55, 56, 58, 15. Life on land Alex Bahr – Competitive Procurement 61, 63, 64, 67, 68, 69, 71, 72, 76, 79 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions Angélica Kelly Pimentel – Environment Fátima Lodo – pages 5 and 7 17. Partnerships for the goals Antônio Januzzi – New Technologies ESTRE Archives – pages 12, 24, 75 Breno Palma – Landfills The SDGs shown in the list above are flagged where relevant throughout this Report. Bruno Paschoalato – Landfills Cristiano Batista – Value Recovery Corine Ângulo – Value Recovery Eduardo Azevedo – Risk Management & Compliance Elaine Vallerini – People & Management Emília Carvalho – Institutional Affairs Flávio Beannucci – Private Business Flávio Gusi – Value Recovery Greta Coutinho – Institutional Affairs Heloize Montowski – Instituto Estre Igor Urasaki – Energy Isis Oliveira – Legal Leonardo Patrício – People & Management Lucas Herman – Private Business Marcos Goldfarb – Instituto Estre Marlon Silva – People & Management Plinio Nicolosi – Compliance & Risk Management Plinio Oliveira – Value Recovery Raquel Turano de Souza – Financial Planning Roberto Panini – People & Management Rodrigo Miata – Collection 86 87 Avenida Presidente Juscelino Kubitschek, 1830 Torre I – 2º e 3º andar – Itaim Bibi 04543-900 – São Paulo – SP – Brazil (11) 3709-2300
