Communication on Progress for Year 2017 PT. TANDAN SAWITA PAPUA 2018 STATEMENT OF CONTINOUS SUPPORT Jakarta, 29 January, 2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that PT. Tandan Sawita Papua reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Henderi Djunaidi Director COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Scope of UNGC Policies and Business Actions Taken SDGs Principles Governance Influence Human Rights Principle 1 Business should Employees, Internal  Implement any support and Investors, policies (core Government regularespect the Contractors values, vision tion regarding protection of and mission), Human Rights internationally Code of proclaimed Conducts and  It is clearly stated in human rights Company’s the company’s Regulations regulation that any human rights abuses will not be tolerated and there will be law implication for any human rights issues  Training and awareness for staff and stakeholders on human rights aspects Principle 2 Human Right Employees, Internal  HCCS policies and Business should Investors, policies (core procedures declared make sure they Contractors values, vision and developed. are not and mission), complicit in Code of  To make sure that human rights Conducts and no complicit in abuses Company human right abuses Regulations within all activities  Give more opportunities to local community and other potential worker to joint with the company aligned with company’s labour needs fulfillment and their skill/knowledge  Continuing to socialize and implement the company’s regulation regarding the Human Rights, Labour and Environmental Policies to the employee Labour Principle 3 Bossiness Employees, Internal  Facilitating the should uphold Investors, policies (core establishment of the freedom of Contractors values, vision worker’s association association and and mission), (SPSI/Serikat the effective Code of Pekerja Seluruh recognition to Conducts and Indonesia) collective Company bargaining Regulations  Participating in religious and custom ceremonies Principle 4 The elimination Employees, Internal  No case of forced of all form of Investors, policies (core and compulsory forced and Contractors values, vision labour in PT. TSP compulsory and mission), labour Code of  To ensure fair Conducts and payment for wages Company based on Regional Regulations Minimum Wage  Carrying out Training progra m for local labour  Performance Development Review has been implemented since 2010 Principle 5 The effective Employees, Internal  Whereby we abolition of Investors, policies (core committed to child labour Contractors values, vision support the and mission), abolition of child Code of labour by ensuring Conducts and that there are no Company children on the Regulations plantation sites  To ensure that there are no children on the plantation sites which will potentially lead to child labour, some actions have been taken: 1. Put more Sign Board/Warning Signs on the sites 2. Clearly stated in our company regulations the minimum age for workers 3. Intensively communication to local workers not to bring their children to work sites Principle 6 The elimination Employees, Internal  Give more of Investors, policies (core opportunities to discrimination Contractors values, vision local community and in respect of and mission), other potential employment Code of worker to joint with and occupation Conducts and the company aligned Company with company’s Regulations labour needs fulfillment and their skill/knowledge  New job position/required published on Newspaper/Job Consultant  Continuous New Trainee Assistant Program  Management Trainee development  Cleary declared with updated agreement with recruitment agencies  Updated interview system for employment Environment Principle 7 Business should Employees, Internal  It is clearly stated in support a Investors, policies (core the company’s precautionary Contractors values, vision vision: “to be a approach to and mission), dynamic plantation environmental Code of company of choice challenge Conducts and reputed for its Company distinct socioRegulations economic and sustainability values” and as part of our paradigm that is in harmony with nature  Continuous socialization of the company's regulation regarding Environment Policies to all employee  Fulfilled the Indonesia Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) and Roundtable of Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) requirements Principle 8 Undertake Employees, Internal  Socialized & initiatives to Investors, policies (core implemented the promote greater Contractors values, vision company’s environment al and mission), regulation regarding responsibility Code of Environmental Conducts and Policies to the Company employee Regulations  Fulfilled the ISPO and RSPO requirements regarding the environment issues  Conservation Area/preservation on High Conservation Value (HCV) area, Water Way Buffer Zone already identified  Planting Program  Implementation of plantation best practice management  No land utilization policy for High Stock Carbon area  Fire drills  Placing Warning/Sign Boards of fire prevention/risk  Installment some firehouses Principle 9 Encourage the Employees, Internal  Implanting land development Investors, policies (core minimum tillage and diffusion of Contractors values, vision environmentally and mission),  Implementing the friendly Code of use of beneficial technologies Conducts and plant and barn owl Company Regulations  Implementing Reuse and Recycle policies  Utilized POME for Biogas Anticorruption Principle 10 Business should Employees, Internal  Give training on work against Investors, policies (core ethical behaviors to corruption in all Contractors values, vision its stakeholders and form its forms, and mission), promoting for including Code of importance of extortion and Conducts and integrity on bribery Company economic and Regulations sustainable development  Internalization on Company’s Core Value  Implementing open tender  Internal Audit to process every 6 months PT. TSP CSR PROGRAMS PT. Tandan Sawita Papua’s CSR Programs currently focuses on initiating community development projects by creating income generating activities to local communities. Meanwhile, improving quality of health, education, and promoting environmental conservation has already done by facilitating planting program. The activities has already done during year 2017, are as follows: 1. Education Program In year 2017, the education sector is still the priority CSR program in PT. TSP. It is in line with the government’s Education Compulsory Program, PT. TSP has put education as one of its core CSR program in order to improve the better human resource quality. Various activities have been done including scholarship, supplying school desks, jackstraws, etc. The education program particularly is addressed to children of both employees and local communities. Many activities, including sport and folk art, conducted by the students were supported by PT. TSP as extra-curricular. SDGs Cover by the program: 2. Improving Quality of Health Beside policlinic establishment, periodically PT. TSP has facilitated the blood donor, centers for preand postnatal health care (Posyandu), as well as fogging for eradicating mosquitoes. The purposes of all mentioned activates were subject to improve the quality of health. In cooperation with local board of health (Dinas Kesehatan), it is also including giving nutrition for babies and immunization, as well as health counselling and better sanitation awareness. SDGs Cover by the program: 3. Community Empowerment and Development Community development activities regarding to increase house hold income has been done for years, and are still continue to run, i.e.: horticultures cultivation, fresh water fish farming, pig farming, etc. PT. TSP also introduced simple applied technologies for local communities, particularly in agriculture, i.e.: use of labeled seed crops, manuring, mulching, harvesting techniques, etc. Various horticulture crops have been introduced and cultivated by local communities such as string bean, peanut, cucumber, etc. Despite for self-consumption, some are sold to local market, so as it is able to increase their household income. Meanwhile, agricultural activities are also expected to foster the environmental awareness in sustaining its productivity. SDGs Cover by the program: 4. Local Wisdoms, Culture Preservation and Religious Activities Local wisdoms and cultures preservation also facilitated by PT. TSP in order to support their existence. Various culture festivals and activities, such as Bakar Batu Festival have been facilitated. PT. TSP also facilitated the constructions of religious buildings, such as Church in Kriku Village, and activities within. SDGs Cover by the program: GALLERY
