2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements Year to 31 December Building value... Premier is a leading independent exploration and production Operational highlights company with oil and gas interests in the North Sea, Production averaged Catcher first oil achieved South East Asia, the Falkland Islands and Latin America. 75 kboepd 60 kbopd Increased gross peak (2016: 71.4 kboepd) In line with market guidance production guidance STRATEGIC REPORT (75-80 kboepd) 02 Focus on Future Growth 08 Our Business Model World class Zama oil discovery Non-core asset disposals 10 Market Overview 12 16 18 Chief Executive Officer’s Review Our Strategy Key Performance Indicators 400-800 mmbbls Gross unrisked P90-P10 resources US$300 m Consideration announced in 2017 22 Principal Risks 30 Business Unit Reviews 38 Financial Review 44 Corporate Responsibility Review Financial highlights GOVERNANCE Low operating costs of Positive free cash flow 58 Chairman’s Introduction US$16.4 US$71.2 62 Board of Directors 66 Corporate Governance Report /boe m 74 Audit and Risk Committee Report (2016: US$15.8/boe) (2016: US$(580)m) 79 Nomination Committee Report 81 Directors’ Remuneration Report Low cost base expected to be Positive free cash flow generation sustainable in the medium-term including disposals 114 Directors’ Report 117 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities Significantly reduced capex Net debt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 118 Independent Auditors’ Report 127 Accounting Policies US$275.6 m US$2.7 bn 134 Consolidated Income Statement (2016: US$662.6m) (2016: US$2.8bn) 135 Consolidated Statement of Excluding abandonment Rising free cash flow will drive debt Comprehensive Income related expenditure reduction through 2018 and 2019 136 Consolidated Balance Sheet 137 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 138 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 139 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 173 Company Balance Sheet 174 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 175 Notes to the Company Financial Statements ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 177 UK Government Payment Reporting 179 Five Year Summary 180 Oil and Gas Reserves 181 Worldwide Licence Interests 183 Glossary IBC Shareholder Information Read more online at premier-oil.com 01 STRATEGIC REPORT ...through operational GOVERNANCE focus FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our operational focus has ADDITIONAL INFORMATION led to a strong production performance from our existing assets this year, delivered from a sustainably low cost base. Following the successful delivery of our Catcher project, we aim to maintain momentum by selectively investing in those opportunities within our development portfolio that will provide the best financial returns. Turn over to see how we will achieve this Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 02 Focus on Future Growth 50 millionth barrel produced Chim Sáo Successful completion of High operating efficiency the refinancing Excellent reservoir performance Chim Sáo delivered a robust production 14.9 kboepd Read more in the Financial Review on page 38 performance which, combined with continued low operating costs, resulted in the Vietnam business average generating strong operating cash flows. During net production the period, gross cumulative production passed 50 million barrels, in excess of the original total volumes envisaged at project sanction. Operational focus High operating efficiency and production performance underpins Premier’s strategy for debt reduction and its ability to invest in new projects. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 03 STRATEGIC REPORT Natuna Sea Block A Read more in the Business Unit Reviews on page 30 Increased market share Business unit generating strong positive net cash flow Natuna Sea Block A delivered a stable performance Delivering in 2017 with continuing strong Singapore demand GOVERNANCE leading to an increase in Premier’s market share Catcher under our principal gas sales contract. 12.9 kboepd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS average net production Increased Singapore market share to 49% ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Huntington Production ahead of expectation Strong performance through astute reservoir management Improved reservoir management and high FPSO operating efficiency led to a production performance ahead of budget. This, together with FPSO contract extension at a reduced rate, has led to a longer forecast asset life and an upward revision in reserves. Production ahead of 13.0 budget by kboepd average 28% net production Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 04 Focus on Future Growth continued Delivering Catcher Forecast reduction in total Successfully executing key projects like project cost Catcher drives a further increase in production, generating material cash flows. 30% Catcher First oil from Catcher was successfully commissioning work proceeded to delivered in December 2017, on plan and a successful tanker trial took schedule and with forecast total place in late November in advance project costs 30 per cent below the of first oil on 23 December. Positive sanctioned budget. After completing drilling results continued throughout construction and pre-commissioning 2017 leading to an increase in activity, the Catcher FPSO departed estimated gross peak production to Singapore on 10 August and arrived 60,000 bopd. Premier has a 50 per in the field on 18 October. The cent operated equity interest. installation, hook-up and Key milestones in the Catcher project Forecast gross  une 2014 – Field Development J  ug 2017 – 12th well completed A peak production 60 Plan approved by UK Government (last of the pre-first oil wells) Jan 2015 – FPSO construction started Aug 2017 – FPSO departs Singapore for the North Sea 2015/16 – Subsea infrastructure kbopd programmes carried out  ct-Dec 2017 – Hook-up and O commissioning programme Aug 2016 – FPSO hull arrives in following arrival in the field Singapore for construction and pre-commissioning Dec 2017 – First oil delivered from the Catcher field Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 05 STRATEGIC REPORT Demonstrating each stage of our business model in action Catcher is an example of how Premier has taken an asset from exploration through to first oil. The Catcher field was discovered by the Catcher Exploration GOVERNANCE exploration well drilled in 2010 and further exploration drilling confirmed the presence of hydrocarbons at both Varadero and 2010 – 2013 Burgman in 2011. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Catcher Field Development Plan was Development approved in 2014 by the UK Government. The subsea infrastructure programme was carried out in 2015/16 and development drilling ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 2013 – 2017 activities started in 2015. The FPSO arrived in the field from Singapore in October 2017 for the final hook-up and commissioning programme. First oil was delivered in December 2017 initially from Production the Catcher field. Production is being ramped up to 60,000 bopd in 2018 1H in a phased manner with Varadero in January 2018 2017 onwards and then from Burgman. Production is being constrained while final commissioning activities on the FPSO are completed. Read more in Our Business Model on page 8 Deleveraging the balance sheet Maintaining Read more in the Financial momentum Review on page 38 Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 06 Focus on Future Growth continued Tolmount Tolmount area Economically robust project even 1Tcf (gross) at low gas prices Targeting project sanction in 2018 Premier’s operated gas project in the Southern Gas Basin will provide the next phase of growth for Premier. Good progress has been made on the initial development phase, targeting gross resources of 540 Bcf (100 mmboe) in the Tolmount Main structure. The development concept was selected and FEED has been carried out during 2017. Alongside FEED, Premier entered into an innovative infrastructure financing arrangement, reducing our share of estimated capex. Sea Lion Phase 1 Premier has a 60% operated interest Forecast project breakeven US$45/bbl The Sea Lion Phase 1 project in the Falkland Islands has an important part to play in Premier’s long-term production growth story. Post FEED, which was completed in 2016, the focus in 2017 has been on progressing commercial, regulatory and funding Estimated workstreams ahead of any project sanction. reserves 220 Tuna mmbbls (gross) Premier holds a 65% operated interest in the Tuna licence The Tuna licence in Indonesia contains the Kuda Laut and Sing Laut fields, both discovered in 2014. During Estimated November an agreement to export resources Tuna gas to Vietnam was signed by >90 mmboe the Indonesian and Vietnamese governments, providing a commercial export opportunity for the Tuna field. (gross) Maintaining momentum Portfolio of around 750 million barrels of discovered but undeveloped reserves and resources. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 07 STRATEGIC REPORT Read more about Fuelling our progress in 2017 and future growth growth opportunities in the Read more in the Financial Review on page 38 Future Chief Executive Officer’s Review on page 12 growth GOVERNANCE Learn more about our portfolio optionality in the Business Unit Reviews on page 30 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Zama World class oil discovery Located in the Sureste Basin in the Gulf of Mexico, one of the world’s most prolific hydrocarbon provinces ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Premier successfully entered Mexico in the first international licence round for 70 years in 2015. In 2017, Premier drilled its first exploration well in the Sureste Basin offshore Mexico. The well targeted the Zama prospect and resulted in a significant oil discovery. Initial estimates of the gross oil-in-place volumes for the overall Zama structure are 1.2-1.8 billion barrels, with an Recoverable estimated gross recoverable resource range resource range of 400-800 mmbbls, including volumes in the 400-800 neighbouring block. Work is now underway with our joint venture mmbbls partners, Talos Energy (Operator) and Sierra Oil (gross) & Gas, and with PEMEX in the neighbouring block, to progress the appraisal of this significant discovery starting later in 2018 or early 2019. 2,000 1,900 Sits in top 10 largest offshore oil 1,800 discoveries of the last 5 years 1,700 1,600 Offshore oil discoveries 1,500 > 300 mmboe since 2012 1,400 Reserves (mmboe) 1,300 1,200 1,100 1,000 900 800 700 Zama volume range 600 500 400 Zama pre-drill volume range 300 200 100 0 LizaIara Tulimaniq Carcara Owowo Anchor North SNE Orca Itapu Itapu Snoek Bay du Payara Entorno Platte (Surplus) Nord Discoveries (Discovery data courtesy of WoodMac) Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 08 Our Business Model A proven track record of reserve and resource growth Premier aims to increase net asset value by developing high quality projects. We seek to increase our reserve and resource base through both acquisition and exploration activity, depending upon prevailing market conditions. Our business model has not changed but it had to be adapted to the volatile oil price environment. Inputs How we create value Committed and integrated Country and stakeholder benefits corporate responsibility A belief in always operating safely and responsibly by considering our people, the community and environment. Portfolio management Link to strategy: Premier actively manages its portfolio to ensure the Group’s capital and people are focused on its highest returning assets and where the Company is best placed to add value. Operate and develop high quality projects Maximising low cost production, delivering timely projects. Link to strategy: Exploration Development Premier seeks to replenish its While Premier is a full-cycle reserve and resource base exploration and production company, through successful exploration we have a long and established history subject to funding constraints. of executing development projects. Disciplined financial control Rigorous cost control and Long-term Medium-term capital allocation focusing on growth growth returns and financial liquidity. Premier’s high-graded exploration Catcher and Tolmount in the UK and portfolio provides the Group with the first phase of the Sea Lion project Link to strategy: organic growth opportunities in the in the Falkland Islands, will underpin longer term such as the Zama discovery future production growth. in Mexico. Highly trained staff Capable in-house operating teams supported Financial discipline, risk management by functional experts. and rigorous corporate governance Link to strategy: Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 09 Our strategy STRATEGIC REPORT Our business model is inherently linked to our strategy and supports all four pillars of it: Operating in a safe and responsible manner Focused on high quality assets with commercially advantaged positions Access to capital and financial liquidity Attracting and retaining the right people GOVERNANCE Read more in Our Strategy on page 16 Outputs FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Protecting our people, our assets and the environment grants us our social and legal licence to operate, and is critical to our business. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Shareholder value Production Strong Premier seeks to maximise value from its low cost stable cash flow production base to generate cash flows. Short-term cash generation Robust production from our assets in Indonesia, Vietnam and the UK generates cash flow to reduce our debt Debt levels and to reinvest in the business. reduction Managing our risks and strict financial discipline are critical to our business. All of our operations are carried out with a background of rigorous corporate governance. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 10 Market Overview Reduced inventory Commodity prices have remained volatile but as predicted in 2016, the impact of OPEC cuts, strong demand growth and the levels provide oil price effect of several years of underinvestment across the industry, saw the rebalancing of global oil inventories accelerate through support for 2018 2017. Industry investment in exploration and development, outside of US shale, remains weak but is also recovering from a low base with new areas such as Mexico, where Premier has enjoyed first mover advantage, gaining increasing interest. Key long-term trends Commodity prices Brent oil prices remained volatile during US shale output as the market began to 2017, trading as low as US$44/bbl in the rebalance inventory levels. UK gas prices first half of the year before rising into the remain seasonally volatile, exacerbated by year-end to finish at close to US$67/bbl. The the closure of the Rough storage facility, increase in prices was driven by continued but have generally been trending higher strong global demand and OPEC cohesion year-on-year in line with the improvement around implementation of agreed output in global energy prices. reductions, offsetting fears of increased Foreign exchange rates After falling significantly in 2016 post the as markets have adjusted to potential Brexit Brexit referendum and hitting a low of outcomes. This is despite relatively weak US$1.20/£ in January 2017, sterling has GDP growth figures and lagging interest recovered during 2017 to end at US$1.35/£ rate progression compared to the USA. Investment and costs Global capital expenditure by the industry There are signs that the oversupply in the remains low by historical standards, but has drilling market is reversing as older units are stabilised after three years of decline with retired, whilst service sector costs have also balance sheet preservation, especially by stabilised, with signs of selective but modest USA shale players, continuing to be a priority. inflation as oil prices have recovered. Exploration Exploration activity globally remained were made especially in Mexico, which muted in 2017, largely reflecting the saw the first wells drilled after the country discretionary nature of spend. However, opened up its oil and gas activity to a number of significant new discoveries foreign investment. Acquisitions and disposal activity 2017 saw an increase in M&A activity in a package of assets from Shell and the North Sea, with private equity active Neptune’s announced acquisition in deals such as Chysaor’s acquisition of of Engie’s upstream assets. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 11 STRATEGIC REPORT Read more in Principal Risks on page 22 GOVERNANCE Our response FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Premier looks to reduce volatility in revenues and of forward sales and swaps at an average price of protect downside to commodity price fluctuations US$58/bbl, with a further 13 per cent of production through a rolling hedging programme, whilst retaining covered by options with an average floor price of upside to any potential medium-term rally in prices. US$56/bbl. In addition, 29 per cent of UK gas For 2018, the Company has hedged approximately production has been hedged at an average price 40 per cent of its oil production through a mixture of 47 pence/therm. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Premier has considerable operating cost exposure in undertakes forward hedging to reduce the volatility sterling from its North Sea operations, and a proportion of changes in US$/£. Premier also has £250 million of of its capital expenditure on Catcher is also sterling. sterling debt which has been hedged by cross-currency This is partially hedged by the sterling revenue streams swaps at the time those debt arrangements were from its UK gas production, whilst the Company also put in place. Premier secured an innovative financing arrangement rates. Long-term contracts signed over the last few for the Tolmount development, entering an years across its production bases, including revised infrastructure partnership regarding the development FPSO lease contracts on Chim Sáo and Huntington, of the facilities. Premier has also signed Letters of Intent also ensure that the Company is partially insulated with a number of potential suppliers for its Sea Lion from any cost inflation that may occur as oil prices project to enable it to lock in service costs at attractive and consequent demand for services, recover. Premier’s exploration spend was modest in 2017 as the 400-800 mmbbls Zama oil discovery in Mexico. focus remained on delivering committed projects and The Company’s exploration strategy remains focused managing the balance sheet and liquidity. However, on acquiring high impact licences in proven areas, consistent with the policy of selective exploration within a framework of disciplined capital allocation. exposure, the Company participated in the significant Premier continued to monetise non-core assets and was subsequently pre-empted by the Wytch Farm rationalise its portfolio, announcing the disposal of its Operator Perenco. The Company also announced the Pakistan business for US$65 million and the sale of its sale of its interest in the non-core ETS pipeline system Wytch Farm assets for US$200 million. The latter in the North Sea, releasing hidden value from the transaction arose as a result of private equity’s appetite E.ON acquisition the year before. to deploy capital, although the sale to Verus Petroleum Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 12 Chief Executive Officer's Review A year of strong production and operational delivery has put us in a solid position to restore balance sheet stability and selectively invest in projects that deliver the highest financial returns.” Tony Durrant Chief Executive Officer 2017 saw continued volatility in commodity In the near-term, Premier’s focus is on prices contributing to economic and market Total Group reducing debt by utilising the Group’s cash uncertainty for the industry. For Premier, revenue (US$) flow generated from our low cost stable 1,102m the year contained three very significant production base. In 2017, Premier delivered highlights with a world class oil discovery production of 75.0 kboepd, in line with full at Zama offshore Mexico, first oil from the year guidance and up five per cent on 2016. Catcher development, and the completion This increase in production was driven by of our comprehensive debt refinancing. (2016: 983m) a record first half underpinned by high These events, together with a strong operating efficiency across the portfolio production performance from the existing and a full-year contribution from the exbusiness, continuing cost control and E.ON assets. selective disposals of non-core assets, Revenue by region (US$m) Our South East Asia assets performed well mean that Premier is already delivering during 2017. In Indonesia, demand from ahead of its strategic plan agreed at the Singapore for our gas was strong and our time of the refinancing. More recently, the operated Natuna Sea Block A fields outlook has improved with oil prices closing secured an increased market share within 2017 at a two-year high of US$66.9/bbl. its principal gas sales contract (’GSA1’) of Regardless of the external environment, 49.6 per cent against a contractual share Health, Safety, Environment and Security of 47.25 per cent. It also delivered record (‘HSES’) matters will always be of production under the second gas sales paramount importance to us and we will contract (’GSA2’). Across the border in not compromise on the integrity and safety Vietnam, gross production from the of our people and our operations. We Indonesia 172 Premier-operated Chim Sáo field passed continue to set ourselves challenging HSES Vietnam 210 50 million barrels, in excess of the original targets to drive continuous improvement. United Kingdom 674 total sanctioned volumes. The field Our HSES performance in 2017, as Pakistan & Mauritania 46 exceeded expectations both in terms measured against our Group aggregate of operating efficiency and better than HSES targets, improved. In addition, all expected reservoir performance, with a of our production and drilling operations successful well intervention programme retain their OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 helping to mitigate natural decline from certifications. More broadly, our corporate the field. Year-end production levels were responsibility efforts continue to be guided also boosted by a further 6.5 kboepd by the Ten Principles of the UN Global (gross) after completing a low cost, two Compact, to which we remain committed. well infill drilling programme. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 13 STRATEGIC REPORT Our 2017 performance in the context of our 2016 expectations 2017 has been another strong year for Premier from an operational standpoint: GOVERNANCE Production of 75 kboepd, in line Progress made on Tolmount with guidance and Sea Lion Low cost base maintained, World class oil discovery at capex savings achieved Zama, Mexico Catcher first oil delivered, Refinancing completed, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on schedule and under budget debt reduction underway  US$300m non-core disposals ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Working interest Entitlement to achieve during April. Development drilling throughout the project has been Production (kboepd) 2017 2016 2017 2016 encouraging with 14 wells now completed Indonesia 14.1 14.3 10.3 10.1 and a further 4 wells to be drilled by Pakistan and Mauritania 6.5 7.9 6.4 7.9 September 2018. Catcher is an example UK 39.5 33.0 39.5 33.0 of Premier’s capability to deliver full-cycle Vietnam 14.9 16.2 13.0 15.1 FPSO projects from exploration through to Total 75.0 71.4 69.2 66.1 production and the increased cash flows it generates will play an important role in our debt reduction plans in 2018 and beyond. UK production, which represents over charge in the year. Current production from half of Group production, grew 20 per cent Solan is performing in line with our revised During 2018, we expect Group production from 2016, principally as a result of a full expectations and we continue to evaluate to increase to 80-85 kboepd reflecting the year’s contribution from the ex-E.ON options to improve production levels and phased ramp up from the Catcher Area, assets, which continue to exceed recovery. Profits from UK production offset by natural decline in certain of our expectations at the time of acquisition. continue to be sheltered by Premier’s fields and the impact of disposals. The Huntington field saw particular brought forward cumulative tax loss and Strict management of our operating outperformance, contributing 13.0 kboepd, allowance position. cost base and our committed capital and it remains the highest net producer In December, we were delighted to safely expenditure have remained a key focus in our UK portfolio prior to the ramp up deliver first oil from the Catcher Area, for Premier in 2017. Our operating costs of production from the Catcher Area. The marking a significant milestone for Premier. were US$16.4/boe (2016: US$15.8/boe) continuing strong reservoir performance, The successful execution of this project in line with budget, reflecting changes together with an improved lease rate on schedule, and with total project costs in the production portfolio and ongoing structure on the FPSO agreed with Teekay, expected to be some 30 per cent below cost saving initiatives. We continue to means that we expect Huntington to the original sanctioned budget, is see opportunities for further savings from continue to produce longer than previously testament to the hard work, skill and collaboration initiatives and competitive envisaged. The long-life Elgin-Franklin field capability of the project team and our retendering, and expect to maintain a continued to benefit from an ongoing infill contractors. We are bringing the low cost base for the medium-term. 2017 drilling programme and our Babbage gas development on-stream in a phased capital expenditure was well below our field delivered a strong performance in manner from the three fields that make up original guidance as we secured further 2017 underpinned by well intervention the Catcher Area, firstly from the Catcher savings on the Catcher project and and optimisation of the existing well stock. field, then Varadero and shortly from on our drilling campaign in Mexico. Production from the Solan field was lower Burgman, as the final commissioning As the current phase of the Catcher than originally expected due to poorer activities on the FPSO are completed. development completes in the middle performance in the East reservoir. This has Once the field is fully operational we will of 2018, Premier’s forward committed resulted in a write down in recoverable be producing at a plateau production capex will fall significantly. reserves leading to a non-cash impairment rate of 60 kbopd (gross) which we expect Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 14 Chief Executive Officer's Review continued Priorities for 2018 Looking ahead to 2018, our priorities are: Deliver 2018 production  Progress financing, fiscal and guidance of 80-85 kboepd commercial initiatives for Sea Lion Deliver Catcher production ramp  Appraise Zama in 2H/early 2019 up of 60 kbopd (gross) and define development plans Progress Tolmount project to Maintain a competitive cost base sanction decision Deliver debt reduction These objectives, if successfully achieved, will put us in good stead to enhance shareholder value in the future. Alongside increasing production and to work with both our joint venture partners FEED work is progressing well, the cost control discipline, our selective and PEMEX in the neighbouring block to environmental assessments for the disposal programme of non-core assets secure a pre-unitisation agreement to project are underway and a draft Field announced in 2017 has enabled us to start progress the appraisal of this significant Development Plan has been submitted to deleveraging our balance sheet. These discovery. Discussions are underway to the OGA. We are pleased to have agreed disposals included the sale of our Pakistan secure an option on a rig to undertake the an innovative financing arrangement for business that will complete after the receipt appraisal programme, which is expected the project, establishing an infrastructure of Pakistani authorities’ approval, the to commence in the second half of 2018 partnership for the field facilities. The ongoing rationalisation of assets acquired or early 2019. impact of this arrangement is to reduce with the E.ON portfolio and the disposal Premier’s share of the capex required Our next development is an incremental gas of our non-operated interest in the Wytch to develop this large gas field to project in Indonesia, which was sanctioned Farm field which completed in December. approximately US$100 million. by the Board in March 2017. Bison, Iguana, These disposals, which will generate Gajah Puteri (’BIGP’), which is designed Our Sea Lion project in the Falkland Islands consideration of US$300 million, are to back fill our existing Singapore and is Premier’s largest pre-development an important part of meeting our debt domestic gas sales contracts, is proceeding project with around 400 mmboe reserves reduction targets. well and is on budget and scheduled to and resources (net to Premier) to be In the medium-term, Premier intends deliver first gas in 2019. developed over several phases. With to invest selectively in our portfolio of considerable progress made in 2016 to Our Tolmount Main gas development in future projects, to maintain and grow our optimise the project economics for the first the Southern North Sea, which will provide production in the 2019-2021 timeframe and phase of the development, work in 2017 the next significant phase of our growth, deliver value for all stakeholders. In July focused on the commercial, regulatory is targeted for project sanction in 2018. we were delighted to announce a material and fiscal work streams and on securing a This initial phase is targeting gross exploration success in Mexico. The world financing solution. Discussions are ongoing resources of 540 Bcf (100 mmboe) class oil discovery at the Zama-1 exploration with senior debt providers and supply chain and is an economically robust project well vindicated our strategy of focusing on contractors to secure suitable funding and for Premier even at low gas prices. under-explored but proven hydrocarbon commercial terms. Letters of Intent have basins and our initial estimates for the full There is also significant resource upside, now been signed with contractors for the field are a P90-P10 gross unrisked resource currently estimated at a further 400 Bcf provision of a range of services including range of 400-800 mmbbls, well ahead of (gross) in the Greater Tolmount Area. vendor financing. Premier is working pre-drill expectations. Premier continues towards a final investment decision by the end of 2018. Proven and At 31 December 2017, Group proven probable 2P reserves and 2C 2P reserves contingent resources and probable (‘2P’) reserves, on a working (mmboe) (mmboe) interest basis, were 302 mmboe (2016: 1 January 2017 353 835 353 mmboe) and total 2P reserves and Production (27) (27) 2C resources increased to 902 mmboe Net additions, revisions, discoveries (12) 120 (2016: 835 mmboe). Disposals, relinquishments (12) (26) 31 December 2017 302 902 Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 15 The decrease in 2P reserves is driven by the impact of 2017 production, a STRATEGIC REPORT downward revision to our Solan 2P reserve Our vision and strategy estimates and the disposal of our Wytch Farm interests. This is partially offset by upward revisions to our estimates of 2P Our vision is to be a world class To achieve this, our strategy reserves at both Huntington and Babbage. The increase in our 2C resources of 118 upstream independent. As a comprises four pillars, all of mmboe was principally a result of the Zama full-cycle exploration and which are underpinned by oil discovery offshore Mexico, the addition production company, our rigorous corporate governance of Tolmount East as a contingent resource GOVERNANCE strategy must support this. and an unwavering belief in and upward revision to the Sea Lion Phase 2 resources including the 2015 always operating responsibly Our strategy is to grow Zebedee discovery. by considering the communities shareholder value by investing The completion of the refinancing of our and environments in which in high quality production and debt facilities in July, marked a major we operate. development opportunities milestone for Premier and has established while maintaining exposure to FINANCIAL STATEMENTS a solid foundation for us to fulfil our strategic plans. Debt reduction remains our top upside value from successful priority, but the refinancing provides the exploration, within a strict capital headroom and flexibility to plan for future discipline framework. investment in selective new projects. At year-end, net debt stood at US$2.7 billion. Positive free cash flow including disposals was offset by adjustments to reflect the e ating R sponsib terms and costs of the refinancing and non-cash foreign exchange movements. er ly Post year-end, Premier invited our Op ADDITIONAL INFORMATION convertible bondholders to accelerate the conversion of their bonds. Approximately US$200 million was converted resulting in a further reduction in net debt. Focused on high quality As we enter 2018, our stable production Operating assets with delivered from a competitive operating in a safe and commercially cost base and lower capital commitments responsible advantaged will generate increasing free cash flows, manner positions which in the short-term will be directed at reducing our debt. Looking forward, we will selectively invest in new development Access to Attracting projects within a strict capital discipline capital and and retaining framework to provide growth in the financial the right medium-term and deliver future value liquidity people for all stakeholders. Tony Durrant Rigo ce n Chief Executive Officer ro a us rn Corp ve o rate G o Read more about our four strategic pillars overleaf Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 16 Our Strategy Creating value throughout the oil life cycle Operating in a safe and Focused on high quality assets with responsible manner commercially advantaged positions Premier has a proven track record of operating and delivering Premier develops and operates high quality assets in across the cycle from exploration through development to parts of the world where we have a strategic or operational production with particular focus on offshore projects. Premier advantage. In the UK North Sea, we have strong operating leverages its operating capabilities to maximise value from capability and considerable tax assets. We are also a key its assets and to position itself to take advantage of future player in the South East Asia gas market and have a opportunities. Our aim is to focus on operational delivery dominant position in the North Falklands Basin with access to across all our activities in a safe and responsible manner. a significant resource base. PROGRESS IN 2017 PROGRESS IN 2017 Premier has operated assets in Indonesia, Vietnam and the UK Our UK Business Unit performed well with our tax advantaged throughout the year and maintained high operating efficiency production from the UK increasing by 20 per cent in 2017. This will across all of our fields. This underpinned our strong production be further enhanced in 2018 following the successful delivery of performance for the Group in 2017. We delivered first oil from our first oil from Catcher in December. Good progress was made on operated Catcher development safely and on time, with 7 million the Tolmount gas project in the North Sea, which will provide the man hours completed without a lost time injury. We also operated next phase of growth for the UK business beyond Catcher. drilling campaigns in Indonesia, Vietnam and in the North Sea. Natuna Sea Block A again captured a market share in excess of its Our continued focus on process safety and asset integrity saw us contractual share of GSA1, the principal gas contract under which complete 2017 without any major process safety events from we deliver gas into Singapore. Our Chim Sáo field also exceeded our operated assets or drilling activities. Our HSES performance expectations, with production surpassing 50 million barrels, in overall, measured using a blended weighted score covering a excess of the original total volumes envisaged at project sanction. range of key HSES metrics, was above expectations. In the Falklands, progress on the first phase of the Sea Lion project focused on the commercial, regulatory and funding workstreams. A world class oil discovery in Mexico added to our portfolio of future growth opportunities. Tier 1 significant process safety (‘LOPC’) events Tolmount project capex for Premier reduced to (US$m) Zero 100 PRIORITIES FOR 2018 PRIORITIES FOR 2018 • Continue to operate all of our assets in a safe and • Deliver ramp up of gross production from Catcher to 60 kbopd responsible manner and complete the remaining development wells • Ensure the safety of our workforce remains paramount • Progress BIGP, the next development in Indonesia • Ensure any potential risk to the environment is minimised • Sanction Tolmount gas development project • Maintain the high levels of operating efficiency across our • Advance appraisal programme for Zama discovery in Mexico operated assets • Progress financing solution for Sea Lion ahead of final investment decision RELEVANT RISK AREA RELEVANT RISK AREA • HSES • Commodity price volatility • Production and development delivery and decommissioning execution • Exploration success and reserves addition • Host Government: political and fiscal risks • Joint venture partner alignment and supply chain delivery Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 17 Our Remuneration Policy is designed to support direct alignment with STRATEGIC REPORT shareholder value, and as such our remuneration packages are geared to Read more performance-related pay, which is linked to all four elements of our strategy.” in the Directors‘ Remuneration Jane Hinkley, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Report on page 81 Access to capital Attracting and retaining GOVERNANCE and financial liquidity the right people Premier aims to have a suitable capital structure with Premier employs highly capable in-house operating teams sufficient liquidity to underpin the Group’s capital investment at an asset and country level, supported by functional programme and ability to access new opportunities for experts with a significant track record of project delivery. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS future growth. The Group is committed to maintaining a Our aim is to ensure that the organisation is appropriately disciplined approach to spending each year and, where sized with the right calibre of people to deliver the necessary, will seek farm-in partners for drilling programmes Company’s strategic initiatives. and development projects to maintain this discipline. PROGRESS IN 2017 PROGRESS IN 2017 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Premier completed its comprehensive refinancing in July, Premier continues to benefit from a low turnover among its maintaining its existing debt facilities and extending maturities employees enabling the business to retain its core skills and to 2021 and beyond. This significant milestone established a solid capabilities to deliver the Group’s strategy. An outsourced foundation for Premier to fulfil its strategic plans. Premier intends management service for UK contractors was implemented to continue to focus on reducing its absolute level of debt, but the to optimise capability, control costs and facilitate future staff refinancing also provides the headroom and flexibility to invest resourcing requirements, as Premier returns to growth. selectively in the business. The Company had net debt of A Group-wide Talent Management programme, relating to both US$2.7 billion at year-end, down from the previous year, with cash succession planning and career progression, was introduced and and undrawn facilities of US$541 million. We have also hedged will be rolled out in 2018. Alongside this a Group-wide Staff approximately 50 per cent and 29 per cent of our oil and UK gas Engagement Survey was carried out, the results of which will production respectively for 2018 to mitigate against the risk of further inform the Talent Management initiative and frame lower commodity prices and to protect our liquidity. specific HR initiatives in the future. Cash and undrawn facilities (US$m) 2017 employee turnover (%) 541 7 PRIORITIES FOR 2018 PRIORITIES FOR 2018 • Prioritise reducing our absolute level of debt (subject to • Continue to ensure that the organisation is appropriately commodity prices) sized with the right calibre of people to achieve the • Prioritise capital to sanctioned and capital efficient developments Company’s objectives • Continue to minimise operating costs • Continue to hedge to protect our cash flows and future capital investment programmes • Continue to dispose of non-core assets RELEVANT RISK AREA RELEVANT RISK AREA • Commodity price volatility • Production and development delivery and • Financial discipline and governance decommissioning execution • Exploration success and reserves addition • Organisational capability Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 18 Key Performance Indicators Measuring our Premier measures a range of operational, financial and non-financial metrics to help performance it manage its long-term performance and to achieve the Group‘s business plans. Despite the ongoing challenging The Board monitors the Group’s progress conditions during 2017, Premier against its Key Performance Indicators to assess continued to deliver on a number performance and the delivery of its strategy. of its key metrics. Operational KPIs 2 Working interest production (kboepd) 2 Reserves and resources (mmboe) Resources Reserves 902 794 794 835 75.0 758 71.4 63.6 58.2 57.6 535 551 426 482 600 259 243 332 353 302 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVE Premier aims to maximise production from its existing asset base Premier aims to grow its reserves and resources base through a and, over time, to deliver production growth. Production growth combination of successful exploration and selective acquisitions. is measured using average daily production and the number of development projects being brought through to sanction. 2017 PROGRESS The ability to commercialise and bring those projects on-stream Proven and probable (‘2P’) reserves at the end of 2017 were is key to the Company’s success. 302 mmboe (2016: 353 mmboe). The reduction reflects the impact of 2017 production, a downward revision in reserves at 2017 PROGRESS Solan as a result of poorer than expected reservoir performance, Average daily production in 2017 was 75.0 kboepd, in line and the disposal of our Wytch Farm interests. This was partially with our market guidance and up five per cent on 2016. The offset by upwards revisions in estimates of both Huntington and increase in production on the prior year was driven by continued Babbage reserves as a result of extended forecast field lives high operating efficiency across the Group and a full year facilitated by better than expected reservoir performance. Premier contribution from the E.ON assets acquired in 2016. In December, also added 118 mmboe of resources principally as a result of the our operated Catcher project was brought on-stream which will Zama oil discovery offshore Mexico, the addition of Tolmount contribute materially to Group production in 2018. Premier also East as a contingent resource and upward revision to the Sea Lion sanctioned the development of the Bison, Iguana, Gajah Puteri Phase 2 resources including the 2015 Zebedee discovery. gas fields which will support our long-term contracts under which we deliver gas into Singapore. Progress was also made 2018 EXPECTATIONS on our Tolmount gas project which will provide the next phase Premier will look to progress and commercialise its preof growth beyond Catcher. development projects, which account for a significant proportion of its reserves and resource base, over the course of 2018. In 2018 EXPECTATIONS particular, Premier expects to sanction the Tolmount gas project In 2018, Premier expects production from its existing producing in the North Sea during the year which will add to our 2P reserves. assets to increase to 80-85 kboepd, reflecting the phased ramp Offsetting this will be production and further non-core disposals up from the Catcher Area, offset by natural decline in certain of including the completion of the sale of our Pakistan business which our fields and the impact of disposals. accounted for 8 mmboe of our 2P reserves at the end of 2017. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 19 Our strategic pillars Key to progress  STRATEGIC REPORT Read more in the Financial Operating in a safe and Above expectations Review on page 38 responsible manner Focused on high quality assets with commercially In line with expectations advantaged positions Access to capital and Below expectations financial liquidity Attracting and retaining GOVERNANCE the right people FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Non-financial measure HSES Index OBJECTIVE Premier is committed to managing its operations in a safe, reliable and environmentally responsible manner to prevent major accidents and to provide a high level of protection to its employees, contractors and the environment. Premier measures HSES performance using a blended, weighted score covering a range of key HSES metrics. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 2017 PROGRESS Overall performance was at or just above expectation. Both our recordable injury and high potential incident rates fell compared to 2016, and we continued to see very strong process safety performance, with only one (IOGP Tier 2) process safety event and strong process safety and asset integrity audit results from our operated assets. 2018 EXPECTATIONS Premier will continue to set a base target of delivering a better Environmental performance was broadly similar to 2016 with both, HSES performance than the median HSES performance of our greenhouse gas intensity and hydrocarbon spills to sea, showing peers in the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (‘IOGP’), very small reductions on the previous year. with the aim of driving continuous improvement year-on-year. In 2018, we will introduce new leading corporate metrics focused on Senior management visits to our operated facilities to demonstrate process safety (including maintenance and integrity metrics) and their commitment to our HSES values were supported in 2017 by routinely report performance alongside our other existing KPIs. Premier’s first ever Global HSE Day, when coordinated visits by We will also be reviewing our major HSES Management System senior managers and other events with a HSES focus were held documents to ensure their continuing relevance to our business at all our facilities and office locations worldwide. and also their alignment with evolving international management system standards. For more information on our HSES management practices, please see page 51. Corporate HSES KPIs Issue Premier Oil metric 2017 2016 2015 Occupational Fatalities 0 0 0 health and safety Lost work day cases (‘LWDC’) 3 6 3 Restricted work day cases (‘RWDC’) 0 1 2 Medical treatment cases (‘MTC’) 6 6 4 Total recordable injury rate (‘TRIR’) 1 1.47 1.95 1.27 High potential incident rate (‘HiPoR’) 1 0.65 1.20 1.13 Man hours worked (million) 6.1 6.7 7.1 Process safety and Process safety events (IOGP Tier 1) 0 0 0 asset integrity Process safety events (IOGP Tier 2) 1 0 3 Environment Leadership GHG intensity (operated assets) (te CO2e / 1000 te production) Unplanned hydrocarbon released to sea (total te) HSES leadership visits 183 1.9 18 186 2.2 13 2 219 3 0.9 n/a 106% Overall HSES Index score 1 Per million man hours. 2 Greenhouse gas emissions from our Solan asset were not included in our reported greenhouse gas intensity figure for 2016. 3 Our greenhouse gas intensity figure for 2015 was revised in 2016, following diesel under-reporting at our Balmoral asset. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 20 Key Performance Indicators continued Financial KPIs Liquidity (US$ million) Operating cash ﬂow (US$ million) 1,900 924.3 1,600 802.5 809.5 1,200 496.0 431.4 600 540 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVE Premier seeks to have sufficient liquidity to underpin the Group’s Premier aims to maximise cash flow from operations in order capital investment programme and to access new opportunities to maintain financial strength, ensuring we can meet our debt for future growth. The Group is committed to maintaining a obligations, invest in the future of the business and deliver disciplined approach to spending each year, where necessary, will long-term returns to shareholders. Premier’s cash flows are seek farm-in partners for drilling programmes and development protected by a rolling forward hedging programme. projects to maintain this discipline. 2017 PROGRESS 2017 PROGRESS Premier’s operating cash flow for 2017 of US$496.0 million During 2016, Premier completed a comprehensive (2016: US$431.4 million) benefited from an improvement in the refinancing, preserving the Group’s debt facilities, resetting external macro environment which saw the oil price average financial covenants and extending maturities out to 2021. US$54.2/bbl (2016: US$43.7/bbl). Premier realised an average oil This, together with a strong production performance, and price for the year post hedge of US$52.1/bbl (2016: US$52.2/bbl). continuing focus on maintaining a low operating cost base The increase in operating cash flow was helped by a strong and reduced capital commitments from existing operations, production performance and tight cost control. enabled us to deliver our capital investment programme including first oil from our operated Catcher project. 2018 EXPECTATIONS Future production growth together with Premier’s low cost base, 2018 EXPECTATIONS will underpin 2018 operating cash flow. In particular, production Premier will continue to take appropriate steps in 2018 to ensure from the new Catcher Area will contribute materially to the Group’s it maintains sufficient liquidity to deliver its strategic plans. We will operating cash flow as it ramps up during the first half of 2018. remain focused on maximising our production while managing our Premier will continue to look to hedge to protect its future cash operating costs and our capital expenditure. Our cash flows will be flows and our investment programme. We have hedged prioritised toward reducing our absolute debt levels as well as approximately 50 per cent of 2018 oil production with an average selectively investing in our new projects for future growth, while floor price of US$58/bbl and 27 per cent of our UK gas production maintaining sufficient liquidity such that we are well placed to at 47 pence/therm. withstand another downturn in the commodity price cycle. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 21 Our strategic pillars Key to progress  STRATEGIC REPORT Read more about how Operating in a safe and Above expectations all of our KPIs are linked responsible manner to Executive Directors’ Focused on high quality remuneration. For full assets with commercially In line with expectations disclosure, please see the advantaged positions Directors’ Remuneration Access to capital and Report on page 81 Below expectations financial liquidity Attracting and retaining GOVERNANCE the right people FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Operating costs (US$/boe) Net debt (US$ billion) 19.7 2.8 18.5 2.7 15.8 16.4 15.5 2.2 2.1 1.5 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVE Premier aims to minimise costs from operations without Premier aims to reduce the absolute levels of its net debt in compromising on health, safety or asset integrity. Operating costs order to address the imbalance in our capital structure, to ensure per barrel of oil equivalent is a function of industry costs, inflation, compliance with its financial covenants and to provide the Company the efficiency and effectiveness of Premier’s people, technology, with future financial flexibility. Premier anticipates reducing its net and production output. Operating costs are monitored closely to debt by using cash flow generated from its producing assets and ensure that they are maintained within pre-set annual targets. disposals, while maintaining tight cost control. 2017 PROGRESS 2017 PROGRESS Operating costs remained low at US$16.4/boe in 2017 Net debt at year-end was US$2.7 billion. Positive free cash (2016: US$15.8/boe), in line with our budget but a small flow generation including disposals, was offset by adjustments increase on 2016 due to portfolio mix effects in the production to reflect the terms and the costs of the refinancing and base. The low cost base continues to be driven by high operating non-cash foreign exchange movements on non-dollar efficiencies across our producing portfolio, and ongoing cost denominated debt. savings across the business. It reflects the significant cost reductions that have been achieved over the last two years. 2018 EXPECTATIONS Premier is targeting further debt reduction during 2018. With 2018 EXPECTATIONS forecast low operating costs, reducing capital expenditure, Premier expects operating costs in 2018 to be between and increasing production from our UK tax advantaged assets US$17-18/boe, and to maintain a low cost base for the as Catcher production ramps up, Premier is well placed to deliver medium-term, underpinned by continued focus on maximising on this target. Post year-end, Premier invited its convertible operating efficiencies, from collaboration initiatives and bondholders to accelerate the conversion of their bonds, competitive re-tendering. which further reduced the net debt. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 22 Principal Risks Managing our principal risks Risks are assessed throughout the Company using a methodical process.” Iain Macdonald Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Effective risk management is central to The Directors have carried out a robust A critical part of the risk management achieving our strategic objectives and assessment of the principal risks facing process is to assess the impact and protecting our personnel, assets, the the Company, including those that would likelihood of risks occurring so that communities where we operate and threaten its business model, future appropriate control and mitigation plans with whom we interact, and our reputation. performance, solvency or liquidity. A can be developed and implemented. Premier therefore has a comprehensive description of those risks, together with Of course, there are certain risks to which approach to risk management. details of how such risks are managed and Premier is exposed which it has very limited mitigated, is set out on pages 24 to 27. power to control or mitigate, such as oil price or extended adverse weather conditions in the UK North Sea. Significant risks during 2017 Significant risks in 2018 To facilitate assessment of the main risks facing the business, specific risks are • Oil price weakness and volatility • Further oil price weakness and volatility identified by each asset, project, business • Cash generation and ability to fund • Underperformance of existing assets unit and corporate function. These risks existing and planned projects are then consolidated and amalgamated to • Failure of new Catcher asset to fully provide an overview of the key risk factors • Failure to finalise the refinancing deliver to expectations facing each level of the organisation. of the Company’s debt facilities • Execution of planned corporate actions Premier attempts to minimise the likelihood • Loss of value if projects are deferred • Ability to fund existing and planned and mitigate the impact of the known risks • Continued underperformance from growth projects facing its business. According to the nature the Solan field of the risk and the Board approved risk • Breach of new banking covenants if oil appetite, Premier may elect to accept or • Failure to deliver Catcher to schedule prices fall or assets underperform tolerate the risk as-is, treat the risk with • Political and security instability • Ability to maintain core competencies controls and mitigating actions, transfer in countries of current and the risk to third parties or terminate the • Timing and uncertainty of planned activity risk by ceasing the underlying activity or decommissioning liabilities operation. In particular, Premier has a zero • Failure to engage constructively with • Political and security instability tolerance approach to financial fraud or the OGA and other relevant bodies in countries of current and ethics non-compliance, and ensures that • Timing and uncertainty of planned activity HSES risks are managed to levels that decommissioning liabilities are as low as reasonably practicable. • Rising costs if oil prices recover could Exploration and asset development • Financial viability of key suppliers limit access to service providers risks are managed on a portfolio basis. and partners • Ability to maintain core competencies Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 23 STRATEGIC REPORT Group risk management framework GOVERNANCE Risk management lies at the heart of Regular reviews are undertaken to review Premier’s system of internal controls. risks and the measures required or in place to control or mitigate them. The reviews A systematic process for the identification, help ensure that risks emerging as a result assessment, reduction, monitoring and of changes in the business activities or communication of risk is undertaken FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the business environment are captured across the Company’s business units and managed. and functions. Establish context ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Risk assessment Risk Risk identification Risk communication monitoring and consultation and review Risk analysis and evaluation Risk reduction Continuous improvement Risk management and internal reasonable, and not absolute, assurance minimum requirements for each element. controls in Premier that material financial irregularities and The Group Audit and Risk Function is The corporate governance process in control weaknesses will be detected. responsible for administering the risk Premier is designed to determine the management framework and for its Risk management nature and level of risk that the Company continued improvement. The framework Premier believes that risk management is is willing to take in pursuit of its strategy is illustrated above. just good management, leading to better and to provide an appropriate level of quality decision-making and improving the Establish context assurance that any risks taken are likelihood of achieving business objectives. The Company’s business strategy and the appropriately managed and that the risk appetite set by the Board together set system of internal controls is effective. Premier has adopted a framework for the overall context for the management of risk management based on ISO 31000 The risk management framework and the risk in the Company. principles and guidelines. During 2017, systems of internal control are designed Premier rolled out a new Risk Management to manage and communicate, rather than Standard to formalise this framework and eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve drive the consistency and reliability of risk business objectives and can provide only management across the Group by setting Continued on page 28 Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 24 Principal Risks continued Key to change in likelihood Increase No change Decrease Our strategic pillars Operating in a safe and Focused on high quality Access to capital and Attracting and retaining responsible manner assets with commercially financial liquidity the right people advantaged positions PRINCIPAL RISK FACTOR RISK DETAIL CHANGE IN LIKELIHOOD FINANCIAL RISKS Commodity price • Oil and gas prices are affected by global supply and demand and can be subject to significant fluctuations. volatility • Factors that influence these include operational issues, natural disasters, LINK TO STRATEGY adverse weather, climate change regulation, political and security instability, conflicts, economic conditions and actions by major oil-exporting countries. • Price fluctuations can affect our business assumptions and our ability to deliver on our strategy. • Specific risks for 2018: inability to execute a satisfactory oil hedging programme due to low forward oil prices and market backwardation; lack of credit lines for hedging. Financial discipline • Sufficient funds may not be available to finance the business and fund existing and planned growth projects. and governance • Breach of delegated authority. LINK TO STRATEGY • Financial fraud. • Specific risks for 2018: reduced flexibility to manage the business due to new controls agreed with lenders; breach of revised banking covenants; and inability to execute corporate actions including funding development projects such as Sea Lion. OPERATIONAL RISKS Production and • Uncertain geology, reservoir and well performance. development delivery • Availability of oilfield services including FPSOs and drilling rigs, technology and engineering capacity, and skilled resources. and decommissioning • Adverse fiscal, regulatory, political, economic, social, security (including cyber) execution and weather conditions. LINK TO STRATEGY • Immaturity of decommissioning in the UK resulting in uncertain cost and timing estimates for decommissioning of assets. • Potential consequences include reduced or deferred production, loss of reserves, cost overruns and failure to fulfil contractual commitments. • Specific risks for 2018: failure of new Catcher asset to fully deliver to expectations. Joint venture partner • Major operations and projects in the oil and gas industry are conducted as joint ventures. The joint venture partners may not be aligned in their objectives and alignment and supply this may lead to operational inefficiencies and/or project delays. Several of our chain delivery major operations are operated by our joint venture partners and our ability to influence is sometimes limited due to our small interest in such ventures. LINK TO STRATEGY • Premier is heavily dependent on supply chain providers to deliver products and services to time, cost and quality criteria and to conduct its business in a safe and ethical manner. • Specific risks for 2018: access to and cost of appropriate service providers if oil prices recover. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 25 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE HOW IS IT MANAGED? KEY ACTIONS IN 2017/18 • Oil and gas price hedging programmes to underpin our financial strength and protect our • Oil hedging programme continued with capacity to fund future developments and operations. fixed price term sales and options to • Premier’s investment guidelines ensure that our investment opportunities are robust provide some protection in the event to downside price scenarios. of an extended period of low oil prices. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Economics of investment decisions tested against downside price scenarios. • Discretionary spend actively managed. • Premier maintains access to capital markets through the cycle by proactive engagement • Continued engagement with lenders. with banks and lenders as evidenced by the completion of its refinancing in 2017. • Economics of investment decisions tested • Strong financial discipline. Premier has an established finance management system to against downside project scenarios. ensure that it is able to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity and financial capacity • Discretionary spend actively managed. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION and to manage the level of assessed risk associated with the financial instruments. • Sales and contractor financing schemes The management system includes a defined delegation of authority to reasonably for new growth projects. protect against risk of financial fraud in the Group. • Planned programme of corporate actions. • An insurance programme is maintained to reduce the potential impact of the physical risks associated with exploration and production activities. In addition, business interruption • Enhancement of the design and cover is purchased for a proportion of the cash flow from producing fields. Cash balances operating effectiveness of the finance are invested in short-term deposits with minimum A credit rating banks, AAA managed management systems. liquidity funds and A1/P1 commercial paper, subject to Board approved limits. • Effective management systems governing geoscience, reservoir engineering and • Active tracking and management of any production operations activities, including rigorous production forecasting and reporting, production losses. field and well performance monitoring, and independent reserves auditing. • Continued engagement with UK • Effective project execution management systems, including contracting strategy and cost Government on decommissioning. controls together with capable project teams and functional oversight. • Rationalised and refined local operating • Long-term development planning to ensure timely access to FPSOs, rigs and other procedures. essential services. • Preference for operatorship. • Specialist decommissioning team in place coupled with continued focus on delivering asset value to defer abandonment liabilities. • Due diligence and regular engagement with partners in joint ventures in both operated and • Implementation of comprehensive non-operated operations and projects. contract performance management • Pursue strategic acquisition opportunities, where appropriate to gain a greater degree of programme for major contracts. influence and control. • Defined management system for management of non-operated ventures. • Due diligence of supply chain providers, including diligence of financial solvency, anti-bribery and corruption controls, and controls to prevent facilitation of tax evasion. • Monitor contractual performance and delivery. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 26 Principal Risks continued Key to change in likelihood Increase No change Decrease Our strategic pillars Operating in a safe and Focused on high quality Access to capital and Attracting and retaining responsible manner assets with commercially financial liquidity the right people advantaged positions PRINCIPAL RISK FACTOR RISK DETAIL CHANGE IN LIKELIHOOD OPERATIONAL RISKS Organisational • The capability of the organisation may be inadequate for Premier to deliver its strategic objectives. The capability of the organisation is a function of capability both the strength of its personnel and the effectiveness of its business LINK TO STRATEGY management system. • Premier may be unable to attract or retain personnel with the right skills and competencies or to deliver suitable succession plans for senior roles. • The business management system may be inadequate or may not be sufficiently complied with. • Specific risks for 2018: unable to attract, challenge or retain key staff due to lack of affordability to pursue all the growth opportunities within the portfolio; increasing competition for talent in a potentially resurgent market place. Exploration • Premier may fail to identify and capture new acreage and resource opportunities to provide a portfolio of drillable exploration prospects success and and future development projects. reserves addition • Specific exploration programmes may fail to add expected resource LINK TO STRATEGY and hence value. • Lender controls may reduce ability to capture and execute exploration programme. • Specific risks in 2018: inability to access quality global opportunity set due to lender restrictions in a highly competitive market. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY RISKS Health, safety, • Significant asset integrity, process safety or wells incident on operated asset. environment and • Significant incident arising from natural disaster, pandemic, social unrest or other external cause. security • Consequences may include injury, loss of life, environmental damage LINK TO STRATEGY and disruption to business activities. Host government: • Premier operates or maintains interests in some countries where political, economic and social transition is taking place or there are current sovereignty political and fiscal risks disputes. Developments in politics, security, laws and regulations can affect our LINK TO STRATEGY operations and earnings. • Consequences may include expropriation of property; cancellation of contract rights; limits on production or cost recovery; import and export restrictions; price controls, tax increases and other retroactive tax claims; and increases in regulatory burden or changes in local laws and regulations. • Consequences may also include threats to the safe operation of Company facilities. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 27 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE HOW IS IT MANAGED? KEY ACTIONS IN 2017/18 • Premier has created a competitive reward package including bonus and long-term incentive • Development and implementation of staff plans to incentivise loyalty and performance from the existing skilled workforce. engagement plans following the staff • Continue to strengthen organisational capability to achieve strategic objectives. This survey in 2017. includes resource and succession planning, competency and leadership development. • Revitalised communication and FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Continuous improvement of business management system and related controls understanding of the reward programme appropriate to the size and market position of the Company. introduced in 2016. • Increased focus on Diversity & Inclusion across the Group. • Continued phased rollout of the Talent Management programme, including continued senior level succession at local and Group levels. • Focus on geologies we know well and in which we can build a competitive advantage. • Close out actions for managing • Continuous improvement in exploration management system with strong functional exploration commitments and minimise ADDITIONAL INFORMATION oversight. spend or manage phasing relating to these commitments. • Manage exploration portfolio to maintain alignment with strategic growth and spend targets. • Rebuild exploration portfolio with high quality assets. • Progress discovered resource at Zama, Tolmount East and Tuna via appraisal into reserves. • Continued engagement with lenders. Comprehensive HSES management systems including: • Continuous improvement of HSES • Asset integrity and process safety assurance with appropriate third-party verification management system and the auditing and performance monitoring. of principal controls. • Routine HSES auditing. • Build awareness of identification and management of Major Hazards. • Valid Safety Cases on all operated assets. • Enhanced process safety and asset • Management of change. integrity monitoring. • Crisis management and emergency response processes in place and regularly tested. • Senior management visits to operated • Business interruption insurance. facilities to demonstrate commitment to • Learning from internal and third-party incidents. HSES values. • Premier strives to be a good corporate citizen globally, and seeks to forge strong and • Close engagement with Falkland Islands positive relationships with governments, regulatory authorities and the communities where and UK governments on key aspects of we do business. Premier engages in respectful industry-wide lobbying and sustainable Sea Lion project. corporate responsibility and community investment programmes. • Premier maintains a portfolio of interests which includes operations in both lower and higher risk environments. • Rigorous adherence to Premier’s Business Ethics Policy and Global Code of Conduct. • Monitor and adhere to local laws and regulations. • Active monitoring of the political, economic and social situation in areas where we do business. • Business continuity plans tailored to pre-defined levels of alert. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 28 Principal Risks continued Continued from page 23 Risk assessment Internal controls The annual cycle of monitoring in A matrix of risk impact versus likelihood is Business Management System Premier culminates in the completion used to identify, assess and communicate Internal controls within Premier are of a Corporate Governance Return which risks at all levels in the Company. The governed by the Business Management contains declarations by business unit matrix facilitates consideration of risk System (‘BMS’). The BMS is comprised and functional management confirming inter-dependency and amalgamation of the Group policies set by the Board, compliance with the BMS as well as of similar specific risks across the together with a nested set of management identifying enhancements required as part organisation. Risks are categorised systems for each function and business unit of a continuous process for improving the according to level and escalated involved in carrying out Premier’s business. effectiveness of management systems. up the organisation as appropriate. A management system may consist of The BMS, the risk management framework policies, standards, procedures and Risk reduction and the programme of audits and reviews processes as required to govern the Risk reduction may include the acceptance together form the ongoing process for activities undertaken by the function or tolerance of the level of the risk as-is or identifying, evaluating and managing the or business unit. the implementation of active risk reduction principal business risks faced by the measures based on a Board approved risk During 2017, Premier implemented a Company. This process has been in place appetite. A risk visualisation model is widely new controlled BMS platform across for the year under review and up to the used to facilitate the identification of the Company. The platform provides a date of approval of the Annual Report appropriate risk reduction measures. controlled environment in which to further and Financial Statements. It is regularly Particular attention is given to risks with improve the control of, and staff access to, reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee potential health, safety, environmental the management systems in force across and provides the Board with reasonable and security consequences to ensure that the Company. assurance that appropriate controls are in controls or mitigations are identified to place to provide effective management Regular review reduce the level of the risk to as low as of business risks and to safeguard the The adequacy of the BMS is a function reasonably practicable. Group’s assets against inappropriate of its design and operating effectiveness. use or loss and fraud. Risk monitoring and review The effectiveness is assessed through The status of risks and risk reduction an annual programme of control audits, Board responsibility measures are monitored regularly activity reviews, exercises and drills agreed Overall responsibility for the system of through regular performance reviews, between functional and business unit internal control and risk management and risk workshops, control audits and activity management, the most significant of reviewing the effectiveness of such systems reviews. These reviews in their totality are which are approved by the Audit and Risk rests with the Board. This involves ensuring designed to identify changes in the level Committee. The programme is designed that there is a process to identify, assess of existing risks, the emergence of new to provide assurance to the Board that and reduce the level of any significant risks risks and assess the suitability and Premier is embedding effective risk that may affect the achievement of the effectiveness of control measures. As part management across its operations. Group’s strategic objectives. of these reviews, Premier seeks to learn Significant findings from the most The Directors carry out a robust from incidents and materialised risks. important audits and reviews are reported assessment of the principal risks facing to the Audit and Risk Committee which the Company, including those that would monitors the implementation of threaten its business model, future recommendations arising. performance, solvency or liquidity. These During 2017, the Group Audit and Risk risks are regularly reviewed and monitored Function conducted a review of the by the Board. effectiveness of its audits and reviews across the Company. The findings and recommendations from the review were endorsed by the Audit and Risk Committee and will provide a basis to drive the continued improvement in the coverage and execution of audits and reviews across the Company during 2018. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 29 STRATEGIC REPORT Viability statement Review of financial forecasts As part of the refinancing completed in GOVERNANCE In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the The Projections are based on: 2017, the Group amended its financial 2014 revision of the Combined Code, the • the Group’s latest life of field production covenants. These progressively tighten Directors have assessed the prospects of and expenditure forecasts on an asset over the next 12 months with the Net the Company over a longer period than the by asset basis, together with a variety Debt/EBITDA and EBITDA/Interest 12 months required for the ‘Going Concern’ of portfolio management opportunities covenants returning to 3.0x for the statement. In preparing this assessment of which are currently under active 12 months ended 31 March 2019, and viability the Board has considered the testing periods thereafter. In downside FINANCIAL STATEMENTS consideration; principal risks faced by the Group, relevant scenarios, where oil and gas prices were • management’s best estimate of future financial forecasts and sensitivities and the to fall and remain significantly below those commodity prices (based on recent availability of adequate funding. currently being realised, or production forward curves for 2018 and 2019, levels were to be significantly below Assessment period US$70/bbl for 2020 and US$75/bbl current performance, then, in the absence The Board conducted this review for a real for 2021, adjusted for the Group’s of any mitigating actions, a breach of one period of three years to 31 March 2021, hedging programme); and or more of the financial covenants might which was selected for the following • the revised financial covenant tests and arise once the financial covenants are reasons: profile required by the revised borrowing tightened. Potential mitigating actions • At least annually, the Board considers the facilities. The Projections assess the could include further non-core asset ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group’s projections (the ‘Projections’) Group’s financial projected performance disposals, additional hedging activity over a three-year period. against these revised financial covenants, or deferral of expenditure. • Within the three-year period, liquid for which more details are provided in note 15 to the financial statements, on The potential impact of each of the Group’s commodity price curves are able to be page 153. other principal risks on the viability of the used in the forecast. Given the lack of Group during the forecast period, should forward liquidity in oil and gas markets Sensitivities are run to reflect different that risk arise in its unmitigated form, has after this initial three-year period, we are scenarios including, but not limited to, been assessed. The Board has considered reliant on our own internal estimates of oil changes in oil and gas production rates, the risk mitigation strategy as set out for and gas prices without reference to liquid possible reductions in commodity prices each of those risks and believes that the forward curves. and delays or cost overruns on major mitigation strategies are sufficient to • The Group is not currently committed development projects. reduce the impact of each risk such that it to any major developments beyond the would be unlikely to jeopardise the Group’s Review of principal risks three-year period, following first oil from viability during the three-year period. The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties, the Catcher field in December 2017. set out in detail on pages 24 to 27, have Conclusion • Under the Group’s revised borrowing been considered over the period. The Directors’ assessment has been facilities which were finalised during 2017, Under the Projections, the Group is made with reference to the Group’s most of the Group’s current borrowing expected to have sufficient liquidity over current position and prospects, the facilities are available until May 2021, with the three-year period and is forecasting to Group’s strategy and availability of the convertible bonds available until be able to operate within the requirements funding, the Board’s risk appetite and May 2022. of the financial covenants in its borrowing the Group’s principal risks and how facilities. Furthermore, no further these are managed, as detailed in the refinancing of the Group’s borrowing Strategic Report. The Directors have facilities are forecast. also considered the availability of actions within their control in the event of plausible negative scenarios occurring. Therefore, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the next three years. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 30 Business Unit Reviews SNAPSHOT Strong performance across the portfolio Premier has seven offices world corporate office in London. wide with 783 employees and Premier is active both is organised into five business offshore and onshore, but all units – UK, Indonesia, Vietnam, of the Company’s operated Pakistan and the Falkland Islands interests are located offshore. – with support provided by the Premier’s operations 1. United Kingdom (p. 31) 2. Indonesia (p. 33) 3. Vietnam (p. 35) 4. Pakistan and Mauritania (p. 36) 5. The Falkland Islands (p. 36) 6. Exploration (p. 37) Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 A successful well intervention programme United Kingdom and continued production optimisation STRATEGIC REPORT of the existing well stock led to the Premier-operated Babbage field (47 per cent interest) delivering 3.1 kboepd (net), ahead of budget. In addition, field Solan Shetland operating costs were reduced by more Islands than 20 per cent as a result of the platform Orkney being transitioned to a Not Permanently Islands Balmoral Attended Installation (‘NPAI’) in April. Area Premier will continue to undertake GOVERNANCE production optimisation activities at Huntington the field, which are expected to add incremental production for low additional Kyle expenditure in coming years. As a result Aberdeen Elgin Franklin of the improved production performance SCOTLAND Catcher Glenelg and lower operating costs, Premier now Area anticipates a longer than expected field FINANCIAL STATEMENTS life beyond 2030, and has revised upwards its estimates of Babbage’s remaining net 2P reserves. Tolmount ETS Premier interests In the Southern North Sea, similar well ENGLAND CMS Producing fields optimisation efforts, including reinstatement Babbage Pipeline interests of inactive wells and interventions in existing Area well stock, have seen production restart at the Rita gas field (74 per cent interest) after being shut in for almost two years. The UK delivered 20 per cent higher production in 2017, with a full There have also been successful well ADDITIONAL INFORMATION year’s contribution from the E.ON assets acquired during 2016 and reinstatements at the Johnston gas field (50.1 per cent interest). These low cost high operating efficiency across the portfolio. First oil from the activities typically deliver short-term cash Catcher Area, which was delivered on 23 December on schedule, payback in less than 12 months. and with total forecast project costs some 30 per cent below the Production from the Premier-operated sanctioned budget, will deliver a further increase to UK production Solan field (100 per cent interest) averaged in 2018. Looking forward, we expect to sanction the Tolmount gas 5.9 kboepd, lower than originally expected, project during 2018, providing the next phase of growth for the UK as a result of the first production well (‘P1’) being shut in for a period in February business, which is expected to average around 50 kboepd (net) over following the failure of the existing electric the next five years. submersible pump (‘ESP’). P1 is currently producing as expected on free flow and lease cost structure. The combination of as a result, the Company has no immediate Production better than expected reservoir performance requirement for workover operations. and a lower FPSO lease rate, has led Premier Production rates from the second producer to increase its estimate of Huntington’s (‘P2’) remain limited due to poor reservoir Production from Premier’s UK fields remaining net 2P reserves by 4 mmboe. performance in the eastern part of the averaged 39.5 kboepd (net) (2016: field. During the year, further topside 33.0 kboepd (net)), up 20 per cent on Production from the non-operated enhancements were completed with the 2016. Following delivery of first oil from Elgin-Franklin field (5.2 per cent interest) successful installation and commissioning Catcher at the end of the year, there will was marginally below budget, averaging of a water injection upgrade and produced be further production growth in 2018, 5.4 kboepd (net). Strong underlying field water handling projects. Options to despite the impact of the Wytch Farm performance as a result of an ongoing improve production levels and recovery disposal in December. Production from infill drilling campaign was offset by an at Solan continue to be evaluated, including the Catcher Area is currently ramping up extended summer maintenance shutdown a possible further drilling campaign starting and is expected to reach plateau rates required to replace a large platform riser in 2019 or 2020. Premier has reduced its during April. shutdown valve, and by downtime of the estimates of Solan’s remaining net 2P Forties Pipeline System (‘FPS’) export The Premier-operated Huntington field (100 reserves, reflecting lower expected pipeline during the fourth quarter of 2017. per cent interest) was the highest producer recovery from the asset over its economic 2018 production to the end of February in the UK portfolio in 2017 with production life. This reduction does not take account has averaged 7.7 kboepd (net), above averaging 13.0 kboepd (2016: 10.8 kboepd), of any potential upside from the deeper expectations, due to contributions from 28 per cent higher than budget. This strong Triassic play on the Solan licence infill drilling and high operating efficiency. performance was achieved by improved or the impact of any potential third-party The non-operated Glenelg field (18.75 per reservoir management and high FPSO volumes across the Solan infrastructure, cent interest), a satellite field within the operating efficiency. The lease agreement which are currently being assessed. Elgin-Franklin area, produced intermittently with Teekay, the owner of the Voyageur Spirit during 2017 due to downhole scaling in FPSO, has been extended beyond April 2018 the single well. This is likely to require an for a minimum of a year, with a revised lower intervention in 2018/19 to rectify fully. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 32 Business Unit Reviews continued being ramped up in phases with first oil from Varadero brought on in early January, to be followed by Burgman shortly. Production levels have had to be deliberately constrained during the ramp up phase while commissioning of the full gas processing modules and the water injection systems on the FPSO are carried out. Water injection was brought on in mid-February and the final gas compression commissioning is underway. Following this, full production from the Catcher Area of 60 kbopd (gross) is expected during April. The first two export cargos, of over 500,000 barrels each, were lifted on 23 January and 18 February and both were sold at a premium to Brent. Drilling activities using the Ensco 100 rig have continued with operations ahead of schedule and under budget. Fourteen production and injection wells have been Production from the Premier-operated drilled and completed with consistently Balmoral Area performed as expected Development positive reservoir results, with 12 of these delivering 2.2 kboepd (net) (2016: wells being tied-in ahead of first oil. The rig 2.1 kboepd (net)). Previous plans for is currently drilling the CCP6 well on the Catcher cessation of production at Balmoral second Catcher template and will drill a First oil was successfully delivered on by April 2019 have been re-evaluated, further Catcher well before moving to the schedule on the Premier-operated Catcher driven by the asset’s performance and Burgman field. A total of 18 wells will be project on 23 December. The Catcher Area improving market oil prices. Planning for drilled by September 2018 before a planned (50 per cent interest) comprises three fields the decommissioning of the area is well drilling break. As a result of initial production – Catcher, Varadero and Burgman – with advanced, including the disposal and sale from the field and these positive well results production initially started from the Catcher of the Balmoral Floating Production Vessel to date, Premier is encouraged about the field. Total forecast capex remains at (‘FPV’). Some decommissioning work has potential overall recovery from the Catcher US$1.6 billion, 30 per cent lower than the started, and during the fourth quarter, the Area, and continues to target peak plateau sanctioned estimate. Helix Well Op’s Seawell intervention vessel production of approximately 60 kbopd entered four old suspended Balmoral water Following successful final construction (gross), 20 per cent higher than that injection wells to gather information on well and pre-commissioning activity during the envisaged at sanction. status and to prepare the wells for later period, the Catcher FPSO departed the Premier and its joint venture partners are abandonment. Premier is now considering Keppel shipyard in Singapore on 10 August already examining future Catcher Area moving cessation of production out to and completed its journey to the UK via the development opportunities to make full use 2021, subject to partner and Government Suez Canal, without incident and ahead of of the newly commissioned facilities. Studies approvals. In order to do this, some schedule. The vessel then completed a are underway for the future development of modest further investment on wells, planned stop at Nigg Port, Scotland for the 2016 Laverda discovery in conjunction subsea and topsides may be required to preparatory work ahead of arrival at the with an infill well in the northern area of maintain performance and asset integrity, Catcher field location on 18 October. By the Catcher field. These future activities, whilst a lower but appropriate level of 20 October, it was successfully connected amongst others, are planned to provide decommissioning planning works would infield to the pre-installed buoy and had incremental production from 2020 onwards. also continue. completed the initial rotation test. The installation, hook-up and commissioning Pre-development Production from the non-operated Wytch (‘IHUC’) work has proceeded to plan. Good progress has been achieved on the Farm field (33.8 per cent interest) averaged All production and injection risers were Premier-operated Tolmount project (50 per 4.4 kboepd (net) (2016: 5.1 kboepd (net)), permanently hung-off, shutdown valving cent interest) in the Southern Gas Basin. reflecting natural reservoir decline and a installed and subsea control umbilicals It is envisaged that the initial phase, which reduced contribution following disposal attached. The remaining offshore will target the Tolmount Main structure, of the asset in December. construction period of work was complete will recover 540 Bcf (gross) of gas from four UK unit operating costs for the year were by the end of November, when the focus producing wells at a production capacity US$23/boe (2016: US$24/boe) as a result switched to final commissioning of subsea of up to 300 mmscfd (gross). of favourable asset uptime, continued systems and the interfaces with the vessel. In February 2017, the development cost control measures and a full year’s A trial for oil tanker offloading completed concept, comprising a standalone normally contribution from the E.ON assets. In 2018, successfully in the third week of November, unmanned installation (‘NUI’) and a new Premier expects a further reduction in the ahead of first oil in December. gas export pipeline to shore, was selected. UK operating costs per barrel, with The initial production wells from the Catcher A commercial Heads of Terms was also increased production from the start-up field were cleaned up and tested at rates in signed with a terminal operator to process of the Catcher Area and the lower leased excess of 20 kbopd (gross) each, in line with the Tolmount fluids and to undertake FPSO rates at Huntington, offsetting expectations and reflecting initial high terminal modification works on behalf natural decline at certain fields. productivity. As planned, production is of the Tolmount project. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 33 FEED work is progressing well, with to 33.8 per cent. Subsequently, Premier platform and pipeline FEED completed Exploration agreed to dispose of its entire 33.8 per cent STRATEGIC REPORT and tenders received for the project interest in the Wytch Farm field to Perenco scopes under evaluation. Bids are also UK Limited for a cash consideration of During 2017, well operations on the being evaluated from drilling rig providers US$200 million, realising an attractive Ravenspurn North Deep well (five per cent to cover the development drilling valuation in excess of that implied from the carried interest), which was testing the programme, and the earlier drilling of previous transaction and above Premier’s deep Carboniferous play underlying the the Tolmount East appraisal well in 2019. internal valuation. Premier was also able Ravenspurn North field in the Southern to release Letters of Credit, amounting Alongside the FEED process, Premier Gas Basin, were completed. The well was to approximately US$75 million, held in signed a Heads of Terms to enter into an plugged and abandoned. respect of future field abandonment GOVERNANCE infrastructure partnership for the Tolmount Premier continues to actively manage its liabilities. The sale completed in December, development with Dana Petroleum and UK exploration portfolio. In September, generating a pre-tax profit on disposal CATS Management Limited, whereby they Premier exited the P2184 Licence which of approximately US$133 million. will jointly finance, construct and own the carried a commitment well obligation on Tolmount platform and export pipeline Premier continued its programme of the Ekland prospect and a further four as a standalone development, as well as non-core asset disposals in 2017 principally licences were relinquished by the end of undertaking the onshore modifications at from the E.ON portfolio acquired in 2016. the year. This includes the P2136 Artemis FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the onshore gas receiving terminal. The It disposed of its interests in the Austen and Licence, where a well commitment was Tolmount field will be tied-in to the platform, Arran fields in the Central North Sea during offset against other activity in the UKCS. and a tariff will be paid to the infrastructure the year, and in December announced the owners by the upstream partners for the VIE T N A M disposal of its 30 per cent interest in the transportation of gas production through Portfolio management Esmond Transportation System (‘ETS’) the infrastructure over the life of the field. pipeline for up to US$31.6 million. These As a result, Premier’s share of capex is HoDuring Chi the first half of the year, Premier disposals, together with the relinquishment estimated to be approximately US$100 Minh City of other licences, has meant that Premier exercised its pre-emption rights to acquire million. Fully termed agreements are being Vung Tau3.71 per cent of the Wytch has actively managed its current UK licence an additional progressed ahead of project sanction which position down from 63 blocks in 2016 to Farm field for approximately US$15 million, is scheduled during 2018. 39 blocks today, and this rationalisation ADDITIONAL INFORMATION taking Premier’s overall interest in the field activity is expected to continue in 2018. NCS Pipeline to Vung Tau Indonesia Chim Sáo Gas Export 12W Chim Sáo / Dua Production and T NA M development IN VIE IA YS Kakap DO LA Tuna MA Production from Indonesia in 2017, NE discovery Natuna Sea SIA on a working interest basis, was in line Block A with budget at 14.1 kboepd (net) (2016: M ALAYSIA 14.3 kboepd (net)). The Premier-operated Natuna Sea Block A fields (28.67 per cent interest) delivered 12.9 kboepd (net), while production from the non-operated Kakap field (18.75 per cent interest) averaged WNTS to Singapore 1.2 kboepd (net). Operating efficiency 540km remained high at over 99 per cent. Premier sold an average of 234 BBtud (gross) (2016: 237 BBtud) from its operated Natuna Sea Block A fields during 2017. Premier interests Singapore demand for gas sold under Producing oil & gas fields GSA1 remained robust, averaging 286 SUM ATRA Export pipeline BBtud (2016: 297 BBtud). Premier’s Anoa and Pelikan fields delivered 143 BBtud (gross) (2016: 132 BBtud (gross)), capturing The Premier-operated Natuna Sea Block A fields delivered a robust 49.6 per cent (2016: 44.4 per cent) of GSA1 and stable performance in 2017 with production of 12.9 kboepd (net), deliveries, above Natuna Sea Block A’s contractual share of 47.2 per cent. Natuna underpinned by supplying an increased market share of 49.6 per Sea Block A’s contractual share for 2018 cent within GSA1, and strong Singapore demand for gas deliveries has been increased to 51.7 per cent. under GSA2. This, together with continued low operating costs of US$9.6/boe, once again led to the Indonesian Business Unit generating material positive net cash flows for the Group. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 34 Business Unit Reviews continued Gas supply by contract GSA1 GSA2 GSA5 BBtud (gross) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Anoa (Pelikan field) 143 132 – – – – Gajah Baru (Naga field) – – 91 94 – 11 Total Block A 143 132 91 94 – 11 Kakap 17 17 – – – – Total 160 149 91 94 – 11 Gajah Baru and Naga delivered production The development of the BIGP gas fields of 91 BBtud (gross) (2016: 94 BBtud (gross)) was sanctioned in 2017 which marks the Exploration and appraisal under GSA2, representing 100 per cent next generation of Natuna Sea Block A nomination delivery by Premier. There were projects to support Premier’s long-term gas As a result of the production performance, no deliveries under GSA5 (2016: 11 BBtud contracts into Singapore. The EPCI contract the WL-5X well brought on-stream in (gross)) following the expiry of the for BIGP, which will be developed as August, Premier is reprocessing 3D seismic Domestic Gas Supply Agreement. subsea tiebacks to existing infrastructure, over the Anoa field to enhance the seismic was executed in October 2017 and Gas sales from the non-operated Kakap imaging across the Lama Play area. Premier development drilling is planned for early field averaged 17 BBtud (gross) (2016: will use this reprocessed data to identify 2019. First gas remains on budget and 17 BBtud (gross)) while gross liquids and mature Lama Play leads and prospects on schedule for the second half of 2019. production was 2.6 kbopd (2016: on its Natuna Sea Block A acreage. 2.7 kbopd). Gross liquids production In January, Premier was granted a threeSince the year-end, Premier together with from the Anoa field was 1.1 kbopd year extension to the exploration period its joint venture partners has been awarded (2016: 1.4 kbopd), underpinned by of the Premier-operated Tuna PSC licence the Andaman II licence (40 per cent, successful well intervention work. where the evaluation of potential operated interest) in the North Sumatra development scenarios for the 2014 Premier continues to benefit from a low Basin offshore Aceh, Indonesia. The licence Kuda Laut and Singa Laut discoveries, now cost base in Indonesia, delivering further has the potential to deliver significant gas collectively known as the Tuna field (65 per cost reductions in 2017. Based on current volumes into North Sumatra and adds a cent interest), is ongoing. In November, a production levels, Natuna Sea Block A potentially material gas play to Premier’s Memorandum of Understanding between remains well placed to deliver operating Indonesian portfolio. PetroVietnam, SKK Migas (on behalf of costs of around US$9/boe into the the Indonesian Government) and Premier medium-term. for future gas sales from the Tuna field Portfolio management The Anoa development well (‘WL-5X’), in Indonesia into Vietnam was signed, which made the Lama discovery under enhancing future commercialisation. In December, Premier signed a sale and Anoa in 2012, was recompleted in August In 2018, a farm-out process has been purchase agreement with Batavia Oil to 2017. The well was brought on-stream to launched with a view to funding Premier’s sell its entire 18.75 per cent non-operated carry out a long-term production test which share of an appraisal campaign in 2019. interest in the Kakap field for a cash will help to define the potential of these consideration of US$3.2 million. deeper zones within the Anoa field. Completion is subject to approval from the Government of Indonesia. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 35 Vietnam STRATEGIC REPORT Overlying the two main reservoirs in the C AM B O D I A VI ET N A M Premier interests Chim Sáo field are several smaller but Producing oil & gas fields significant hydrocarbon bearing sandstones Export pipeline which are intersected by the production wells. In 2017, as the rate of hydrocarbon flow from the main reservoirs reduced, GOVERNANCE Vung Tau the shallower reservoirs of selected wells were perforated to access new zones. NCS Pipeline In addition, producing zones in several wells were worked over to accelerate hydrocarbon Chim Sáo production. This intervention programme on Gas Export existing wells, reduced the rate of natural production decline and contributed FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12W Chim Sáo / Dua 1.0 kboepd (net) to Premier’s 2017 AM production at a cost of only US$4/barrel. TN Kakap IN VIE SIA L AY Chim Sáo’s operating efficiency remained Natuna Sea DO N MA Block A Tuna at over 90 per cent in 2017. This was the discovery IA ES MALAYS I A result of safe and reliable operations and maintenance services, minimal unplanned events, and planned shutdown and slowdown campaigns being completed WNTS to on schedule. Singapore ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 540km During 2017, Chim Sáo operating costs SI N G APO R E remained low at US$9.8/boe (2016: US$8.7/boe). Low costs were maintained by replacing the supply vessel contract at depressed market rates, improved vessel management, and the impact of the lower The Vietnam business generated strong operating cash flows Chim Sáo FPSO lease rate agreed at the in 2017 due to a higher than budgeted production performance end of 2016. These savings, along with combined with continued low operating costs. During the period, Chim Sáo crude continuing to sell at gross cumulative production surpassed 50 million barrels, in premiums to the Brent oil price, contributed to a positive net operating cash flow from excess of the original volumes estimated at project sanction. the Vietnam Business Unit in 2017, despite the cost of the infill programme. reservoir performance has been improved Production and production increased, with some further zones remaining unperforated. This will allow Premier to target bringing further Production from the Premier-operated incremental production on-stream in 2018. Block 12W (53.13 per cent interest), which contains the Chim Sáo and Dua fields, was ahead of budget, averaging 14.9 kboepd (net) (2016: 16.2 kboped (net)) underpinned by high operating efficiency, excellent reservoir performance and a successful well intervention programme, which helped to mitigate natural decline from the fields. A two well infill drilling programme completed in December 2017, proved highly successful, adding incremental net production of 3.3 kboepd and further extending the long-term potential from the field. The infill drilling programme comprised two low cost wells. The first well was a side-track of a water injector well no longer required which was recompleted as a production well, while the second well was drilled from the final unused slot on the Chim Sáo wellhead platform. Using lessons learnt from previous drilling campaigns, Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 36 Business Unit Reviews continued Pakistan and Mauritania Mauritania Premier’s Pakistan business continued to generate positive and stable net cash flows for the Group. During 2017, the average realised Production and gas price was US$3.0/mscf while operating costs remained low at development US$4.2/boe (US$0.6/mscf). Production from the Chinguetti field (8.12 per cent interest) averaged 257 bopd (2016: Pakistan 368 bopd) net to Premier during 2017. Production and The fall in production was driven by natural Portfolio management decline from the existing wells. As a result development of these low production volumes and In April, Premier announced the sale of its resulting marginal cash flows, the joint Net production in Pakistan averaged Pakistan business to Al-Haj Group for venture partners ceased production from 6.2 kboepd (39.1 mmscfd) (2016: 7.5 kboepd US$65.6 million. To date, Al-Haj has paid the field on 30 December 2017 and the (47.4 mmscfd)) from Premier’s six nondeposits of US$25.0 million. Completion of FPSO is being prepared for sail away. operated producing gas fields. The fall in the sale is awaiting final approvals from the A drill ship has now been mobilised to production reflects natural decline in the Pakistani authorities and in the meantime the Chinguetti field to start a six-month main gas fields, which was partially offset Premier continues to collect the cash flows campaign for temporary suspension of by successful well intervention campaigns generated from the Pakistan assets. wells starting with the water injection wells. at the Bhit and Badhra fields. The permanent abandonment of the wells Production is scheduled for 2019. The field Equity Mmscfd 2017 2016 interest % abandonment and decommissioning plan Bhit 7.0 8.4 6.0 is awaiting approval by the Government Badhra 4.6 5.7 6.0 of Mauritania. In addition, plans are being prepared for the abandonment of the Qadirpur 14.9 16.1 4.75 suspended exploration and appraisal wells Kadanwari 4.1 5.5 15.79 on the previously relinquished Banda and Zamzama 7.9 11.3 9.38 Tiof discoveries. Zarghun South 0.6 0.4 3.75 Total 39.1 47.4 The Falkland Islands senior debt providers, including Premier interests Pre-development commercial banks and export credit Oil discovery Sea Lion finance agencies, will progress in 2018. The Sea Lion project and the wider North Alongside this, Premier continued to Falklands Basin, has the potential to be engage with the Falkland Islands Atlantic Ocean significant for Premier and the strategy is to Government (‘FIG’) on environmental, fiscal develop the discovered resources in several and other regulatory matters with a view phases. Sea Lion Phase 1 (60 per cent to obtaining the consents and agreements interest), which is targeting gross reserves necessary to be in a position to reach a final of over 220 mmbbls in PL032, will utilise a investment by the end of 2018. As part of conventional FPSO based scheme, very this process, the latest drafts of the Field Stanley similar to Premier’s successful Catcher Development Plan and Environmental development. Engineering design work Impact Statement (‘EIS’) for Sea Lion which was largely completed in 2016, Phase 1, were submitted to FIG and the focused on optimising the facilities design formal public consultation of the EIS and installation methodology required, commenced in January 2018. reducing the estimated gross capex to It is estimated that a subsequent Phase 2 first oil to US$1.5 billion. The focus in 2017 for the development will recover over 300 mmbbls Premier-operated Sea Lion During 2017, Premier focused on securing (gross) from the remaining volumes in PL032 agreement with key supply chain and the satellite accumulations in the north Phase 1 project has been on contractors for the project. Good progress of the adjacent PL004. During 2017, further progressing commercial and was made in this respect with Letters of technical analysis carried out on Phase 2, regulatory work streams and Intent signed with a number of contractors including the 2015 Zebedee discovery in on securing commitments from for the provision of a range of services and PL004, has resulted in an increase in net 2C vendor financing. Further discussions with resources at the year-end. key contractors for the project. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 37 Exploration STRATEGIC REPORT In recent years, Premier’s strategy has been to focus its exploration portfolio on under-explored but proven hydrocarbon basins rather than traditional but now mature areas, with priority given to lower cost operating environments. This strategy resulted in a major success with the world class oil discovery at the Zama-1 well offshore Mexico during 2017, capitalising on Premier’s first mover advantage as the country opened up to foreign investment. Mexico GOVERNANCE 40km Premier interests FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 0m 1,00 m 800 0m 60 400m Block 7 200m Gulf of Mexico Block 2 M E X IC O ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Coatzacoalcos During 2017, Premier, together with its joint of 400-800 mmbbls. These estimates been received from seven vendors venture partners Talos Energy (Operator) include those volumes that extend into the aiding appraisal planning and identifying and Sierra Oil & Gas, drilled the Zama neighbouring block which is operated by additional data to be acquired in the up prospect in Block 7 in the Sureste Basin, PEMEX. The joint venture is now working and coming drilling programme. Premier offshore Mexico which resulted in a with PEMEX to secure a pre-unitisation holds a 25 per cent paying interest in significant oil discovery. The Zama-1 well agreement in order to progress the Block 7. encountered a continuous oil bearing appraisal programme, which is expected Premier also currently holds a carried interval of over 335 metres (1,100 feet), to commence on Premier’s block in the 10 per cent interest in Block 2, with an and up to 200 metres of net oil bearing second half of 2018 or in early 2019. option to increase to 25 per cent or to reservoir in upper Miocene sandstones Our joint venture is close to securing an exit. The joint venture is evaluating which with no water contact. Initial tests of option on a rig to complete the appraisal prospect will be the first to be drilled, hydrocarbon samples recovered to the programme on Block 7 and PEMEX has targeting a well in 2019. Premier continues surface showed light oil with API gravities indicated that they intend to appraise the to evaluate opportunities for growth in between 28 and 30 degrees. Premier’s Zama discovery on their licence with a well Mexico, from future licensing rounds. initial gross oil-in-place estimates are scheduled to spud in the second quarter 1.2-1.8 billion barrels, with an estimated of 2018. In addition to appraisal well recoverable P90-P10 gross resource range planning, pre-FEED scoping studies have Brazil SCE-AP3 Premier received 4,000 km2 of final In October, the ANP, the Brazilian 40km Premier interests processed broadband seismic data across Government regulator, published an option Oil discovery South all three of its Ceará Basin blocks in April to all Round 11 awards that entitles Premier Atlantic 3, 00 2017. The data has now been interpreted, to request extension of its licences by a 0m Ocean 00m the best prospects selected and the wells further two years to at least July 2021. 3,0 0m are being planned in advance of a potential 2,0 00 m 1, ,000 1,0 0 00m 2 drilling campaign in 2019 or 2020. 10 0m 0m Significant progress has been made on CE-M-665 obtaining environmental and drilling permits, as Premier continues to leverage Pecem its position as the largest acreage holder discovery in the Ceará Basin, along with its growing CE-M-717 experience in Brazil, to coordinate operational synergies. BRAZ I L Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 38 Financial Review Operating cost per barrel (US$/bbl) 16.4 15.5 15.8 16.4 SNAPSHOT 2015 2016 2017 A solid Capex (US$m) 275 foundation 1,070 663 to deliver on 275 2015 2016 2017 our strategy Overview 2017 saw continuing oil price volatility. Brent crude opened the year at 1. Completion of the refinancing US$56.6/bbl before falling to US$44.8/bbl –– Comprehensive refinancing of all of Premier’s facilities in June and then strengthening considerably completed in July 2017. in the second half of the year to close at US$66.9/bbl at 31 December 2017. The –– The refinancing provides a solid foundation for Premier average for 2017 was US$54.2/bbl against to deliver its strategic plans by preserving the Group’s US$43.7/bbl for 2016. Subsequent to the debt facilities including liquidity and resetting financial year-end, prices improved during January covenant headroom. reaching a high of US$71.3/bbl, before –– Maturities for all facilities extended to May 2021 falling to US$64.2/bbl on 7 March 2018, and beyond. below the year-end observed price. 2. Deleveraging the balance sheet Against this economic backdrop we have achieved our best ever full year of –– Net debt reduction in 2017 of US$41 million, resulting in production, averaging 75.0 kboepd (2016: closing net debt of US$2,724 million. 71.4 kboepd), resulting in total revenue –– Successful completion of early exchange of US$205.8 million from all operations of US$1,102 million of the convertible bonds in January 2018, and ramp up of compared with US$983.4 million in 2016, Catcher production will accelerate net debt reduction in and Free Cash Flow after disposals of 2018, at current oil prices. US$71 million (2016: US$580 million cash outflow). In addition, we successfully 3. Selective investment in future completed the refinancing of all of our debt growth opportunities facilities in July 2017 and reached first oil –– Strengthening balance sheet allows for ongoing investment on the Catcher field in the UK North Sea in future growth opportunities at an appropriate level of in December 2017. equity interest to Premier’s financial circumstances. –– Significant progress on next generation of growth projects made during 2018 (BIGP, Tolmount, Sea Lion and Tuna). Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 39 STRATEGIC REPORT Against a backdrop of an improving oil price and higher production, Premier GOVERNANCE delivered positive cash flow after disposals, enabling debt reduction, which we expect FINANCIAL STATEMENTS to accelerate in 2018.” Richard Rose Finance Director ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Business performance Income statement Cost of operations EBITDAX for the year from continuing Production and commodity prices Cost of operations comprises operating operations was US$589.7 million compared Group production on a working interest costs, changes in lifting positions, inventory to US$494.1 million for 2016. The increase basis averaged 75.0 kboepd compared movements and royalties. Cost of operations in EBITDAX is mainly due to higher to 71.4 kboepd in 2016. This was driven for the Group from continuing operations production and sales volumes realised by high operating efficiency, better than was US$455.4 million for 2017, compared during the year. predicted reservoir performance on certain to US$412.7 million for 2016. fields and a full period contribution from Business performance the E.ON portfolio acquired in April 2016. Operating costs (continuing operations) (US$ million) 2017 2016 (US$ million) 2017 2016 Average entitlement production Continuing operations 438.4 402.7 Operating profit/(loss) 33.8 (170.1) for the period was 69.2 kboepd (2016: 66.1 kboepd). Discontinuing Add: Amortisation 9.6 10.1 operations (Pakistan) and depreciation 415.6 326.4 Premier realised an average oil price for Operating costs 448.0 412.8 Add: Impairment the year of US$52.9/bbl (2016: US$44.1/bbl). charge on oil and Operating costs per 16.4 15.8 gas properties 252.2 561.9 Including the effect of oil swaps which barrel Add: Exploration settled during 2017, the realised oil price expense and was US$52.1/bbl (2016: US$52.2/bbl). Amortisation and pre-licence costs 17.1 58.5 depreciation of oil In the UK, average natural gas prices and gas properties Less: Gain on (US$ million) 2017 2016 disposal of assets (129.0) – achieved were 47.2 pence/therm (2016: 47.6 pence/therm), which included Continuing operations 409.0 318.3 Reduction in decommissioning 95.8 million therms which were sold under Discontinuing 7.2 13.9 estimates – (75.7) operations (Pakistan) fixed price master sales agreements. Gas Acquisition of prices in Singapore, linked to high sulphur Total (US$ million) 416.2 332.2 subsidiaries: fuel oil (‘HSFO’) pricing and in turn, therefore, Depreciation, – E xcess of fair value depletion and linked to crude oil pricing, averaged 15.2 12.7 over consideration – (228.5) amortisation (‘DD&A’) – Costs related to the US$8.4/mscf (2016: US$7.8/mscf). per barrel acquisition – 21.6 Total revenue from all operations (including EBITDAX 1 589.7 494.1 Pakistan) increased to US$1,102 million 1 Prior year has been restated for results from the (2016: US$983.4 million). From continuing Pakistan Business Unit, which has been reclassified operations (excluding Pakistan), sales as a discontinued operation in the year. revenue increased to US$1,043.1 million from US$937.0 million for the prior year. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 40 Financial Review continued The increase in absolute operating costs General and administrative expenses Loss after tax reflects a full-year contribution from the Net G&A costs of US$16.8 million (2016: Loss after tax is US$253.8 million (2016: former E.ON assets and the Solan field. US$24.1 million) reduced year-on-year. 2016 profit of US$122.6 million) resulting in Ongoing cost reduction initiatives, included E.ON’s unallocated G&A costs a basic loss per share of 49.4 cents from successful contract renegotiations and which fell significantly post integration of continuing and discontinued operations strict management of discretionary the E.ON operations into the Group’s UK (2016: earning of 24.0 cents). The loss spend continue to deliver low and stable Business Unit. Underlying gross G&A has after tax in the year is driven by the operating costs. On a per barrel basis, fallen in 2017 and is broadly in line with non-cash impairment charges recognised operating costs increased by 4 per cent 2015 levels. and the one-time fees expensed in relation due to portfolio mix effects in the to the Group’s refinancing, partially offset Finance gains and charges production base. by the gain on disposal of the Wytch Finance costs, other finance expenses Farm interests. The DD&A charge has increased and losses of US$329.0 million, have to US$15.2 per barrel, reflecting the increased compared to the prior year Cash flows accelerated DD&A charge attributable (US$258.8 million), principally due to Cash flow from operating activities was to Solan in the UK. a step up in the interest margin on US$496.0 million (2016: US$431.4 million) our financing facilities following the after accounting for tax payments of Impairment of oil and gas properties completion of the refinancing. US$69.6 million (2016: US$60.9 million). A non-cash net impairment charge of The increase in operating cash flows was US$252.2 million (pre-tax) (US$170.9 million Taxation largely driven by higher production and post-tax) has been recognised in the The Group’s total tax credit for 2017 is sales volumes. income statement. This relates principally US$96.1 million (2016: US$522.6 million to the Solan field in the UK North Sea as restated for the exclusion of the Pakistan Capital expenditure in 2017 totalled a result of a reduction in the 2P reserves Business Unit) which comprises a current US$275.6 million (2016: US$662.6 million). expected to be recovered from the asset tax charge for the period of US$74.8 million over its economic life, partially offset by and a non-cash deferred tax credit for the Capital expenditure (US$ million) 2017 2016 the recognition of a reversal of impairment period of US$170.9 million. Fields/development for the Huntington asset in the UK. The projects 236.8 533.1 The total tax charge represents an effective reversal of impairment is principally caused tax rate of 26.2 per cent (2016: 126.3 per Exploration and by a 12-month extension in the life of the evaluation 37.6 126.6 cent). The low effective tax rate for the year asset and a reduction in the lease rate Other 1.2 2.9 is primarily impacted by two UK-specific payable for the FPSO. After recognition deferred tax items. The first is the impact Total 275.6 662.6 of the net impairment charge there is of ring fence expenditure supplement US$2,381.0 million capitalised in relation The principal development project was the claims in the UK during the year to PP&E assets and US$240.8 million Catcher field in the UK and the majority of (US$69.1 million credit) and the second is for goodwill. exploration spend was related to the the element of the UK impairment charge Exploration expenditure and for the year that does not attract a deferred drilling programme on the Zama prospect pre-licence costs tax offset (US$19.6 million charge). After in Mexico. In addition, cash expenditure for Exploration expense and pre-licence adjusting for the net impact of the above decommissioning activity in the period was expenditure costs amounted to items of US$49.5 million, the underlying US$25.7 million. Further to this, US$16.7 US$17.1 million (2016: US$58.5 million). Group tax charge for the period is a credit million of cash was placed into long-term After recognition of these expenditures, of US$145.6 million and an effective tax abandonment escrow accounts for future the exploration and evaluation assets rate of 40 per cent. decommissioning activities. remaining on the balance sheet at The Group has a net deferred tax asset of 31 December 2017 amount to US$1,297.5 million at 31 December 2017 US$1,061.9 million, principally for the (2016: US$1,111.4 million). The increase in Sea Lion and Tolmount assets, as well deferred tax asset primarily arises due as our share of drilling costs for the to new UK tax losses and allowances Zama prospect in Mexico. generated in the year. The Group continues to recognise its deferred tax assets in respect of UK tax losses and allowances in full. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 41 STRATEGIC REPORT In 2018, development and exploration spend The disposal was subject to the pre-emption During the year it was determined that GOVERNANCE is expected to be around US$300 million, rights of existing joint venture partners and the refinancing represented a substantial of which US$170 million relates to the Premier subsequently received notification modification of the terms of the USPPs, Catcher development (including a one-off from Perenco UK Limited (‘Perenco‘) of its the SSL and the convertible bonds. contractual first oil payment made to the intention to exercise those rights. Therefore, Accordingly, extinguishment accounting FPSO provider BW Offshore) and in November 2017, Premier entered into a has been applied for the USPPs, SSL and US$45 million to exploration. Capex will sale and purchase agreement with Perenco convertible bonds, resulting in the be weighted to the first half of 2018 as on materially the same terms as those derecognition of the carrying amount of FINANCIAL STATEMENTS spending on the Catcher project completes agreed with Verus. the financial liability and the recognition with the drilling programme on the asset of a new financial liability for each of these The disposal to Perenco completed in due to finish by the end of the third quarter. revised facilities at their fair value. The December 2017, with Premier receiving Abandonment spend is expected to be derecognition includes costs in relation final cash consideration, after working approximately US$80 million in 2018, to the refinancing of US$83.7 million. capital adjustments, of US$177.1 million. before taking into account the benefits This resulted in a gain on disposal of Furthermore, it was determined that the of cost recovery and tax relief. US$133.0 million, and enabled Premier refinancing did not represent a substantial Discontinued operations, disposals to release letters of credit totalling modification of the terms of the RCF, the and assets held for sale approximately US$75 million, which Term Loan or the retail bonds. Therefore, During the year, Premier signed a share had been issued in relation to future refinancing costs in relation to the RCF, ADDITIONAL INFORMATION purchase agreement with Al-Haj Energy decommissioning liabilities that were the Term Loan and the retail bonds of Limited (‘Al-Haj‘) for the sale of Premier Oil transferred as part of the disposal. US$121.6 million have been deducted Pakistan Holdings BV, which comprises from the carrying amount of these In December 2017, Premier entered into Premier’s Pakistan Business Unit, for a cash financial liabilities in the balance sheet. separate sale and purchase agreements consideration of US$65.6 million. During These costs, along with previous to dispose of its entire equity interest in the the year, Al-Haj paid a cash deposit to unamortised arrangement fees, will ETS pipeline in the UK for total consideration Premier of US$25.0 million. be amortised over the revised term of US$31.6 million (including a potential of these facilities. The disposal of the Pakistan Business Unit future payment of US$3.5 million linked is expected to complete in 2018 and, as to the future development of the Pegasus The total refinancing costs include the this is within 12 months of the balance field) and its entire non-operated interest recognition of the USPP make-whole sheet date, the business unit has been in the Kakap field in Indonesia for adjustment, amendment and adviser classified as a disposal group held for sale US$3.2 million. The assets and liabilities fees, including the recognition of the and presented separately in the balance for both of these interests have been equity and synthetic warrants at fair value. sheet. Results for the disposal group in classified as assets held for sale in the In connection with the refinancing, Premier both the current and prior periods have balance sheet at 31 December 2017. issued 71.0 million equity warrants and been presented as a discontinued 21.4 million synthetic warrants to its Refinancing operation. Profit after tax for the business Private Lenders and retail bondholders In July 2017, Premier completed a unit for the year is US$16.4 million (2016: and 18.1 million equity warrants to its comprehensive refinancing of its debt US$22.7 million). Assets and liabilities convertible bondholders in July 2017. facilities with the lenders under the held for sale in relation to the Pakistan At issue, the equity warrants had an Company’s Revolving Credit Facility (‘RCF’), disposal group are US$52.2 million exercise price of 42.75 pence and are Term Loan, Schuldschein (‘SSL’) and US and US$25.4 million, respectively. exercisable from their issuance until Private Placement (‘USPP’) notes (together 31 May 2022. In September 2017, Premier entered into the ‘Private Lenders’), the retail bonds and a sale and purchase agreement to sell the convertible bonds. Completion of the The fair value liability for the equity and its entire interests in Licences PL089 and refinancing provides a solid foundation for synthetic warrants recognised on the date P534, which contain the Wytch Farm field Premier to deliver its strategic plans by of issue was US$47.7 million. Prior to the (‘Wytch Farm‘), to Verus Petroleum SNS preserving the Group’s debt facilities, end of the year, 13.9 million equity warrants Limited (‘Verus‘) for a cash consideration of resetting financial covenant headroom and had been exercised by warrant holders. US$200 million, subject to certain customary extending maturities to 2021 and beyond. The closing fair value at 31 December 2017 financial adjustments. The disposal included was US$59.8 million. the additional 3.71 per cent equity interest Premier acquired in September 2017 for US$9.8 million. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 42 Financial Review continued Balance sheet position the income statement during 2018 as the cover is purchased for a proportion of Net debt related barrels are lifted. Furthermore, during the cash flow from producing fields for Net debt at 31 December 2017 amounted the year, the Group paid total premiums a maximum period of 18 months. During to US$2,724.2 million (31 December 2016: of US$6.3 million to enter into oil option 2017, US$7.2 million of cash proceeds were US$2,765.2 million), with cash resources agreements for 2.9 mmbbls at an average received (net to Premier) in relation to of US$365.4 million (31 December 2016: price of US$53.5/bbl. Out of these options, settled insurance claims. US$255.9 million). With the refinancing 1.1 mmbbls expired in 2017 and 1.8 mmbbls Going concern completed, the maturity of all of Premier’s will mature during 2018 and are an asset on The Group monitors its funding position facilities has been extended to May 2021, the Group’s balance sheet with a fair value at and its liquidity risk throughout the year except for the convertible bonds which 31 December 2017 of US$0.2 million (2016: to ensure it has access to sufficient funds are May 2022. Therefore, all of Premier’s asset of US$3.5 million). Included within to meet forecast cash requirements. Cash facilities have been classified as long-term physically delivered oil sales contracts are a forecasts are regularly produced based debt on the year-end balance sheet. further 1.8 mmbbls of oil that will be sold for on, inter alia, the Group’s latest life of field an average fixed price of US$54.6/bbl during At 31 December 2017, Premier retained production and expenditure forecasts, 2018 as these barrels are delivered. significant cash of US$297.2 million, once management’s best estimate of future cash of US$68.2 million held on behalf During 2017, forward oil swaps of 1.5 commodity prices (based on recent forward of our joint venture partners is excluded, mmbbls expired resulting in a net charge curves, adjusted for the Group’s hedging and undrawn facilities of US$244.0 million, of US$11.4 million (2016: US$104.9 million programme) and the Group’s borrowing giving Liquidity of US$541.2 million credit) which has been included in sales facilities. Sensitivities are run to reflect (31 December 2016: US$592.9 million). revenue for the year. different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes in oil and gas In January 2018, Premier invited convertible Foreign exchange production rates, possible reductions bondholders to exercise their exchange Premier’s functional and reporting currency in commodity prices and delays or cost rights in respect of any and all of their is US dollars. Exchange rate exposures overruns on major development projects. bonds. 87.5 per cent or US$205.8 million relate only to local currency receipts, and This is done to identify risks to liquidity of the US$235.2 million bonds outstanding expenditures within individual business and covenant compliance and enable were accepted for early exchange with an units. Local currency needs are acquired management to formulate appropriate incentive amount of US$50 per US$1,000 in on a short-term basis. At the year-end, the and timely mitigation strategies. principal of bonds. The exchange resulted Group recorded a mark-to-market gain of in the issue of 231,882,091 Ordinary Shares, US$28.2 million on its outstanding foreign As part of the refinancing completed in which included 7,578,343 incentive shares. exchange contracts (2016: loss of US$58.6 2017, the Group amended its financial million). The Group currently has £150.0 covenants. These progressively tighten Provisions million retail bonds, €63.0 million long-term over the next 12 months with the Net Debt/ The Group’s decommissioning provision senior loan notes and a £100.0 million term EBITDA and EBITDA/Interest covenants increased to US$1,432.1 million at loan in issuance which have been hedged returning to 3.0x for the 12 months ended 31 December 2017, up from US$1,325.3 under cross currency swaps in US dollars 31 March 2019. At year-end, the Group million at the end of 2016. The increase is at average fixed rates of US$1.64:£ and continued to have significant liquidity driven by the addition of provisions relating US$1.37:€. and headroom on the financial covenants to the new Catcher field. within its borrowing facilities. The Group’s Interest rates Non-IFRS measures forecasts show that, at currently observed The Group has various financing instruments The Group uses certain measures of oil and gas prices and prevailing production, including senior loan notes, convertible performance that are not specifically the Group will have sufficient financial bonds, UK retail bonds, term loans and defined under IFRS or other generally headroom for the 12 months from the revolving credit facilities. As at year-end, accepted accounting principles. These date of approval of the 2017 Annual Report 51 per cent of total borrowings are fixed non-IFRS measures used within this and Financial Statements. In downside or has been fixed using the interest rate Financial Review are EBITDAX, Operating scenarios, where oil and gas prices were swap markets. On average, the cost of cost per barrel, Free Cash Flow, DD&A per to fall and remain significantly below those drawn funds for the year was 7.3 per cent. barrel, Net Debt and Liquidity and are currently being realised or production levels Mark-to-market credits on interest rate defined in the glossary. were to be significantly below current swaps amounted to US$4.6 million (2016: performance, then, in the absence of any Financial risk management credit of US$1.0 million). mitigating actions, a breach of one or more Commodity prices Insurance of the financial covenants might arise At 31 December 2017, the Group had The Group undertakes a significant outside of the 12-month going concern 3.6 mmbbls of open oil swaps at an average insurance programme to reduce the assessment period. Potential mitigating price of US$55.9/bbl. The fair value of these potential impact of physical risks associated actions could include further non-core asset oil swaps at 31 December 2017 was a liability with its exploration, development and disposals, additional hedging activity or of US$31.7 million (2016: liability of US$18.3 production activities. Business interruption deferral of expenditure. million), which is expected to be released to Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 43 STRATEGIC REPORT Accordingly, after making enquiries and The Group has identified its principal risks GOVERNANCE considering the risks described above, the for the next 12 months as being: Directors have a reasonable expectation • Further oil price weakness and volatility. that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for • Underperformance of existing assets. the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the • Failure of new Catcher asset to fully Directors continue to adopt the going deliver to expectations. concern basis of accounting in preparing • Execution of planned corporate actions. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS these Consolidated Financial Statements. • Ability to fund existing and planned Business risks growth projects. Premier’s business may be impacted by • Breach of new banking covenants if oil various risks leading to failure to achieve prices fall or assets underperform. strategic targets for growth, loss of financial • Ability to maintain core competencies. standing, cash flow and earnings, and reputation. Not all of these risks are wholly • Timing and uncertainty of within the Company’s control and the decommissioning liabilities. Company may be affected by risks which are • Political and security instability in not yet manifest or reasonably foreseeable. countries of current and planned activity. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Effective risk management is critical to • Rising costs if oil prices recover could limit achieving our strategic objectives and access to services. protecting our personnel, assets, the Further information detailing the way in communities where we operate and with which these risks are mitigated is provided whom we interact and our reputation. on the Company’s website Premier therefore has a comprehensive www.premier-oil.com. approach to risk management. A critical part of the risk management Richard Rose process is to assess the impact and Finance Director likelihood of risks occurring so that appropriate mitigation plans can be developed and implemented. Risk severity matrices are developed across Premier’s business to facilitate assessment of risk. The specific risks identified by project and asset teams, business units and corporate functions are consolidated and amalgamated to provide an oversight of key risk factors at each level, from operations through business unit management to the Executive Committee and the Board. For all the known risks facing the business, Premier attempts to minimise the likelihood and mitigate the impact. According to the nature of the risk, Premier may elect to take or tolerate risk, treat risk with controls and mitigating actions, transfer risk to third parties, or terminate risk by ceasing particular activities or operations. Premier has a zero tolerance to financial fraud or ethics non-compliance, and ensures that HSES risks are managed to levels that are as low as reasonably practicable, whilst managing exploration and development risks on a portfolio basis. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 44 Corporate Responsibility Review SNAPSHOT A commitment to responsible behaviour As a long-standing member of both the FTSE4Good Index and the UN Global Compact, we are committed to behaving responsibly and maintaining the highest possible standards in everything we do. Total recordable High Potential Process Safety injury rate Incident Rate LOPC (Tier 1 & Tier 2 (‘TRIR’) (‘HiPoR’) events) 1.47 0.65 1 per million man hours per million man hours Tier 2 event Greenhouse Total Economic Gas Intensity Distribution 183 923 tonnes CO2e per thousand US$ million tonnes of production Our approach to the following key corporate responsibility issues is explained throughout this chapter: Principles, frameworks Materiality High-level and standards material issues Page 45 Page 47 Page 49 Read more in our online 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report: www.premier-oil.com/2017-corporate-responsibility-report Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 45 Principles, frameworks STRATEGIC REPORT and standards Our values, Group policies and relevant externally developed principles and standards guide our behaviour and help us maintain a consistent track record of responsible and effective performance. GOVERNANCE These are summarised below and on page 46. Our values Spirit Our values underpin our behaviours and activities, and are reflected in our policies FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and procedures. They are: Tenacity Dynamism Creativity ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Professionalism Respect Foundation We are guided by our overarching How corporate responsibility Third-party assurance Corporate Responsibility Policy, which, is governed As part of the third-party assurance amongst other commitments, requires Our Corporate Responsibility Policy process undertaken for our 2017 Premier to act with respect for people, is owned and approved by our Board. Corporate Responsibility Report, ERM communities and the environment. Its supporting management systems Certification and Verification Services We are also guided by the following are owned and implemented by our (‘CVS’) has confirmed: supporting policies: Executive Committee and relevant Group Functional Managers. • The integrity of selected indicators • Business Ethics Policy and associated used throughout this chapter. Global Code of Conduct. In 2017, the principal topics arising from • The alignment of the materiality • Health, Safety, Environment and Premier’s activities that have economic, process described on pages 47 to 48 Security (‘HSES’) Policy. social and environmental impacts on with the requirements of the Global • Community Investment Policy. stakeholders, and the Premier managers Reporting Initiative G4 Sustainability and executives responsible for overseeing • Human Rights Policy. Reporting Guidelines. them on a day-to-day basis, were: • Equal Opportunities and Diversity Policy. The ERM CVS assurance statement can • HSES, overseen by the Group • Tax Policy. Development and Operations Manager. be viewed at www.premier-oil.com/2017corporate-responsibility-report In addition, our Risk Management Policy • Risk management, overseen by the and new Risk Management Standard help Group Audit and Risk Manager. us to avoid and/or mitigate the risks that • Human resources, overseen by the Group might otherwise prevent us from achieving Human Resources Director. our corporate responsibility objectives. • Legal and regulatory compliance, ethical behaviour and human rights, overseen by the Group General Counsel. • Tax, overseen by the Finance Director. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 46 Corporate Responsibility Review continued Summary of principles, frameworks and standards Internal Values www.premier-oil.com (Our Values) Vision and Strategy www.premier-oil.com (Vision, Strategy and Business Model) Business Ethics Policy and associated Global Code of Conduct Corporate Responsibility Policy Health, Safety, Environment and Security (‘HSES’) Policy Human Rights Policy Community Investment Policy www.premier-oil.com (Company Policies) Risk Management Policy Equal Opportunities and Diversity Policy Whistleblowing Policy Tax Policy External United Nations Global Compact (participant) www.unglobalcompact.org International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (‘IOGP’) (member) www.iogp.org International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association www.ipieca.org (‘IPIECA’) (association member via the IOGP) OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety management system standard www.bsigroup.com (applied to all Premier-operated production assets and our drilling operations) ISO 14001 environmental management system standard (applied to all www.iso.org Premier-operated production assets and our drilling operations) Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights www.voluntaryprinciples.org United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights www.ohchr.org ISO 31000 risk management system standard (which underpins our approach www.iso.org to risk management) Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 47 Materiality STRATEGIC REPORT Premier has conducted a materiality assessment to identify and prioritise our material corporate responsibility issues. This assessment process, which is explained below, draws on Premier’s existing risk assessment process and stakeholder engagement activity. GOVERNANCE Materiality assessment Corporate responsibility materiality matrix In line with the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Guidelines, our corporate responsibility High reporting is structured around our most significant corporate responsibility issues. These issues have been prioritised (in 1 conjunction with third-party experts and 2 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 with input from external stakeholders) on the basis of: • the potential/actual impact of Premier 8 6 4 on stakeholders and their interests; and 5 12 • the potential/actual impact of 11 14 Impact on stakeholders 10 stakeholders on Premier and the 7 achievement of its business objectives. 9 The steps involved in our materiality 13 process are shown on page 48. 16 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 15 23 Material issues The outcomes of this assessment are 24 displayed on the corporate responsibility materiality matrix. Presentation of an issue 19 20 as ‘non-material’ on this matrix does not mean it is irrelevant or that it is not being 18 managed, but only that it is not of sufficient 21 significance to be addressed in detail in this report or our online 2017 Corporate 17 Responsibility Report. 22 Low Low Impact on Premier Oil High Arrows indicate key shifts in our material and non-material issues in 2017. Material issues Non-material issues 1 Process safety and asset integrity 15 Learning and development 2 Emergency preparedness 16 Biodiversity 3 Value generation and distribution 17 Child/forced labour 4 Effluents and waste 18 Customer impacts 5 Employee engagement 19 Community impacts 6 Occupational health and safety 20 Product responsibility 7 Governance and ethics 21 Resource use 8 Climate change and GHGs 22 Market behaviour 9 Public policy and government relations 23 General grievance mechanisms 10 Environment (General) 24 Cyber security 11 Workforce 12 Responsible supply chain management1 13 Human rights 14 Decommissioning 1 Details of Premier’s responsible supply chain management efforts can be found on pages 49 to 50 and 56 to 57. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 48 Corporate Responsibility Review continued The principal changes in material and of its supply chain throughout 2017 • Increased significance of ‘Occupational non-material issues resulting from our 2017 and plans to heighten controls to prevent health and safety’ – reflecting internal assessment include the following: facilitation of tax evasion by members revaluation of the issue. • Inclusion of ‘Decommissioning’ as a new, of that supply chain during 2018. • Increased significance of ‘Biodiversity’ – material issue – reflecting the work • Increased significance of ‘Cyber security’, reflecting the potential environmental Premier is undertaking in preparation for which remains a non-material issue – impacts arising from our Sea Lion Project the safe decommissioning of its late-life reflecting recent examples of major on the Falkland Islands. For more assets in the UK North Sea. cyber attacks against a number of information on these potential impacts • Increased significance of ‘Responsible multinational companies, increasing and Premier‘s proposed control supply chain management’ – reflecting reliance on automated production measures, see our online GRI G4 Table2. the potential impact of challenging processes and connectivity within the oil market conditions since late 2014 on the and gas industry, and the role of hostile, commercial viability and operational foreign third parties. effectiveness of Premier’s contractors. • Reduced significance of ‘Employee Premier enhanced the financial due engagement’ – reflecting internal diligence it undertakes on elements revaluation of the issue. Materiality assessment process 1. Research: 2. Internal review: 3. Initial adjustment: Desk-based review of events, Engagement with Premier Re-prioritisation of material issues in activities and relationships in 2017 functional managers to identify light of steps 1 and 2. likely to affect the 2016 further adjustments. prioritisation of Premier’s material issues. These include: • Premier’s activities and relationships 4. Integration of stakeholder input: 5. Finalisation of the 2017 Further adjustment of material materiality assessment • Operating contexts issues in light of: Update of materiality matrix. • Stakeholders • Business unit perceptions of local • External events and trends stakeholder issues • External feedback from our stakeholder engagement sessions 2 Available at: www.premier-oil.com/2017-corporate-responsibility-report. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 49 High-level material issues STRATEGIC REPORT The following section provides an overview of our material corporate responsibility issues. It explains why these issues are material to us, how they are managed, and the outcomes of our management efforts. GOVERNANCE Details of our principal risks related to Premier has mapped its material issues against the UN Sustainable these issues can be found on pages 22 Development Goals (‘SDGs’). SDGs related to our material issues include: to 29. • Peace, justice and strong institutions. Further information about our corporate • Decent work and economic growth. responsibility activities and performance • Gender equality. can be found in our online 2017 • Life below water. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corporate Responsibility Report. • Climate action. • Industry, innovation and infrastructure. To view the outcome of this mapping process, see our online 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report. Policies How we implement our policies Governance and For details about our corporate governance With respect to business ethics, we require ADDITIONAL INFORMATION business ethics framework and activities, see pages 58 to all employees, contractor personnel and Why this issue is material 61 and 66 to 72. those associated with Premier, such as Beyond our efforts to ensure compliance consultants, to adhere to the Code. Our Business Ethics Policy supports our with applicable laws and regulations, Business partners, including joint venture overall Corporate Responsibility Policy, we recognise that our current and future partners, contractors and customers, must and requires Premier‘s employees and success is dependent upon maintaining also apply the principles of the Code – or contractor personnel to behave ethically and the trust of our stakeholders. These include equivalent standards. This is achieved by with personal integrity. Our Global Code of host governments and societies, investors, the inclusion of business ethics provisions Conduct (the ‘Code’) develops the Business and our business partners. We therefore in our contracts. Ethics Policy, establishing specific standards uphold and, where feasible, strengthen (including in relation to anti-corruption) for We aim to train all employees and good governance and ethical standards our employees and contractor personnel contractor personnel on the Code wherever we do business. to follow. The Code covers: within one month of their induction. All Potential areas of risk in this regard include • Legal compliance. employees and contractor personnel are procurement activities and interactions with required to undertake additional training • Anti-bribery. government officials. on the Code on an annual basis thereafter. • Facilitation payments. Please note, business ethics is recognised The Audit and Risk Committee monitors • Gifts and hospitality. as a key element of the following principal the effectiveness of the Code and its • The appointment of intermediaries. supporting policies. To support this, we: risks identified by Premier: ‘financial discipline and governance’, ‘joint venture • Charitable and political donations. • Undertake an ongoing corporate-wide partner alignment and supply chain • Whistleblowing. review process to assess internal delivery’, and ‘host government: political • The proper recording of transactions compliance with the Code, led by and fiscal risks’. More information can and the application of relevant our Legal Function. be found on pages 24 to 27. accounting and reporting standards. • Use our Business Ethics Screening Tool to assess the exposure of Premier’s operated and non-operated exploration, development and production operations to external business ethics risks. • Have established a Company-wide leadership group comprised of business ethics champions from each business unit, which meets at least twice annually to discuss where performance can be further improved. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 50 Corporate Responsibility Review continued Furthermore, all new material contracts are Employees, contractor personnel and Employees found to have breached now subject to our Supply Chain Contractor agency workers who believe that Premier, the requirements of the Code will be Due Diligence Process, following its pilot or anyone working for or on behalf of the subject to a disciplinary procedure and, testing across the operational business Company, has violated the Code are in extreme cases, instant dismissal and units during the second half of 2017. This encouraged to report their concerns to referral to the relevant law enforcement involves a two-stage questionnaire-based their line managers. They can do so without authorities. Contracts of contractor online business ethics assessment, which fear of recrimination and on a confidential personnel found to have breached the ‘red flags’ potential issues of concern, basis. All reports are properly investigated Code may be terminated. Any breach triggering (where relevant) a full due and the results reported to the Board. of the Code by our business partners diligence process tailored to Premier’s will result in either an agreed corrective If preferred, allegations of malpractice specific needs. This due diligence enables action plan and measures to avoid a can be raised via Premier’s well-publicised, us to effectively manage identified risks, recurrence, or potential termination confidential and independently managed which may include appropriate mitigations, where contractually permissible. reporting hotline, which is available before contracts are entered into. 24 hours a day. Outcomes Key indicators – Governance and business ethics Material issue Premier Oil metric 2017 2016 2015 Our performance in 2017 Governance Significant legal sanctions in 0 0 0 During 2017, no significant legal sanctions were imposed and ethics relation to business ethics on Premier. However our UK Business Unit was subject to sanctions relating to non-compliances with the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme. See our online 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report for more information. Disciplinary actions or 0 0 0 No employees or contractor personnel were dismissed dismissals for breaches or faced disciplinary action for breaches of the Code in of the Code 2017, as such actions were not deemed necessary. One non-material breach of our Code by a Premier employee occurred in 2017. Premier took corrective actions in response to the incident and is satisfied that these will prevent a reoccurrence of the non-compliance. New members of our 100% 100% 100% All new members of our workforce received induction workforce3 receiving induction training, which addresses all aspects of the Code, training on the Code including anti-bribery. Existing members of our 100% / 68% / 94% N/A5 As of March 2018, 95% of our workforce had completed workforce3 assigned refresher 95% the training assigned to them in 2017. We will closely training on the Code / monitor completion of this training throughout 2018. completed training 4 3 ‘Workforce’ includes both employees and contractor personnel. 4 As of 7 March 2018. 5 All employees and contractor personnel are required to undertake training on the Code on an annual basis. Before 2017, some of our employees and contractor personnel received training on a triennial basis. As such, no refresher courses were assigned in 2015. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 51 Health, safety How we implement our policy Occupational health and safety plant maintenance, plant control, people, procedures and recovery (i.e. emergency and security STRATEGIC REPORT Our HSES Policy is implemented through response) – each of which have a role Why this issue is material our HSES Management System. The system in the management of major accident Given the potential hazards involved is comprised of a comprehensive set of hazards. Assessment scores are reported in offshore oil and gas operations, the standards and procedures, which form monthly and provide assurance that the application of rigorous health, safety and part of Premier’s BMS. These include our barriers are suitable to manage the hazard security practices is essential. Not only Golden Rules, which are designed to help risks. They are also used as leading key does this help to avoid negative impacts address the most common causes of performance indicators to highlight poor upon the health and security of our serious incidents in the oil and gas industry. or deteriorating performance and to drive employees, contractors and joint venture continuous improvement. GOVERNANCE The management system is applied partners, it also enables us to maintain our: across our global operational activities Emergency preparedness • operational continuity; and defines how HSES issues should be Premier’s HSES management systems • regulatory compliance; and managed throughout the hydrocarbon minimise the risk of catastrophic safety exploration, development, production incidents and other major events occurring • corporate reputation. at our facilities. The complex nature of our and decommissioning lifecycle. The Our most significant health, safety management system is externally certified assets, their offshore location and the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and security issues are: to the OHSAS 18001 health and safety combustibility of hydrocarbons and other • occupational health and safety; management system standard for our materials used on our facilities means that production facilities and drilling operations. we go to significant lengths to prevent • process safety and asset integrity; the occurrence of major accidents. • emergency preparedness; and In this context, we frequently review our operations to assess the risk of major All our business units and operated facilities • employee and asset protection. have emergency response plans, which are accidents and to conduct assurance Please note, Premier has identified of controls designed to prevent their regularly reviewed. Regular offshore drills ‘health, safety, environment and security’ occurrence. We also monitor our HSES are also conducted for all personnel, as well as a principal risk. More information can performance closely and report this as periodic integrated emergency exercises be found on pages 26 to 27. information on an ongoing basis to the involving emergency response teams from ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Policy Executive Committee and to the Board. onshore and offshore. Our HSES Policy sets out the Company’s Process safety and asset integrity Employee and asset protection6 expectations with regards to health, safety, Our HSES Management System defines We undertake security assessments for environment and security management. Premier’s objectives and minimum our employees and assets, which consider It commits Premier to: requirements for process safety and asset the latent risks posed by their location, • continually improving our performance; integrity in all operations, as well as the as well as recent incidents. Premier applies • assessing and managing risks; responsibilities, verification and validation a formal travel risk management process required to provide assurance that they when any employee travels abroad. • planning and preparing for potential As such, visitors to these locations emergencies; and have been met. were supported by in-depth travel risk • maintaining high quality, documented A system of Process Safety and Asset assessments and guidance, as well as systems and processes. Integrity Performance Reporting is applied enhanced physical security and evacuation at all of our operated assets. Each asset precautions where appropriate. undertakes a self-assessment of the status of six critical ‘barriers’: plant integrity, Outcomes Key indicators – Health, safety and security Material issue Premier Oil metric 2017 2016 2015 Our performance in 2017 Occupational Fatalities† 0 0 0 We recorded strong occupational health and safety health and Lost work day cases (‘LWDC’)† 3 6 3 performance in 2017, experiencing no recordable safety injuries at our Indonesia Business Unit and three of our Restricted work day cases (‘RWDC’)† 0 1 2 operated assets in the UK North Sea. Our 2017 HiPoR Medical treatment cases (‘MTC’) † 6 6 4 (0.65) was a significant improvement on our 2016 HiPoR of 1.20, while our 2017 TRIR (1.47) fell in comparison to Total recordable injury rate (‘TRIR’) 7 † 1.47 1.95 1.27 our 2016 TRIR of 1.95. High Potential Incident Rate (‘HiPoR’) 7 † 0.65 1.20 1.13 Man hours worked (million)† 6.1 6.7 7.1 Process Process safety events (IOGP Tier 1)† 0 0 0 Only one Tier 2 event and no Tier 1 events occurred in safety and asset Process safety events (IOGP Tier 2)† 1 0 3 2017, reflecting the ongoing focus on process safety integrity and asset integrity across the Group. Emergency Number of emergency response 209 173 77 Numerous emergency response exercises were preparedness exercises undertaken across the Group in 2017, reflecting our ongoing efforts to maintain and where possible strengthen our emergency response capabilities. The increase in the number of reported exercises since 2015 reflects our more detailed tracking and reporting of these events over time. † Data for 2017 assured by ERM CVS. 6 No significant security incidents directly affected our personnel in 2017. 7 Per million man hours. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 52 Corporate Responsibility Review continued Environment Why this issue is material Policy During this process, we gauge the During 2017, all of our operated activities Our HSES Policy commits us to significance of each impact and consider were conducted offshore. This included minimising our environmental impacts how each can be reduced to a level that is drilling for, and the extraction of, both and never knowingly compromising ‘as low as reasonably practicable’ (‘ALARP’). oil and gas from sub-surface reservoirs our environmental standards to meet Our business units record key environmental (in cooperation with our operational our operational objectives. metrics on an ongoing basis. These metrics contractors) for transport by pipeline In addition, while not a formal policy, are analysed every month and relevant and/or third-party shipping partners to our Carbon Strategy describes Premier‘s performance indicators reported to the international markets. Unless otherwise approach to managing carbon emissions Board. We distribute an HSES scorecard managed, these activities have the and the risks and opportunities associated to all personnel to keep them informed potential to negatively impact water quality, with climate change. Amongst other of the Group’s HSES performance. air quality and local ecosystems. Any failure things, the strategy describes Premier‘s to avoid and/or mitigate these impacts Effluents and waste commitment to managing these risks would have material reputational and All our operated offshore assets extract in an effective and responsible manner. regulatory consequences. oil, gas and formation water from offshore How we implement our policy reservoirs. We separate the oil, gas and Our most significant environmental issues Our HSES Management System helps us water using our on-site processing plant. relate to: manage our environmental performance The water is then either re-injected into the • effluents and waste, including the across the lifecycles of our operations and reservoir to maintain underground pressure prevention of spills and the responsible projects. All of our operated production or it is cleaned, filtered and then discharged management of hazardous materials; and and drilling activities are certified to into the sea. All planned discharges are • greenhouse gas emissions associated the ISO 14001 environmental cleaned to meet or exceed national with energy consumption and flaring management standard. standards, using standard separation at our facilities. techniques. Discharges of this water from As required by our HSES Management our offshore production operations did Please note, Premier has identified ‘health, System, we perform baseline surveys and not take place in any protected areas. safety, environment and security’ and (with prepare environmental and social impact regards to climate change regulation) ‘host assessments (‘ESIAs’) for all of our operated We collect hazardous and non-hazardous government: political and fiscal risks’ and activities 8. The assessments address our: waste materials from our global drilling ‘commodity price volatility’ as principal • physical impacts; and production operations, which are risks. More information can be found taken to shore and disposed of. This • ecosystem impacts; and on pages 24 to 27. includes drill cuttings, used oil, scrap • socio-economic impacts. 8 When we carry out impact assessments (e.g. social and/or environmental impact assessments), these typically involve significant stakeholder engagement. For example, in 2017, we submitted Environmental Impact Statements to the UK Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy for the offshore and onshore elements of our Tolmount project. To support the development of these statements, we conducted an extensive stakeholder engagement campaign. As part of the approval process, the Environmental Impact Statements were also made available for public consultation. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 53 metal, wood, plastic and other materials. • aspire (through target setting and the Premier also monitors the numerous Where feasible, we segregate and measures explained above) to achieve corporate-level risks that climate change STRATEGIC REPORT recycle as much non-hazardous waste a carbon intensity for steady-state poses to the Company. Foremost among as possible and encourage the use of operated production that is in line with these is the evolving fiscal and legislative recycled input materials. the overall industry intensity figure response to climate change in our countries published by the IOGP. of operation. The 2015 Paris Agreement Climate change and greenhouse Where possible, we also seek to reduce our reflects the commitment of the international gas emissions indirect emissions, for example, through community in this respect. Premier will Our approach to minimising carbon the reduction of unnecessary air travel by continue to monitor the developing policy emissions involves: using video-conferencing. environment at an international and national • the application of effective design and, level and will adapt our future carbon GOVERNANCE wherever practicable, energy-efficient We integrate carbon and climate changeemissions strategy accordingly. technology; related risks into our overall enterprise risk management framework where relevant. For more information about how related • the efficient operation of our existing We recognise the potential physical risks physical risks are managed, please see equipment and infrastructure, including that climate change poses to our operations. page 51 (‘Health, safety and security’), the minimising of flaring and venting These might include heightened storm risks and, for related regulatory risks, please where possible; and and long-term sea level rises. see pages 24 to 27 (‘host government: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • the responsible use of energy. political and fiscal risks’ and ‘commodity As part of our management of these risks, price volatility’) 9. We also: we undertake detailed meteorological and • conduct environmental ALARP oceanographic impact assessments for all studies during the design phase new projects during the design phase. of all new projects; These incorporate projections of rising sea • set specific, measurable, attainable, levels and more frequent unpredictable relevant and time-bound (‘SMART’) weather events. annual greenhouse gas intensity targets to drive operational efficiency at our operated production assets; and ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Outcomes Key indicators – Environment 10 Material issue Premier Oil metric 2017 2016 201511 Our performance in 2017 Climate change Total Scope 1 GHG emissions (te) 12† 946,323 846,096 826,330 Our total GHG emissions increased in 2017 compared and GHGs Total Scope 2 GHG emissions (te) 13† 877 964 1,000 to the previous year. The increase reflects the inclusion (for the first time) of a full year of emissions GHG intensity (operated assets) 183 18614 219 data from the E.ON assets we acquired in 2016, as (te CO2e/1,000 te of production)† well as increased drilling activity. Our GHG intensity Energy consumption 2.3 2.2 2.3 improved slightly on our 2017 target of 185 tonnes (GJ/te of production) per thousand tonnes of production, while our energy intensity remained broadly stable. Effluents Unplanned hydrocarbon released 1.9 2.2 0.9 The amount of hydrocarbon released to sea was and waste to sea (te)† less in 2017 than in 2016. The amount of waste Hydrocarbon in produced water 10.6 9.1 9.1 materials produced also fell, primarily as fewer (ppm-wt)† drill cuttings were generated by our drilling activities. Hydrocarbon in produced water Waste materials produced (te)† 5,810 8,176 6,377 increased, following a series of unplanned Spending on environmental 7.1 8.4 5.5 shutdowns at our Balmoral asset. protection measures (US$m) † Data for 2017 assured by ERM CVS. 9 During 2017, no post-control physical impacts associated with climate change affected our operations. Furthermore, no significant negative impacts upon our business associated with climate change regulation were experienced. 10 Our environmental performance reporting is aligned with IPIECA reporting guidance and the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 11 Our total Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions and greenhouse gas intensity figures for 2015 were revised in 2016, following diesel under-reporting at our Balmoral asset. 12 Calculations of Scope 1 emissions are based on equations and emission factors provided in the 2009 API GHG Compendium. Global warming potential rates are taken from the IPCC (2013) Assessment Report as well as IOGP guidance. 13 Scope 2 calculations are based on emission factors supplied by the UK Department of Energy and Climate Change (now Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy) (2015) and International Energy Agency (2012) guidance. A different factor is used for each country, and is applied to the total energy consumption in our onshore facilities (offices and warehouses). Emission factors are used to give an estimate of CO2 equivalent. 14 Greenhouse gas emissions from our Solan asset were not included in our reported greenhouse gas intensity figure for 2016. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 54 Corporate Responsibility Review continued Employees How we implement our policies ensure the nationals we employ can access Our Human Resources Management opportunities throughout our organisation, Why this issue is material System supports our day-to-day and support our business. We recognise that our current and future management of human resource matters, success is strongly related to our ability As required by our Equal Opportunities and includes guidance relating to: to recruit, retain and motivate high quality, and Diversity Policy, we seek to treat skilled employees and contractor personnel. • performance; people fairly, equally and without prejudice, Any failure in this regard has the potential • resourcing; irrespective of gender, race, age, disability, to undermine our operational capabilities, • reward; and sexual orientation or any other management effectiveness and, ultimately, discriminatory attributes. The policy applies • competency management15. our profitability. Accordingly, we seek to to all permanent and temporary staff, treat our people fairly, offer meaningful This guidance is hosted on the People contractor personnel and job applicants. professional development and deliver Portal – Premier’s online human resources Employee obligations in this respect are set rewards commensurate with information system – and BMS. The BMS out in our Employee Handbook. These employee performance. helps us achieve an appropriate balance prohibit employees from carrying out between consistent corporate policy discrimination (whether direct or indirect), Key issues in this regard include: requirements and flexible, local-level harassment and victimisation. • workforce profile; and requirements across the Group16. We have also sought to protect jobs across • employee engagement. To help ensure that we uphold our policy the Company throughout the last three Premier has identified employee attraction, commitments, we monitor and analyse years of challenging economic conditions. retention and succession as key elements of human resources data across the Group Our efforts include: the principal risk ‘organisational capability’. on a continuous basis. This includes data • a continued focus on sustainable cost See pages 26 to 27 for more information. describing our workforce profile and reduction efforts within our supply chains, turnover rate, as well as a variety of and contractor personnel workforce; Policies feedback that we receive through Our management of human resource issues • redeployment of staff to new roles where our employee engagement activities. is guided by our Corporate Responsibility possible, in order to avoid redundancy; Policy, Human Rights Policy (page 56), Workforce profile and Business Ethics Policy and the Code We prioritise the employment of suitably • seeking to retain high-performing (page 49), and our Equal Opportunities qualified nationals whenever possible. We employees through our appraisal and Diversity Policy. support this by investing in nationals’ skills, and reward framework. knowledge and experience. This also helps Outcomes Key indicators – Employees Material issue Premier Oil metric 2017 2016 2015 Our performance in 2017 Workforce Number of employees at end of 783/51 799/16418 829/119 The size of our workforce was predominantly stable in 2017, year/turnover during the year reflecting the increased financial stability provided by the finalisation of the Group’s refinancing in July 2017, our continued efforts to protect jobs where possible, our low turnover rate and our focus on recruiting only for roles of high importance. Gender balance of total employee 595/188 604/195 612/217 Female participation rates in our total employee workforce, workforce (male/female) senior management and Board of Directors stood at 24, 11 Gender balance at senior 99/12 99/13 90/12 and 22 per cent respectively. We recognise that women are management level 19 20 (male/female) typically under-represented in the oil and gas sector. Accordingly, we aim to ensure that our own management Gender balance at Board level 7/2 7/2 9/2 systems, practices and working culture do not discourage or (male/female) restrict female access to – and success within – our workforce. Employee Number of employee surveys 2 1 2 We conducted two employee surveys in 2017. One was engagement a Group-wide survey that provided valuable insights into employee satisfaction and engagement levels. The other was a survey of the workforce at our UK Business Unit, which measured perceptions of workplace wellbeing. Percentage of employees 98 99 99 In 2017, 98 per cent of employees received performance receiving performance reviews reviews against their Individual Performance Contracts, and were assigned a performance rating by their managers. This high completion rate reflects our commitment to ensuring employees have well-defined and communicated annual targets and receive structured performance feedback. 15 We encourage all staff to develop their professional skills, to the advantage of both the individual and the Company. We are committed to supporting our staff with the achievement of this objective, through the provision of experiential learning opportunities, coaching and training. We do not currently employ any disabled people. Our commitment to supporting staff with the development of their professional skills applies to those disabled employees that we employ in the future. We will also strive to provide continued employment for members of our workforce who become disabled whilst employed by us. 16 Premier complies with all local labour laws, including those related to working hours and overtime. 17 Where relevant, this includes information about economic and financial factors affecting the Company’s performance. 18 One hundred and fourteen of the employees that left the Company in 2016 had joined Premier as a result of our acquisition of the E.ON assets in April 2016. 19 Senior management is defined as Grade 5 and above. 20 Some members of our Board are also part of senior management and are therefore not included in these figures. This applied to three Board members in 2017 and 2016, and four in 2015. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 55 Employee engagement How we implement our policy Premier encourages open and ongoing Community relations We implement our policy through our STRATEGIC REPORT communication between employees and Why this issue is relevant Community Investment Management managers. We keep employees informed As an offshore operator, we have relatively System, which is aligned with IPIECA about wider Company issues17 via a number limited direct interaction with local Standards. The system helps us to of communication mechanisms, including: communities than most companies with systematically identify, manage, evaluate • regular team meetings; onshore operations. Nonetheless, our and budget our engagements in host relations with communities are very countries. • the Company intranet; important, due to: It focuses on the following key aspects: • messages from our Chief Executive • the potential and actual impacts of our • Policy governance. Officer and business unit managers; GOVERNANCE activities (and those of our partners) on • ongoing email communications; • Risk evaluation management. local fishing communities; • town hall staff meetings at each business • Planning. • the role of certain onshore communities unit, attended by visiting members of as transit and logistics points for our • Implementation and monitoring. the Executive Committee and senior offshore operations; • Audit and review. management; and • the positive impact our community All of our operations have established • the release of the Company’s Half-Year and investment has on our reputation and community engagement and investment FINANCIAL STATEMENTS annual operational and financial results, as social licence to operate; programmes. well as trading and operations updates. • the potential and actual impacts of the Given the offshore nature of our We conduct occasional structured non-operated, onshore production assets operations, we have relatively limited direct employee surveys at Group and business in Pakistan and at Wytch Farm in the UK, interaction with local communities. Despite unit level. The results of these surveys help in which we had interests during 2017; and this, we recognise the importance of us to understand and respond effectively to • the potential for new onshore operations engaging with those stakeholders that are employee attitudes towards engagement, in the future. or could be affected by our activities. rewards, retention, working environment and related issues. We are careful to minimise our negative Furthermore, our HSES Policy requires us to impacts on local communities, if they do prepare ESIAs for each of our operated We also gather feedback through: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION occur 21. activities. As part of this process, we • regular performance reviews; engage with local communities where Policy • our formal non-recriminatory human relevant. None of our operations has been Our approach to interacting with local resources grievances procedure, should identified as having any material negative communities is governed by our employees feel uncomfortable raising impacts on local communities, again Community Investment Policy. Amongst issues through normal management reflecting their remote, offshore locations. other commitments, it requires Premier to: channels; and We also invest in community projects to • our confidential, independently managed • invest in well-planned social projects that help deliver sustainable social, economic whistleblower hotline. support the development priorities of and environmental benefits for local host communities and governments; We respect the right of all employees to communities and host governments. • work to achieve a net positive sociojoin a legitimate trade union and bargain economic impact on local communities; collectively. We support organised labour and through, amongst other things, carrying out official collective consultations in Indonesia, • treat neighbours with respect and Vietnam and the UK. We have a collective understanding, acknowledging bargaining agreement in place at our community governance and seeking Indonesia and Vietnam Business Units. free and informed consent prior to These agreements cover 512 employees, initiating operations that have a representing 65 per cent of the Company’s potentially significant social impact total employee workforce. on the community. Typically, Premier will provide our employees and, where relevant, their Outcomes elected representatives with at least one Key indicators – Community relations month’s notice of any significant operational Material issue Premier Oil metric 2017 2016 2015 Our performance in 2017 changes that might affect them. Value generation Community 0.74 0.69 0.88 In 2017, our community and distribution investment spend investment spending (US$m) supported a variety of community projects and initiatives in our host countries. Areas of focus included environmental conservation, healthcare, education and social care. For more information, please see our online 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report. 21 No material impacts of this nature took place in 2017. Where relevant, Premier is committed to providing fair and adequate compensation for any losses for which we are liable. This commitment is implemented through our management systems. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 56 Corporate Responsibility Review continued How we implement our policies reviews of some of our most significant Society Human rights contracts following their award, these Why this issue is material Premier’s Human Rights Policy, which is reviews include the HSES performance We recognise that our activities can affect based on international human rights norms, of the contractor. national – and local-level stakeholders – is implemented through our Human Rights Furthermore, all material new contracts are and vice versa. As such, we strive to avoid Management System, which prescribes now assessed for human rights and labour and/or minimise any negative impacts we how to: rights risks, following the pilot testing of our might have and to maximise our positive • embed human rights23; Supply Chain Contractor Due Diligence impacts across a range of issues. • conduct risk assessments; Process across the operated business units Key issues in this regard are: • develop action plans; during 2017. This process ‘red flags’ • human rights; potential issues of concern, triggering • carry out implementation and monitoring; (where relevant) a full due diligence process • public policy and government relations; and tailored to Premier’s specific needs. This • value generation and distribution; and • audit and review compliance and due diligence enables us to effectively • decommissioning. performance. manage the identified risks, which may Using our Human Rights Risk Screening include appropriate mitigations, before Please note, Premier has identified ‘host Tool, we screen our own operations, our contracts are entered into. government: political and fiscal risks’ as a principal risk. More information can be non-operated joint venture assets and All major commitments include relevant found on pages 26 to 27. countries identified for possible exploration HSES, human rights and prevention of or joint venture activities for high-level forced/involuntary labour and human Policies human rights and labour rights risks. Risk trafficking obligations. We also maintain Our policies guide how we interact with issues assessed include child labour, a Company presence at major construction stakeholders throughout society. The most forced/involuntary labour, and the and fabrication yards undertaking work relevant are our overarching Corporate protection of indigenous people‘s rights. for Premier. This is in order to ensure Responsibility Policy, Human Rights Policy, This enables us to prioritise current and their adherence to relevant human rights, Risk Management Policy, Tax Policy, future assets for targeted management. labour rights and HSES obligations within Community Investment Policy (page 55), Where appropriate, we carry out ad hoc risk their contracts. Business Ethics Policy and the Code (page 49). These policies are implemented assessments for new operating locations Public policy and government relations through our associated management and partnerships (including human rights Our business units engage directly with systems. Amongst other commitments, considerations, if relevant) and third-party host governments and regulators. Our our policies require us to: due diligence investigations. Exploration Function has significant • engage with stakeholders in our efforts We implemented our human rights interaction with government entities to respect and promote the fundamental grievance procedure in 2017. The procedure in the process of acquiring acreage, rights set out in the Universal Declaration enables Premier to better identify and including the preparation of bids in licence of Human Rights22; address actual or potential human rights rounds or through direct negotiations. All impacts, whether they are directly or engagement is carried out in line with • act transparently with all stakeholders indirectly associated with our activities. Premier’s applicable policies, including in full respect of the rule of law; our Corporate Responsibility Policy, Human • contribute to the development goals We do not typically employ or contract Rights Policy, Business Ethics Policy and and value creation objectives of security personnel, although landlords at the Code. host countries; our office locations do provide their own security personnel. As a result, we do not Employees, contractor personnel or agency • support the socio-economic sustainability typically conduct human rights training for workers who believe Premier may have and well-being of communities through internal or external security personnel. failed to engage with host governments local procurement and other engagement Where we require additional security and regulators in the manner required by with local business; and support outside of our office locations, our the Code and other applicable policies can • not seek to engage in artificial tax report concerns to their line manager or via providers are required to apply human avoidance arrangements. our confidential, independently managed rights standards that are aligned with our Human Rights Policy. reporting hotline. Government officials can also raise concerns with Premier directly. In line with the UN Guiding Principles on All reports are properly investigated and Business and Human Rights, we seek to the results reported to the Board. monitor the human rights performance of our business partners, including our Premier is a member of a number of bodies non-operated joint venture partners that use their legitimate influence to lobby and contractors. governments on issues affecting the oil and gas sector. For example, these include: All new contractors undergo an initial • Association of British Independent Oil risk-based HSES assessment via preExploration Companies (‘BRINDEX’). qualification, bidding and/or negotiation. Any that we consider to be ‘high risk’ are • Falkland Islands Petroleum Licensees subjected to a more detailed HSES Association. screening. We also carry out performance • Indonesian Petroleum Association. 22 Our Human Rights Policy is guided by those rights enshrined in the core labour conventions of the International Labour Organization and by the UN Global Compact. 23 Including the core labour conventions of the International Labour Organization. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 57 Value generation and distribution comply with the requirements of the Premier has developed a clear strategy We believe the most effective way to European Union Accounting Directive to decommission our operated assets STRATEGIC REPORT generate longer-term value for our (‘EUAD’), the Extractives Industry in a continuous, sequential fashion, shareholders is by operating in a way that Transparency Initiative (‘EITI’) and incorporating learnings, progressive delivers tangible benefits to all our other Country-by-Country Reporting (‘CBCR’). improvements and new technology stakeholders. Much of the value we create where appropriate as we execute the Premier‘s Tax Policy is implemented by its is distributed throughout our host societies, Decommissioning Programmes. We have internal Tax Management Standard, which and directly supports long-term socioan experienced in-house team who are defines the framework for the management economic development. committed to undertaking decommissioning of tax. activity in a safe and efficient manner. Our In this context (and in line with relevant local The Standard establishes minimum activities in this respect are guided by our GOVERNANCE content requirements) Premier seeks to: performance requirements that are applied HSES Policy and standards. • employ nationals where they are throughout the Group, including actively appropriately qualified; and We are incorporating innovative monitoring tax legislation in all operating technological and proven engineering • use contractors based in our host environments to ensure compliance with solutions into the decommissioning countries, where they are able to meet tax law and compliance with Premier‘s preparation work we are undertaking at our operational and economic Tax Policy. our Balmoral asset, to help minimise health, requirements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Decommissioning safety and environmental risks and increase To help nationals and host country At present, only one of Premier’s operated cost-efficiencies. We are also proactively contractors access these opportunities, we production fields (Caledonia) has been collaborating with regulatory authorities, support local capacity building where declared inactive24. We are in the process of joint venture partners and operators in the economically feasible. developing Decommissioning Programmes region to share knowledge, contribute to We are committed to prompt disclosure for the Greater Balmoral Area, Caledonia, joint research initiatives and rationalise and and transparency in all tax matters and have Huntington and Hunter and Rita fields, some coordinate decommissioning programmes met all applicable statutory requirements in of which we plan to submit for public where possible. this respect. This includes the disclosures consultation and regulatory approval during and submissions that we make in order to the course of 2018. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Outcomes Key indicators – Society25 Material issue Premier Oil metric 2017 2016 2015 Our performance in 2017 Human rights Identified violations of our Human 0 0 0 No violations were identified in 2017. This is a Rights Policy (by Premier and its reflection of our human rights due diligence efforts, employees) as well as the offshore and relatively remote nature of our operated activities. Significant negative human rights 0 0 0 No significant negative human rights or labour rights or labour rights impacts identified impacts were identified in our supply chain during 2017. in our supply chain Following the full implementation of our Supply Chain Contractor Due Diligence Process, we plan to increase the number of contracts we screen against human rights and labour rights criteria throughout 2018. Public policy and Value of political donations and 0 0 0 We made no political donations or contributions in government contributions (US$) 2017. All of our interactions with host governments relations were conducted in line with our Business Ethics Policy and the Code. Value generation Economic value distributed 92327 825 705 Throughout 2017 we continued to generate and distribution (US$m)26 significant levels of economic value, much of which was distributed to stakeholders throughout our host societies. 24 We define ‘inactive sites’ as production fields that are no longer producing, but have not yet been decommissioned, as well as subsea infrastructure that is no longer economically viable for production (this includes: subsea wells, templates, manifolds and flow lines, and umbilicals that have been flushed of hydrocarbon and other chemicals disconnected from production assets, prior to decommissioning). 25 During 2017, none of Premier’s assets were decommissioned and no Decommissioning Programmes were finalised. 26 i.e. operating costs, royalties, staff costs, dividends, finance costs, corporate income tax payments and community investments. 27 In 2017, Premier paid US$70 million in the form of corporate income tax payments to our host governments. We did not engage in artificial tax avoidance arrangements and met all statutory and transparency requirements with respect to tax matters. The Strategic Report, which has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, has been approved and signed on behalf of the Board. Tony Durrant Chief Executive Officer 7 March 2018 Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 58 Chairman’s Introduction Board composition (number of Directors)1 SNAPSHOT Our governance Chairman 1 Executive Directors 3 Non-Executive Directors 5 framework 1 As at 7 March 2018.  Read more in the Board of Directors section on Compliance overview page 62 Leadership Accountability In 2017, Mike Welton stepped The Board monitors risks and down as a Director and Chairman controls on an ongoing basis of Premier’s Board as part of the and has conducted an annual Dear shareholder, Board’s succession plan and assessment of the effectiveness I am pleased to present my first Corporate Roy A Franklin was appointed of its systems of risk management Governance Report to you since my as his successor. and internal control. appointment as Chairman of your Board The roles of Chairman and Chief See pages 22 to 29 on 1 September 2017 following the planned Executive Officer remain separate retirement of Mike Welton, who had served Shareholder engagement as Premier’s Chairman since October 2009. and Premier’s new Chairman Regular dialogue takes place brings significant leadership I look forward to working with the Board, with institutional investors, experience to the Board. the management team and all of our retail investors and analysts See page 62 through meetings, presentations stakeholders as we enter the next exciting and conferences. phase in the Company’s development. Effectiveness The Board has a diverse Consultation on a new Directors’ Our governance framework range of skills, knowledge and Remuneration Policy continued Premier has established a clear vision and experience and comprises 22 per during the first quarter of 2017. core values that complement and support cent female Directors. Several See page 73 the Board’s strategy. These values are at Board appointments were made the heart of all Premier’s activities and Remuneration good corporate governance provides the during the year which ensure Our Remuneration Policy is framework through which these values are that the Board continues to be designed to ensure alignment embedded throughout the organisation. independent and has the necessary with our immediate and long-term skills, knowledge and experience to Our governance framework not only strategic objectives. Details successfully deliver the Company’s ensures that the right decisions are taken of how the Policy has been strategy. The Board comprises at the right time, it provides a framework implemented during the year a majority of Non-Executive to support all that we do. This report are included in the Directors’ Directors, all of whom are describes the structure of our corporate Remuneration Report. independent. A detailed induction governance framework and will help you programme was undertaken by See pages 81 to 113 to understand how the Company has been new Board members during 2017. run, how risks are managed, how controls An internal Board evaluation are monitored, and how key decisions have was conducted in 2017 and it is been taken during 2017. envisaged that an external Board Board focus during 2017 evaluation will be undertaken 2017 has been a challenging year for your in 2018. Board. A significant amount of time has See pages 70 to 71 been invested in ensuring the successful completion of the comprehensive refinancing of the Company’s debt facilities. The level of skills, experience, Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 59 STRATEGIC REPORT Good corporate governance provides a sound framework through which we can GOVERNANCE successfully deliver our strategy and return value to our stakeholders.” FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Roy A Franklin Chairman ADDITIONAL INFORMATION independence and knowledge on your In all matters, Health, Safety, Environment In terms of my appointment as Chairman, Board, the time commitment of the Directors and Security (‘HSES’) has been central my previous leadership experience and and the management team, and our strong to the Board’s decision-making. HSES knowledge of the oil and gas industry will corporate governance have ensured sound matters will always be of paramount serve me well in ensuring continued strong judgements were made within a framework importance and regardless of the external leadership of your Board. On behalf of the of prudent and effective controls. business environment, your Board will Board, I would like to thank Mike for his not compromise on the integrity of our strong leadership as Chairman, particularly The refinancing represents a significant systems and the safety of our people during the challenging industry downturn milestone for the Company and now and operations. and the period leading up to the successful provides the headroom and flexibility to completion of the Company’s refinancing enable your Board to plan for future Board changes and succession planning in July 2017. investment in selective new projects. Further A key priority for your Board during 2017 details of our refinancing are contained in has been the search for suitable candidates I would also like to thank David and Joe the Financial Review and note 15 of the for the position of Chairman and for two on behalf of the Board for their significant Financial Statements. new Non-Executive Directors, following contribution over the course of their the planned retirement of Mike as nine-year tenures as Non-Executive Throughout the year, your Board has Chairman and David Lindsell and Directors, laterally as Chairman of the continued to focus on the immediate Joe Darby as Non-Executive Directors. Audit and Risk Committee and Senior objective of debt reduction through active Independent Director (‘SID’) respectively, portfolio management, execution of These changes formed part of a carefully and to welcome our two new Nondevelopments and the maximisation of constructed succession plan and, on Executive Directors to the Board. production from a low cost base. The 10 August 2017, Dave Blackwood and Mike delivery of Catcher marked an important Wheeler were appointed as Non-Executive On 17 May 2017, Jane Hinkley succeeded milestone for Premier and the cash flows Directors and on 1 September 2017, I was Joe as SID. The Board is confident that her generated from the field will play a appointed Chairman. Further information diverse experience serving in various significant role in reducing debt. on the process used in relation to these Non-Executive Director roles and her Board appointments is contained in the recent engagement with shareholders Whilst our immediate strategy of debt Nomination Committee Report on page 79. in respect of the implementation of the reduction has been a key focus for your Company’s new Remuneration Policy will Board, significant attention has also been Dave brings with him strong oil and gas serve her well in this important role. given to Premier’s longer-term strategy of experience and technical expertise and investing selectively in future projects to Mike’s appointment strengthens the As part of the Board’s succession plan, deliver growth and value for all of our Board’s corporate financing expertise, on 17 May 2017 and, following David’s stakeholders. The significant Zama thus ensuring that the Board is well retirement, Iain Macdonald took up the discovery in Mexico further increases the placed to deliver both its immediate position as Chairman of the Audit and optionality within our already considerable and longer-term strategy. Risk Committee. portfolio of undeveloped projects and demonstrates our ability to deliver our longer-term strategy and return to growth. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 60 Chairman’s Introduction continued Diversity Engagement with our shareholders Compliance statement Your Board recognises the benefits Engagement with all our stakeholders This report, together with the Nomination of diversity in enhancing the quality remains a priority for your Board. In Committee Report, the Audit and Risk of its performance, therefore, all Board addition to our regular dialogue with Committee Report, the Directors’ appointments are made on merit, against shareholders throughout the year, Remuneration Report and sections of the Strategic Report incorporated by reference, objective criteria and with due regard to extensive consultation with investors describes the manner in which the Company the benefits of diversity in its widest sense, continued during 2017 as part of the has applied the main principles of governance including gender diversity. Company’s refinancing. Further details set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016 (the ‘Code’) and of our engagement with shareholders complied with the individual Code provisions. Further details on our Board Diversity Policy can be found on page 73. The Code can be found on the Financial can be found on page 80, including details Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk. of how the Policy has been implemented Board focus during 2018 It is the Board’s view that, with the exception of and the results of implementation in the A key priority for 2018 will be to ensure that Code Provision E.2.4 (Notice period for year ended 31 December 2017. the Company continues to reduce its debt. General Meetings), the Company has fully complied with the Code throughout the Accordingly, active portfolio management, financial year ended 31 December 2017. Board effectiveness cost controls and production efficiencies The reasons for non-compliance with Code During 2017, the Board carried out a will be a key focus for Board agendas. Provision E.2.4 are set out below. review of its effectiveness through its The General Meeting held on 15 June 2017 to annual Board evaluation programme. Your Board will also continue to focus on approve the refinancing of the Company’s debt The outcome from this review will inform building a portfolio of future projects for facilities was held on less than 14 working days’ continual improvement to ensure the selective investment and further growth. notice to ensure that the Company met the required completion date under the terms of effective operation of your Board. the agreement. We will continue to ensure that our As your new Chairman, it was important The General Meeting held on 7 December governance framework supports the that I gained an in-depth understanding 2017 to approve the proposed sale of the achievement of our strategy and HSES Company’s Wytch Farm interests was held on of the dynamics of your Board. The focus remains central to our decision-making. less than 14 working days’ notice to enable on one-to-one meetings for our Board closure of the sale during December and to evaluation has enabled me to understand On behalf of the Board, I would like to avoid extending the associated Letters of more fully how the Board operates thereby express my thanks to our employees Credit into 2018. supporting leadership. It is envisaged that and to all other stakeholders for their the 2018 Board evaluation process will be continued support. conducted externally. A detailed induction programme was Roy A Franklin undertaken by all Directors recruited Chairman during the year, further details of which are contained on page 70. In addition, the Board continues to enhance its knowledge through detailed presentations given to the Board by management, thus ensuring that your Board has an in-depth understanding of the Company’s operations. Case studies on these sessions can be found on pages 71 and 72. Remuneration In May 2017, our shareholders approved a new Remuneration Policy which will support the successful achievement of our strategy. Our Remuneration Committee spent a significant amount of time consulting with shareholders to ensure that the Policy is aligned both with our objectives and with best practice. Further details of our Remuneration Policy are contained on pages 84 to 94. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 61 STRATEGIC REPORT The Board GOVERNANCE The Board provides leadership to the Group with a view to delivering As at 31 December 2017, the Board of Directors comprised the long-term value to shareholders and other stakeholders. It sets the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, two other Executive Directors strategy and oversees its execution within an agreed framework of and five independent Non-Executive Directors. Biographical details internal controls, ensuring that risk is appropriately managed. of each Director in service as at 7 March 2018, including membership of Board Committees, are set out on pages 62 to 65. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Roy A Franklin Robin Allan Anne Marie Cannon Iain Macdonald Chairman Director, North Sea Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Tony Durrant and Exploration Jane Hinkley Mike Wheeler Chief Executive Officer Dave Blackwood Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Richard Rose Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Finance Director The Committees ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Executive Committee The Executive Committee supports the Chief Executive Officer with the development Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee and implementation of Iain Macdonald (Chair) Roy A Franklin (Chair) Jane Hinkley (Chair) Group strategy, management Dave Blackwood Dave Blackwood Dave Blackwood of the operations of the Mike Wheeler Anne Marie Cannon Anne Marie Cannon Group including succession Tony Durrant Keeps under review the Jane Hinkley Ensures that there is an planning, financial planning, effectiveness of the Group’s Iain Macdonald appropriate reward strategy in risk management, internal risk management and internal place for Executive Directors control, HSES and Mike Wheeler control systems and the with the intention of aligning corporate responsibility. programme of reviews their interests with those of Considers Board and coordinated by Group Audit shareholders. This Committee Committee structure, and Risk; monitors the integrity also oversees reward strategy composition and succession of the Company’s financial for senior management. planning and oversees statements and the overall succession planning fairness of the Annual Report and development of and Financial Statements; senior management. oversees the Company’s relationship with the auditors and assesses the effectiveness of the audit; takes responsibility for the appointment or reappointment of the Company’s auditors ensuring that the process follows the required best practice and legal obligations. Full Committee report Full Committee report  ull Committee report F on pages 74 to 78 on pages 79 to 80 on pages 81 to 113 Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 62 Board of Directors The Board Board tenure as at 7 March 2018 Roy A Franklin Tony Durrant Richard Rose Chairman Chief Executive Officer Finance Director Board tenure Board tenure Board tenure 6 months 12 years 8 months 3 years 6 months Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles –– Non-Executive Director and Deputy Member of the Advisory Committee Not applicable Chairman of Statoil ASA of Flowstream Commodities Past roles –– Non-Executive Director of Wood plc Past roles –– Chartered accountant with Ernst –– Member of the Advisory Board of Kerogen –– Non-Executive Director and Chairman & Young LLP Capital LLC of the Audit & Risk and Remuneration –– Partner in Equity Research at Oriel Securities –– Chairman of privately held Cuadrilla Committees of Greenergy Fuels –– Managing Director at RBC Capital Markets Resources Ltd –– Managing Director and Head of the –– Strategy and Head of Corporate –– Chairman of privately held Energean European Natural Resources Group Communications at Ophir Energy Israel Ltd at Lehman Brothers Skills and experience Past roles Skills and experience Richard brings a wealth of knowledge and –– Non-Executive Director of Santos Ltd Tony has been involved in numerous experience to Premier, including his time as –– Chairman of Keller Group PLC financing and mergers and acquisitions an adviser to the Company in his previous –– Non-Executive Director of OMV AG transactions in the upstream sector and, corporate brokering roles. He has extensive –– Non-Executive Director of Boart since joining Premier in 2005, has been knowledge of debt and equity markets which Longyear Ltd instrumental in transforming Premier’s has been invaluable for Premier in completing –– Chairman of Novera Energy PLC portfolio from producing 35,000 boepd the comprehensive refinancing of the Group’s –– Chief Executive Officer of Paladin to one that is currently producing circa debt facilities. Resources PLC 75,000 boepd. –– Group Managing Director of Clyde Petroleum plc Skills and experience Roy has more than 40 years’ experience as an executive in the oil and gas industry. He spent 18 years at BP and has served on a number of international energy boards in non-executive roles. He has extensive experience in chairing boards of listed companies. Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership None Independent Independent Independent Yes1 Not applicable Not applicable 1 Chairman was independent on appointment. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 63 Key to Committee membership STRATEGIC REPORT Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Chairman of Committee Gender diversity (number of Directors)1 GOVERNANCE Male 7 Female 2 Robin Allan FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Director, North Sea and Exploration Length of tenure (number of Directors)1 < 3 years 4 Board tenure 3–6 years 2 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 14 years 3 months 7–10 years 3 Current external roles –– Chairman of The Association of British Independent Oil Exploration Companies (‘BRINDEX’) –– Board member of Oil & Gas UK Past roles –– Within Premier, Robin has previously served in a variety of roles including: Director: Asia, Director of Business Development and Country Manager in Indonesia 1 As at 7 March 2018. –– Robin joined Premier in 1986 from Burmah Oil Skills and experience Robin has 30 years of experience in senior positions at Premier and has a deep understanding of the Company’s operations having worked both in South East Asia and the UK. He now plays a leading role within the UK oil industry, representing North Sea operators through his additional roles as Chairman of BRINDEX and as a Board member of Oil & Gas UK. Committee membership None Independent Not applicable Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 64 Board of Directors continued  For further detail regarding Board changes during 2017 and ongoing succession planning, please refer to the Nomination Committee Report on pages 79 to 80. Dave Blackwood Anne Marie Cannon Jane Hinkley Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Board tenure Board tenure Board tenure 7 months 4 years 1 month 7 years 6 months Current external roles Current external roles Current external roles –– Senior Advisor to Evercore Partners Ltd –– Deputy Chair of Aker BP ASA –– Non-Executive Director and Chairman –– Non-Executive Director of Aker ASA of the Remuneration Committee of Past roles –– Non-Executive Director and Chairman Vesuvius plc –– Non-Executive Director of Expro of the Remuneration Committee of STV –– Chairman of Teekay GP LLC International Group Holding Ltd –– Senior Independent Director of Valiant Group plc Past roles Petroleum plc Past roles –– CFO and subsequently Managing Director –– Managing Director of BP North Sea –– Various roles at J Henry Schroder Wagg, of Gotaas-Larsen Shipping Corporation –– Vice Chair of Aberdeen City and Shire Shell UK E&P and Thomson North Sea –– Managing Director at Navion Shipping AS Economic Future (‘ACSEF’) –– Executive Director at Hardy Oil and Gas –– Non-Executive Director of Revus Energy ASA Skills and experience and British Borneo Skills and experience Dave has over 40 years’ experience in the oil –– Senior Adviser to the natural resources As a qualified accountant, Jane has a strong and gas sector, 27 years of which were spent group at Morgan Stanley knowledge of finance and significant listed in various global roles within BP, including Skills and experience company experience within the oil and gas heading up BP’s upstream business in the UK Anne Marie has over 35 years of experience shipping industries. In addition, Jane is an and Norway. He has a strong understanding in the oil and gas sector through senior roles experienced remuneration committee of the technical and commercial issues at play within both investment banking and quoted chairman having served in such roles for in an exploration and production company companies. Having spent much of her career the past six years within public companies. and has broad experience in developing and in the energy teams at Morgan Stanley and managing large scale complex energy assets J Henry Schroder Wagg, Anne Marie has throughout the world, from exploration significant experience advising on mergers through to decommissioning. and acquisitions within the upstream sector. Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Independent Independent Independent Yes Yes Yes Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 65 Key to Committee membership STRATEGIC REPORT Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Chairman of Committee GOVERNANCE Iain Macdonald Mike Wheeler Rachel Rickard1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Board tenure Board tenure Rachel joined Premier in January 2014 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 1 year 10 months 7 months and was appointed Company Secretary Current external roles Current external roles in May 2015. –– Non-Executive Director and Chairman –– Chairman of Citadel Securities Europe She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered of the Audit Committee at SUEK JSC and Chairman of the Audit Committee Secretaries and Administrators with more –– Non-Executive Director of The Workforce –– Chairman of Glitnir than 15 years’ experience gained across a Development Trust –– Non-Executive Director and Chairman variety of industries and sectors in FTSE 100 Past roles of the Audit Committee of Sunseeker and FTSE 250 listed companies, including –– Various roles at BP in engineering, International three years within the financial services licensing, business management and Past roles sector. As Company Secretary, Rachel is finance including three years as Deputy –– Non-Executive Director and Chairman responsible for advising the Board, through Group CFO for BP plc of the Audit & Risk Committee of the UK the Chairman, on all governance matters. –– Served as a Non-Executive Director Department of Health of TNK-BP Ltd from 2009 to 2011 –– Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee Skills and experience of Dubai Holding With his extensive experience in senior –– Senior Adviser/Non-Executive Chairman financial and operational roles at BP, Iain of Close Brothers Corporate Finance brings a wealth of experience to his role as –– Senior Adviser to BDO 1 Rachel is currently on maternity leave. Andy Gibb, Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, –– Non-Executive Chairman of Vantis plc Group General Counsel, is Interim Company which he assumed in May 2017 following –– Non-Executive member of the Audit Secretary in Rachel’s absence. a year-long transition period. Committee of the Institute of Financial Services Skills and experience Mike has held senior roles in businesses across a variety of sectors, bringing a diverse outlook and a broad range of experience to the Board. His career at KPMG spanned 30 years, including serving as Global Chairman, Restructuring. He has built up significant expertise in the areas of restructuring and finance through his role at KPMG and experience serving on audit and risk committees. Committee membership Committee membership Independent Independent Yes Yes Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 66 Corporate Governance Report The role of the Board Group risk management framework The Board is collectively responsible for the governance of the Company on behalf of Establish context Premier’s shareholders and is accountable to Premier’s shareholders for the long-term success of the Group. Risk assessment The Board governs the Group in accordance with the authority set out Risk Risk identification Risk in the Company’s Articles of Association communication monitoring and consultation and review and in compliance with the UK Corporate Risk analysis Governance Code (the ‘Code’). A copy of and evaluation the Articles of Association is available on Premier’s website www.premier-oil.com. A copy of the Code can be accessed at Risk reduction www.frc.org.uk. Our governance goes beyond regulatory compliance and puts the interests of all our stakeholders at the heart of the Board’s Continuous improvement decision-making. Risk management and internal control are actively monitored, with health, safety, on an annual basis, carries out a review The Board sets the Company’s strategic environment and security (‘HSES’) borne of their effectiveness. objectives and ensures that they are in mind at all times. properly pursued within a sound framework Further details about the systems used for of internal controls and risk management. The Board is responsible for maintaining ongoing monitoring and annual review of As part of this process, the Board sound risk management and internal the Company’s risk management and determines the nature and extent control systems. In meeting this internal control systems are set out on of the principal risks it is willing to take responsibility, the Board monitors the pages 23 and 28 of the Principal Risks in achieving the Company’s strategic Company’s risk management and internal section of the Strategic Report and on objectives and ensures that major risks control systems throughout the year and, pages 75 and 76 of the Audit and Risk Committee Report. Position Role and responsibilities Chairman of • The Chairman’s role is part-time and he is a Non-Executive Director. His primary responsibility is the leadership of the Board, the Board ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role including maintaining effective communication with Premier’s shareholders and other stakeholders. Between Board meetings, the Chairman is responsible for ensuring the integrity and effectiveness of the Board/Executive relationship. This is effected through meetings, as well as contact with other Board members, shareholders, joint venture partners, host governments and other stakeholders. • There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, which has been agreed by the Board and is set out in writing. Chief Executive • The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day-to-day running of the Group’s operations, for applying Group policies, Officer including HSES, and for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board. He plays a pivotal role in developing and reviewing the strategy in consultation with the Board and in executing it with the support of the Executive Committee. Senior • The Company’s Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be resolved through Independent discussion with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other Executive Directors. The Senior Independent Director is Director responsible for leading the annual appraisal of the Chairman’s performance, which is discussed further on page 71. Non-Executive • The Non-Executive Directors bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy and resource, including senior Directors appointments and standards of conduct. The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to challenge independently and constructively the performance of executive management and to monitor the performance of the management team in the delivery of the agreed objectives and targets. In meeting this responsibility, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors meet periodically without the Executive Directors present, and the Non-Executive Directors meet once a year without the Chairman present. The Non-Executive Directors must also be satisfied with the integrity of the Group’s financial information and with the robustness of Premier’s internal control and risk management systems. The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors and have a key role in succession planning and the appointment of and, where necessary, removal of Directors. • Non-Executive Directors are required to be free from any relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect the independence of their judgement. The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the independence of Non-Executive Directors. • Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a specified term of three years subject to annual re-election and to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a director. The terms and conditions of their appointment are made available for inspection. Letters of appointment set out an expected time commitment, and all Non-Executive Directors undertake that they will have sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities effectively. Any significant other business commitments are disclosed to the Board prior to appointment. Changes to such commitments are disclosed to the Board on an ongoing basis. Where necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors, the Directors have access to independent professional advice at the Company’s expense. Company • The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters. The Company Secretary Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring good information flows between the Board and its Committees and between senior management and the Non-Executive Directors. The Company Secretary also plays a pivotal role in facilitating the induction of new Directors and assisting with the ongoing training and development needs of Board members as required. All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with. The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 67 How the Board operates A formal schedule of Matters Reserved Group HR Director; Andy Gibb, the Group The Board has a structured agenda for for the Board can be found on the General Counsel; Dean Griffin, the Head STRATEGIC REPORT the year ensuring all relevant matters Company’s website www.premier-oil.com. of Exploration; Paul Williams, the Group are considered, with sufficient time for The schedule is regularly reviewed by the Development and Operations Manager; discussion. The programme is structured Board. Key matters reserved for the Board and Bassem Zaki, the Business Development to include: strategic issues, including setting are set out in the diagram below. Manager. In addition to formal monthly the strategy and assessing performance in ExCo meetings, the ExCo holds fortnightly The Board has the opportunity to executing the strategy; the annual business meetings with the Country Managers and, meet with management and discuss key plan and budget; HSES and risk; internal in the alternate weeks, there is a fortnightly projects through Board presentations controls and risk management; corporate meeting with functional heads which and more detailed management responsibility; financing; investor relations; includes, in addition to ExCo members, the GOVERNANCE presentation sessions. corporate reporting; Board Committee Group Financial Controller and additional related activity, including matters requiring Board Committees members of the exploration team. Board sanction; and other corporate The Board has established Audit and Risk, Quarterly Performance Review meetings governance matters. Remuneration and Nomination Committees. are also held between ExCo members and Each Committee has formal terms of The Board meets at least six times each year the senior management team from within reference approved by the Board, copies and, in addition, an update conference call each of the business units and include risk of which can be found on the Company’s FINANCIAL STATEMENTS generally takes place in the months when management and HSES reviews as part of website. The Company Secretary provides no formal meeting is scheduled. Ad-hoc the overall review of each quarter. advice and support to the Board and all Board meetings are held as required to Board Committees. Board Committees Disclosure Committee deal with specific matters requiring Board are authorised to engage the services of The Company is required to make timely consideration. The agenda for each external advisers as they deem necessary. and accurate disclosure of all information Board meeting is set by the Chairman in that is required to be so disclosed to meet consultation with the Chief Executive Officer Details of the work of our Audit and Risk, the legal and regulatory requirements and the Company Secretary based on an Remuneration and Nomination Committees arising from its listing on the London annual programme, with any additional are set out in the Committee sections of Stock Exchange. matters included as and when they arise. this report. A Disclosure Committee has been ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Board members receive a monthly Executive Committee and established to assist the Company in report on the Company’s activities which management structure meeting the above requirements and incorporates an update on progress against The Board delegates the day-to-day running has responsibility for, among other things, corporate objectives, financial performance of the Group to the Chief Executive Officer determining on a timely basis the disclosure and the management of business risks who is assisted by the Executive Committee. treatment of material information. including HSES matters. The Executive Committee (‘ExCo’) meets The Committee also has responsibility for formally once a month and its membership the identification of inside information for comprises: each of the Executive Directors; the purpose of maintaining the Company’s Nic Braley, the Group Commercial and insider list. Strategy Manager; Mike Fleming, the Matters Reserved for the Board Corporate strategy Finance Risk management and Shareholder communication • Overall direction and • Group debt and internal control • Approval of Half-Year and strategy of the business equity structure • Determination of the Full-Year Results • Oversight of the Group’s • Significant changes in appropriate level of risk announcements and operations and review of accounting policies exposure for the Company trading updates performance • Controls related to • Recognising high impact • Management of relationships • Group values covenant compliance business risks and approving and dialogue with risk mitigating strategies shareholders • Major changes in Expenditure organisation structure • Monitoring effectiveness of • Approval of the Company’s • Group budget Annual Report and Financial internal control systems • New country and/or • Major capital expenditure including finance, operations, Statements business entry • Development plans HSES and asset integrity and Succession planning • Acquisition and/or undertaking an annual and projects and appointments disposal of interests assessment thereof • Appointment and removal of Corporate governance Directors and the Company • The Group’s corporate Secretary governance and compliance • Appointment and removal arrangements of the Company’s brokers • Undertaking an annual and advisers evaluation of Board and Committee performance Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 68 Corporate Governance Report continued Delegation of authority During 2017, the Board spent a significant The Board also reviewed key policies Responsibility levels are communicated amount of time reviewing progress on the forming the basis of the Company’s throughout the Group as part of the proposed refinancing of the Company’s governance framework, including the Business Management System (‘BMS’) and debt facilities which was successfully Group’s Code of Conduct, Business Ethics through an authorisation manual which sets completed in July 2017. A Board Policy and its policy on anti-slavery and out delegated authority levels, segregation Committee was established to progress human trafficking. of duties and other control procedures. matters related to the refinancing and There were several changes to Board regular updates were provided to the full The BMS provides access to policies, and Committee membership during 2017. Board leading up to completion. standards and procedures across the Regular updates were provided to the Group and facilitates their regular review In June 2017, the Board conducted an Board on the search for suitable candidates and update, thus ensuring that our internal in-depth review of the Group’s strategy, for the position of Chairman and for two control framework remains robust and is in particular its post-refinancing strategy. new Non-Executive Director positions. effectively communicated across the As part of this review, a Group strategy All Board members met with candidates on Group. During 2017, as part of the ongoing meeting was held and presentations were a one-to-one basis and provided feedback development of Premier’s BMS, a process given by the Group Commercial and to the Nomination Committee. The retiring to rationalise Premier’s policies, standards Strategy Manager and external advisers. Chairman was not involved in the selection and procedures and to standardise their Reports from the Group Development and of his successor. Further details of the design was undertaken and will continue Operations Manager and the Head of appointment process can be found on through 2018. This will further strengthen Exploration were also considered. page 80. Premier’s internal control framework. Throughout the year, the Board regularly The Board also attended detailed Further details of the BMS are provided on reviewed the progress of development management presentation sessions during page 28 of the Strategic Report. and exploration projects and considered the year, allowing extra time to explore key changes to the Company’s asset portfolio, aspects of the business outside a formal Board activity during the year including the sale of the Company’s meeting setting and with access to The Board held six scheduled meetings Pakistan business and Wytch Farm assets. members of senior management. Further during the year and, in addition, an update HSES matters were continually monitored details are contained on page 70. conference call was held in between by the Board, including reviewing monthly scheduled meetings. No ad-hoc meetings update reports on HSES performance. were held. Details of the number of Board meetings held and individual attendance by Directors are shown in the table below. Meetings held during 2017 Board meeting Jan ‘17 Feb ‘17 Mar ‘17 Apr ‘17 May ‘17 Jun ‘17 Jul ‘17 Aug ‘17 Sept ‘17 Oct ‘17 Nov ‘17 Dec ‘17 Other general meeting Board update call Management presentations AGM The number of meetings of the Board held during 2017 and individual attendance by Directors Current Directors Scheduled Former Directors Roy A Franklin2 2 / 2 100% Joe Darby3 3 / 3 100% Robin Allan 6 / 6 100% David Lindsell3 3 / 3 100% Dave Blackwood1 3 / 3 100% Mike Welton4 4 / 4 100% Anne Marie Cannon 6 / 6 100% Tony Durrant 6 / 6 100% Key Jane Hinkley 6 / 6 100% Attended Iain Macdonald 6 / 6 100% Richard Rose 6 / 6 100% Entitled to attend Mike Wheeler1 3 / 3 100% Notes: 1 Dave Blackwood and Mike Wheeler were appointed as Directors on 10 August 2017. 2 Roy A Franklin was appointed as a Director and Chairman of the Board on 1 September 2017. 3 Joe Darby and David Lindsell stepped down as Directors on 17 May 2017. 4 Mike Welton stepped down as a Director and Chairman of the Board on 1 September 2017. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 69 Our strategic pillars STRATEGIC REPORT Operating in a safe and Access to capital and responsible manner financial liquidity Focused on high quality Attracting and retaining assets with commercially the right people The following table shows some of the areas covered by the advantaged positions Board during the year: Subject Cross reference Link to strategic GOVERNANCE objectives Shareholder and lender engagement • Met with representatives of the • Met with major institutional • Received and discussed feedback Shareholder engagement Company’s various lending groups shareholders and shareholder from roadshows/presentations to activity (see page 73) to discuss proposals for the representative bodies to consult on investors by the CEO and CFO. Directors’ Remuneration refinancing the proposed new Remuneration Report (see pages 81 of the Group’s debt facilities. Policy, which was approved by to 113) shareholders at the 2017 Annual FINANCIAL STATEMENTS General Meeting. Corporate strategy • Reviewed and approved • Reviewed and discussed monthly • Attended an in-depth management C  ompany’s business the Company’s strategy reports from the Company’s presentation session which included model and strategy and business plan. business units on the status of strategy in Indonesia and Vietnam. (see pages 8 and 16, • Participated in a Group strategy agreed objectives to deliver • Reviewed and approved the respectively) meeting attended by senior corporate strategy. sale of the Company’s Pakistan Chief Executive Officer’s management and external advisers. • Reviewed potential disposal and business and Wytch Farm assets. Review (see pages 12 acquisition opportunities. to 15) Finance and expenditure • Reviewed and approved • Reviewed and approved the • Reviewed the Group’s Financial Review refinancing proposals for Half-Year and Full-Year Results and hedging policy. (see pages 38 to 43) the Group’s debt facilities. trading statements. • Reviewed and approved the Financial Statements ADDITIONAL INFORMATION • Regularly reviewed the status of • Reviewed and approved the Group’s insurance arrangements. (see pages 118 to 176) the Group’s banking covenants. Company’s Annual Report and • Reviewed and approved the • Reviewed the annual budget and Financial Statements for the year Group’s Tax Policy. kept under review cost management ended 31 December 2016. underlying the Group’s short-term strategy of cost reduction. HSES and risk management • Reviewed and discussed the Group’s • Received reports from the Audit • Reviewed and approved the Risk Management risk profile and, in particular, the and Risk Committee on the Company’s policy on anti-slavery (see pages 22 to 29) Group’s principal risks. effectiveness of the Group’s and human trafficking. Principal Risks • Reviewed 2018 corporate risk management and internal • Received a management (see pages 24 to 27) HSES KPIs and HSES plan. control systems. presentation covering the Group’s Corporate Responsibility • Reviewed and discussed • Reviewed the Group’s risk risk management and internal Review (see pages 44 HSES performance. management and internal control systems. to 57) control framework. Corporate governance • Considered bi-monthly updates • Reviewed corporate policies • In consultation with the Governance section on developments in corporate forming part of the Group’s Nomination Committee, of the Annual Report governance and legislation. governance framework. reviewed the independence (see pages 58 to 117) • Reviewed the terms of reference for • Reviewed and discussed the of Non-Executive Directors. the Audit and Risk, Nomination and outcome of the Board’s annual • In consultation with the Audit Remuneration Committees. performance evaluation and and Risk Committee, reviewed • Approved a revised Schedule of agreed actions for 2018. the performance of the Matters Reserved for the Board. • Approved Directors’ potential external auditors. conflicts of interest. Corporate social responsibility (‘CSR’) • Reviewed ethical performance • Reviewed the Group’s Code of • Reviewed and approved the Corporate Responsibility and control systems. Conduct and Business Ethics Policy. Company’s Corporate Review (see pages 44 • Considered bi-monthly updates in Responsibility Report. to 57) respect of environmental KPIs. Succession planning and appointments • Monitored progress with the • Considered potential candidates • As recommended by the Nomination Committee Company’s succession plan for two new Non-Executive Nomination Committee, approved Report (see pages 79 for the Chairman and Director positions and, following the appointment of Jane Hinkley and 80) Non-Executive Directors. a recommendation from the as Senior Independent Director Governance section • Considered potential candidates Nomination Committee, approved (‘SID’) following the retirement of of the Annual Report for the position of Chairman and, the appointment of Dave Joe Darby as a Director and SID. (see pages 58 to 117) following a recommendation from the Blackwood and Mike Wheeler • In consultation with Committee Nomination Committee, approved as Non-Executive Directors. chairmen, considered and the appointment of Roy A Franklin approved changes to Board as successor to Mike Welton. Committee membership. Employees • Reviewed and approved proposals Directors’ Remuneration for awards to the wider employee Report (see pages 81 population under the Company’s to 113) share award schemes. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 70 Corporate Governance Report continued Board appointments Shareholders are given the opportunity to During 2017, management presentations Premier is an international business and has meet with new Directors upon request or at were given on: developments and strategy to manage a variety of political, technical the next Annual General Meeting following in Indonesia and Vietnam; the Catcher and commercial risks. It is crucial therefore their appointment and, in the case of the development project; the Sea Lion project; that the Board has the appropriate mix of Chairman, meetings are offered to the and decommissioning. In addition, a Group skills, knowledge and experience as well Company’s major shareholders. strategy meeting was held, attended by as independence to enable it to meet members of senior management and During 2017, a tailored induction these challenges. external advisers. Case studies on two programme was designed for the Chairman of the management presentation sessions To this end, the Nomination Committee and each new Non-Executive Director. can be found on pages 71 and 72. reviews the structure, size and composition Internal meetings were held with members of the Board and makes recommendations of senior management covering HSES & Regular updates are provided to all to the Board with regard to any changes Technical Safety, Finance, Human Directors on governance and legal matters. that are deemed necessary with due regard Resources, Business Development, Information is also provided on relevant for the benefits of diversity on the Board, Operations, Exploration, Strategy, Audit external training courses available to further including gender diversity. and Risk, Legal, Investor Relations and complement Directors’ skills and knowledge. Governance. Meetings were also held with Formal procedures are in place to enable When recruiting new Directors, the each of the Directors on a one-to-one basis. individual Board members to take Nomination Committee prepares a description of the role and capabilities During the course of 2018, new Directors independent advice at the Company’s required for a particular appointment in the will meet with the Company’s external expense where appropriate. context of the existing skills, experience, advisers and meetings have been independence and knowledge on the scheduled for the Chairman to meet Board and the time commitment expected. with the Company’s major shareholders. This process was followed in 2017 for the Board development recruitment of the Chairman’s successor As part of the Board’s annual rolling agenda, as well as the recruitment of two new in-depth management presentations are Non-Executive Directors. These changes planned throughout the year. These were part of a carefully planned succession sessions are held outside main Board programme and ensure the continued meetings and are designed to give the independence of the Board as well as Board insight into key aspects of the strengthening the Board’s technical Company’s operations, its development expertise and knowledge of corporate projects and strategy. The presentations financing. Further details on the recruitment provide Directors with the opportunity to and appointment process are contained in discuss matters with members of senior the Nomination Committee Report on management in an informal setting. pages 79 to 80. Induction of new Directors Directors’ induction and development New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction to the Company. The induction programme consists of: • a comprehensive briefing session with In-depth Meetings the Company Secretary to discuss the management with Directors presentations and senior proposed induction programme and executives to provide details of Board and governance procedures; • an introduction to the Company’s online resource centre for Directors, through One-to-one Site visits which they can access key corporate meetings to business governance documents, including details with external units of the policies and procedures forming advisers Directors’ part of the Group’s governance induction and framework; a dedicated resource library development containing comprehensive information on key projects; copies of past Board presentations; and copies of external Regular communications such as investor briefings on presentations, annual reports and Key corporate governance corporate social responsibility reports; governance and legal documents issues • one-to-one meetings with each of the Executive Directors, members of senior Board management and external advisers; and resource • meetings with other functional library representatives as requested by Directors. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 71 development and to meet with STRATEGIC REPORT members of the Catcher project team. The agenda included the following key areas: Indonesia • BIGP development project. • Gas market outlook – Singapore and domestic. GOVERNANCE • Forward strategy – existing producing fields; future developments, exploration and appraisal. Vietnam • Business environment – economic, political and industry context. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Strategic objectives. Case study management presentations were given • Decommissioning. by members of the Company’s Indonesia Board effectiveness and Vietnam Business Units and a further • Employee matters. presentation was given in respect of the Catcher Indonesia and Vietnam strategy Catcher development project. Throughout • Overall project update and and Catcher development update the session, management had the budget status. In April 2017, Directors attended a opportunity to pose questions to the Board two-day working session in Singapore • 2017 wells update. and Board members had the opportunity to to review the Company’s strategy discuss matters directly with management. • Future area development potential. in Indonesia and Vietnam and gain • Catcher FPSO update. Directors also visited the Keppel shipyard ADDITIONAL INFORMATION a deeper insight into the Catcher in Singapore to view progress of the • Safety performance. development project. Detailed construction of the FPSO for the Catcher • Internal control and assurance. Board performance evaluation Matters considered in the Board Led by the Senior Independent Director, An externally facilitated performance performance evaluation included: the Non-Executive Directors reviewed the evaluation was last undertaken in 2016. Chairman’s performance taking into account •B  oard and Committee size and The 2017 performance evaluation was the views of the Executive Directors. composition. undertaken internally and facilitated by the • Board skills and experience. The results of the evaluation were then Interim Company Secretary. The evaluation discussed by the Board and each of included individual Director performance • Board dynamics. the Committees and actions for 2018 reviews, a review of the work of the Board • Frequency and duration of meetings. were agreed. and each of the Board Committees and • Quality of Board support. a review of the Chairman’s performance. 2016 performance evaluation • Balance between operational oversight Actions identified for 2017 from the Due to the changes in Board membership and strategic discussion. externally facilitated 2016 performance and the short tenure of some of the new • Risk management and internal control. evaluation included ensuring that the Directors and the Chairman, it was • Succession planning and human following matters were a key focus for the agreed that the 2017 Board performance resource management. Board in 2017: succession planning and evaluation would be conducted entirely ongoing recruitment processes in respect through one-to-one meetings between the Due to material changes in Committee of the Chairman and NEDs; successful Chairman and each Director and the Interim membership, it was agreed with the introduction of a new Remuneration Policy; Company Secretary. This process was Remuneration Committee Chairman the successful completion of the mirrored for the Nomination Committee that the evaluation of the Remuneration refinancing; and the review of strategy which is chaired by the Chairman. Committee’s performance would be post-refinancing. These actions were all The process enabled the Chairman conducted through one-to-one discussions completed during 2017. to gain a more in-depth knowledge of between the Committee Chairman and each member. 2017 performance evaluation matters relating to Board and Nomination Actions identified for 2018 from the Committee performance and to identify For the evaluation of the performance of the internally facilitated 2017 Board performance key issues relating to performance to be Audit and Risk Committee, it was agreed evaluation included conducting a full review considered going forward. with the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman of Committee composition going forward It is the intention that an externally that the evaluation would be conducted via and undertaking an externally facilitated facilitated Board performance evaluation the use of questionnaires completed by Board performance evaluation in 2018, will be carried out in 2018. Committee members and regular attendees. once the new Board becomes more established following the material changes to membership during 2017. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 72 Corporate Governance Report continued The agenda included the following key areas: Overview of decommissioning • Regulatory regimes, stakeholder consultation, safety and CSR matters. • Market sector information. Premier’s approach to decommissioning in the UK • Safety. • Planning and programming. • UK regulatory, environmental and supply chain activities. • Outlook to 2028 and phasing of decommissioning activity with particular emphasis on decommissioning of the Balmoral the applicable regulatory regimes, and infrastructure in the North Sea. Case study Premier’s approach to decommissioning, • UK decommissioning team. Board effectiveness including its current activities and the How decommissioning is undertaken outlook to 2028. The presentation also covered new technologies and innovations • Detailed explanation using one of Decommissioning which, amongst other things, will facilitate Premier’s assets as an example. In November 2017, all Directors attended an in-depth management the improvement of the environmental The following members of senior presentation session on the subject impact of decommissioning. management presented to the Board: of decommissioning. Directors and presenters had the • Decommissioning Manager – UK Presentations were structured to provide opportunity to hold further discussions • Development Projects Manager – UK the Directors with an overview of the in an informal setting. • Group Development and technical aspects of decommissioning, Operations Manager Information and support In addition, Directors appointed since the The main responsibilities of each Board role All Non-Executive Directors have access last Annual General Meeting are required are set out on page 66 of this report. Full to the Company’s senior management to step down at the next Annual General biographies can be found on pages 62 to between Board meetings and the Board Meeting following their appointment and 65. These set out the skills, knowledge and aims to hold at least one meeting each stand for election by shareholders. experience of each Director as well as year in one of the business units to allow current and previous appointments. For any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive Directors to meet and Non-Executive Director, performance is Conflicts of interest engage with local staff. In addition, the subject to a particularly rigorous review. Under statute, a Director has a duty to continuing development of Board members It was agreed that Jane Hinkley, who has avoid a situation in which he or she has, is supported through in-depth management served as a Director for over seven years or may have, a direct or indirect interest presentations into specific business areas as and will be standing for re-election, that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, well as presentations by management and continues to provide sound, independent with the interests of the Company. regular updates on changes to the legal judgement and to make a significant and regulatory landscape. Formal procedures are in place to ensure contribution to the Board and its that the Board’s power to authorise conflicts All Directors have access to the Company Committees. All Non-Executive Directors or potential conflicts of interest of Directors Secretary and, if required, can take legal standing for election or re-election are is operated effectively. The Board is satisfied advice at the Company’s expense. considered to be independent. that during 2017 these procedures were Directors also have access to an online Following satisfactory performance enforced and adhered to appropriately. Board resource library, further details effectiveness reviews, the Nomination of which are on page 70. Power of Directors and process for Committee recommended and the Board amending Articles of Association Election and re-election of Directors approved that each of the Directors be put Details regarding the Company’s Articles In accordance with the Code, Directors forward for election or re-election at the of Association and any amendment thereto, are submitted for re-election at regular 2018 AGM. including the powers of Directors under the intervals subject to continued satisfactory Details of the Executive Directors’ service Articles, are included in the Directors’ performance. It is the Company’s current contracts and the Non-Executive Directors’ Report on page 114. policy to submit all Directors for annual letters of appointment are set out in the election or re-election by shareholders. Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 92 and 94 respectively. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 73 Shareholder engagement STRATEGIC REPORT Engagement with our shareholders remains Following the Annual General Meeting, Investor contact by type a priority for the Board. By maintaining good a further consultation process took place One-to-one meetings 164 dialogue with all our stakeholders, we in respect of the outcome of voting on the Group meetings 18 ensure that our objectives are understood resolution to approve the Remuneration Other 2 and that we receive regular feedback on our Report. Further details can be found on strategy, performance and governance. This pages 96 and 97. enables us to build confidence amongst our Shareholder communications GOVERNANCE stakeholders in the Board’s ability to oversee The primary method of ongoing the Company’s strategy and address the communication with shareholders is the immediate challenges faced by the business. Investors section of the Company’s website. Investor contact by location of investor There is regular dialogue with institutional This contains key information such as reports investors through meetings, presentations and financial results, investor presentations, UK 138 and conferences. Scheduled presentations share price information, regulatory news Europe (excluding UK) 16 are given to analysts and investors following announcements and information on US 20 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the Full-Year and Half-Year Results (which Premier’s AGM. Other 10 are broadcast live via the Company’s In accordance with current regulations, website www.premier-oil.com) and the Company uses its website as its at other ad-hoc events. default method of publication for Approximately 200 meetings were held statutory documents to reduce printing with investors and prospective investors costs and help reduce our impact on the during 2017. The Chairman, Chief Executive environment. All shareholders are offered 2017 shareholder engagement Officer and Finance Director are the the choice of receiving shareholder January Directors primarily responsible for engaging documentation, including the Annual • Trading and Operations update with shareholders. They ensure that other Report, electronically or in paper format, ADDITIONAL INFORMATION • Consultation on Directors’ remuneration members of the Board receive full reports as well as the choice of submitting proxy of these discussions. The Board also votes either electronically or by post. February receives copies of analyst and broker • Full-Year Results Premier promotes the use of online briefings and shareholder sentiment reports • Further consultation on Directors’ shareholder services via the Company’s online prepared by the Investor Relations team. remuneration share portal www.premier-oil-shares.com. The Senior Independent Director is available Using this service, shareholders are able to February/March to shareholders in the event that they have access their shareholding, update their • Full-Year Results roadshow concerns which contact with the Chairman, address or submit queries on their account April Chief Executive Officer or Finance Director directly to the Company’s Registrar. • Engagement with shareholders and has failed to resolve, or where such contact Shareholders also have the ability to vote voting advisory bodies on matters to be would be inappropriate. Non-Executive online prior to general meetings. The share considered at the Annual General Meeting Directors are expected to attend meetings, portal also encourages shareholders to if requested, with major shareholders. register to receive communications by May email, rather than by post, thus further • Trading and Operations update Extensive information about the Group’s reducing the number of documents printed • Annual General Meeting activities is provided in the Annual Report and distributed. Shareholders who have • Post AGM consultation on Directors’ and Financial Statements, the Half-Year actively registered receive an email remuneration (see page 82 of the Results and other trading statements and notifying them when the Company has Directors’ Remuneration Report) press releases, all of which are available added a statutory document to its website. on our website. June The Company has posted guidelines on • General Meeting in respect of The Company’s website also provides its website, advising shareholders of how the refinancing detailed information on the Group’s to recognise and deal with potential share activities. Information regarding the July scams. Shareholders are advised to be Company’s share capital, including details • Trading and Operations update extremely wary of any unsolicited advice or of significant shareholders, is included in offers and only to deal with financial services August the Directors’ Report on pages 114 to 116. firms that are authorised by the Financial • Half-Year Results Remuneration consultation Conduct Authority. More information can August/September A shareholder consultation process was be found in the Shareholder Information • Half-Year Results roadshow held between December 2016 and February section of the Investors section of the 2017 regarding the proposed re-design of Company’s website. November our Remuneration Policy for the Executive • Trading and Operations update Enquiries from individuals on matters Directors and senior management. The relating to their shareholding and the December Remuneration Committee consulted the business of the Group are welcomed and • General Meeting to approve the sale Company’s largest shareholders as well as shareholders are encouraged to attend the of Premier’s Wytch Farm Assets voting advisory bodies to obtain feedback AGM to discuss the progress of the Group. on the proposed policy. Adjustments were made to the proposed policy in response to feedback from shareholders. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 74 Audit and Risk Committee Report Iain Macdonald Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Dear shareholder, As Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee it is my responsibility to ensure that the Committee is rigorous and effective in carrying out its role as summarised in the adjacent column. The terms of reference of the Committee are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board, and are available on the Company’s website at Membership and meetings held www.premier-oil.com. Scheduled Ad-hoc The members of the Committee are Meetings attended Meetings attended currently Dave Blackwood, Mike Wheeler Members (eligible to attend) (eligible to attend) and myself, all of whom are independent Iain Macdonald 4(4) 1(1) Non-Executive Directors. I have assumed Dave Blackwood 1(1) 0(0) the role of Chairman of the Committee, Mike Wheeler 0(0) 0(0) succeeding David Lindsell who stood down Former members from the Board and the Committee at the Anne Marie Cannon 4(4) 1(1) close of the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2017. Dave joined the Committee Jane Hinkley 3(3) 0(0) on his appointment as a Non-Executive David Lindsell 1(1) 1(1) Director on 22 August 2017 and Mike Joe Darby 1(1) 1(1) Wheeler was appointed to the Committee in December 2017. Anne Marie Cannon Role of the Committee and Jane Hinkley stood down from the • Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Company’s risk management and Committee on 12 December 2017, whilst internal control systems, including the identification of emerging risks and the Joe Darby stood down from the Board and effectiveness of actions taken to mitigate them, together with the results of the Committee at the close of the Annual programme of audits and reviews of these systems and management’s response General Meeting on 17 May 2017. The to any findings. Board is satisfied that the membership of • Monitors and reviews the effectiveness and objectivity of the Company’s Group Audit the Committee meets the requirement for and Risk Function, the appropriateness of its work plan, the results of audits and recent and relevant financial experience. reviews undertaken, and the adequacy of management’s response to matters raised. The meetings of the Committee are normally • Monitors the integrity of the Company’s financial statements and any formal attended by the Finance Director, the Group announcements relating to the Company’s financial performance and the Financial Controller, the Group Audit and significant financial reporting judgements they contain. Risk Manager and representatives of the • Reviews the external auditors’ independence and objectivity and the effectiveness auditors. Other members of the Executive of the audit process. Committee or senior managers are required • Develops and implements policy on the engagement of the external auditors to to attend when significant risk management supply non-audit services. or internal control matters relating to their area of responsibility are considered by the • Monitors the enforcement of the Company’s Global Code of Conduct and the Committee. During the year, the Committee adequacy and security of its whistleblowing procedure. meets privately with the Group Audit and Risk Manager and with the Company’s How the Committee spent its time during the year (%) auditors. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee. Governance 7 Risk management and internal control 32 The Committee is required to report its Financial reporting 43 findings to the Board, identifying any Audit 18 matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and to make recommendations on the steps to be taken. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 75 STRATEGIC REPORT Meetings The Committee also reviewed progress findings. In these meetings the Committee The Committee meets four times per year and significant findings from the audits also completed its annual review of the GOVERNANCE and has an agenda linked to events in the and reviews that were conducted over the effectiveness of the Group’s risk Company’s financial calendar. period, including a detailed report on an management and internal control systems HSES review of the Company’s operations so as to be able to approve the statements Activities during the year in Indonesia. on risk management and internal control in The Committee held four scheduled the ‘Principal Risks’ section of the Strategic meetings and one ad-hoc meeting At the August meeting, the Committee Report on pages 22 to 29 and to report to during 2017. reviewed the Half-Year Results and the Board that, in the Committee’s view, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS discussed the auditors’ report on their In March 2017, the Committee reviewed the Annual Report and Financial review of the Half-Year Results. The the 2016 Full-Year Results and the Annual Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, Committee received updates on the current Report and Financial Statements, discussed balanced and understandable and provides major business risks and significant findings with the auditors their audit findings and the information necessary for shareholders from the reported audits and reviews completed its annual review of the to assess the Group’s position and conducted over the period. Of note, the effectiveness of the Company’s risk performance, business model and strategy. Committee received a detailed report management and internal control systems The Committee’s review included the going on a recent Group-wide review of the so as to be able to approve its statements concern statement and viability statement effectiveness of its audits and reviews and on risk management and internal control included within the Annual Report and endorsed the recommendations arising. in the Annual Report. In completing this Financial Statements and the forecasts The Committee also received a progress ADDITIONAL INFORMATION review, the Committee discussed specific prepared by management on which the update on actions set out in the annual operational issues that had arisen in 2016 statements are based. In completing its control improvement plans put in place and significant risks foreseen for 2017, with annual review of the effectiveness of the by the group functions and business units particular emphasis on risks arising due risk management and internal control for the year. to the refinancing of the Group’s credit systems, the Committee reviewed the facilities. The Committee reviewed and In November, the Committee noted the close-out of the audits and review from endorsed the schedule of reportable audits most significant findings arising from the 2017 and the control improvement plans and reviews of the internal controls planned audits and reviews of the internal controls put in place by each function and business for the year. The Committee reviewed with conducted during the year, including unit for 2018. As discussed in more detail management the hydrocarbon reserves learnings from incidents or materialised risks on page 78, the Committee also reviewed reporting process and undertook a review and progress on closing out actions arising the effectiveness of the audit process and of its own effectiveness. Finally, the from the audits and reviews. As part of this the independence of Ernst & Young LLP. Committee reviewed and approved its review, the Committee received an update Risk management and internal control report for inclusion in the Annual Report on the implementation of recommendations The Committee continues to be and Financial Statements. in relation to the Company’s Indonesian responsible for reviewing the design operations following the HSES review earlier At its June meeting, the Committee and operating effectiveness of the Group’s in the year. The Committee considered reviewed issues that were expected to risk management system. This system is expected accounting and reporting issues affect the Half-Year Results, including the designed to assess, reduce, monitor and relating to the Full-Year Results and the future oil price assumption and consequent communicate the principal risks facing auditors’ work plan (which built on the asset impairments and the impact of the the Group. There is an ongoing process discussions held at the time of the Half-Year Group’s refinancing process on the going of refinement and embedding of risk Results), and reviewed and approved the concern basis of accounting. Ernst & Young management best practice throughout the proposed audit fee. In addition, the LLP, following their appointment in May Group in accordance with the principles Committee received a report on the 2017, formally met with the Committee for and guidelines set out in ISO 31000. Risk Company’s preparedness for new tax the first time in their capacity as external management and internal control in the regulatory requirements and reviewed auditors. EY gave the Committee an Group is discussed more fully in the the coverage and sufficiency of insurance update on the process of the transition Principal Risks section of the Strategic cover in the Group. Finally the Committee of the external audit and also their Report on pages 22 to 29. received an update on the arrangements perspective on the key risks likely to affect in place to manage cyber security which The Group-wide governance, risk the Half-Year Results. The Committee include the appointment of an Information management and internal control systems received updates on the current major Security Manager. include specific internal controls governing business risks, including learnings from the financial reporting process and recent incidents and materialised risks. The Committee met in January and again preparation of financial statements. These Of note, the Committee endorsed the in March 2018 to review the key accounting systems include clear policies, standards publication of a new Group Risk and reporting issues relating to the 2017 and procedures for ensuring that the Management Standard which is designed Full-Year Results and the draft Annual Group’s financial reporting processes and to facilitate the reliable and consistent Report and Financial Statements and to the preparation of its consolidated accounts management of risk across the Group. discuss with the auditors their audit comply with all relevant regulatory reporting Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 76 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued requirements. These policies are applied Financial reporting needed in making the assumptions and consistently by the finance reporting teams The Committee reviewed the 2017 estimates in the forecasts and projections, at head office and in each business unit in Half-Year and Full-Year financial results and has concluded that the statement on the preparation of the financial results. announcements and 2017 Annual Report going concern in the Financial Review and Financial Statements with the Finance on pages 42 and 43 is fair and balanced. Management representations covering Director and Group Financial Controller compliance with relevant policies and the The Committee has advised the Board and considered the findings from the accuracy of financial information are that it is reasonable for the Directors to auditors’ review of the Half-Year Results and collated on a biannual basis. Detailed expect that the Group will have adequate their audit of the 2017 financial statements. management accounts for each reporting resources to continue in operational The areas of focus for the Committee business unit are prepared monthly, existence for the foreseeable future and, included consistency of application of comprising an income statement and accordingly, that the going concern basis accounting practices and policies; a cash flow statement in a manner very is the appropriate basis of preparation for compliance with financial reporting similar to the year-end and half-yearly the 2017 financial statements. standards and stock exchange and legal reporting processes. These are subject requirements; the appropriateness of Recoverability of intangible exploration to management review and analysis in assumptions and judgements in items and evaluation (‘E&E’) assets the monthly consolidated subject to estimation; the going concern The Committee satisfied itself by reference management accounts. assumption; the clarity and completeness to the Group’s business plan and discussion Audit and review of internal controls of disclosures in the financial statements; with management that, in respect of all E&E An annual risk-based programme of audits and, in relation to the Annual Report and assets, either commercially viable resources and reviews is proposed to the Committee Financial Statements, whether, taken have been discovered or substantive following discussion between the Group as a whole, it is fair, balanced and expenditure on further exploration and Audit and Risk Manager and the functional understandable and provides the evaluation activities in the specific area is and business unit management teams. The information necessary for shareholders budgeted or planned and an unexpired Company conducts three levels of review: to assess the Group’s position and licence period remains. Details of the performance, business model and strategy. Group’s E&E assets are provided in note 9 Level 1: Local management team review to the financial statements on page 146. e.g. business unit manager site safety The Committee considered the following review. major items that required significant Accounting for the refinancing judgement and estimation in preparing the The Committee reviewed in detail the Level 2: Group function review of 2017 financial statements: accounting for the refinancing which business unit or asset/project e.g. drilling completed in 2017. The key judgement preparedness review, project safety review. Going concern focussed on whether or not the The Committee reviewed in detail Level 3: External third-party certification modifications of the terms of each management’s projections of the Group’s e.g. oil and gas reserves certification, financing facility represented a substantial liquidity position under the terms of its ISO/OHSAS certification. modification under the requirements of revised financing facilities. Key assumptions IAS 39 and, principally, whether the NPV The Committee approves the programme, in the projections included those related to of the revised cash flows discounted at the and at each meeting receives reports oil and gas prices during the period, cost original effective interest rate were at least covering progress against the plan, any saving initiatives and portfolio management 10 per cent different from the discounted significant findings emerging and, most options available during the forecast present value of the remaining cash flows of recently, progress of the closeout of period. The key assumptions were assessed the original finance facility. This was assessed actions agreed to address the findings. and challenged by the Committee. by management individually for each finance In reviewing the findings from these Following the completion of the Group’s facility and the Committee reviewed the reviews, the Committee noted that the refinancing of its credit facilities, at 31 inputs and outputs of each assessment. work carried out had been directed December 2017, the Group had significant The Committee was satisfied that the towards the Group’s principal risks, thereby availability of financing and the Group’s modified terms of the USPPs, SSL and providing assurance to the Committee on base case projections indicated that the convertible bond notes represented a key issues and challenges facing the Group. Group will be able to operate under the substantial modification and that the Recommendations to improve internal requirements of its existing borrowing modified terms of the RCF, Term Loan controls and mitigate risks were agreed facilities and will have sufficient financial and retail bond notes did not represent with the relevant business unit or group headroom throughout the going concern a substantial modification. Details of the function after each review and progress period, which is currently for the 12-month accounting for the refinancing are provided in implementing the recommendations period ending 31 March 2019. in note 15 to the financial statements on was monitored by the applicable group The Committee is satisfied that an pages 150 to 153. function and overseen by the Group appropriate degree of caution has been Audit and Risk Manager. applied in exercising the judgements Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 77 STRATEGIC REPORT Oil and gas reserves impaired or whether a reversal of The Committee was satisfied that the most Unit-of-production depreciation, depletion impairment is required, management assess significant assumptions on which the amount GOVERNANCE and amortisation charges are principally whether any indicators for impairment or of the impairment charge and reversal of measured based on management’s reversal of impairment exist for the Group’s impairment are based are future oil and gas estimates of proven and probable oil producing and development oil and gas prices and the discount rate applied to the and gas reserves. Estimates of proven properties. Where such an indicator exists, forecast future cash flows and, accordingly, and probable reserves are also used in the future discounted net cash flows the that the disclosure of the sensitivity of the the determination of impairment charges. Company expects to derive from the asset impairment charge to changes in these Proven and probable reserves estimates must be estimated. Such estimates are factors in note 10 to the financial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS are based on a number of underlying based on a number of assumptions Provisions for decommissioning costs assumptions including future oil and gas including future oil and gas prices, the latest Estimates of the cost of future prices, future costs, oil and gas in place estimates of costs to be incurred in bringing decommissioning and restoration and reservoir performance, all of which fields under development into production, of hydrocarbon facilities are based are inherently uncertain. oil and gas reserves estimates, production on current legal and constructive rates and the associated cost profiles and The Committee considered reports from requirements, technology and price levels, discount rates that reflect risks specific to management on the process applied to while estimates of when decommissioning individual assets. calculate the reserves estimates, addressing will occur depend on assumptions made in particular the extent to which the In view of continued volatility in observed regarding the economic life of fields which methodology and techniques applied by oil and gas prices, management prepared in turn depend on such factors as oil prices ADDITIONAL INFORMATION the Company were generally accepted a detailed ‘indicators of impairment’ report and operating costs. The Committee industry practice, whether the methodology for the Committee setting out the key therefore discussed with management the and techniques applied were consistent assumptions for each of the oil and gas estimation process and the basis for the with those applied in prior years, and the properties. The Committee challenged principal assumptions underlying the cost experience and expertise of the managers these assumptions and judgements to estimates, noting in particular the reasons who prepared and reviewed the estimates. ensure that they were consistent with those for any major changes in estimates as During 2017, ERC Equipoise was appointed that were used by management for compared with the previous year. The as the new reserves auditor following a budgeting and capital investment appraisal Committee was satisfied that the approach competitive tender process. purposes; that production volumes were applied was fair and reasonable. The derived from the oil and gas reserves Committee was also satisfied that the The Committee noted that estimates of the estimates discussed above, applying the discount rate used to calculate the provision Group’s oil and gas proven and probable same assumptions regarding future costs; was appropriate. Further information on reserves prepared by independent and that they were reasonable within the decommissioning provisions is provided reservoir engineers for producing and context of the observed field performance in note 17 on page 154. development fields were marginally lower and the wider economic environment than management’s estimates. The Taxation currently being observed. Committee discussed with management The Group currently produces oil and/or the main reasons for the difference The Committee noted in particular that, gas in five countries and is subject to between the two estimates and was consistent with the long-term planning complex hydrocarbon and corporate tax satisfied that it was appropriate to apply assumptions used by the Company, regimes in each of them. Judgements must management’s estimates for the purpose of assumed future oil and gas prices were be applied in order to make provision for preparing the financial statements. based on forward price curves for two the amounts of tax that are expected to years, US$70/bbl in 2020 followed by an oil be settled. Also, in order to continue to Impairment of oil and gas properties price of US$75/bbl in ‘real’ terms thereafter recognise the substantial deferred tax asset As explained in note 10 to the financial (as explained in more detail in note 10 to relating to tax losses and allowances in the statements on page 147, an impairment the financial statements on page 148). The UK, it must be probable that sufficient charge of US$296.6 million has been Committee also noted that forecast field taxable profits will be available against recognised, principally in respect of the development costs were based on detailed which the tax losses and allowances can be Solan field (US$268.1 million pre-tax and and carefully reviewed current estimates. utilised. This in turn requires assumptions US$180.5 million post-tax) in the UK North about future profitability. Sea as a result of a downgrade in the The Committee was satisfied that the reserves expected to be economically rates used to discount future cash flows The Committee discussed with extracted from the asset. This has been appropriately reflect current market management their projections of probable partially offset by a reversal of impairment assessments of the time value of money UK taxable profits and noted that these of US$44.4 million (pre-tax) in relation to the and the risks associated with the specific projections include existing producing Huntington field in the UK North Sea assets concerned to the extent risks are assets and certain currently unsanctioned principally due to the agreement of a lease not incorporated in forecasted cash flows. development projects. The projections extension for the FPSO at a reduced rate. use underlying assumptions which are In order to determine whether an asset is consistent with those used in the asset Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 78 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued impairment review and support the the level of errors identified during the audit, of their unique knowledge of the Company. recognition of a net deferred tax asset of the recommendations made to management Any material non-audit work of this nature US$1,297.5 million resulting in a tax credit by the auditors and management’s requires approval by the Committee. of US$96.1 million for the year. Further response. The Committee met privately The Committee approves the fees for the details of the deferred tax asset and the with the auditors in 2017 and in March 2018 audit and half-yearly review after reviewing assumptions used to estimate the amount at the conclusion of the 2017 audit. the scope of work to be performed, and of tax recoverable in respect of tax losses The Committee also assessed the reviews the scope and fees for non-audit and allowances are provided in notes 6 and effectiveness of the audit process, based assignments awarded to the auditors to 19 to the financial statements on pages 142 on its own experience and on feedback satisfy itself that the assignments and 160, respectively. from the corporate and business unit concerned do not give rise to threats to A number of new legislative tax finance teams, and considered in particular: the auditors’ independence and objectivity. requirements came into effect in 2017 • the experience and expertise of the Details of audit and non-audit fees in the that introduce significant changes to the audit team; current year are provided in note 3 to the international tax system to combat tax financial statements on page 141. • the auditors’ fulfilment of the agreed avoidance and move towards a more audit plan and any variations from Ernst & Young LLP were required to confirm transparent corporate environment. These the plan; to the Committee that they have both the include the requirement to publish a board • the robustness and perceptiveness of appropriate independence and objectivity approach to Tax Policy, file a country-bythe auditors in their handling of the key to allow them to continue to serve the country report, maintain transfer pricing accounting and audit judgements; and members of the Company. The Committee master and local files and ensure also requires the auditors to confirm that in reasonable preventative procedures are • the quality of the auditors’ providing non-audit services, they comply in place to prevent associated persons recommendations for financial reporting with the Ethical Standards for Auditors facilitating tax evasion. The Group has met process and control improvements. issued by the UK Auditing Practices Board. its current obligations in respect of each of Auditors‘ independence and objectivity This confirmation was received for 2017. these requirements. The Group’s Tax Policy The Committee regularly reviews the was approved by the Board and published Committee evaluation independence and objectivity of the on the Group’s website in December 2017. The performance and effectiveness of the auditors. This review considers the overall Committee was reviewed as part of the External audit relationship between the auditors and the Board performance evaluation process and External auditors Company, based on feedback from the the Committee also carried out a detailed Following the competitive tender process Company’s Finance Function and from self-assessment. The Committee was for the provision of external audit services the auditors, and the nature and extent of considered to be operating effectively and in 2016 and approval by shareholders at non-audit services provided by the auditors, in accordance with the Financial Reporting the Group’s 2017 Annual General Meeting, and takes account of the safeguards Council’s Guidance on Audit Committees. Ernst & Young LLP was appointed as the established by the auditors against loss Group’s external auditors with effect from of audit independence, including rotation On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee the financial year which commenced on of the audit engagement partner. 1 January 2017. A resolution to re-appoint The Committee believes that certain Ernst & Young LLP as the Group’s external Iain Macdonald non-audit work may be carried out by auditors will be proposed at the Group’s Chairman of the Audit the auditors without compromising 2018 Annual General Meeting. and Risk Committee their independence and objectivity. The Audit effectiveness allocation of non-audit work is considered 7 March 2018 The Committee reviewed the auditors’ by reference to the Company’s policy on work plan at the start of the audit cycle, the provision of non-audit services by considering in particular the effectiveness of the auditors, which can be found on the the transition of the new external auditors Company’s website. The use of the auditors from Deloitte to Ernst & Young and the new for services relating to accounting systems auditors’ assessment of the significant areas or the preparation of financial statements is of risk in the Group’s financial statements. not permitted, and neither are various other For 2017, the significant areas of risk services, such as valuation work, which corresponded with the major areas of could give rise to conflicts of interest or judgement identified by the Committee other threats to the auditors’ objectivity discussed above, and the scope of their that cannot be reduced to an acceptable work. At the conclusion of the audit, the level by applying safeguards. The Committee discussed with the auditors Committee believes that certain non-audit the findings of the audit, including key assurance and advisory services may be accounting and audit judgements, best performed by the auditors as a result Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements Nomination Committee Report 79 Roy A Franklin STRATEGIC REPORT Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear shareholder, GOVERNANCE I am pleased to present to you my first report as Chairman of the Nomination Committee. On 1 September 2017, I succeeded Mike Welton as Premier’s Chairman and as Chairman of the Nomination Committee following Mike’s retirement from the Board. I would like to FINANCIAL STATEMENTS thank Mike for his hard work in leading the Committee over the past eight years, in particular, during the course of 2017, which Membership and meetings held was a crucial year for the Company in terms Meetings attended of the search for suitable candidates for two Members (eligible to attend) new Non-Executive Directors and the Roy A Franklin (Committee Chairman)1 2(2) position of Chairman. Dave Blackwood2 2(2) The work of the Committee plays a crucial Anne Marie Cannon 3(3) role in ensuring that the Board has the Tony Durrant 3(3) necessary skills, knowledge, experience ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Jane Hinkley 3(3) and independence to enable the Company Iain Macdonald 3(3) to achieve its strategic objectives and Mike Wheeler2 2(2) deliver value to its stakeholders. I look Former members forward to leading the Committee as Joe Darby3 1(1) it continues this important work. David Lindsell3 1(1) This report outlines details of the Mike Welton4 1(1) Committee’s work during the course of 2017, including the process it has 1 Roy A Franklin was appointed as a member and Chairman of the Committee on 1 September 2017. 2 Dave Blackwood and Mike Wheeler were appointed as members of the Committee on 22 August 2017. used in relation to Board appointments. 3 Joe Darby and David Lindsell stepped down as Committee members on 17 May 2017. It also outlines key areas of focus for 4 Mike Welton stepped down as a member and Chairman of the Committee on 1 September 2017. the Committee in 2018 and provides Role of the Committee details of the Board’s policy on diversity, a key element in ensuring the • To plan Board member succession and oversee plans for senior management Board’s effectiveness. succession, taking into account the strategy of the Company and the skills, knowledge, diversity and experience required to deliver the strategy. The work of the Committee during 2017 • To regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board It has been another busy year for the and Committees. Nomination Committee, with much of the Committee’s time focused on succession • To lead the process for Board appointments, identifying and nominating planning and the search for suitable for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies. candidates for the position of Chairman and for two new Non-Executive Directors. As announced in January 2017, Joe Darby, the Company’s Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and David Lindsell, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of How the Committee spent its time during the year (%) the Audit and Risk Committee, both stepped down as Directors at the Governance 10 conclusion of the Company’s 2017 Annual Non-Executive Director succession 50 General Meeting. Joe and David had Executive Director succession 40 served on the Board for over nine years and and Board appointments the appointment of two new Non-Executive Directors to succeed them ensures the continued refreshment and independence of the Board and its Committees. On 10 August 2017, Dave Blackwood and Mike Wheeler were appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Directors. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 80 Nomination Committee Report continued These appointments strengthen the All Directors were given the opportunity for the benefits of diversity on the Board, Board’s technical knowledge as well as to meet with the short-list of candidates including gender diversity. its knowledge of corporate financing for the position of Chairman and for each The objective of our Board Diversity and will play a significant part in ensuring Non-Executive Director position on a Policy is to ensure an optimum Board and that your Board continues to have the one-to-one basis and provided feedback efficient stewardship to successfully deliver necessary skills, knowledge and experience to the Committee, before a decision was the Company’s strategy. as the Company enters the next phase made in respect of each appointment. of its growth and returns to balance The Committee reviewed its approach to Following the rigorous selection sheet strength. Board diversity during the year and chose process, the Committee submitted their to maintain its current policy of embracing My experience leading other oil and gas recommendation in respect of each of diversity in its broadest sense without companies provides continuity in terms of the Board appointments and the Board setting measurable objectives. leadership and I look forward to working accepted those recommendations. with the Board and its Committees as we The outgoing Chairman did not chair Our Policy was implemented in respect of enter a new phase in our development the Committee when it was dealing the process undertaken during the year for following the successes of refinancing our with the appointment of his successor. The the appointment of a new Chairman and debt facilities and bringing Catcher incoming Chairman met the independence two new Non-Executive Directors as on-stream. test set out in section B.1.1. of the Code detailed earlier in this report. This included on appointment. a careful assessment of each candidate’s Process for the appointment of Directors profile against objective criteria, As part of the search for suitable candidates During the year, the Committee also recognising the benefits of diversity. for the positions of Non-Executive Director considered the appointment of a successor and Chairman, the Nomination Committee to Joe Darby as Senior Independent We remain committed to ensuring the considered in detail the existing skills, Director. After careful consideration of the diversity of our Board, including gender knowledge, experience and independence qualities required of a senior independent diversity, and currently have two female on the Board together with the skills, director, the Committee recommended to Non-Executive Directors, Jane Hinkley and knowledge, experience, independence and the Board the appointment of Jane Hinkley Anne Marie Cannon, on a Board of nine diversity necessary to successfully deliver who succeeded Joe as Senior Independent Directors which equates to 22 per cent. the Company’s strategic objectives. The Director on 17 May 2017. Jane has been a Further details of the Board’s composition output from this process was used to draw Non-Executive Director of the Company for are outlined on pages 62 to 65. up a role specification for each position, seven years and undertook a detailed The work of the Committee in 2018 taking into account the time commitment consultation exercise with shareholders on In 2018, the Committee will focus on required for each of the roles. the Board’s new Remuneration Policy succession planning for our Executive during the latter part of 2016 and early Ridgeway Partners, an external search Directors. We aim to ensure that we have 2017. We therefore believe that she has the consultancy who are a signatory to the a pipeline of senior executives within the experience necessary to effectively fulfil Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Group with the necessary skills and this role. Search Firms and have no other connection knowledge to succeed our Executive with the Company, was selected to facilitate Succession planning Directors and ensure an effective Board. the recruitment process for the position of During 2017, the Committee has continued To this end, the Committee will continue to Chairman and for a Non-Executive Director to focus on succession planning and the focus its efforts on the development of our that would strengthen the Board’s technical active engagement and development of employees and senior management across knowledge. The Nomination Committee, the Company’s employees. the Group to ensure that our workforce is led by the Senior Independent Director, best positioned to take the Company To this end, the Committee reviewed worked with the external search forward and deliver the Company’s progress with the implementation consultancy to identify suitable candidates strategic objectives. We will closely monitor of a structured programme for talent taking into account the skills, knowledge the methodology for the review of talent development across the Group that will and experience required for each role, as across the Group to ensure that the ensure the Company has the necessary well as the diversity of the Board in its Company can manage the succession pipeline of talent and diversity to fulfil its widest sense. The search consultancy needs of the business. This programme business strategy and objectives. The produced detailed profiles of prospective will ensure enhanced staff engagement, programme will play a crucial role in the candidates, which were later reduced to a performance and retention where all succession planning process for both senior short-list of candidates, including both male employees can develop to their optimal management and Executive Directors. and female candidates. Briefing reports potential within the Group with due regard were provided to the Committee following During the year, the Committee also to the benefits of diversity, including meetings with each of the candidates. continued to review the development and gender diversity. leadership potential of senior executives The second Non-Executive Director below Board level. position required extensive knowledge Roy A Franklin of corporate financing arrangements in Board Diversity Policy Chairman of the Nomination Committee companies managing balance sheet The Board recognises the benefits of recovery. A decision was made not to use diversity in enhancing the quality of its 7 March 2018 an external search consultancy or open performance. advertising for the recruitment of that At the Board level, we are committed to position because Mike, a candidate with ensuring that the process for all Board outstanding experience, was available, and appointments is conducted, and the Company believed that taking a appointments made, on merit, against decision to secure his services quickly was objective criteria and with due regard in the best interests of all stakeholders. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements Directors' Remuneration Report 81 Chairman’s statement STRATEGIC REPORT Jane Hinkley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear shareholder, GOVERNANCE On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2017. The report summarises our Remuneration Policy, how it has been operated during the year and how it will be implemented in 2018. The report also FINANCIAL STATEMENTS provides an overview of the key decisions taken by the Committee during the year. Membership and meetings held 2017 Remuneration Policy and alignment Scheduled Ad-hoc to the Company’s strategy Following shareholder consultation, our new Meetings attended Meetings attended Members (eligible to attend) (eligible to attend) Remuneration Policy (the ‘Policy’) was put to Jane Hinkley (Committee Chairman) 4(4) 1(1) shareholders and approved at the Company’s 2017 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’). The Dave Blackwood 1 0(0) 0(0) Policy is designed to support our strategy Anne Marie Cannon 2 2(2) 0(0) and to ensure that we achieve our objectives ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Former members and deliver value to our shareholders. Joe Darby 3 2(2) 1(1) There are four key pillars to our strategy: Roy A Franklin 4 1(1) 0(0) ensuring that we operate in a safe and David Lindsell 3 2(2) 1(1) responsible manner; focusing on high Iain Macdonald 5 2(2) 0(0) quality assets with commercially 1 Dave Blackwood was appointed as a member of the Committee on 12 December 2017. No meetings advantaged positions; ensuring that we were held between his date of appointment as a member and 31 December 2017. have access to capital and financial liquidity; 2 Anne Marie Cannon was appointed as a member of the Committee on 17 May 2017 and was therefore and attracting and retaining the right only eligible to attend two Committee meetings during 2017. 3 Joe Darby and David Lindsell stepped down as members of the Committee on 17 May 2017 and were people. Our Policy reflects this strategy: therefore only eligible to attend three Committee meetings during 2017 (two scheduled meetings and salary, benefits and pensions are sufficiently one ad-hoc meeting). competitive to attract and retain the right 4 Roy A Franklin was appointed as a member of the Committee on 1 September 2017 and stepped down as a member on 12 December 2017. He was therefore only eligible to attend one meeting in his people with the right skills and knowledge; capacity as a member of the Committee. He continues to attend meetings in his capacity as Chairman and bonuses and long-term incentives are of the Board. directly aligned to the four key pillars of our 5 Iain Macdonald was appointed as a member of the Committee on 17 May 2017 and stepped down on 12 December 2017. He was therefore only eligible to attend two meetings during 2017. strategy. In particular, with the successful conclusion of our refinancing, particular Role of the Committee focus was given in the design of our Policy • Develop and maintain a Remuneration Policy to attract, retain and motivate to the strategic aim of balance sheet employees to enable the Company to meet its objectives, taking into account the recovery in the immediate term to provide long-term interests of employees, shareholders and other long-term stakeholders. the foundation for future long-term • Consider and approve the remuneration arrangements for the Chairman, the sustainable growth. Executive Directors and other senior executives as determined by the Committee. The total reward maximum quantum was • Exercise oversight of the pay and performance conditions across the Group. significantly reduced to better reflect current market capitalisation and shareholder experience. This was achieved primarily How the Committee spent its time during the year (%)1 through the removal of the Matching Share Award which formed part of our 2009 Long Setting Executive remuneration 24 Term Incentive Plan (‘2009 LTIP’). A new Reward policy for Executive Directors 39 Long Term Incentive Plan (‘2017 LTIP’) was Incentive arrangements for all employees 17 introduced that importantly aligned more Corporate governance matters 12 directly with our strategy of debt repayment Other 8 and out-performance of our peer group companies. It also removed the correlation to the commodity price under the Equity 1 The above time allocations do not include the time Pool portion of the 2009 LTIP, thus focusing spent undertaking the shareholder consultation these incentives on outcomes that are exercise as this was an exceptional item. directly controllable by management. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 82 Directors' Remuneration Report continued The 2017 LTIP comprises two types of Implementation of our Remuneration The performance targets for the 2017 awards which support different elements of Policy in 2017 bonus, and achievement against these our strategy. The Performance Share Award As disclosed in last year’s Directors’ targets, are set out on page 99. Whilst not aligns reward purely to Relative Total Remuneration Report, the Committee meeting the timing threshold for bonus Shareholder Return and the new Restricted decided in principle that, due to market qualification, the successful delivery of Share Award aligns to the primary objective conditions, the awards for 2016 under the our refinancing was clearly a significant and of balance sheet recovery, independent of 2009 LTIP should be scaled back by 50% important milestone. Notwithstanding that, other performance objectives. Long-term and there should be no Matching Awards. there have also been a number of other alignment to shareholder interests is The formal grant of these awards could not successful outcomes against a challenging maintained with the introduction of a be made until April 2017 when we were performance scorecard that have further compulsory post vesting Holding Period no longer in a restricted trading period strengthened the Company in the ending on the fifth anniversary of the date for our Directors. This was as a result of execution of our near-term strategy: of grant of the awards and the increase our refinancing and the divestment of our notably first oil by year-end and under of Executive Directors’ shareholding Pakistan Business Unit. The Performance budget capex of the Catcher project, both requirements to 250% of base salary. Period for these awards remains 1 January benefitting cash flows and balance sheet 2016 to 31 December 2018. improvement in 2018; progressing the Details of our Policy are set out on pages 84 Tolmount project towards project sanction to 94 of the Remuneration Report. A copy For 2017, the Committee again decided to in 2018; transformational exploration of the full Remuneration Policy Report as scale back significantly awards which were success with the major Zama discovery approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM made under the 2017 LTIP, considering it in Mexico; accelerated debt repayment is available on the Company’s website appropriate in the prevailing business through our successful disposal programme www.premier-oil.com. environment to restrict the number of shares of non-core assets; and all underpinned by subject to the award. Both the Restricted Shareholder consultation continued very strong operational and Share Award and the Performance Share As part of the development of our Policy HSES performance across the Group. This Award were reduced by 50 per cent. This and, on behalf of the Remuneration performance resulted in a bonus outcome scale back replicates the experience of the Committee, I wrote to our largest for Directors ranging from 75.0 to 76.1 per broader organisation where, under the shareholders as well as the Investment cent of salary out of a maximum bonus Premier Value Share Plan (’PVSP’), for the Association and Institutional Shareholder opportunity of 120 per cent of salary. All same reasons, the Performance Multiplier Services (‘ISS’) to explain in detail our awards above 50 per cent of base salary was again removed in 2017 (representing strategic rationale for the changes made are deferred in shares for three years. 50 per cent of the award) and the Base last year and to seek their views on our Award was also scaled back by 50 per cent. 2017 saw the retirement of Joe Darby and proposals. Much of that feedback was The 2017 grants were deferred until David Lindsell and I would like to personally incorporated into the final policy design, September 2017 following approval of the thank both of them for their advice and such as the introduction of a Restricted new Policy at the AGM and the release of contributions to the deliberations of the Share Award performance underpin and our Half-Year Results, once again with a Committee, particularly during a period the increase to shareholding guidelines, three-year Performance Period starting that has seen significant changes to our culminating in the vast majority of votes on the first day of the financial year. remuneration policies throughout the received being in favour of the new Policy organisation. On their retirement, Iain (88.18% of votes received). The three-year Performance Period relating Macdonald and Anne Marie Cannon, to the awards granted in 2015, under the Consultation continued beyond the AGM both existing independent Non-Executive terms of the 2009 LTIP, ended in December with a number of institutional shareholders Directors, joined the Committee. 2017. As performance for these awards is who had voted against the Directors’ calculated on Absolute and Relative Total Following the appointment of Remuneration Report (30.49% of votes Shareholder Return, with the fall in our share Dave Blackwood and Mike Wheeler as received) to better understand the reasons price over the Performance Period and the Non-Executive Directors in August 2017 for their lack of support. Details of those Company’s performance relative to our peer and the appointment of Roy A Franklin as areas of concern and further narrative group, the 2015 awards lapsed in full, thus Chairman in September 2017, Committee relating to that consultation can be found demonstrating the link between Directors’ membership was reviewed and it was on pages 96 to 97. remuneration and share price performance. agreed that Roy A Franklin and Dave Blackwood would be appointed to the Committee pending a full review of Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 83 STRATEGIC REPORT Committee membership. Accordingly, a Vesting of the awards will be subject to further review took place in December 2017 performance measured over a three-year Compliance statement GOVERNANCE when it was decided that Iain Macdonald period commencing on 1 January 2018, This report has been prepared in would step down as a member of the further details of which are contained on accordance with Schedule 8 of the Committee in order to have further time page 107. A Holding Period will be applied Large and Medium-sized Companies to devote to his duties as Chairman of ending on the fifth anniversary of the and Groups (Accounts and Reports) the Audit and Risk Committee and Award Date. (Amendment) Regulations 2013. Roy A Franklin would step down as a The Companies Act 2006 requires the Given the recent changes to the Board and member of the Committee and continue auditors to report to the shareholders FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the unchanged salaries for the Executive to attend in his capacity as Chairman on certain parts of the Directors’ Directors, the biennial review of the of the Board. Remuneration Report and to state Chairman’s and the Non-Executive whether, in the auditors’ opinion, those Further details on how our Policy was Directors’ fees has been postponed parts of the report have been properly applied during the year ended 31 December for a further year and hence no further prepared in accordance with the above 2017 can be found in the Annual Report on adjustments have been made. regulations. The Chairman’s Annual Remuneration on pages 95 to 113. A considerable amount has been Statement and the Policy Report are Implementation of our Remuneration achieved in shaping our new Policy, that is not subject to audit. The sections of the Policy in 2018 now much more relevant to the scale of the Annual Report on Remuneration that are A general 2.5 per cent inflationary pay Company’s operations, the environment subject to audit are indicated accordingly. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION adjustment, subject to personal we operate in and the strategic and tactical performance and pay position to market, challenges specific to the Company, both was granted for our broader employee in the short and longer term. The dialogue population within the UK Company in and input of our shareholders throughout January 2018. However, it was agreed the consultation process for those changes that the Directors would not receive any has been invaluable in informing and increase in salary for 2018. shaping our position and we remain keen to hear our shareholders’ views on The 2018 performance targets for the remuneration matters. On behalf of the annual bonus are set out in general terms Committee, I would like to thank all our on page 106. The performance targets stakeholders for their continuing support. have been chosen to ensure continued alignment with our strategic objectives. However, for reasons of commercial Jane Hinkley sensitivity, detailed figures are not given. Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Our intention is to publish these, together with the bonus outcome, in the Annual 7 March 2018 Report on Remuneration for 2018. Long Term Incentive awards for 2018 will comprise both Performance Share Awards and Restricted Share Awards. The Restricted Share Awards will be scaled back by 50%. The Performance Share Awards will be granted in full. This reflects a continued scale back but at a reduced level from the previous year when the Performance Share Awards were also scaled back. In addition, it was determined that full vesting of the Performance Share Awards would occur at upper decile TSR performance compared with upper quartile for the previous year’s awards. Further details of the proposed awards are contained on page 107. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 84 Directors' Remuneration Report Policy report This section of the Remuneration Report sets out details of the Remuneration Policy which was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 17 May 2017 and has been effective since that date. The 2017 Remuneration Policy (‘Policy’) remains unchanged and will therefore not be put to a shareholder vote at the 2018 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’). Shareholder approval will next be sought no later than at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2020. Details of the Policy have been included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report to provide the context within which the Committee has conducted its work during the year. The full Remuneration Policy Report as approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, is contained on pages 96 to 105 of the Company’s 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, a copy of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website www.premier-oil.com. The Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 95 to 113 sets out how the Policy has been applied during 2017 and how it will be applied throughout the remainder of 2018 and will be put forward to shareholders for an advisory vote at the AGM. Key principles of our Remuneration Policy The Committee regularly reviews remuneration policy to ensure it supports shareholder interests and reinforces the business strategy. Overall, the Committee aims to ensure that pay rewards all employees fairly and responsibly for their contributions. Remuneration packages are intended to be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate individuals of the quality required to achieve the Group’s objectives and thereby enhance shareholder value. In addition, the Committee aims to ensure that remuneration policy does not raise environmental, operational, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviours. In reviewing remuneration arrangements, the Committee considers the following objectives: • keep the design simple; • gear remuneration towards performance-related pay; • emphasise long-term performance; • ensure annual incentives reward the achievement of short-term objectives key to delivering the long-term strategy; • ensure that each element of the package is based on different performance criteria; • incorporate significant deferral requirements; • ensure incentive payments are commensurate with the Company’s underlying performance; and • take account of corporate governance guidance. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 85 STRATEGIC REPORT The graphic below indicates how the current incentive structure operates: GOVERNANCE Year-end 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Performance Period Deferral in shares for awards > 50% of salary Annual Deferred Shares vest bonus Malus/clawback provisions apply Performance Performance Period Holding Period FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Share Award PSAs vest (‘PSA’) Malus/clawback provisions apply Restricted Performance Period Holding Period Share Award 1 third of RSAs vest 1 third of RSAs vest 1 third of RSAs vest (‘RSA’) Malus/clawback provisions apply The current long-term incentive structure also reflects the long-term incentive arrangements introduced for employees below Executive Committee level, as summarised on page 89. Awards to Directors under the Premier Oil 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan (‘2017 LTIP’) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION comprise three key elements – Restricted Share Awards, Performance Share Awards and Deferred Bonus Awards. The combination of these three elements places greater focus on outcomes that are controllable and that reward out-performance of the market rather than outcomes related to the commodity cycle. The maximum opportunity under the 2017 LTIP has been significantly reduced to reflect the Restricted Share Award element. Further details are included in the Policy Table on pages 87 to 88. Executive Director Policy A summary of the Policy for Executive Directors is set out below: Salary Purpose and link to strategy • To provide an appropriate level of salary to support recruitment and retention, and with due regard to the role and the individual’s responsibilities and experience Operation • Typically reviewed annually with reference to Company and individual performance, each executive’s responsibilities and experience, the external market for talent, and salary increases across the Group • Salaries are benchmarked against oil and gas sector companies and UK-listed companies of a similar size to Premier • Adjustments are normally effective 1 January Opportunity • Salary increases are awarded taking into account the outcome of the review and also broader circumstances (including, but not limited to, a material increase in job complexity and inflation) • Salary increases will normally be in line with increases awarded to other employees. The Committee may make additional adjustments in certain circumstances to reflect, for example, an increase in scope or responsibility, to address a gap in market positioning and/or to reward performance of an individual, and where it does so the Committee will provide an explanation in the relevant year’s Annual Report on Remuneration • The Executive Director salaries for the financial year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Performance metrics • Not applicable Pension Purpose and link to strategy • To help provide a competitive pension provision Operation • Executive Directors who join Premier on or after 20 August 2013 are eligible to participate in the Company’s defined contribution personal pension plan and/or receive an equivalent cash supplement • For Executive Directors who joined prior to 20 August 2013, the Company provides a pension substantially as if they are contributing members of the Company’s final salary Retirement and Death Benefits Plan (the ‘Scheme’), which was closed to new members in 1997 • The only pensionable element of pay is salary Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 86 Directors' Remuneration Report continued Pension continued Opportunity • Executive Directors who join Premier on or after 20 August 2013 receive pension contributions and/or an equivalent cash supplement equal to 20 per cent of salary • For Executive Directors who joined prior to 20 August 2013 the Scheme provides a payment on broadly a fiftieths accrual basis up to two-thirds of salary at age 60, with benefits actuarially reduced on early retirement and pensions in payment increased in line with the lower of inflation, or 5 per cent per annum. The Scheme is subject to an internal earnings cap which is reviewed annually but for Executive Directors, the Company provides for pension benefits above the earnings cap through a ‘pension promise’, based on the cash equivalent transfer value of benefits accrued within the defined benefit scheme for earnings above the earnings cap. The way this promise is currently administered is as follows: 1. Executive Directors are given a pension allowance equal to 20 per cent of uncapped salary. This may either be paid into a pension scheme and/or as a salary supplement 2. Executive Directors accrue notional defined benefits entitlement within the Scheme 3. To the extent that payments made under 1 above are not paid into the Scheme, they are deemed to have been invested into a Life Fund 4. At the point that a Director departs or retires, a comparison is undertaken between the value of the notional defined contribution pot outlined in 3 above and the cash equivalent transfer value of the notional defined benefits. Subject to appropriate deductions, the differential is available either as a contribution into their pension plan or a cash payment 5. Regular reviews are carried out to assess the extent to which the payments already made to each Director are projected to be sufficient to provide the accrued component of their target pension; where such reviews indicate a shortfall, the Company may provide an additional payment Performance metrics • Not applicable Benefits Purpose and link to strategy • To provide a benefits package competitive in the market for talent Operation • Executive Directors receive a competitive benefits package, which may include medical and dental insurance, car allowance, life assurance, income protection cover, personal accident insurance, expatriate benefits, relocation allowance, health checks and a subsidised gym membership. Other benefits may be introduced from time to time to ensure the benefits package is appropriately competitive and reflects the circumstances of the individual Director Opportunity • Set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate for the role and individual circumstances • The benefits payable to the Executive Directors during the financial year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Performance metrics • Not applicable All-employee share plans Purpose and link to strategy • To encourage share ownership in Premier Operation • Executive Directors may participate in all-employee share plans on the same terms as other employees • In particular, UK-based employees (including Executive Directors) may be invited to participate in the following HMRC approved share plans: ––Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’), under which employees may buy partnership shares using gross pay and the Company may then grant matching shares. Under the SIP, free shares may also be granted. Dividends may accrue on any shares and be automatically reinvested ––Save As You Earn (‘SAYE’) scheme under which employees are invited to make regular monthly contributions over three or five years to purchase shares through options which may be granted at a discount Opportunity • Under the SIP, participants may spend up to the HMRC permitted allowance to buy partnership shares, and matching shares may be granted up to the HMRC permitted limit • Under the SAYE, employees may save up to the HMRC permitted allowance Performance metrics • Not applicable Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 87 STRATEGIC REPORT Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy • To reinforce the delivery of key short-term financial and operational objectives and, through the deferred share GOVERNANCE element, help ensure alignment with shareholders and support retention Operation • Performance is measured on an annual basis for each financial year against stretching but achievable financial and non-financial targets, comprising Key Performance Indicators (‘KPIs’), other corporate objectives and personal performance • Performance measures, weightings and targets are set at the beginning of the year and weighted to reflect business priorities • Annual bonus awards up to 50 per cent of salary are normally paid in cash, with any award above this deferred FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in shares for three years • Dividend equivalents may accrue on Deferred Bonus Awards and be paid on those shares which vest • Annual bonus payouts and deferred shares are subject to malus and clawback in the event of material misstatement of the Company’s financial results, gross misconduct, material error in the calculation of performance conditions, or in such other exceptional circumstances as the Committee sees fit • The Committee may exercise malus and clawback until the later of: (i) one year from the payment of the bonus or the vesting of the shares, or (ii) the completion of the next audit after payment/vesting Opportunity • Up to 120 per cent of salary • Target amount is 60 per cent of salary Performance metrics • Performance is assessed against a corporate scorecard encompassing several performance categories, which may ADDITIONAL INFORMATION include some or all of: production; exploration; Health, Safety, Environment and Security; finance; business development; and personal and strategic objectives • Normally, the Committee would not expect the weighting for any performance category in the corporate scorecard to be higher than 50 per cent. However, it retains discretion to adjust weightings to align with the business plan for each year • The Committee may adjust the bonus outcome to ensure alignment with underlying Company performance • Further details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable for the financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 95 to 113 Long-term incentives The Premier Oil 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan – Performance Share Awards Purpose and link to strategy • To support alignment with shareholders by reinforcing the delivery of returns to shareholders, with a focus on relative stock market out-performance over the long term, and with due regard for the underlying financial and operational performance of the Company Operation • The Committee may grant Performance Share Awards annually • Awards may be in the form of nil or nominal priced options or conditional shares • Performance Share Awards vest after three years subject to performance and continued employment • Award levels and performance conditions are reviewed in advance of each grant to ensure they remain appropriate • The net (i.e. after tax) shares received from any awards vesting are subject to a minimum two-year Holding Period such that the total time horizon is at least five years. The Holding Period may be terminated early if the executive ceases employment due to death, ill-health, injury or disability. If an executive is dismissed for gross misconduct, shares subject to the Holding Period will be forfeited for no payment • Unvested awards for good leavers are normally pro-rated to the date of termination subject to performance review at the Normal Vesting Date. Unvested awards for bad leavers are forfeited. Vested awards for both good and bad leavers remain subject to the Holding Period except as described above • Dividend equivalents may accrue on Performance Share Awards and be paid in shares or cash on those shares which vest • All Performance Share Awards are subject to malus and clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the Company’s financial results, gross misconduct, material error in the calculation of performance conditions or in such other exceptional circumstances as the Committee sees fit • The Committee may exercise malus and clawback until the later of: (i) one year from the vesting date or (ii) the completion of the next audit after vesting Opportunity • Performance Share Awards may be granted up to 175 per cent of salary Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 88 Directors' Remuneration Report continued Long-term incentives continued The Premier Oil 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan – Performance Share Awards continued Performance metrics • Performance Share Awards normally vest based on Premier’s TSR performance relative to a comparator group of international oil and gas sector peers. Up to 25 per cent vests for median performance, with full vesting for upper quartile performance and straight-line vesting in between • Ahead of each performance cycle, the Committee may review and adjust the TSR comparator group for future cycles to ensure relevance to Premier. The Committee may adjust the TSR comparator group for outstanding cycles in the event that a TSR comparator ceases to exist, de-lists or is acquired or the Committee deems it to be no longer a suitable comparator • Before finalising Performance Share Award payouts, the Committee assesses the underlying financial and operational performance of the Company, and, if appropriate, may reduce the level of vesting • Further details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable for awards granted in 2017 are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 95 to 113 The Premier Oil 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan – Restricted Share Awards Purpose and link to strategy • The Restricted Share Awards specifically align to our refinancing circumstances and requirement to deleverage the Company decoupled from other performance objectives Operation • The Committee may grant Restricted Share Awards annually • Awards may be in the form of nil or nominal priced options or conditional shares • Award levels are reviewed in advance of each grant to ensure they remain appropriate • Restricted Share Awards normally vest in one third increments in years three, four and five respectively subject to continued employment and the achievement of a financial underpin measured at the end of year three • The net (i.e. after tax) shares received from any awards vesting are subject to a Holding Period such that the total time horizon is at least five years. The Holding Period may be terminated early if the executive ceases employment due to death, ill-health, injury or disability. If an executive is dismissed for gross misconduct, shares subject to the Holding Period will be forfeited for no payment • Unvested awards for good leavers are normally pro-rated to the date of termination subject to performance review at the Normal Vesting Date. Unvested awards for bad leavers are forfeited. Vested awards for both good and bad leavers remain subject to the Holding Period except as described above • Dividend equivalents may accrue on Restricted Share Awards and be paid in shares or cash on those shares which vest • All Restricted Share Awards are subject to malus and clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the Company’s financial results, gross misconduct, material error in the calculation of performance conditions or in such other exceptional circumstances as the Committee sees fit • The Committee may exercise malus and clawback until the later of: (i) one year from the vesting date, or (ii) the completion of the next audit after vesting Opportunity • Restricted Share Awards may be granted up to 40 per cent of salary Performance metrics • Restricted Share Awards vest subject to continued employment, a financial underpin based on the Company’s capital structure and balance sheet strength, and Committee assessment of overall Company performance • For awards granted in 2017, this performance underpin is specifically related to two metrics to assure balance sheet and business strength – the reduction in absolute level of net debt and the reduction of the ratio of net debt to EBITDA targets will be as agreed with our lenders • Underpin metrics for subsequent grants will be selected to specifically reinforce changes to strategic focus in future years Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 89 STRATEGIC REPORT Further details on the Policy Remuneration Policy for other employees GOVERNANCE The Company’s policy for all employees is to provide remuneration packages which reward them fairly and responsibly for their contributions. Premier’s approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group. All employees participate in the Company’s incentive structures and, like the remuneration package for Executive Directors, remuneration is structured such that a proportion of total remuneration is delivered through long-term share-based incentives to ensure maximum alignment with shareholders. The Executive Committee and other senior leaders all participate in the same annual bonus plan as for Executive Directors with the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS opportunity tailored to the role and level of seniority. They also participate in the same long-term incentive plan and structure but for the most part at a lower quantum of opportunity. The broader employee population participates in the Premier Value Share Plan (‘PVSP’). Similar to the LTIP for senior executives, under the PVSP, annual awards of time-vesting restricted shares and three-year performance-vesting shares are made, with performance-vesting shares subject to the achievement of Premier’s delivery of long-term shareholder return. Similarly, all employees are eligible to receive an annual bonus, with measures and targets tailored to individual business units and responsibilities as appropriate. The specific bonus framework varies by job level and scope to ensure annual incentives support motivation and retention accordingly. These schemes provide a clear link between pay and performance, ensuring that superior remuneration is paid only if superior performance is delivered. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Share ownership requirements The Committee aims to ensure that our Remuneration Policy serves shareholder interests and closely reflects the Group’s business strategy. Further, the Company recognises the importance of aligning the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders through the building up of a significant shareholding in the Company. Accordingly, the Company requires the Executive Directors to retain no less than 50 per cent of the net value of shares vesting under the Company’s long-term incentive plans until such a time that they have reached a holding worth 250 per cent of salary. Details of the current shareholdings of the Executive Directors are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 109. Incentive plan discretions The Committee operates the Company’s incentive plans according to their respective rules and Remuneration Policy, and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant. The rules of the new long-term incentive plan (the ‘Premier Oil 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan’) were approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM. In line with common market practice, the Committee retains discretion as to the operation and administration of these incentive plans, including with respect to: • who participates; • the timing of grant and/or payment; • the size of an award and/or payment (within the plan limits approved by shareholders); • the manner in which awards are settled; • the choice of (and adjustment of) performance measures and targets in accordance with the Remuneration Policy and the plan rules; • in exceptional circumstances, amendment of any performance conditions applying to an award, provided the new performance conditions are considered fair and reasonable and are neither materially more nor materially less challenging than the original performance targets when set; • discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a variation of share capital, change of control, special dividend, distribution or any other corporate event which may affect the current or future value of an award; • determination of a good leaver (in addition to any specified categories) for incentive-plan purposes, based on the plan rules and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules; and • adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, share buybacks, special dividends, other corporate events, etc.). Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant year. As appropriate, it might also be the subject of consultation with the Company’s major shareholders. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 90 Directors' Remuneration Report continued Minor changes The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy set out above (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation) without requiring prior shareholder approval for that amendment. Provisions of the 2014 Remuneration Policy that will continue to apply Any commitment made prior to, but due to be fulfilled after, the date of the 2017 AGM (being the date on which the 2017 Policy became effective) will be honoured. Such commitments include the following: • Outstanding Equity Pool Awards and Performance Share Awards under the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan. Messrs Durrant, Allan and Rose have outstanding awards under the 2016 LTIP cycle (‘2016 LTIP’). The 2016 LTIP may vest subject to the achievement of three-year performance conditions to 31 December 2018. The Committee has discretion to reduce the size of the Equity Pool if the formulaic outcome is not reflective of the Company’s underlying performance. The value of vested Equity Pool Awards under the 2016 LTIP is subject to a cap of 50 per cent of salary. • The grant of Deferred Awards under the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan. 50 per cent of any shares vesting pursuant to the 2016 LTIP Equity Pool Awards and Performance Share Awards will be deferred into shares in the form of a Deferred Award. The Deferred Shares will be subject to a three-year deferral period ending on 31 December 2021. The awards will not qualify for a Matching Award. • Good leaver and change of control provisions will continue to apply in accordance with the rules of the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan. • Deferred Bonus Awards granted in relation to bonuses for the year ended 31 December 2016. • Malus and clawback and change of control provisions will continue to apply to all outstanding awards under the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan and to bonus awards made to Directors for the year ended 31 December 2016. • Robin Allan was employed by the Company between September 1986 and November 1999 and is entitled to a deferred pension under the Scheme in respect of this period of employment. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 91 STRATEGIC REPORT Illustration of application of the Executive Director Remuneration Policy The 2017 Policy is geared towards performance-orientated pay, with a particular emphasis on long-term performance. For example, at GOVERNANCE ‘on-target’ performance, approximately 45 per cent of the CEO’s remuneration package is delivered through variable components; this is broadly unchanged from the 2014 Policy. However, the Committee has significantly de-leveraged and de-risked remuneration arrangements, with the maximum potential opportunity reduced by almost 40 per cent compared with arrangements under the 2014 Policy. The performance scenario charts below show the estimated remuneration that could be received by the current Executive Directors for 2018, both in absolute terms and as a proportion of the total package under different performance scenarios. The assumptions underlying each performance scenario are detailed in the table below: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Remuneration receivable for different performance scenarios Fixed pay • 2018 salary, as disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 106 • 2017 taxable benefits, as provided in the single figure table on page 97 • Pension contribution of 20 per cent of salary for the Finance Director and 2017 pension benefits for other Executive Directors as provided in the single figure table on page 97 Minimum On-Target Maximum Annual bonus Nil payout Payout of 50 per cent of maximum Maximum payout (120 per cent of salary) Long-term incentive plan Nil payout • Performance Share Awards vest • Performance Share Awards vest in full at 25 per cent of maximum (175 per cent of salary) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION • Restricted Share Awards vest in full • Restricted Share Awards vest in full (40 per cent of salary) The charts below illustrate the potential reward opportunities for each of the current Executive Directors for the three performance scenarios. Tony Durrant, Chief Executive Officer (£’000s) (%) Maximum 1,040 683 228 996 Maximum 35 23 8 34 On-Target 1,040 341 228 249 On-Target 56 19 12 13 Fixed 1,040 Fixed 100 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 0 20 40 60 80 100 Fixed Annual bonus RSA PSA Richard Rose, Finance Director (£’000s) (%) Maximum 440 425 142 619 Maximum 27 26 9 38 On-Target 440 212 142 155 On-Target 46 23 15 16 Fixed 440 Fixed 100 0 225 450 675 900 1,125 1,350 1,575 1,800 0 20 40 60 80 100 1 Charts Fixed for Richard Rose do not Annual bonus RSAincludePSA the Conditional Share Award made to him in 2014 to ‘buy out‘ the share awards forfeited on resignation from his former employer. Robin Allan, Director, North Sea and Exploration (£’000s) (%) Maximum 471 425 142 619 Maximum 28 26 9 37 On-Target 471 212 142 155 On-Target 48 22 14 16 Fixed 471 Fixed 100 0 225 450 675 900 1,125 1,350 1,575 1,800 0 20 40 60 80 100 Fixed Annual bonus Restricted Share Awards Performance Share Awards Notes: The valuation of Annual bonus, Performance Share Awards (‘PSAs’) and Restricted Share Awards (‘RSAs’) excludes share price appreciation, any dividend accrual and the impact of any scale back of awards. RSAs vest in one third increments in years three, four and five respectively subject to continued employment and a performance underpin. PSAs vest after three years subject to TSR performance and continued employment. Both PSA and RSA awards are subject to a Holding Period ending on the fifth anniversary of the date of grant of the awards. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 92 Directors' Remuneration Report continued Approach to remuneration of Executive Directors on recruitment In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of all the existing components of remuneration. The salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to the experience and skills of the individual, relevant market data, internal relativities and their current salary. New appointees will be eligible to receive a personal pension, benefits and to participate in the Company’s HMRC approved all-employee share schemes, in line with the Policy. The annual bonus structure described in the Policy Table will normally apply to new appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the period served. Objectives under the individual element will be tailored towards the executive. New appointees are eligible for awards under the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan which will normally be on the same terms as other Executive Directors, as described in the Policy Table. When determining appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors (including quantum, nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited) to ensure that the pay arrangements are in the best interests of both Premier and its shareholders. The Committee may consider it appropriate to ‘buy out’ incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer. In doing so, the Committee will use the existing Policy where possible or, in exceptional circumstances, the Committee may exercise the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.2R. The value of any such award will not be higher than the expected value of the outstanding equity awards and, in determining the expected value, the Committee will use a Black-Scholes, or equivalent, valuation and, where applicable, discount for any performance conditions attached to these awards. In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the Committee will apply the Policy for external appointees detailed above. Where an individual has contractual commitments that vary from our Policy for Executive Directors, but made prior to his or her promotion to Executive Director level, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements. Service contracts and exit payments and change of control provisions Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate Directors of the quality required to manage the Company. The service contract of each Executive Director may be terminated on 12 months’ notice in writing by either party. Executive Directors’ contracts are available to view at the Company’s registered office. Details of the service contracts of the current Executive Directors are as follows: Director Contract date Unexpired term of contract Robin Allan 09.12.03 Rolling contract Tony Durrant 01.07.05 Rolling contract Richard Rose 25.07.14 Rolling contract The Company will consider termination payments in light of the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant contractual terms, the circumstances of the termination and any applicable duty to mitigate. In such an event, the remuneration commitments in respect of the Executive Director contracts could amount to one year’s remuneration based on salary, benefits in kind and pension rights during the notice period, together with payment in lieu of any accrued but not taken holiday leave, if applicable. There are provisions for termination with less than 12 months’ notice by the Company in certain circumstances. If such circumstances were to arise, the Executive Director concerned would have no claim against the Company for damages or any other remedy in respect of the termination. The Committee would apply general principles of mitigation to any payment made to a departing Executive Director and will honour previous commitments as appropriate, considering each case on an individual basis. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 93 STRATEGIC REPORT The table below summarises how Performance Share Awards and Restricted Share Awards under the Premier Oil 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan and Annual Bonus Awards are typically treated in different leaver scenarios and on a change of control. Whilst the GOVERNANCE Committee retains overall discretion on determining ‘good leaver’ status, it typically defines a ‘good leaver’ in circumstances such as retirement with agreement of the Company, ill health, disability, death, redundancy, or part of the business in which the individual is employed or engaged ceasing to be a member of the Group. Final treatment is subject to the Committee’s discretion. Event Timing of vesting/award Calculation of vesting/payment Annual bonus/Deferred Bonus Awards ‘Good leaver’ • Annual bonus is paid at the same time as to • Annual bonus is paid only to the extent that any FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continuing employees performance conditions have been satisfied and is • Unvested Deferred Bonus Awards vest on cessation pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year of employment worked before cessation of employment ‘Bad leaver’ • Not applicable • Individuals lose the right to their annual bonus and unvested Deferred Bonus Awards Change of control1 • Annual bonus is paid and unvested Deferred Bonus • Annual bonus is paid only to the extent that any Awards vest on the date of change of event performance conditions have been satisfied and is pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year worked to the effective date of change of control Restricted Share Awards and Performance Share Awards ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ‘Good leaver’ • On normal vesting date subject to the Holding • Unvested awards vest to the extent that any Period (or earlier at the Committee’s discretion) performance conditions have been satisfied over the full performance period (or a shorter period at the Committee’s discretion) • The number of unvested awards is reduced pro-rata to take into account the proportion of the vesting period not served ‘Bad leaver’ • Unvested awards lapse • N/A • Any vested shares subject to the Holding Period are forfeited by bad leavers who leave due to gross misconduct, but remain and are released at the end of the Holding Period for other bad leavers (e.g. following resignation) Change of control1 • On the date of the event • Unvested awards vest to the extent that any performance conditions have been satisfied and a pro-rata reduction applies for the proportion of the vesting period not completed Notes: 1 In certain circumstances, the Committee may determine that unvested Deferred Bonus Awards, Restricted Share Awards and Performance Share Awards under the Premier Oil 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan will not vest on a change of control but will instead be replaced by an equivalent grant of a new award, as determined by the Committee, in the new company. Upon exit or change of control, SAYE and SIP awards will be treated in line with the approved plan rules. If employment is terminated by the Company, the departing Executive Director may have a legal entitlement (under statute or otherwise) to additional amounts, which would need to be met. In addition, the Committee retains discretion to settle other amounts reasonably due to the Executive Director, for example to meet the legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement (as provided for below) and, in which case, the individual is required to seek independent legal advice. In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors including (but not limited to) settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants and/or consultancy arrangements. These will be used sparingly and only entered into where the Committee believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so. External appointments Executive Directors are entitled to accept non-executive director appointments outside the Company and retain any fees received providing that the Board’s prior approval is obtained. Details of external directorships held by Executive Directors along with fees retained are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 110. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 94 Directors' Remuneration Report continued Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Committee does not specifically consult with employees over the effectiveness and appropriateness of the Policy. However, the Committee does consider the pay and conditions elsewhere in the Company, including how Company-wide pay tracks against the market. When awarding salary increases to Executive Directors, the Committee takes account of salary increases across the Group, particularly for those employees based in the UK. Further, the Company seeks to promote and maintain good relationships with employee representative bodies – including trade unions – as part of its employee engagement strategy and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Consideration of shareholder views The Committee aims to ensure that the Policy serves shareholder interests and is aligned with the Group’s business strategy, market practice and evolving best practice. The Committee Chairman consults major shareholders and proxy advisers ahead of any major changes to the Remuneration Policy, and also from time-to-time to discuss the Remuneration Policy more generally. The Committee considers all feedback received from such consultations, as well as guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally, to help to ensure the Policy is aligned with shareholder views. Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment effective for a period of three years, subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. All letters of appointment have a notice period of three months and provide for no arrangements under which any Non-Executive Director is entitled to receive remuneration upon the early termination of his or her appointment. Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment are available to view at the Company’s registered office. Director Year appointed Director Date of current appointment letter Roy A Franklin 2017 10.08.2017 Dave Blackwood 2017 09.08.2017 Anne Marie Cannon 2014 24.01.2017 Jane Hinkley 2010 17.05.2017 Iain Macdonald 2016 13.04.2016 Mike Wheeler 2017 10.08.2017 The Company’s Articles of Association provide that the remuneration paid to Non-Executive Directors is to be determined by the Board within limits set by the shareholders. The Policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors is as follows: Fees Purpose and link to strategy • To provide fees that allow Premier to attract and retain Non-Executive Directors of the highest calibre Operation • Fees for Non-Executive Directors are normally reviewed at least every two years • Fees are set with reference to oil and gas sector companies and UK-listed companies of a similar size to Premier • Fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the Committee, while the fees of the other Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board • Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director, and as Chairman of any of the Board’s Committees • Adjustments are normally effective 1 January • The Non-Executive Director fees for the financial year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Opportunity • Non-Executive Director fees are set at a level that is considered appropriate in the light of relevant market practice and the size/complexity of the role • Aggregate fees are within the limit approved by shareholders in the Articles of Association Performance metrics • Not applicable Approach to Non-Executive Director recruitment remuneration In the case of hiring or appointing a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee will follow the Policy as set out in the table above. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 95 Annual Report on Remuneration STRATEGIC REPORT Remuneration Committee membership and considerations during 2017 As at 31 December 2017, the Committee comprised three Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are independent. Jane Hinkley served as GOVERNANCE Chair of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year. Membership of the Committee during 2017 is summarised below: Committee member Member throughout 2017 Appointed during 2017 (Date) Stepped down during 2017 (Date) Jane Hinkley (Chair) – – Dave Blackwood – 12 December 2017 – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Anne Marie Cannon – 17 May 2017 – Joe Darby – – 17 May 2017 Roy A Franklin – 1 September 2017 12 December 20171 David Lindsell – – 17 May 2017 Iain Macdonald – 17 May 2017 12 December 2017 Notes: 1 Roy A Franklin continues to attend Committee meetings in his capacity as Chairman of the Board. Members of the Committee meet without • determining the quantum and • monitoring dilution limits across the ADDITIONAL INFORMATION any executives present for part of each performance conditions for long-term Company’s share schemes and ensuring meeting. The Chief Executive Officer incentive awards; that share awards were made with due attended meetings of the Committee by • reviewing pension arrangements, service regard to limiting shareholder dilution; invitation but absented himself when the agreements and termination payments • consulting shareholders on the reasons Committee discussed matters relating to for Executive Directors and senior for the significant vote received against his remuneration. management; the resolution to approve the Directors’ • approving the Directors’ Remuneration Remuneration Report at the 2017 Annual The Group HR Director attended meetings Report, ensuring compliance with related General Meeting (further details can be as appropriate. The Company Secretary governance provisions and legislation; found on page 96); acts as Secretary to the Committee and • reviewing bonus outcomes for the Group, • approving the issue of an invitation attends all meetings of the Committee. including Executive Directors; and under the Company’s SAYE Scheme Members of the Board and any other • considering the remuneration policies to all qualifying employees as well as employees attending Committee and practices across the Group. long-term incentive awards to be made meetings leave the meeting when their to the broader employee population own remuneration is being discussed. During 2017, the Committee met five times. (excluding Directors and certain members Four meetings were scheduled in advance The Committee acts within its agreed written of senior management) under the terms with one ad-hoc meeting held. terms of reference, which are reviewed of the Company’s Premier Value Share regularly and published on the Company’s Key activities of the Committee during Plan (‘PVSP’); website www.premier-oil.com. The main the year included: • considering and subsequently approving responsibilities of the Committee include: • continuing the consultation process with long-term incentive awards to Executive • determining the Remuneration Policy shareholders in regard to the 2017 Directors and members of senior for Executive Directors and senior Directors’ Remuneration Policy (the management under the terms of management and engaging with the ‘Policy’), including the structure of the the 2017 LTIP, including setting Company’s principal shareholders 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan (‘2017 performance conditions; thereon; LTIP’); • determining the 2016 bonus outcome • determining the individual remuneration • considering shareholder feedback on the and bonus targets for 2017; packages for each Executive Director and Policy and approving a final version for • monitoring performance of outstanding any changes thereto; submission to shareholders for a binding awards under the Premier Oil 2009 Long • approving the remuneration package vote at the 2017 Annual General Meeting; Term Incentive Plan (‘2009 LTIP’); of the Chairman; • considering remuneration policies and • considering the gender pay gap • considering the design of, and practices across the organisation; reporting requirements; determining targets for, the annual • determining the remuneration for • reviewing market trends in executive bonus plan; Executive Directors, including remuneration; • reviewing and recommending to the consideration of annual pay adjustments • reviewing developments in best practice Board the establishment of any new for the Executive Directors and senior on executive remuneration; employee share plans and any material management alongside the broader • consideration of the independence of the amendments to the Company’s existing employee population and reviewing Committee’s remuneration advisers; share plans; pension arrangements for Executive • reviewing the Committee’s terms of Directors and employees; reference; and • reviewing the Committee’s performance. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 96 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Advisers Kepler, a brand of Mercer Limited which is part of the MMC group of companies (‘Kepler’), is the independent adviser to the Committee. Kepler was appointed by the Committee in 2011 through a competitive tender process and was retained during the year. The Committee is of the view that Kepler provides independent remuneration advice to the Committee and does not have any connections with Premier that may impair its independence. Kepler is a founding member and signatory to the UK Remuneration Consultants’ Code of Conduct which governs standards in the areas of transparency, integrity, objectivity, confidentiality, competence and due care, details of which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. In 2017, Kepler provided advice on remuneration for executives, market and best practice guidance, and on the shareholder consultation process for the 2017 Remuneration Policy. They also assisted with the drafting of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and attended Committee meetings. Kepler reports directly to the Committee and provides no other services to the Company. Its total fee for the provision of remuneration services in 2017 was £52,359 on the basis of time and materials. During the year, the Committee also took advice from PwC to provide performance updates on outstanding awards granted under the 2009 and 2017 LTIPs, including the vesting of the 2015 Equity Pool, Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards. Total fees for PwC for the provision of remuneration services in 2017 were £19,000 on a fixed fee basis. The Committee evaluates the support provided by its advisers annually and is satisfied that the advice it received in 2017 was objective and independent. Voting on remuneration matters Section 439A of the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’) requires the Remuneration Policy to be submitted to shareholders for a binding vote every three years or where there is a change in the Remuneration Policy. Accordingly, a new Remuneration Policy was submitted to shareholders for approval at the Company’s 2017 Annual General Meeting, the previous policy having been last approved at the Company’s 2014 Annual General Meeting. Full details of the Policy are included on pages 84 to 94 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report for reference. A copy of the Policy is contained in the Company’s 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, a copy of which can be found on the Company’s website www.premier-oil.com. Votes received at the 2017 Annual General Meeting in respect of approval of the 2017 Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Directors’ Remuneration Report (comprising the Annual Report on Remuneration and a Statement by the Committee Chairman) are set out below. Votes FOR and Votes AGAINST and Resolution % of votes cast % of votes cast Votes WITHHELD Approve 2017 Directors’ Remuneration Policy 126,747,108 88.18% 16,991,271 11.82% 273,793 Approve 2017 Directors’ Remuneration Report 99,381,186 69.51% 43,595,136 30.49% 1,035,850 Whilst the Policy received the support of the vast majority of shareholders who voted, a significant number of votes were received against the resolution to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report outlining how remuneration policy had been implemented during the year and how it was planned to implement the new Policy in 2017. As a result, following the 2017 Annual General Meeting, the Remuneration Committee analysed the voting outcome and wrote to a number of institutional shareholders who had voted ‘against’ the resolution to better understand the reasons for the lack of support. Although no responses were received to the letter, the Committee was able to consider feedback received prior to the 2017 Annual General Meeting, setting out reasons for a proposed vote against the Remuneration Report. The reasons predominantly related to the lack of disclosure over the intended 2017 long-term incentive awards, the use of Restricted Share Awards and the level of increase in salary received by our Finance Director for 2017, although there was also positive support for the latter two proposals. These issues were also commented on by bodies representing institutional investors and were discussed with shareholders during the consultation process held in relation to the new Policy. Further information on each of the issues raised and discussed during the engagement process is set out below: Disclosure of 2017 long-term incentive awards: As in 2016, the Committee delayed making a decision on the level of awards under its long-term incentive plans until its August meeting. This was done as the Committee was awaiting the outcome of the AGM vote on the 2017 Remuneration Policy and in order to ensure that the awards were made in the light of the most up to date information on the Company’s negotiations with its lenders under the terms of our refinancing agreed in July 2017. The decision to defer the grants also presented more time to consider share dilution constraints, which ultimately contributed to a decision to once again significantly scale back awards by 50 per cent, as was the case in 2016. The Committee has given due consideration to the views expressed and these have been taken into consideration in preparing the 2017 Directors’ Remuneration Report. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 97 STRATEGIC REPORT Restricted Share Awards: The introduction of Restricted Shares as a component of the long-term incentive structure did attract a differing view amongst GOVERNANCE shareholders during the consultation process. However, our hybrid approach of introducing both Performance Shares and Restricted Shares was approved within the 2017 Directors’ Remuneration Policy, being recognised as mapped closely to the specific strategic objectives of the Company and striking the balance between debt repayment and incremental growth. Furthermore, shareholder feedback resulted in the introduction of a performance underpin relating to the Restricted Shares. Shareholding requirements were also increased to at least 250 per cent of salary for all Executive Directors following feedback from shareholders. The Committee considered views expressed by shareholders and is confident that the Policy, which includes the use of Restricted Share Awards, continues to be appropriate with no changes being proposed. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Pay increase for the Finance Director: The Committee would like to reiterate that it continues to be satisfied that the salary increase awarded to the Finance Director was merited on the basis that it was an increase made on an exceptional basis to recognise his contribution to the major Group refinancing, and, as disclosed in the 2014 Directors’ Remuneration Report, he was recruited on a salary approximately 20 per cent below that of his predecessor to reflect his development into the role. Aside from this exceptional adjustment, our Executive Directors have not received a pay review since 2014 due to the challenges of the commodity downturn. The Committee will give due consideration to the views expressed by shareholders when considering pay awards. No increases in salary for Executive Directors have been awarded for 2018. The Board would like to thank those shareholders and voting bodies who engaged with the Committee on Directors’ remuneration. The Committee is committed to continuing dialogue with shareholders to help shape the implementation of our Remuneration Policy ADDITIONAL INFORMATION and welcomes further engagement and feedback. Single total figure of remuneration for Executive and Non-Executive Directors (audited) Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors The table below reports total remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2017 for each Executive Director who served as a Director at any time during the year. The information contained in the table is as prescribed by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 and contains a single total figure of remuneration for each Executive Director. Taxable Long-term Other Salary1 benefits2 Bonus3 incentives4 Pension5 Payments6 Total £’000s £’000s £’000s £’000s £’000s £’000s £’000s Director 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Robin Allan 353.8 353.8 22.7 22.7 265.3 227.8 0 0 94.1 128.1 1.5 1.5 737.4 733.9 Tony Durrant 569.0 569.0 25.6 26.2 433.0 378.4 0 0 445.2 429.2 1.5 1.5 1,474.3 1,404.3 Richard Rose 353.8 300.0 22.2 22.1 269.2 197.7 0 0 63.7 55.8 1.8 1.8 710.7 577.4 Notes (to 2017 figures unless stated): 1 Salary is shown on a gross basis. 2 Taxable benefits include medical and dental insurance, car allowance, life assurance, income protection, personal accident insurance and a subsidised gym membership. In particular, in 2017, Robin Allan, Tony Durrant and Richard Rose received a car allowance of £15,000. 3 Robin Allan, Tony Durrant and Richard Rose received total annual bonus awards for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 75.0 per cent of salary, 76.1 per cent of salary and 76.1 per cent of salary respectively out of a maximum bonus opportunity of 120 per cent of salary. Bonus amounts above 50 per cent of salary will be awarded in the form of deferred shares (‘Deferred Bonus Awards’). The number of Deferred Bonus Awards will be calculated by reference to the five-day average price of Premier Oil shares over the period immediately preceding the date of grant. The awards have been approved by the Committee and it is anticipated that they will be granted as soon as reasonably practicable following the release of the Company’s 2017 Results. The Deferred Bonus Awards vest at the end of a three-year period from the date of grant subject to continued employment. Good leaver provisions apply such that awards may vest before the end of the three-year period if an Awardholder leaves in exceptional circumstances such as death, redundancy, change of control and retirement. Further details of the 2017 total annual bonus awards to each Executive Director, including performance criteria, achievement and resulting awards, are set out on pages 98 to 100. 4 Long-term incentives include awards granted under the Premier Oil 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan (‘2009 LTIP’) subject to a performance period ending in the relevant financial year. In 2016 and 2017 the relevant performance targets for such awards were not achieved and the awards lapsed in full. Further details of performance conditions for the 2009 LTIP are contained in the 2014 Remuneration Policy, a copy of which can be found on the Company’s website www.premier-oil.com. 5 Richard Rose’s pension figure includes a combination of pension contributions to the defined contribution scheme and a salary supplement. For other Executive Directors, pension figures are accrued pension entitlements under the Company’s final salary scheme and exclude Director contributions. See page 103 of the Annual Report on Remuneration for further details on total pension entitlements for each Executive Director. 6 Other payments for Robin Allan, Tony Durrant and Richard Rose comprise Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’) awards only. SIP awards are valued as the number of Matching Awards granted multiplied by the share price at date of award. Other payments would normally include both SIP and Save As You Earn (‘SAYE’) awards. No SAYE awards were granted to the Executive Directors in 2017. No discount was applied to SAYE awards granted in 2016 and therefore the embedded value of those options was nil. Participation in the SIP and SAYE schemes is available to all qualifying UK employees. Full details of Executive Director SAYE options and SIP awards are available on page 113 of the Annual Report on Remuneration. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 98 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors Base fee Additional fees Expenses1 Total £’000s £’000s £’000s £’000s Director 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Roy A Franklin (Chairman)2 56.5 – – – 3.0 – 59.5 – Dave Blackwood3 20.9 – – – – – 20.9 – Anne Marie Cannon 53.0 53.0 – – – – 53.0 53.0 Jane Hinkley4 53.0 53.0 17.2 10.6 0.1 0.1 70.3 63.7 Iain Macdonald 5 53.0 35.3 6.6 – 0.2 – 59.8 35.3 Mike Wheeler6 20.9 – – – – – 20.9 – Former Directors Joe Darby 7 19.2 53.0 3.9 10.6 0.4 1.2 23.5 64.8 David Lindsell8 19.2 53.0 3.9 10.6 – – 23.1 63.6 Mike Welton9 113.7 169.6 – – – – 113.7 169.6 Notes to 2017 figures (unless stated): 1 Amounts disclosed relate to travel and accommodation expenses paid to Non-Executive Directors in respect of qualifying services during the year. 2 Roy A Franklin was appointed as a Director and Chairman of the Board on 1 September 2017. His annual fee is £169,600 in line with his predecessor’s annual fee. The base fee shown for 2017 reflects the fee paid to him for service from 1 September to 31 December 2017. The Chairman waived the additional fee payable under the Policy for chairing the Nomination Committee. 3 Dave Blackwood was appointed as a Director on 10 August 2017. His annual fee is £53,000 per annum in line with the other Non-Executive Directors. The base fee shown for 2017 reflects the fee paid to him for service from 10 August to 31 December 2017. 4 Jane Hinkley was appointed as Senior Independent Director (‘SID’) on 17 May 2017 for which she receives an annual fee of £10,600. In addition, she receives an annual fee of £10,600 for acting as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. The figure shown for additional fees in 2017 reflects her annual fee of £10,600 for acting as SID pro-rated to her period of service from 17 May to 31 December 2017 together with her annual fee of £10,600 for acting as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 5 Iain Macdonald was appointed Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee on 17 May 2017 and receives an annual fee of £10,600 for this position. The figure shown for additional fees in 2017 reflects his annual fee pro-rated to his period of service from 17 May to 31 December 2017. 6 Mike Wheeler was appointed as a Director on 10 August 2017. His annual fee is £53,000 per annum in line with the other Non-Executive Directors. The total figure shown for 2017 reflects his annual fee pro-rated to his period of service from 10 August to 31 December 2017. 7 Joe Darby stepped down as a Director and SID on 17 May 2017. His annual base fee for 2017 was £53,000 in line with the other Non-Executive Directors. The figure shown for 2017 reflects his annual base fee pro-rated to his period of service from 1 January to 17 May 2017. In addition, he received an additional fee in 2016 and 2017 for his services as SID. The figure shown for 2016 reflects the fee paid to him for services throughout the year. The figure shown for 2017 reflects his annual fee of £10,600 pro-rated to his period of service from 1 January to 17 May 2017. 8 David Lindsell stepped down as a Director and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee on 17 May 2017. His annual base fee for 2017 was £53,000 per annum in line with the other Non-Executive Directors. The figure shown for 2017 reflects his annual base fee pro-rated to his period of service from 1 January to 17 May 2017. In addition, he received a fee in 2016 and 2017 for his services as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee. The figure shown for 2016 reflects the fee paid to him for services throughout the year. The figure shown for 2017 reflects his annual fee of £10,600 pro-rated to his period of service from 1 January to 17 May 2017. 9 Mike Welton stepped down as a Director and Chairman of the Board on 1 September 2017. The figure shown for 2017 reflects his annual fee of £169,600 pro-rated to his period of service from 1 January to 1 September 2017. No additional fees were paid for his role as Chairman of the Nomination Committee. No fees were paid to Non-Executive Directors for membership of a Committee or for attending Committee meetings. Additional fees were payable of £10,600 (2016: £10,600) for acting as Senior Independent Director, as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee or as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. The Company Chairman is also the Chairman of the Nomination Committee and currently receives no additional fee for this role. Fees for Non-Executive Directors and the position of Chairman were last increased effective from 1 January 2013 following a review in 2012. Fees for Non-Executive Directors and the position of Chairman were originally scheduled to be reviewed in December 2014. The biennial review has been postponed for another year. The next review of fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors is scheduled for the end of 2018 with any change proposed to take effect from 1 January 2019. Payments for loss of office (audited) There were no payments for loss of office during the year. Payments to past Directors (audited) There were no payments to past Directors during the year. As reported in the 2016 Directors’ Remuneration Report, Neil Hawkings retained an interest in the 2015 LTIP with any vesting subject to performance and pro-rated on a time worked basis. These interests comprise 264,308 shares under the PSA and a 4.25% share of the EPA pool pro-rated to his period of services. As stated on page 101, the Committee determined that the 2015 LTIP awards will lapse. There are no further outstanding awards for Neil Hawkings. Performance conditions for annual bonus awards in respect of 2017 performance (audited) In line with the Company’s 2017 Remuneration Policy, during 2017 Executive Directors participated in non-pensionable annual bonus arrangements. The 2017 annual bonus provided for awards of between 0 per cent and 120 per cent of salary for Executive Directors. Annual performance was assessed against a performance scorecard encompassing health, safety, environment and security (‘HSES’), production, development, exploration, finance, business development and organisation, as well as personal performance. In assessing the 2017 bonus payout, the Committee reviewed performance against each measure in the performance scorecard and considered the overall Company performance and the oil sector environment. In terms of personal performance, the Remuneration Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 99 STRATEGIC REPORT Committee assessed Executive Director performance against a series of specific individual performance targets focused on the delivery of financial and operational objectives which were agreed at the start of 2017. Further details are set out on page 100. GOVERNANCE The Committee agreed that the formulaic outcome of the bonus payments was reflective of the strong underlying operations of the business and the delivery of results during the year. In particular, the Committee noted the completion of the Company’s refinancing, the major Zama discovery in Mexico, first oil achieved from Catcher, strong production coupled with cost reductions across the Group, progress on a number of next generation growth projects (BIGP, Tolmount, Sea Lion, Tuna) and a successful disposal programme of non-core assets, such as Wytch Farm, to pay down debt. The 2017 annual bonus scorecard was based 80 per cent on financial and operational targets and 20 per cent on personal targets. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below details the financial and operational performance categories, their relative weightings and achievement against specific targets. The table on page 100 provides further details on the Directors’ personal objectives. 2017 Corporate targets Performance target ranges Outcome for the year (% of maximum KPI Actual bonus category Subcategory Measure Threshold Target Stretch performance Weighting opportunity) Operating HSES % weighted 90% 100% 110% 106% 8% 7.0% Safely HSES Index Building Production Daily average rate of 75.0 78.5 80.0 75.0 8% 2.0% ADDITIONAL INFORMATION the strong production (kboepd) production Operating efficiency 89% 91% 93% 90% 4% 1.0% base Development Catcher – on-stream by 31 December 2017 1 December 2017 1 November 2017 23 December 12% 6.0% year-end at or below 2017 and gross project budget below gross project budget Bring Tolmount project Threshold performance Target performance Stretch performance Threshold 4% 1.0% to Final Investment related to progress related to progress related to progress performance Decision (‘FID’)1 achieved Delivering Exploration Commercial discovery 95 185 315 600 8% 8.0% growth at Zama (MMstb) Maintaining Finance Complete refinancing 30 June 31 May 30 April 28 July 4% 0.0% financial based on current term strength sheets Reduce net debt at +50 0 -50 -51 12% 12.0% year-end 2017 (from year-end 2016) after disposals (before payment in kind and make-whole adjustments) (US$m) Beat cost Opex 17.50 16 14.50 16.50 4% 1.5% base goals ($/bbl) G&A 170 160 150 150 4% 4.0% (US$m) Delivering Business Complete budgeted 120 140 160 212 4% 4.0% Group Development disposal programme at strategy or above indicated level (US$m) Specific milestone in Threshold performance Target performance Stretch performance Threshold 8% 2.0% relation to the Sea Lion relating to progress relating to progress relating to progress performance project1 achieved Sub-total: Corporate KPIs 80% 48.5% Personal Robin Allan: A combination of production and development targets supporting the corporate KPIs as well as succession planning 14.0% targets (see for key reporting roles. page 100 for further Tony Durrant: A selection of targets relating to strategic planning, shareholder engagement, leadership and senior management 14.9% development. 20% details) Richard Rose: A combination of targets supporting the corporate KPIs and including maintaining financial strength, cost controls, 14.9% systems and maximising income. Total 100% Between 62.5% and 63.4% Notes: 1 For reasons of commercial sensitivity, details of the progress milestones cannot be disclosed at this time. Disclosure will be made in the 2018 Annual Report where this does not compromise the interests of the Company. Retrospective disclosure of performance conditions for annual bonus awards in respect of 2016 performance The Committee disclosed in the 2016 Directors’ Remuneration Report that the Business Development performance target for 2016 relating to a specific project milestone could not be disclosed for reasons for reasons of commercial sensitivity. No bonus was paid in relation to this target as threshold performance for a critical development milestone for a specific asset was not achieved. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 100 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 2017 Personal objectives The achievement against personal objectives represented 20 per cent of the total bonus opportunity. The outcome is summarised below: Outcome for the year (% of maximum bonus Director Overview of performance Key achievements in the year opportunity) Robin Allan Delivery of strategic direction and tactical • Signed Pakistan business disposal agreement and ensured 14.0% execution across the Group with a focus on continued safety, engagement and operational delivery of exploration and growth and the UK Business Pakistan team towards the point of completion. Unit, both of which have delivered significant • World class Zama discovery in Mexico. milestones of Group performance improvement. • Delivery of first oil from Catcher in the UK. • Progression of the Tolmount development project. • Operational cost reduction, process optimisation and portfolio consolidation in the UK. Tony Durrant Directed the Company towards an out• Leadership of the Executive Committee and out14.9% performance of the Group objectives, notably: performance of the 2017 business plan. securing the corporate refinancing; rebuilding • Completion of the corporate refinancing and strengthening balance street strength through the disposal of of the balance sheet and the reduction of net debt. non-core assets; and delivering the framework • Strategic review approved by the Board and lenders as for future growth through strong operational applicable. and financial leadership discipline, strict prioritisation of future investment and return • Promotion of investor relations and strengthening of and strengthening organisation capability. confidence in the investment case with shareholder base. • Provision of support to the Board with the successful Chairman and Non-Executive Director succession process. • Strengthening organisational delivery and succession capability. Richard Rose Completion of the complex corporate • Completion of refinancing. 14.9% refinancing process with banks and lenders • Directed corporate hedging strategy and crude marketing externally and detailed coordination of financial optimisation. and operational disciplines internally, across the • Supported Chief Executive Officer in Investor Relations. organisation in accordance with that process. Ensures that commitment to the terms of the • Enhanced production/capex/opex reporting aligned to refinancing is underpinned by robust refinancing reporting. management accounting, enhanced reporting, • Stretch delivery of Business Development disposal cost optimisation and risk management. objectives, notably Wytch Farm. Bonus award in respect of 2017 performance (audited) Annual bonuses awarded to Executive Directors are summarised in the table below. Amounts awarded exceeding 50 per cent of salary will be awarded in the form of Deferred Shares. Amount to be awarded as Deferred Bonus as % of Total value Cash amount Shares Director salary £ £ £ Robin Allan 75.0% 265,313 176,875 88,438 Tony Durrant 76.1% 433,009 284,500 148,509 Richard Rose 76.1% 269,204 176,875 92,329 It is anticipated that Deferred Bonus Awards will be granted as soon as practicable following the release of the Company’s 2017 results. The number of Deferred Shares will be calculated by reference to the five-day average price of Premier Oil shares over the period immediately preceding the date of grant. The awards will vest at the end of a three-year period commencing from the date of grant of the awards subject to continued employment. Malus and clawback provisions apply to the Deferred Bonus Awards. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 101 STRATEGIC REPORT LTIP vesting outcomes in 2017 (audited) LTIP awards were granted in 2015 as Equity Pool Awards and Performance Share Awards (see pages 110 to 111 for further detail on the GOVERNANCE LTIP awards). The 2015 LTIP award cycles completed their three-year performance periods on 31 December 2017. The vesting conditions of these awards are described in the 2014 Policy, a copy of which can be accessed via the Company’s website www.premier-oil.com. The constituents of the comparator group for the 2015 Performance Share Award cycle are detailed on page 112 of the Annual Report on Remuneration. The outcomes of the 2015 LTIP awards are as follows: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Equity Pool Awards: over the performance period, the threshold of 10 per cent compound annual growth was not met, and, as a result, awards under the 2015 Equity Pool will not vest. • Performance Share Awards: over the performance period, the Company’s TSR was below the median of the comparator group. As a result, the 2015 Performance Share Awards will not vest as the threshold was not met. LTIP awards granted in 2017 under the terms of the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan (audited) The grant of LTIP awards to Executive Directors under the 2009 LTIP (2016-2018 cycle) was approved in principle by the Committee in August 2016. Due to prolonged trading restrictions as a result of the ongoing refinancing of the Group’s debt, the grant of the awards could not take place and was postponed until the end of the Restricted Period. The awards were granted on 12 April 2017 following the release of the Company’s 2016 results. The 2009 LTIP comprises Equity Pool Awards, Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION • Equity Pool Awards: based on an allocation of units (settled in shares) in the Equity Pool. The Equity Pool is funded by a percentage share of three-year annualised compound growth in the Company’s equity value per share above a threshold; • Performance Share Awards: conditional share awards vesting on three-year TSR relative to a comparator group of international oil and gas sector peers; • Equity Pool Awards and Performance Share Awards are measured over three years. 50 per cent of the shares vesting from the Equity Pool and Performance Shares are subject to compulsory deferral for a further three years and are eligible for a discretionary Matching Share Award. In view of market conditions, the Committee determined that the Performance Share Awards would be scaled back by 50 per cent relative to the Policy maximum and that there would not be a Matching Award. In addition, the Committee determined a cap on any Equity Pool Awards vesting of 50 per cent of salary (rather than 100 per cent of salary as per the 2014 Policy). Details of the awards granted are set out in the table overleaf. Performance for these awards will be measured between 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2018. Performance conditions are as follows: • Equity Pool Awards: Threshold performance requires compound growth in the Company’s equity value per share of at least 10 per cent per annum at which 1 per cent of the compound growth is credited to the Equity Pool. A maximum of 2.5 per cent of the compound growth is credited to the Equity Pool when growth in equity value per share is 20 per cent per annum. The funding rate is based on straight-line interpolation between these points. • Performance Share Awards: 25 per cent vest for median TSR performance vs. the comparator group, with full vesting for upper quartile performance and straight-line vesting in between. The constituents of the comparator group are detailed on page 112. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 102 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions. Further details can be found in the 2014 Policy. 2016-2018 cycle Equity Pool Awards Performance Share Awards1,2 % of Performance Equity Face value4 Shares Face value5 Director Award date Pool 3 £000s awarded £000s Robin Allan 12.04.17 4.25 176.9 294,203 193.7 Tony Durrant 12.04.17 6.00 284.5 567,864 373.9 Richard Rose 12.04.17 4.25 176.9 249,500 164.3 Notes: 1 Any dividends paid accrue on Performance Share Awards and will be paid on vesting as shares, in proportion to performance achieved. 2 The number of Performance Shares was determined by reference to the relevant percentage of salary divided by the average of the closing prices of a Premier Oil share over the five dealing days immediately preceding the award date (65.85p) and scaled back by 50 per cent. 3 The funding of the Equity Pool is based on three-year annualised compound growth in the Company’s equity value per share. Further details can be found in the Company’s 2014 Policy. At the point of vesting, awards will be capped at 50 per cent of salary. 4 The face value of the Equity Pool Awards is calculated as the full vesting value based on 2018 salary (maximum value of the award on vesting capped at 50 per cent of salary). 5 The face value of the Performance Share Awards is calculated as the maximum number of shares that would vest if targets were met in full, multiplied by the average of the closing prices of a Premier Oil share over the five dealing days immediately preceding the award date: 65.85p. LTIP awards granted in 2017 under the terms of the 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan (audited) In view of market conditions and to mitigate possible shareholder dilution, the Committee determined that LTIP awards to be granted under the terms of the 2017 LTIP (2017-2019 cycle) would be scaled back by 50 per cent relative to the Policy maximum. The LTIP awards were granted to Executive Directors on 1 September 2017 and comprise: • Performance Share Awards: conditional share awards vesting on three-year TSR relative to a comparator group of international oil and gas sector peers. • Restricted Share Awards: conditional share awards vesting over three, four and five years subject to achievement of a financial underpin measured at the end of year three. Details of the awards are set out in the table below. Performance for these awards will be measured between 1 January 2017 and 31 December 2019. Performance conditions are as follows: • Performance Share Awards: 25 per cent vesting for median TSR performance vs. the comparator group, with full vesting for upper quartile performance and straight-line vesting in between. The constituents of the comparator group are detailed on page 112. • Restricted Share Awards: subject to a financial underpin based on the reduction in absolute level of net debt and the reduction of the ratio of net debt to EBITDA target as agreed with the Company’s lenders. Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions, and any awards vesting will be subject to a Holding Period such that the total time horizon is five years. Further details of the 2017 LTIP are set out in the 2017 Policy on pages 87 to 88. 2017-2019 cycle Performance Share Awards1 Restricted Share Awards1 % salary to be % salary to be awarded as awarded as Performance Number of Restricted Number of Share Awards Performance Face Share Awards Restricted Face after scale Share Awards value4 after scale Share Awards value5 Director Award date back 2 granted3 £’000 back 2 granted3 £’000 Robin Allan 01.09.2017 87.5% 562,784 309.5 20% 128,636 70.8 Tony Durrant 01.09.2017 87.5% 905,227 497.9 20% 206,909 113.8 Richard Rose 01.09.2017 87.5% 562,784 309.5 20% 128,636 70.8 Notes: 1 Any dividends paid accrue on Performance Share Awards and Restricted Share Awards and will be paid on vesting as shares, in proportion to performance achieved. 2 Awards were scaled back by 50 per cent of the maximum award permitted under the terms of the 2017 Policy (175 per cent of salary for Performance Share Awards and 40 per cent of salary for Restricted Share Awards). 3 The number of Performance Share Awards and Restricted Share Awards was determined by reference to the relevant percentage of salary divided by the average of the closing market prices of a Premier Oil share over the five dealing days immediately preceding the award date: 55.0p. 4 The face value of the Performance Share Awards is the maximum number of shares that would vest if the performance target was met in full, multiplied by the average of the closing prices of a Premier Oil share over the five dealing days immediately preceding the award date: 55.0p. 5 The face value of the Restricted Share Awards is the maximum number of shares that would vest if the financial underpin was met, multiplied by the average of the closing market prices of a Premier Oil share over the five dealing days immediately preceding the award date: 55.0p. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 103 STRATEGIC REPORT Total pension entitlements (audited) In line with the Policy, as Directors who became Directors of the Company prior to 20 August 2013, Robin Allan and Tony Durrant receive GOVERNANCE a pension substantially as if they were contributing members of the Company’s final salary Retirement and Death Benefits Plan (the ‘Scheme’) and, in regard to service completed subsequent to their appointment as Directors, not subject to the Scheme’s cap on pensionable earnings (£154,200 for the 2017/18 tax year). As a Director who joined the Company after 20 August 2013, Richard Rose is entitled to receive a pension contribution and/or cash supplement equal to 20 per cent of his salary. The accrued pension entitlements of the Directors who were members (or deemed members) of the Scheme during 2017 are as follows: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (f) Value of growth in (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) accrued pension Accrued Accrued Accrued Value of growth Deduction above inflation pension as at pension in pension as at in accrued for deemed less deemed 31 December (a) after allowing 31 December pension above contributions by contributions 2016 1,3 for inflation 1,3 2017 1,3 inflation 2, 3 Director 3 by Director3 Director £’000s pa £’000s pa £’000s pa £’000s £’000s £’000s Robin Allan4,5 87.1 88.0 93.7 114.0 19.9 94.1 Tony Durrant4 112.5 113.6 137.5 478.0 32.8 445.2 Notes: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 1 The amounts of accrued pension under (a) and (c) represent the accrued pension entitlements of the Director as at the stated dates. 2 The values under (d) have been calculated by applying a capitalisation factor of 20 to the difference between amounts shown in (c) and (b) and are principally due to the additional pension accrued over the year. 3 The values stated above correspond with the target level of final salary pension provision; in practice, the pension benefits for these Directors are principally established through individual money purchase arrangements and salary supplements. 4 Members of the Scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions; none of the Directors have elected to do so. 5 In addition to the current provision noted above, Robin Allan is entitled to a deferred pension under the Scheme in respect of service with the Company between September 1986 and November 1999. In respect of 2017, Tony Durrant and Robin Allan elected to receive a salary supplement. During 2016, a review was carried out for the Directors who were members (or deemed members) of the Scheme to assess the extent to which the payments already made to each Director are projected to be sufficient to provide the accrued component of their target pension. Following the review in December 2016, the Committee approved target funding payments for Robin Allan and Tony Durrant, as detailed in the table below, reflecting the level of increase required to meet 90 per cent of the accrued target pension values. These payments were approved for payment in four instalments during the course of 2017. Richard Rose receives a combination of pension contributions (to the defined contribution scheme) and a salary supplement totalling 20 per cent of salary including the cost of National Insurance contributions to the Company. Payments made by the Company in respect of pension benefits in relation to 2017 are also summarised below: Total pension Salary Pension Target funding benefits paid by supplements contributions payments Company Director £’000s £’000s £’000s £’000s Robin Allan1 62.2 0.0 363.0 425.2 Tony Durrant1 100.0 0.0 762.0 862.0 Richard Rose 51.2 12.5 N/A 63.7 Notes: 1 The target funding payments for Robin Allan and Tony Durrant relate to pension top-up payments approved by the Committee in December 2016 made in four instalments during 2017. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 104 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration, comprising salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus, and comparable data for the average of all UK-based employees within the Company. The Company has chosen UK-based employees as the comparator group for the Company as a whole, due to countries outside the UK having significantly different inflation rates. UK-based employees1 (average CEO per capita) 2017 2016 £’000s £’000s % change % change Salary 569.0 569.0 0% 0.4% Taxable benefits 25.6 26.2 (2.3)% 43.9% Annual bonus2 433.0 378.4 14.4% 3.3% Total 1,027.6 973.6 5.5% 1.8% Notes: 1 UK-based employees who were employed for the full year in both 2016 and 2017. 2 Includes cash bonus and amount deferred into shares (amounts above 50 per cent of salary are deferred into shares). Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows the Company’s actual expenditure on shareholder distributions and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ending 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017. Total shareholder distribution expenditure is comprised of dividends and share buybacks. In December 2014, a decision was taken by the Board to postpone the share buyback programme pending a recovery in the oil price and, as a result, no shares were re-purchased during 2016 and 2017. The Company did not pay a dividend for the financial years ending 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017. 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million % change Remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Group 110.5 121.0 (8.7)% Distributions to shareholders by way of dividend – – 0% Distributions to shareholders by way of share buyback – – 0% Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 105 STRATEGIC REPORT Comparison of Company performance The chart below compares the value of £100 invested in Premier shares, including re-invested dividends, on 31 December 2008 GOVERNANCE compared to the equivalent investment in the FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index over the last nine financial years. The FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index has been chosen as it comprises companies who are exposed to broadly similar risks and opportunities as Premier. 9-year TSR performance TO BE UPDATED Value of £100 invested on 31 December 2008 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (£) 300 250 200 £188 150 100 50 £39 0 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index Premier Oil plc The table below shows the CEO single figure of remuneration for the past nine years and corresponding performance under the annual and long-term incentives, as a percentage of maximum. Matching CEO single figure Equity Pool Asset Pool Performance Share Share Award of remuneration Annual bonus payout funding rate as funding rate as Award vesting as % vesting as % of £’000s as % of maximum % of maximum % of maximum1 of maximum maximum 2009 Simon Lockett 2,884.6 85% 0% 100% N/A 63% 2010 Simon Lockett 4,041.4 60% 100% 55% N/A 100% 2011 Simon Lockett 3,827.3 55% 100% N/A 100% 100% 2012 Simon Lockett 2,728.2 45% 0% N/A 90% 66% 2013 Simon Lockett 1,002.7 24% 0% N/A 0% 0% 20142 Simon Lockett 680.3 39% 0% N/A 0% 0% (and pro-rated) Tony Durrant 428.7 40% 0% N/A 0% 0% 2015 Tony Durrant 1,040.4 10% 0% N/A 0% 0% 2016 Tony Durrant 1,404.3 66.5% 0% N/A 0% 0% 2017 Tony Durrant 1,474.3 63.4% 0% N/A 0% 0% Notes: 1 Following the introduction of the LTIP in 2009, the Asset Pool was replaced by Performance Share Awards. The last award under the Asset Pool had a performance period of 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2010. The introduction of the LTIP was disclosed in the Remuneration Report of the 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements. 2 Figures shown for 2014 for Tony Durrant relate to the period during 2014 that he served as Chief Executive Officer: 25 June to 31 December 2014; and for Simon Lockett relate to the period during 2014 that he served as Chief Executive Officer: 1 January to 25 June 2014. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 106 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Implementation of Executive Director Remuneration Policy for 2018 For 2018, there will be a continued level of scale back of Long Term Incentive Restricted Share Awards and an increase in stretch relative performance of the Performance Share Awards. Salary The salaries of the Executive Directors are reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate. No salary increases have been awarded to Executive Directors for 2018. The average salary increase (inclusive of promotions) across the Group’s UK operations is 3.8 per cent. Salary from Salary from Percentage 1 January 2017 1 January 2018 increase Director Position £ £ £ Robin Allan Director, North Sea and Exploration 353,750 353,750 0% Tony Durrant Chief Executive Officer 569,000 569,000 0% Richard Rose Finance Director 353,750 353,750 0% Pension, benefits and all-employee share plans The Company will offer Executive Directors pension, taxable benefits and tax-advantaged all-employee share plans for 2018 in line with the Policy on pages 84 to 94. Annual bonus For 2018, the Executive Director annual bonus opportunity is up to 120 per cent of salary in line with the 2017 Remuneration Policy. Annual performance will be assessed against a performance scorecard of which 80 per cent of the maximum bonus will be based on financial and operational measures and 20 per cent of the maximum bonus on personal objectives. The Committee will consider carefully the oil market outlook, the Company’s underlying performance and the outcome for 2018 in deciding whether and at what level to award bonuses for that year. The specific 2018 corporate and personal objectives, along with threshold, target and stretch values, will be disclosed, to the extent that they are not commercially sensitive, in the 2018 Directors’ Remuneration Report. In line with the Policy, any bonus in excess of 50 per cent of salary will be deferred in shares for three years. The table below summarises the criteria used to assess each target and the relative weighting of each: Corporate KPIs representing 80% of maximum bonus opportunity Weighting (% of maximum corporate bonus KPI Subcategory Target opportunity) Operating safely HSES TRIR (injury rate per million man hours) 4% LOPC (Tier 1 and 2 process safety) 4% Spills (kgs/year) 4% Leadership visits 4% Building a strong Production Daily average kboepd – Catcher 15% production base Daily average kboepd – Rest of Portfolio 15% Maintaining Finance Net debt covenant target 10% financial strength EBITDA covenant target 10% Cost base goal for opex 5% Cost base goal for gross G&A 5% Delivering Group Exploration Achievement of specified near-term strategic 8% strategy objective Development Achievement of specified near-term strategic 8% objective Commercial Achievement of specified near-term strategic 8% objective Total 100% Personal targets representing 20% of maximum bonus opportunity Robin Allan: A combination of production and development targets supporting the corporate KPIs as well as succession planning for key reporting roles. Tony Durrant: A selection of targets relating to strategic planning, shareholder engagement, leadership and senior management development. Richard Rose: A combination of targets supporting the corporate KPIs and including maintaining financial strength, cost controls, systems and maximising income. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 107 STRATEGIC REPORT 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan The Committee has agreed to make awards to the Executive Directors under the terms of the 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan for 2018. GOVERNANCE The awards will comprise Restricted Share Awards equivalent to 20 per cent of base salary, representing a scale back of 50 per cent of the maximum award of 40 per cent under the Policy, and Performance Share Awards equivalent to 175 per cent of base salary with no scale back applied. In determining the level of awards, the Committee again took account of market conditions and possible shareholder dilution. It is proposed that the awards will be made as soon as possible following the release of the Company Full-Year Results for 2017. Performance for these awards will be measured between 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2020. Performance conditions will be as follows: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Performance Share Awards: subject to a Performance Target based on the Company’s TSR performance relative to a comparator group of international oil and gas sector peers. 25 per cent of the awards will vest for median TSR performance vs. the comparator group, with full vesting for upper decile performance and straight-line vesting in between. This represents an additional stretch from upper quartile to upper decile of the comparator group for the 2018-2020 performance period. The constituents of the comparator group will be the same group of companies as those applicable to the 2017 Performance Share Awards (see page 112). • Restricted Share Awards: subject to a financial underpin based on a reduction of the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, as agreed with the Company’s lenders, over the course of the performance period (currently three times net debt to EBITDA). If the performance underpin is achieved, Restricted Share Awards will vest in one third increments on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of the award date subject to continued employment and the Committee’s assessment of underlying Company performance. No awards will vest unless the performance underpin is achieved. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Awards will be subject to malus and clawback provisions, and any awards vesting will be subject to a Holding Period such that the total time horizon is five years. Implementation of Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy for 2018 Non-Executive Director fees were last increased with effect from 1 January 2013. The next review of fees for Non-Executive Directors is scheduled for the end of 2018 with any change proposed to take effect from 1 January 2019. Non-Executive Director fees for 2018 are as follows: From From 1 January 2017 1 January 2018 Role Fee type £ £ Percentage increase Chairman Total fee 169,600 169,600 0% Other Non-Executive Directors Basic fee 53,000 53,000 0% Committee Chairmanship 10,600 10,600 0% Senior Independent Director 10,600 10,600 0% Exercise of Committee discretion The table below illustrates how the Committee has exercised discretion in relation to long-term incentives and the bonus plan over the four-year period ending 31 December 2017. Year Annual bonus Long-term incentives 2014 Bonus outcome for 2014 for corporate targets N/A reduced to 24% (formulaic outcome 40%). 2015 Total bonus outcome for 2015 reduced to 10% N/A (formulaic outcome ranged from 55.8% to 58.1%) 2016 None 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan: Performance Share Awards scaled back by 50% of maximum potential opportunity; Equity Pool Awards vesting capped at 50% of base salary; Matching Award removed 2017 None 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan: Restricted Share Awards and Performance Share Awards scaled back by 50% of maximum potential opportunity. On 5 March 2018, the Committee agreed to exercise discretion in relation to the planned 2018 share awards such that Restricted Share Awards would again be scaled back by 50 per cent of the maximum opportunity and full vesting of Performance Share Awards would be subject to upper decile TSR performance relative to a peer group of oil and gas companies as opposed to upper quartile performance. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 108 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited) Formal shareholding guidelines exist which require the Executive Directors to retain no less than 50 per cent of the net value of shares vesting under the Company’s long-term incentive arrangements until such time as they have achieved a holding worth 250 per cent of salary. The graphs below show the number and value of Executive Directors’ shareholding and scheme interests as at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017 respectively. Total shares owned outright 1 Value of shareholding as a percentage of salary 1 2 (’000) (%) Robin Allan Robin Allan Tony Durrant Tony Durrant Richard Rose Richard Rose 0 250 500 750 1,000 1,250 1,500 0 25 50 75 100 125 150 175 200 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Note: Notes: 1 Owned outright includes shares held by the Director and/or connected persons. 1 In addition to total shares owned outright, shareholdings include deferred shares This figure also includes shares held in the tax-advantaged Share Incentive Plan where performance conditions have been achieved and awards are subject to a (‘SIP’) some of which may be subject to forfeiture on leaving the Company, holding period. The number of deferred shares included is the net number of dependent upon the time for which they have been held. shares after deduction of 47 per cent to reflect withholding for tax and National Insurance. 2 The valuation of shareholdings as at 31 December 2017 has been calculated using an average of the mid-market closing price between 1 October and 31 December 2017 (69.89p). The valuation of shareholdings as at 31 December 2016 has been calculated by reference to the mid-market closing price between 1 October and 31 December 2016 (65.90p). Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 109 STRATEGIC REPORT The table below summarises the Directors’ interests in shares, including those held under outstanding LTIP, SAYE and SIP awards, as at 31 December 2017. Further details of all outstanding awards are disclosed on pages 110 to 113. GOVERNANCE Deferred shares Unvested Owned subject to continued shares subject to Unvested SAYE Total share outright at employment at performance at options at interests at 31 December 20171 31 December 20172 31 December 20173 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 Director (or date of leaving) (or date of leaving) (or date of leaving) (or date of leaving) (or date of leaving) Robin Allan 524,561 77,357 1,249,931 42,857 1,894,706 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Dave Blackwood – – – – – Anne Marie Cannon 10,000 – – – 10,000 Tony Durrant 1,464,474 142,574 2,190,161 42,857 3,840,066 Roy A Franklin4 – – – – – Jane Hinkley 13,234 – – – 13,234 Iain Macdonald 23,076 – – – 23,076 Richard Rose 85,317 72,437 1,165,068 42,857 1,365,679 Mike Wheeler 30,000 – – – 30,000 Former Directors ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Joe Darby5 23,108 – – – 23,108 David Lindsell6 17,332 – – – 17,332 Mike Welton7 22,531 – – – 22,531 Notes: 1 Owned outright includes shares held by the Director and/or connected persons. This figure also includes shares held in the tax-advantaged Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’) which may be subject to forfeiture on leaving the Company, dependent upon the time for which they have been held. 2 Deferred Shares subject to continued employment comprise Deferred Bonus Awards. The awards are subject to malus and clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the Company’s financial results, gross misconduct or material error in the calculation of performance conditions. The Committee may exercise clawback until the later of: (i) one year from vesting, or (ii) the completion of the next audit after vesting. 3 Unvested shares subject to performance include Performance Share Awards held under the 2009 LTIP (2015-2017 cycle and 2016-2018 cycle) and Performance Share Awards and Restricted Share Awards held under the 2017 LTIP (2017-2019 cycle). The performance period for the LTIP awards granted under the 2015-2017 cycle completed on 31 December 2017 and no awards vested. See page 101 of the Annual Report on Remuneration for further details on performance criteria and achievement. 4 Roy A Franklin purchased 60,000 Premier Oil shares on 31 January 2018. 5 Interests reported as at 17 May 2017, the date on which Joe Darby’s directorship ceased. 6 Interests reported as at 17 May 2017, the date on which David Lindsell’s directorship ceased. 7 Interests reported as at 1 September 2017, the date on which Mike Welton’s directorship ceased. Sourcing of shares and dilution limits Awards under all of the Company’s share schemes may be met using a combination of market purchases, financed by the Company through the Premier Oil plc Employee Benefit Trust, and newly issued shares. The Company complies with the Investment Association’s recommended guidelines on shareholder dilution through employee share schemes: awards under the Group’s discretionary schemes which may be satisfied with new issue shares must not exceed 5 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital in any rolling 10-year period, and the total of all awards satisfied with new issue shares under all plans must not exceed 10 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital in any rolling 10-year period. As of 31 December 2017, 796,147 shares were held by the Employee Benefit Trust (2016: 818,775) and the commitments to issue new shares are summarised below: Percentage of Percentage Shares issued or committed to be issued in the 10-year period Number of issued share Dilution of dilution to 31 December 2017 shares capital limit limit used New issue shares under discretionary share plans within 5% limit (includes LTIPs and shares issued to executives under the historical Asset and Equity Plan and Executive Share Option Scheme) 14,075,225 2.68% 26,252,290 53.62% As above plus all-employee share plans within 10% limit (includes SAYE, PVSP and shares issued to employees under the historical Asset and Equity Plan) 38,074,370 7.25% 52,504,580 72.52% Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 110 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Share price movements during 2017 The mid-market closing price of the Company’s shares on 31 December 2017 was 76.25p (31 December 2016: 74.00p). The intra-day trading price of the Company’s shares during 2017 was between 99.50p and 42.75p. Executive Director external appointments Executive Directors are permitted to accept non-executive appointments outside the Company providing that the Board’s approval is sought. During the year, Tony Durrant served as a Non-Executive Director of Greenergy Fuels Holdings Limited for which he received a fee of £27,885 (2016: £50,000) and a bonus of £nil (2016: £2,000) for his services as a Non-Executive Director. He stepped down from the Board of Greenergy Fuels Holdings Limited on 10 May 2017. Tony Durrant also served as an Advisory Committee Member of FlowStream Commodities Ltd for which he receives an annual fee of US$20,000. US$10,000 of the annual fee was received during the year (2016: US$20,000). Robin Allan is Chairman of the Association of British Independent Oil Exploration Companies (‘BRINDEX’) and received no fee for this role. Robin Allan is also a Board member of Oil & Gas UK for which he receives no fee. Outstanding share awards Annual bonus scheme – Deferred Bonus Awards As at 31 December 2017 the following Deferred Bonus Awards were held in respect of the deferred element of the annual bonus awarded for the year ended 31 December 2016. Awards held at Market price of Awards held at 31 December shares on date Earliest vesting Director Date of grant 1 January 2017 Granted Lapsed Vested 2017 of award1 date Robin Allan 12.04.17 – 77,357 – – 77,357 65.85p 12.04.20 Tony Durrant 12.04.17 – 142,574 – – 142,574 65.85p 12.04.20 Richard Rose 12.04.17 – 72,437 – – 72,437 65.85p 12.04.20 Notes: 1 The average of the closing prices of a Premier Oil share over the five dealing days immediately preceding the award date. 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan – Deferred Share Awards At 31 December 2017, the Executive Directors held no outstanding Deferred Share Awards under the 2009 LTIP. Details of shares released during the year pursuant to Deferred Share Awards are shown in the table below. No Deferred Share Awards were granted during the year under the terms of the 2009 LTIP. Number of Number of Number of Number of Market Awards shares made Matching shares shares Number of price of held at subject to Awards lapsed released shares held at shares on Earliest Date of Type of 1 January award during granted during during 31 December date of Performance vesting Director grant award 2017 2017 during 2017 2017 20171 2017 award period date2 Robin 14.05.13 Deferred 59,878 – – – (59,878) – 393.30p N/A 01.01.16 Allan Share Tony 14.05.13 Deferred 63,870 – – – (63,870) – 393.30p N/A 01.01.16 Durrant Share Note: 1 There were no further performance conditions applicable to the vesting of Deferred Share Awards. 2 Vesting of the share awards was delayed due to prolonged trading restrictions. Awards vested on 23 March 2017 following the end of the restricted period. The closing price of the Company’s shares on the date of vesting was 65.50p. 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan – Equity Pool Awards As at 31 December 2017, two Equity Pools were outstanding, as follows: Outstanding Equity Pool allocation (% of Pool) Starting market Cycle Performance period capitalisation Tony Durrant Robin Allan Richard Rose 20151 01.01.15 – 31.12.17 £1,178m 6.00% 4.25% 4.25% 2016 01.01.16 – 31.12.18 £350m 6.00% 4.25% 4.25% Notes: 1 The Committee determined on 17 January 2018 that the 2015 Equity Pool Awards would not vest. For further details see page 101. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 111 STRATEGIC REPORT 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan – Performance Share Awards In each of 2014 and 2015, the Executive Directors were granted LTIP Performance Share Awards over shares with a value of 150 per cent GOVERNANCE of salary for the CEO and 125 per cent of salary for the other Executive Directors, with adjustments made for Tony Durrant and Richard Rose during 2015 as detailed in notes 2 and 3 below. The grant of Performance Share Awards in 2016 was approved by the Remuneration Committee in August 2016. Due to prolonged trading restrictions as a result of the ongoing refinancing of the Group’s debt, the grant of the awards could not take place in 2016 and the awards were granted following the release of the Company’s 2016 results in March 2017. As at 31 December 2017, the Executive Directors had the following outstanding Performance Share Awards under the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Awards Awards held at held at Market price of 1 January 31 December shares on date Performance Earliest Director Date of grant 2017 Granted Lapsed Vested 2017 of award period vesting date Robin 28.02.14 145,888 – (145,888) – – 303.10p 01.01.14 – 31.12.16 01.01.17 Allan 27.02.15 264,308 – – – 264,308 1 167.30p 01.01.15 – 31.12.17 01.01.18 12.04.174 – 294,203 – – 294,203 66.50p 01.01.16 – 31.12.18 01.01.19 410,196 294,203 (145,888) – 558,511 Tony 28.02.14 159,394 – (159,394) – – 303.10p 01.01.14 – 31.12.16 01.01.17 Durrant 22.08.14 92,9742 – (92,974) – – 334.70p 01.01.14 – 31.12.16 01.01.17 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 27.02.15 510,161 – – – 510,1611 167.30p 01.01.15 – 31.12.17 01.01.18 12.04.174 – 567,864 – – 567,864 66.50p 01.01.16 – 31.12.18 01.01.19 762,529 567,864 (252,368) – 1,078,025 Richard 09.09.14 84,7883 – (84,788) – – 341.30p 01.01.14 – 31.12.16 01.01.17 Rose 27.02.15 224,148 – – – 224,1481 167.30p 01.01.15 – 31.12.17 01.01.18 12.04.174 – 249,500 – – 249,500 66.50p 01.01.16 – 31.12.18 01.01.19 308,936 249,500 (84,788) – 473,648 Notes: 1 The Committee determined on 17 January 2018 that the 2015 Performance Share Awards will not vest. For further details see page 101. 2 Additional Performance Share Awards were granted to Tony Durrant on 22 August 2014 using the closing mid-market price on 21 August 2014 (334.70p) to calculate the number of shares under award. 3 Performance Share Awards were granted to Richard Rose on joining the Company on 9 September 2014 using the closing mid-market price on 8 September 2014 (341.30p) to calculate the number of shares under award. 4 The 2016 Performance Share Awards were approved by the Committee in August 2016. The grant of the awards was postponed due to prolonged trading restrictions as a result of the Company’s refinancing. The grants were made on 12 April 2017 following the release of the Company’s 2016 Final Results. 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan – Performance Share Awards The 2017 LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting and replaces the 2009 LTIP. Under the 2017 Policy, Performance Share Awards may be granted up to 175 per cent of salary. This amount was scaled down to 87.5 per cent of salary for awards granted to Executive Directors in 2017. As at 31 December 2017, the Executive Directors had the following outstanding Performance Share Awards under the 2017 LTIP: Awards held at Market price of Date of Awards held at 31 December shares on date Performance Earliest vesting Director grant 1 January 2017 Granted Lapsed Vested 2017 of award period date Robin Allan 01.09.17 – 562,784 – – 562,784 55.50p 01.01.17 01.09.201 – 31.12.19 Tony Durrant 01.09.17 – 905,227 – – 905,227 55.50p 01.01.17 01.09.201 – 31.12.19 Richard Rose 01.09.17 – 562,784 – – 562,784 55.50p 01.01.17 01.09.201 – 31.12.19 Notes: 1 Vested awards are subject to a Holding Period ending on 1 September 2022. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 112 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued TSR comparator group constituents, by Performance Share Awards Company 2015 2016 2017 Company 2015 2016 2017 Afren1 Indus Gas Africa Oil Ithaca Energy1 Aker BP (formerly Det norske oljeselskap)2 Lundin Petroleum Bankers Petroleum1 Marathon Oil Beach Energy Noble Energy Cairn Energy Oil Search Cairn India1 Ophir Energy Devon Energy Origin Energy DNO International Oryx Petroleum Dragon Oil1 PTT EP Energi Mega Persada Rockhopper Exploration EnQuest Salamander Energy1 Etab. Maurel et Prom Santos Faroe Petroleum SOCO International Gas Malaysia Talisman Energy1 Genel Energy Tullow Oil Gulf Keystone Woodside Petroleum Notes: 1 The following companies delisted during the performance period for the 2015 Awards and were removed from the 2015 comparator group by the Remuneration Committee during its final performance assessment: • Afren (delisted in August 2015) • Bankers Petroleum (delisted in October 2016) • Cairn India (delisted in April 2017) • Dragon Oil (delisted in January 2014) • Ithaca Energy (delisted in June 2017) • Salamander Energy (delisted in March 2015) • Talisman Energy (delisted in May 2015) 2 In September 2016, Det norske oljeselskap ASA changed its name to Aker BP ASA following the merger of Det norske oljeselskap ASA with BP Norge ASA. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 113 STRATEGIC REPORT 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan – Restricted Share Awards GOVERNANCE Under the 2017 Directors’ Remuneration Policy, Restricted Share Awards may be granted up to 40 per cent of salary. This amount was scaled down to 20 per cent of salary for awards granted to Executive Directors in 2017. As at 31 December 2017, the Executive Directors had the following outstanding Restricted Share Awards under the 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan: Awards held at Market price of Date of Awards held at 31 December shares on date Performance Earliest vesting Director grant 1 January 2017 Granted Lapsed Vested 2017 of award period date Robin Allan 01.09.17 – 128,636 – – 128,636 55.50p 01.01.17 01.09.201 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – 31.12.19 Tony Durrant 01.09.17 – 206,909 – – 206,909 55.50p 01.01.17 01.09.201 – 31.12.19 Richard Rose 01.09.17 – 128,636 – – 128,636 55.50p 01.01.17 01.09.201 – 31.12.19 Note: 1 Subject to the performance underpin and continued employment, one third of the total award vests on 1 September 2020, a further one third vests on 1 September 2021 and the balance of the awards vests on 1 September 2022. Vested awards are subject to a Holding Period ending on 1 September 2022. Conditional Share Awards On 23 March 2017, 26,135 deferred shares vested to Richard Rose pursuant to a Conditional Share Award Agreement dated 9 September ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 2014. The award was granted on joining the Company to buy out awards forfeited from his previous employer and which vested subject to continued employment to 31 December 2016; further details can be found in the 2014 Directors’ Remuneration Report, a copy of which is available on the Company’s website www.premier-oil.com. The market price of Premier Oil shares on the date of the award was 341.3p. The market price on the date of vesting was 66.50p. All-employee schemes The Executive Directors may also participate, on the same terms as all other eligible employees, in a Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’) and a Savings Related Share Option Scheme (‘SAYE Scheme’). Executive Directors’ interests under the SAYE Scheme are shown below: Options held at Options held at Date of Exercisable Acquisition price 1 January 31 December Director grant dates per share 2017 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2017 Robin Allan 04.05.16 01.06.19 – 30.11.19 42.00p 42,857 – – – 42,857 Tony Durrant 04.05.16 01.06.19 – 30.11.19 42.00p 42,857 – – – 42,857 Richard Rose 04.05.16 01.06.19 – 30.11.19 42.00p 42,857 – – – 42,857 Shares held beneficially in the SIP by the Executive Directors were as follows: Partnership and Total Partnership Total Matching Shares Matching Shares Shares held on Shares purchased in awarded in 2017 at acquired between 1 January 2017 at prices between prices between Shares held on 1 January and Director 2017 £0.525 and £0.882 £0.525 and £0.882 31 December 2017 7 March 2018 Robin Allan 28,100 2,334 2,334 32,768 960 Tony Durrant 17,647 2,333 2,333 22,313 960 Richard Rose 9,866 2,800 2,800 15,466 1,152 For and on behalf of the Remuneration Committee: Jane Hinkley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 March 2018 Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 114 Directors’ Report The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group, together with the audited Group financial statements and Auditors’ Report for the year ended 31 December 2017. There are certain disclosure requirements which form part of the Directors’ Report and are included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The location of information incorporated by reference into this Directors’ Report is set out on page 116. Dividend No dividend is proposed in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017 (2016: nil). Annual General Meeting The Company’s next Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday 16 May 2018 at 11.00am. The Notice of AGM, together with details of all resolutions which will be placed before the meeting, accompanies this report and is also available online at www.premier-oil.com. Directors The Directors of the Company as at 7 March 2018 are shown on pages 62 to 65. Joe Darby and David Lindsell stood down as Directors at the conclusion of the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2017. Dave Blackwood and Mike Wheeler were appointed as Directors on 10 August 2017. Mike Welton stepped down as a Director and Chairman of the Company on 1 September 2017 and on that date, Roy A Franklin was appointed as a Director of the Company and succeeded Mike Welton as Chairman. Articles of Association The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a General Meeting of shareholders. The Company’s Articles of Association contain provisions regarding the appointment, retirement and removal of Directors. A Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders in a General Meeting following nomination by the Board or a member (or members) entitled to vote at such a meeting. The Directors may appoint a Director during any year provided that the individual stands for election by shareholders at the next AGM. Further detail regarding the appointment and replacement of Directors is included in the Corporate Governance Report. Subject to applicable law and the Company’s Articles of Association, the Directors may exercise all powers of the Company. Details of the Matters Reserved for the Board are set out on the Company’s website and summarised in the Corporate Governance Report on page 67. Indemnification of Directors and insurance During the financial year, the Company had in place an indemnity to each of its Directors and the Company Secretary under which the Company will, to the fullest extent permitted by law and to the extent provided by the Articles of Association, indemnify them against all costs, charges, losses and liabilities incurred by them in the execution of their duties. The indemnity was in force for all Directors who served during the year. The Company also has Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance in place. Share capital Details of the Company’s issued share capital, together with details of any movement in the issued share capital during the year, are shown in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements on page 162. The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which carries no right to fixed income. Each share carries the right to one vote at General Meetings of the Company. Subject to applicable law and the Company’s Articles of Association, the Directors may exercise all powers of the Company, including the power to authorise the issue and/or market purchase of the Company’s shares, subject to an appropriate authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in a General Meeting and any conditions attaching to such authority. The current authority, approved at the Annual General Meeting held on 17 May 2017 (‘2017 AGM’), for the allotment of relevant securities is for a nominal amount of up to (i) £21,284,319 and (ii) equity securities up to a nominal amount of £42,568,638 less the nominal amount of any shares issued under part (i) of the authority. In addition to the authority given at the 2017 AGM, at the General Meeting held on 15 June 2017, in connection with the Company’s refinancing which was completed on 28 July 2017 shareholders authorised the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, Ordinary Shares in the Company up to a nominal amount of £59,039,247.10. This authority is specific to the issue of shares pursuant to the terms of the Company’s refinancing. Further details are contained in the Circular to Shareholders dated 30 May 2017, a copy of which can be accessed in the Shareholder Information section of the Company’s website. Furthermore, at the 2017 AGM, shareholders authorised the Directors to make market purchases up to a maximum of approximately 15 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital (being £9,577,943 in nominal value) excluding treasury shares. Any shares purchased under this authority may either be cancelled or held as treasury shares provided that the number of shares held does not exceed 10 per cent of issued share capital. No shares were bought back during the year. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 115 STRATEGIC REPORT There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, both of which are governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of GOVERNANCE the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 162 to 164. The voting rights in relation to the shares held within the Employee Benefit Trust are exercisable by the Trustee but it has no obligation to do so. Details of the number of shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 109. No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. American Depositary Receipt programme FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Company has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) programme which BNY Mellon administers and for which it acts as Depositary. Each ADR represents one Ordinary Share of the Company. The ADRs trade on the US over-the-counter market under the symbol PMOIY. Significant shareholdings As at 7 March 2018, the Company had received notification from the institutions below, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of their significant holdings of voting rights (3 per cent or more) in its Ordinary Shares: Date of notification Notified Notified to the stock number of percentage of Nature of Name of shareholder exchange voting rights voting rights1 holding Artemis Investment Management LLP 13.05.2015 25,451,951 4.98% Direct & Indirect ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Aviva plc and its subsidiaries1 27.04.2009 3,933,529 4.95% Direct & Indirect AXA Investment Managers SA 03.03.2017 23,907,981 4.68% Indirect Ameriprise Financial Inc 20.01.2012 24,666,346 4.66% Direct & Indirect Dimensional Fund Advisors LP 25.01.2018 27,895,398 3.65% Indirect Note: 1 Interests shown for Aviva plc and its subsidiaries pre-date the Share Split in 2011. Hedging and risk management Details of the Group’s hedging and risk management are provided in the Financial Review. A further disclosure has been made in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 155 to 160, related to various financial instruments and exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk. Significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling counterparties to exercise the following rights, in the event of a change of control of the Company: • Under the US$718,967,054 super senior revolving credit facility agreement between, among others, the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and a syndicate of financial institutions, upon a change of control the commitments under the agreement would be cancelled and all amounts owing would be immediately due and payable. • Under the US$1,781,032,945 senior revolving credit facility agreement between, among others, the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and a syndicate of financial institutions, upon a change of control the commitments under the agreement would be cancelled and all amounts owing would be immediately due and payable. • Under the £100 million and US$150 million term loan facilities between, among others, the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and current lenders, upon a change of control, the commitments under the agreement would be cancelled and all amounts owing would be immediately due and payable. • The Group has outstanding guaranteed convertible bonds (‘GCB’) with a principal amount of US$237.9 million. In the event of a change of control, the exchange price for the GCB would be adjusted downwards for a specified period. In addition, the bondholders would have the option to redeem the GCB at 101% of their principal amount, together with any accrued interest. • The Group has outstanding retail bonds with a principal amount of £150 million which were issued under a £500 million Euro Medium Term Notes programme. Upon a change of control, the bonds would become immediately redeemable, together with any accrued interest. • The Group has outstanding senior loan notes totalling €63.6million and US$335 million, which were issued to insurance companies and funds predominantly based in the US. Upon a change of control, the entire unpaid principal amount of the notes would become immediately prepayable, together with any accrued interest. • The Company has an outstanding English-law governed term loan facility totalling US$130 million. Upon a change of control, the commitments under the facility would be cancelled and all amounts owing would be immediately due and payable, together with accrued interest. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 116 Directors’ Report continued Political donations No political donations were made during the year (2016: US$nil). Significant events since 31 December 2017 Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are contained in note 27 to the financial statements on page 170. Information set out in the Strategic Report The Strategic Report set out on pages 1 to 57 provides a comprehensive review of the performance of the Company’s operations for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the potential future developments of those operations. The Strategic Report also includes details of the Company’s principal risks and uncertainties, and research and development activities during the year. Information regarding the Company’s policy applied during the year relating to the recruitment, employment, training, career development and promotion of staff, including employment and training of disabled persons and employee involvement, is included within the Corporate Responsibility Review in the Strategic Report on pages 54 to 55. In addition, information regarding the Company’s greenhouse gas emissions is also included in the Corporate Responsibility Review in the Strategic Report on page 53. In accordance with s414C (11) of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have chosen to set out the information outlined above, required to be included in the Directors’ Report, in the Strategic Report. The Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report together include the ‘management report’ for the purposes of the FCA’s Disclosure & Transparency Rules (DTR 4.1.8R). Information set out elsewhere in this Annual Report Information regarding the Company’s governance arrangements is included in the Corporate Governance Report and related Board Committee reports on pages 58 to 113. These sections of the report are incorporated into this report by reference. For the purposes of Listing Rule 9.8.4C R, the information required to be disclosed by Listing Rule 9.8.4 R can be found in the following locations: Listing Rule sub-section Item Location 9.8.4 (1) Interest capitalised Financial statements, note 5, page 142 9.8.4 (5) Waiver of emoluments by a director Directors’ Remuneration Report, page 98 Auditors Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Financial Statements confirms that: • so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and • the Director has taken all reasonable steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. • This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. By order of the Board: Andy Gibb Interim Company Secretary 7 March 2018 Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 117 STRATEGIC REPORT The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. GOVERNANCE Group financial statements Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union (‘EU’) and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards (‘IAS’) Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework. Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: • select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; • make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; • state whether Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework has been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and • prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business. In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 – ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ – requires that Directors: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION • properly select and apply accounting policies; • present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; • provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and • make an assessment of the Company’s and Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website (www.premier-oil.com). Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Directors’ responsibility statement We confirm to the best of our knowledge: 1. the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; 2. the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face; and 3. the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s position and performance, business model and strategy. This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2018 and is signed on its behalf by: Tony Durrant Richard Rose Chief Executive Officer Finance Director Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 118 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Premier Oil plc For the year ended 31 December 2017 Opinion In our opinion: • Premier Oil plc’s Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended; • the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union; • the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and • the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We have audited the financial statements of Premier Oil plc (‘Premier’) that comprise: Group Parent Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended Accounting policies notes 1 to 28 to the financial statements, Related notes 1 to 10 to the company financial statements including a including a summary of significant accounting policies summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below. We are independent of the Group and Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Use of our report This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs (UK) require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: • the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on page 24 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated; • the Directors’ confirmation set out on page 22 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity; • the Directors’ statement set out on page 42 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements; • whether the Directors’ statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit; or • the Directors’ explanation set out on page 29 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 119 STRATEGIC REPORT Overview of our audit approach GOVERNANCE Key audit matters • Audit transition • Recoverability of oil and gas assets, including estimation of oil and gas reserves • Deferred tax asset recoverability • Going concern assessment and covenant compliance • Decommissioning provision • Refinancing accounting Audit scope • We performed an audit of the complete financial information of nine components and audit FINANCIAL STATEMENTS procedures on specific balances for a further 11 components • The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 100% of earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’), Revenue and Total assets Materiality • Overall Group materiality of US$12 million which represents 2% of EBITDA, excluding profit on disposal of non-current assets Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team. We communicated key audit matters and our planned response to each risk to the Audit and Risk Committee in our November audit planning report. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the ADDITIONAL INFORMATION financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Audit transition Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee In the year of transition, as auditors we have to: The principal procedures performed included: In our first report presented to the Audit and Risk Committee in June 2017, we communicated • establish our knowledge of Premier by • shadowing the predecessor auditors in closing the procedures that we had carried out in order understanding specific risks, controls, policies meetings during the 2016 year-end at Group to establish our audit base in the year of and processes. This enables us to identify the and all key locations (London, Aberdeen, transition. risks of material misstatement within Premier’s Jakarta and Ho Chi Minh). This provided us with financial statements and to determine the insights on key issues and the audit approach; In our audit planning report to the Audit and scope of our audit; • holding planning meetings with Group and key Risk Committee in November 2017, we • establish the appropriateness of comparative location management in order to obtain an presented our initial views of risks of material amounts and the account balances at the understanding of the business and processes; misstatement, the procedures we planned to beginning of the period being audited; and undertake in response to the risks and our • understanding accounting policies and historic planned year-end audit materiality and scope. • understand accounting policies applied by accounting judgements by discussions with Premier to ensure that these are consistently Group management and reviewing We formally confirmed to the Audit and Risk applied between periods and are in documentation on specific accounting topics; Committee in the March 2018 meeting that accordance with IFRSs. • reviewing the predecessor auditors’ 2016 audit nothing had come to our attention that files in all key locations. This built on our materially impacted on the opening balances knowledge gained through shadowing during and comparative amounts. their year-end 2016 close meetings; and • site visits by the Group audit partner to all key locations. We built upon the knowledge gained through these procedures as we undertook our audit work and refined our views on risks and scope accordingly. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 120 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Premier Oil plc continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 Recoverability of oil and gas assets, including estimation of oil and gas reserve volumes Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Net impairment charge: US$252m Our response was primarily performed by the We reported to the Audit and Risk Committee (2016: US$556m). Group audit team, with input from our three audit in the March 2018 meeting that: teams responsible for components, covering Tangible oil and gas properties: US$2,369m 100% of the net impairment charge. • there was sufficient external evidence to (2016: US$2,710m). support the reasonableness of Premier’s We evaluated the completeness of management’s price assumptions – both in the short and Intangible evaluation and exploration (‘E&E’) assessment of the indicators of impairment or long-term; assets: US$1,062m (2016:US$1,011m). reversal for both intangible and tangible oil and • the impairment discount rate adopted by Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report gas assets through obtaining corroborating management for the UK was at the lower of (pages 76 and 77); Accounting policies evidence to support management’s assessment. an acceptable range of discount rates and (page 128); and notes 9 and 10 of the In conjunction with our EY valuations specialists, the inflation rate assumption was at the Consolidated Financial Statements we assessed the reasonableness of higher end of market data; (pages 146 to 148). management’s key assumptions, including oil and • the cost assumptions adopted by Accounting standards require management to gas prices, discount rates, and inflation rate. management were appropriate and assess at each reporting date whether indicators reasonable; and Where an indicator of impairment or reversal of of asset impairment exist. Where indicators of an oil and gas property existed, we obtained the • we had not identified any errors or factual impairment (or reversal) exist, management must underlying VIU model and tested the model differences between Premier’s internal and carry out an impairment test. integrity and appropriateness of management’s external oil and gas reserves and resource assumptions in estimating future cash flows. estimates that would materially impact the Management’s available capital budget could financial statements. pose a risk to the commercial ability to progress Our audit procedures also focused on the intangible assets to the development stage. Where indicators of impairment reversals were estimation of oil and gas reserve volumes including present, we were satisfied that the decisions to Management prepare their tangible asset assessing the appropriateness of reliance on reverse the previously recorded impairments impairment tests under the value-in-use management’s third party reserve estimators and were appropriate. methodology. The models include a number management’s internal reserve estimators. We of accounting estimates and judgements performed procedures to evaluate their objectivity Based on the results of audit procedures performed by management including: future and competency. We also compared the estimates performed, we concluded that the net oil and gas prices, discount rates, inflation rates, of the third party estimator with the internal impairment charge was reasonable. production forecasts, operating and capital reserve estimates and sought support for significant differences in estimates. In addition, as a result of audit procedures expenditures, and reserve volume estimates for performed, we considered management’s each cash-generating unit (‘CGU’). Changes to We also obtained an understanding and tested conclusion that there are no indicators of any of these key inputs could lead to a potential the design and implementation of key controls impairment relating to the carrying values of impairment or a reversal of impairment. related to the asset impairment and the reserves E&E assets across the Group as reasonable. This risk has remained consistent with the estimation processes. prior year. Deferred tax asset recoverability Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee US$1,462m (2016: US$1,304m). Our response was performed by the Group and We reported to the March 2018 meeting of the Aberdeen component audit teams covering Audit and Risk Committee that the deferred tax Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report 100% of the deferred tax balance. assets recognised are appropriate; however, we (page 77); Accounting policies (page 128); and noted that their utilisation is highly dependent note 19 of the Consolidated Financial Statements We ensured the forecasts used by management on forecast taxable profits generated from a (page 160). for assessing the recoverability of deferred tax number of North Sea fields. assets are consistent with those used for The recognition of material deferred tax asset assessing asset impairment. We noted that the assumptions underlying the balances is supported by forecasted future profit forecasts were consistent with those used taxable profits, primarily in the UK, which are We evaluated the reasonableness of tax planning for asset impairment testing and the going underpinned by management’s assumptions strategies applied in determining the concern assessment. on taxable profits, including oil and gas price recoverability of deferred tax assets. assumptions, the timing of unwinding of the deferred tax assets and impact of the asset We also obtained an understanding and tested disposal programme. the design and implementation of key controls related to the recoverability assessment. In some cases, the utilisation of these deferred tax assets extends over the full life of the fields. Sustained low commodity prices increase the risk that sufficient future taxable profits to support the recognition of deferred tax assets may not be realised. This risk has remained consistent with the prior year. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 121 STRATEGIC REPORT Going concern assessment and covenant compliance GOVERNANCE Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report Our response was performed by the Group and We reported to the March 2018 meeting of (page 76); Accounting policies (page 128); and Aberdeen audit teams. the Audit and Risk Committee that we believed note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements that the going concern assumption adopted in (page 150). We tested the relevant cash flow forecasts and the 2017 financial statements is appropriate, financing facilities in the cash flow model. based on the headroom estimated under the A refinancing agreement was finalised in July base case. 2017 reducing the uncertainty around Premier’s We ensured the budget and forecast used in the model has been approved by the Board and FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ability to remain a going concern. We noted that under production and oil price considered prior year forecast versus actual to downside stress cases, covenants could be Ongoing covenant compliance is a key assess historical accuracy. breached; however, we are satisfied that consideration for the going concern basis of the going concern assumption is appropriate accounting. We considered the reasonableness of all key assumptions as well as their consistency with based on Premier’s price assumptions and If oil and gas prices were to remain significantly other areas of the audit. mitigating actions. below those currently being realised or if production levels were to be significantly below We obtained the covenant ratio compliance current performance then, in the absence of any calculations and recalculated them to ensure mitigating actions, a breach of one or more of there were no breaches for each covenant ratio the financial covenants may arise. throughout the going concern period under Premier’s price assumptions. We performed sensitivity tests on the cash flow models, including loan covenants. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION We also tested the integrity of management’s going concern model and obtained an understanding and tested the design and implementation of key controls related to the processes. Decommissioning provision Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee US$1,432m (2016: US$1,325m). We performed audit procedures over this risk We reported to the March 2018 meeting of area in five business units, which covered 100% the Audit and Risk Committee that having Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report of the decommissioning provision. considered the components that make up the (page 77); Accounting policies (page 128); and decommissioning estimate in combination, we note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements We have tested the reasonableness of were satisfied the overall decommissioning (page 154). management’s discount rate used for the provision is reasonable. decommissioning provision based on Decommissioning provisions are inherently market data. subjective given they are based on estimates of costs that will be settled in the future. We evaluated the models used by management to determine the decommissioning cost estimate Management’s estimate has been based on including testing the integrity of the model for Premier’s internal estimates or, as applicable, mechanical and mathematical accuracy. third party operator estimates. We compared actual spend in the year to the This risk has remained consistent with the provision estimate. prior year. Where management utilised an internal or external specialist, we assessed their objectivity and competency. We also obtained an understanding and tested the design and implementation of key controls related to the process. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 122 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Premier Oil plc continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 Refinancing accounting Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report Our response was performed by the Group audit We reported to the March 2018 meeting of the (page 76); Accounting policies (page 128); and team, covering 100% of the amount at risk. Audit and Risk Committee that given the range note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements of different accounting treatments, we (page 151). We audited the calculations prepared by considered the potential bias that could impact management on a facility by facility basis and management in concluding on the appropriate The refinancing of the Group’s debt facilities recalculated the results of the 10% test. accounting. We did not detect any bias from was completed during July 2017. Due to the management and concluded management’s complexity of the refinancing and associated We considered a number of specific technical accounting issues relating to the refinancing and assessment of substantial versus nonaccounting, we deem it to be a significant risk substantial modification for each facility is in the current year. considered management’s conclusions on those issues. In each case, we considered the contrary reasonable. For each facility, we considered The accounting is governed by IAS 39, Financial arguments and concluded that the judgements contrary arguments and in each case concluded Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The management had reached were appropriate. We that the judgement management had reached most critical judgement relates to whether the also considered the impact of the accounting on was appropriate. refinancing is regarded as a substantial or covenant compliance. non-substantial modification. This judgement is made on a facility by facility basis and IAS 39 We also obtained an understanding and tested sets out a ‘10%-test’, which is a key determinant the design and implementation of key controls of whether a modification is substantial. related to the refinance accounting. The 10% test involves discounting the new cash flows at the old effective interest rate and comparing the result to the current carrying value. If the difference is greater than 10%, the modification is substantial. The difference in accounting for substantial versus non-substantial modification is significant. For a substantial modification, all original fees and new fees are written off to the income statement and the new debt is recognised at fair value. Revenue recognition is a significant risk presumed by ISAs (UK). It is not included above, as Premier’s revenue streams are largely routine in nature and do not involve significant judgement or use of significant estimates. Consequently, the auditing of revenue recognition did not have the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit or in directing the efforts of the engagement team. In the prior year, the predecessor auditors’ report included a key audit matter in relation to fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired from E.ON. This accounting was concluded in the prior year and therefore is not a key audit matter in the current year. An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group. Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity. In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements of the 41 reporting components of the Group, we selected 20 components covering entities within United Kingdom, Vietnam, Indonesia, Brazil, Mexico, the Falkland Islands, Pakistan and Mauritania, which represent the principal business units within the Group. Of the 20 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of nine components (‘full scope components’) which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics. For the remaining 11 components (‘specific scope components’), we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile. The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 100 per cent of the Group’s EBITDA, Revenue and Total assets. For the current year, the full scope components contributed 97 per cent of the Group’s EBITDA, 97 per cent of the Group’s Revenue and 85 per cent of the Group’s Total assets. The specific scope components contributed 3 per cent of the Group’s EBITDA, 3 per cent of the Group’s Revenue and 15 per cent of the Group’s Total assets. The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of the Group tested. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 123 STRATEGIC REPORT For the remaining 21 components, we performed other procedures including the following to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the consolidated financial statements: GOVERNANCE • review of Group-wide entity level controls, including the level of CEO, CFO and other Group management oversight; • analytical review procedures on a legal entity basis; • test consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations; • enquiry of management about unusual transactions in these components; and • review of minutes of Board meetings held throughout the period. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams. EBITDA Revenue Total assets Full scope 97% Full scope 97% Full scope 85% components components components Specific scope Specific scope Specific scope components 3% components 3% components 15% Other procedures 0% Other procedures 0% Other procedures 0% ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Changes from the prior year Procedures performed on the Pakistan operations and related disposal accounting were performed by the Group audit team, rather than engaging a local audit team. Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the Group audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction. For nine full scope and one specific scope component where the work was performed by three EY component teams (Aberdeen, Ho Chi Minh and Jakarta), we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole. The Group audit team interacted regularly with the EY component teams during each stage of the audit, were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process and reviewed key working papers. The Group audit team followed a programme of planned visits that was designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor visited all component teams during the current year’s audit cycle. Additional visits were undertaken by other members of the Group audit team to the component teams in Aberdeen, Ho Chi Minh and Jakarta. These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, meeting with local management, attending planning and closing meetings, and reviewing key audit working papers on risk areas. The Group audit team interacted regularly with the component teams during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process. This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We maintained continuous and open dialogue with our EY component teams in addition to holding formal meetings half yearly to ensure that we were fully aware of their progress and results of their procedures. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 124 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Premier Oil plc continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion. Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures. We determined materiality for the Group to be US$12 million, which is 2 per cent of EBITDA, excluding profit on disposal of non-current assets. In the prior year audit, the predecessor auditor adopted a materiality for the Group of US$12m based on 7 per cent of the average normalised pre-tax profit for the last three years. We believe that EBITDA provides us with a suitable basis for setting materiality as this measure is a particular focus of lenders, which is the basis of the covenants included in the new loan agreements and is a key performance indicator of the Group. We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be US$8 million, which is 0.5 per cent of total assets. During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and no changes were made. Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality. On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50 per cent of our planning materiality, namely US$6m. We have set performance materiality at this percentage based on our assessment of likelihood of misstatements based on our review of prior year audit adjustments and adjustments identified as part of our 2017 half year review. Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was US$1.5m to US$4m. Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial. We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of US$0.6m (2016: US$0.6m), which is set at 5 per cent of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion. Other information The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon. The Directors are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 125 STRATEGIC REPORT In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the GOVERNANCE following conditions: • Fair, balanced and understandable, set out on page 117 – the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit; or • Audit and Risk Committee reporting, set out on page 74 to 78 – the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee; or FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Directors’ statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, set out on page 117 – the parts of the Directors’ statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Company’s compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.10R(2) do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code. Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: • the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are ADDITIONAL INFORMATION prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and • the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors’ Report. We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or • the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or • certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 117, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group and Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 126 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Premier Oil plc continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud; to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses; and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit. However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management. Our approach was as follows: • We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to Premier and determined that the most significant are those that relate to the reporting framework (IFRSs, Companies Act 2006, the UK Corporate Governance Code and Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority) and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates. In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations that may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and laws and regulations relating to health and safety, employee matters, environmental and bribery and corruption practices. • We understood how the Group is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management and with those responsible for legal and compliance procedures. We designed audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraph above, including corroborating our enquiries through our review of Board minutes, papers provided to the Audit and Risk Committee and correspondence received from regulatory bodies, and noted that there was no contradictory evidence. • We assessed the susceptibility of Premier’s consolidated financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by incorporating data analytics and manual journal entry testing into our audit approach. Our journal entry audit procedures focused on addressing the risk of management override of controls at all full and specific audit scope entities, as well as review scope entities that are not dormant. Our audit procedures also covered post-closing year-end journal entries. We used our data analytics techniques to focus our testing on higher risk manual journal entries, journal entries related to the debt covenants, in particular unusual account pairing impacting revenue and completeness of costs, and other search criteria that could indicate management override or fraud. Data completeness checks were carried out to ensure that the journal entry population was complete. • Other procedures performed to address the risk of management override included assessing the key accounting estimates for evidence of management bias, evaluating the business rationale for significant unusual and one-off transactions, reviewing the minutes of the Board of Directors and Audit and Risk Committee, and including a level of unpredictability in our testing. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at https://www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’ report. Other matters we are required to address • We were appointed by the Company on 17 May 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods. The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is one year, covering the year ending 31 December 2017. • The non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company and we remain independent of the Group and the Parent Company in conducting the audit. • The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee. Gary Donald (Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor, London 7 March 2018 Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Premier Oil plc website is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website. 2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements Accounting Policies 127 For the year ended 31 December 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT General information Premier Oil plc is a limited company incorporated in Scotland and listed on the London Stock Exchange. The address of the registered GOVERNANCE office is Premier Oil plc, 4th Floor, Saltire Court, 20 Castle Terrace, Edinburgh, EH1 2EN. The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) are oil and gas exploration and production in the Falkland Islands, Indonesia, Pakistan, the United Kingdom, Vietnam and Rest of the World. These financial statements are presented in US dollars since that is the currency in which the majority of the Group’s transactions are denominated. Adoption of new and revised standards FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In the current year the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted, none of which have a material impact on the Group’s annual results. • Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: Disclosure Initiative • Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses • Amendments to IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: Clarification of the scope of disclosure requirements in IFRS 12 At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the European Union): • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments ADDITIONAL INFORMATION • IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts • IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers • IFRS 16 Leases • IFRS 10 and IAS 28 (amendments) Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture • IFRS 2 (amendments) Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions • IFRS 4 (amendments) Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts • IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts • Transfers of Investment Property — Amendments to IAS 40 • Annual Improvements 2014-2016 Cycle (issued in December 2016 Other than as disclosed below, the Directors do not expect that the adoption of the other Standards listed above will have a material effect on the financial statements of the Group in future periods. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (‘IFRS 15’) was issued in May 2014 and is effective 1 January 2018. When effective, IFRS 15 will replace all current revenue standards and interpretations in IFRS. IFRS 15 provides a single model of accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers based on the satisfaction of performance obligations identified by the entity. Premier will adopt IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018 and has elected to apply the ‘modified retrospective’ transition approach to implementation of IFRS 15. Following identification of performance obligations and allocation of transaction price to such performance obligations, revenue is recognised under IFRS 15 when or as the entity satisfies a performance obligation by transferring a promised good or service to a customer. A good or service is transferred when the customer obtains control of that good or service. Given the nature of Premier’s oil marketing and gas sales agreements, with control passing to the customer upon transfer of physical possession, Premier principally satisfies its performance obligations at a point in time as opposed to over a period of time and therefore accounting for revenue under IFRS 15 does not represent a significant change from current practice. Transactions with joint venture partners or collaborators are generally not considered to fall within the scope of IFRS 15 because they are not customers. As under/overlift adjustments represent transactions between the entity and its joint venture partners, under/overlift adjustments to revenue are no longer considered permissible following adoption of IFRS 15. Premier’s accounting policy is to adjust for over/underlift positions through cost of sales, measured at market value, whilst recognising an liability/asset to reflect the value of crude to be settled in future periods and will therefore not be affected by the adoption of IFRS 15. Due to IFRS 15 disclosure requirements Premier expects to provide a more detailed disaggregation of its revenue by type as well as detail on performance obligations and any significant judgements made in applying the standard. Additional disclosures will be presented for the year ended 31 December 2018 as part of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments became effective on 1 January 2018 and will affect both the measurement of and disclosures relating to financial instruments. However, we do not expect this to give rise to any material adjustments to the Group’s accounting policies. However, the carrying amount of borrowings refinanced in the year which were not considered substantially modified will increase on transition by the present value of the additional interest payable. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 128 Accounting Policies continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 IFRS 16 becomes effective from 1 January 2019 and it is likely to require a number of potentially significant changes to the treatment of our lease arrangements. In particular the FPSO lease arrangements for Catcher and Chim Sáo, whereby we expect to recognise the leased FPSOs as assets and liabilities from these lease arrangements on our balance sheet from 1 January 2019, with a consequential impact on the profile and phasing of income statement recognition. Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union. The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for derivative financial instruments that have been measured at fair value, including the equity and synthetic warrants, and the recognition of the substantially modified convertible bond notes during the year. The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis. Further information relating to the use of the going concern assumption, is provided in the ‘Going Concern’ section of the Financial Review as set out on page 42. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below. Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) made up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved when a company is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by other members of the Group. All significant inter-company transactions and balances between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation. Critical accounting judgements Details of the Group’s significant accounting judgements are set out in these financial statements and are considered to be: • the application of the going concern basis of accounting (basis of preparation section above); • carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation assets (note 9 on page 146), in relation to whether commercial determination of an exploration prospect had been reached; • accounting for the refinancing (note 15 on page 151), as to whether the Group’s borrowing facilities were substantially modified; • carrying value of property, plant and equipment (note 10 on page 148) regarding assessing assets for indicators of impairment; • decommissioning costs (note 17 on page 154), relating to the timing of when decommissioning would occur; and • tax and recognition of deferred tax assets (note 19 on page 161), relating to the extent to which future cash flows are included. Key sources of estimation uncertainty Details of the Group’s critical accounting estimates are set out in these financial statements and are considered to be: • carrying value of property, plant and equipment (note 10 on page 148), where the key assumptions relate to oil and gas prices expected to be realised, 2P production profiles and estimated future costs; • decommissioning costs (note 17 on page 154, where the key assumptions relate to the discount and inflation rates applied, applicable rig rates and expected timing of COP from each field; • estimating the fair value of the equity and synthetic warrants recognised in the year (note 18 on page 157), where key assumptions relate to expected timing of exercise and future share price volatility; and, • tax and recognition of deferred tax assets (note 19 on page 161), where key assumptions relate to oil and gas prices expected to be realised, 2P production profiles and estimated future costs. Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values (at the acquisition date) of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value. Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments (see below). All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs with any gains or losses recorded in the income statement, unless it is classified as equity. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 129 STRATEGIC REPORT The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: GOVERNANCE • deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively; • liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquiree’s share-based payment awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment; and • assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period (see below), or additional assets or liabilities are recognised to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date. The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year. Goodwill Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired (the acquisition date). Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets ADDITIONAL INFORMATION acquired and the liabilities assumed. If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as an excess of fair value over cost. Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period. On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal. Interest in joint arrangements A joint arrangement is one in which two or more parties have joint control. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. Most of the Group’s activities are conducted through joint operations, whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have the rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement. The Group reports its interests in joint operations using proportionate consolidation – the Group’s share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the joint operation are combined with the equivalent items in the consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line basis. A joint venture, which normally involves the establishment of a separate legal entity, is a contractual arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have the rights to the arrangement’s net assets. The results, assets and liabilities of a joint venture are incorporated in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting. During 2017, the Group did not have any material interests in joint ventures. Where the Group transacts with its joint operations, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the joint operation. Interests in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence, through the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but which is not a subsidiary or a joint arrangement. The results, assets and liabilities of an associate are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting. Assets held for sale Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 130 Accounting Policies continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 Discontinued operations A disposal group qualifies as discontinued operation if it is a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale, and represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operation. Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations and are presented as a single amount as profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations in the statement of profit or loss. Sales revenue and other income Sales of petroleum production are recognised when risks and rewards are transferred which is typically when goods are delivered or the title has passed to the customer. Under the Group’s joint operation arrangements, revenue is recognised according to the actual liftings. However, where liftings do not match working interest or entitlement interest, an adjustment is made to cost of sales representing the amount due to/from joint venture partners representing over/underlift movements. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established. Oil and gas assets The Company applies the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and evaluation (‘E&E’) costs, having regard to the requirements of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources. (a) Exploration and evaluation assets Under the successful efforts method of accounting, all licence acquisition, exploration and appraisal costs are initially capitalised in well, field or specific exploration cost centres as appropriate, pending determination. Expenditure incurred during the various exploration and appraisal phases is then written off unless commercial reserves have been established or the determination process has not been completed. Pre-licence costs Costs incurred prior to having obtained the legal rights to explore an area are expensed as they are incurred. Exploration and evaluation costs Costs of E&E are initially capitalised as E&E assets. Payments to acquire the legal right to explore, costs of technical services and studies, seismic acquisition, exploratory drilling and testing are capitalised as intangible E&E assets. Tangible assets used in E&E activities (such as the Group’s vehicles, drilling rigs, seismic equipment and other property, plant and equipment used by the Company’s Exploration Function) are classified as property, plant and equipment. However, to the extent that such a tangible asset is consumed in developing an intangible E&E asset, the amount reflecting that consumption is recorded as part of the cost of the intangible asset. Such intangible costs include directly attributable overhead, including the depreciation of property, plant and equipment utilised in E&E activities, together with the cost of other materials consumed during the exploration and evaluation phases. E&E costs are not amortised prior to the conclusion of appraisal activities. Treatment of E&E assets at conclusion of appraisal activities Intangible E&E assets related to each exploration licence/prospect are carried forward until the existence (or otherwise) of commercial reserves has been determined subject to certain limitations, including review for indications of impairment. If commercial reserves have been discovered, the carrying value, after any impairment loss, of the relevant E&E assets, is then reclassified as development and production assets, once a field development plan has been approved or a gas sales agreement has been signed. If, however, commercial reserves have not been found, the capitalised costs are charged to expense after conclusion of appraisal activities. (b) Oil and gas properties Oil and gas properties are accumulated generally on a field-by-field basis and represent the cost of developing the commercial reserves discovered and bringing them into production, together with the E&E expenditures incurred in finding commercial reserves transferred from intangible E&E assets, as outlined in accounting policy (a) above. The cost of oil and gas properties also includes the cost of acquisitions and purchases of such assets, directly attributable overheads, finance costs capitalised, and the cost of recognising provision for future restoration and decommissioning. Depreciation of producing assets The net book values of producing assets (including pipelines) are depreciated generally on a field-by-field basis using the unit-ofproduction method by reference to the ratio of production in the year and the related commercial (proved and probable) reserves of the field, taking into account future development expenditures necessary to bring those reserves into production. Producing assets are generally grouped with other assets that are dedicated to serving the same reserves for depreciation purposes, but are depreciated separately from producing assets that serve other reserves. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 131 STRATEGIC REPORT (c) Impairment of oil and gas properties’ assets An impairment test is performed whenever events and circumstances arising during the development or production phase indicate GOVERNANCE that the carrying value of an oil and gas property may exceed its recoverable amount. The carrying value is compared against the expected recoverable amount of the asset, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash flows expected to be derived from production of commercial reserves. The cash-generating unit applied for impairment test purposes is generally the field, except that a number of field interests may be grouped as a single cash-generating unit where the cash inflows of each field are interdependent. Any impairment identified is charged to the income statement. Where conditions giving rise to impairment subsequently reverse, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the effect of the impairment charge is also reversed as a credit to the income statement, net of any depreciation that would have been charged since the impairment. (d) Acquisitions, asset purchases and disposals Acquisitions of oil and gas properties are accounted for using the acquisition method when the assets acquired and liabilities assumed constitute a business. Transactions involving the purchase of an individual field interest, or a group of field interests, that do not constitute a business, are treated as asset purchases irrespective of whether the specific transactions involve the transfer of the field interests directly or the transfer of an incorporated entity. Accordingly, no goodwill and no deferred tax gross up arises, and the consideration is allocated to the assets and liabilities purchased on an appropriate basis. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Proceeds on disposal are applied to the carrying amount of the specific intangible asset or oil and gas properties disposed of and any surplus is recorded as a gain on disposal in the income statement. (e) Decommissioning Provision for decommissioning is recognised in full when the related facilities are installed. The amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure. A corresponding amount equivalent to the provision is also recognised as part of the cost of the related oil and gas property. This is subsequently depreciated as part of the capital costs of the production facilities. Any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure is dealt with from the start of the financial year as an adjustment to the opening provision and the oil and gas property. The unwinding of the discount is included as a finance cost. Inventories Inventories, except for petroleum products, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Petroleum products and underlifts and overlifts of crude oil are measured at net realisable value using an observable year-end oil or gas market price, and included in inventories and other debtors or creditors respectively. Tax The tax expense/credit represents the sum of the tax currently payable/recoverable and deferred tax movements during the year. The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from any excess of fair value over cost, or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. The Group reassesses its unrecognised deferred tax asset each year taking into account changes in oil and gas prices, the Group’s proven and probable reserve profile and forecast capital and operating expenditures. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 132 Accounting Policies continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. Translation of foreign currencies In the accounts of individual companies, transactions denominated in foreign currencies, being currencies other than the functional currency, are recorded in the local currency at actual exchange rates as of the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rate subsequent to the dates of the transactions is included as an exchange gain or loss in the income statement. Non-monetary assets held at historic cost are translated at the date of purchase and are not retranslated. On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are generally translated at the average exchange rates for the year. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised as other comprehensive income or expense and are transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. When an overseas operation is disposed of, such translation differences relating to it are recognised as income or expense. Group retirement benefits Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution plans where the Group’s obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit plan. The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme, which requires contributions to be made to a separately administered fund. The cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income. The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as reduced by the fair value of plan assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan. Royalties Royalties are charged as production costs to the income statement in the year in which the related production is recognised as income. Leasing Rentals payable for assets under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Trade receivables Trade receivables are stated at amortised cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the year in which they arise. Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly relating to the construction or production of a qualifying capital project under construction are capitalised and added to the project cost during construction until such time as the asset is substantially ready for its intended use, i.e. when it is capable of commercial production. Where the funds used to finance a project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the Group during the period. All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. Trade payables Initial recognition of trade payables is at fair value. Subsequently they are stated at amortised cost. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 133 STRATEGIC REPORT Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments (derivatives) to manage its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, GOVERNANCE interest rates and oil price fluctuations. During the year the Group issued equity and synthetic warrants in connection with the refinancing, which are also accounted for as derivatives. Derivatives are carried at fair value. Apart from those derivatives designated as qualifying cash flow hedging instruments, all changes in fair value are recorded as financial income or expense in the year in which they arise. For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedging relationships may be of three types: fair value hedges are hedges of particular risks that may change the fair value of a recognised asset or liability; cash flow hedges are hedges of particular risks that may change the amount FINANCIAL STATEMENTS or timing of future cash flows; and hedges of net investment in a foreign entity are hedges of particular risks that may change the carrying value of the net assets of a foreign entity. Currently the Group only has cash flow hedge relationships. To qualify for hedge accounting the hedging relationship must meet several strict conditions on documentation, probability of occurrence, hedge effectiveness and reliability of measurement. If these conditions are not met, then the relationship does not qualify for hedge accounting. In this case the hedging instrument and the hedged item are reported independently as if there were no hedging relationship. In particular, any derivatives are reported at fair value, with changes in fair value included in financial income or expense. For qualifying cash flow hedges, the hedging instrument is recorded at fair value. The portion of any change in fair value that is an effective hedge is included in equity, and any remaining ineffective portion is reported in financial income. If the hedging relationship is the hedge of a firm commitment or highly probable forecasted transaction, the cumulative changes of fair value of the hedging ADDITIONAL INFORMATION instrument that have been recorded in equity are included in the initial carrying value of the asset or liability at the time it is recognised. For all other qualifying cash flow hedges, the cumulative changes of fair value of the hedging instrument that have been recorded in equity are included in financial income as and when the forecasted transaction affects net income. Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or non-derivative host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement. Embedded derivatives which are closely related to host contracts, including in particular any price caps and floors within the Group’s oil sales contracts, are not separated and are not carried at fair value. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. It is determined by reference to quoted market prices adjusted for estimated transaction costs that would be incurred in an actual transaction, or by the use of established estimation techniques such as option pricing models and estimated discounted values of cash flows. Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits. Cash equivalents comprise funds held in term deposit accounts with an original maturity not exceeding three months. Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value (excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions. Fair value is measured by use of a Monte Carlo simulation model. The main assumptions are provided in note 21 on page 163. Convertible bonds The net proceeds received from the issue of convertible bonds are split between a liability element and an equity component at the date of issue. The fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt. The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, is included in equity and is not re-measured. The liability component is carried at amortised cost. Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue. The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity. The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate, at the time of issue, for similar non-convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument. Any difference between this amount and the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bonds. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 134 Consolidated Income Statement For the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 Note US$ million US$ million Restated1 Continuing operations Sales revenues 1 1,043.1 937.0 Other operating income/(costs) 17 18.8 (6.1) Costs of operation 2 (455.4) (412.7) Depreciation, depletion, amortisation and impairment 1 (667.8) (888.3) Reduction in decommissioning estimates – 75.7 Exploration expense and pre-licence costs 9 (17.1) (58.5) Excess of fair value over costs of acquisition – 228.5 Costs related to the acquisition of subsidiaries – (21.6) Profit on disposal of non-current assets 7 129.0 – General and administration costs (16.8) (24.1) Operating profit/(loss) 33.8 (170.1) Interest revenue, finance and other gains 5 12.6 15.0 Finance costs, other finance expenses and losses 5 (329.0) (258.8) Loss on substantial modification 15 (83.7) – Loss before tax from continuing operations (366.3) (413.9) Tax 6 96.1 522.6 (Loss)/profit for the year from continuing operations (270.2) 108.7 Discontinued operations Profit for the year from discontinued operations 7 16.4 13.9 (Loss)/profit after tax (253.8) 122.6 (Loss)/earnings per share (cents): From continuing operations Basic 8 (52.6) 21.3 Diluted 8 (52.6) 20.8 From continuing and discontinued operations Basic 8 (49.4) 24.0 Diluted 8 (49.4) 23.5 Note: 1 Restated for the classification of the Pakistan Business Unit as a discontinued operation and certain line items to match current year classification. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 135 For the year ended 31 December 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 2017 2016 GOVERNANCE Note US$ million US$ million Restated1 (Loss)/profit for the year (253.8) 122.6 Cash flow hedges on commodity swaps: Losses arising during the year (25.6) (38.3) Less: reclassification adjustments for losses/(gains) in the year 11.4 (92.4) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18 (14.2) (130.7) Cash flow hedges on interest rate and foreign exchange swaps: (Losses)/gains arising during the year (33.9) 60.9 Less: reclassification adjustments for losses/(gains) in the year 23.1 (57.6) 18 (10.8) 3.3 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 19 7.5 56.1 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (4.9) 3.0 Gains on long-term employee benefit plans2 – 0.2 Other comprehensive expense (22.4) (68.1) Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (276.2) 54.5 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes: 1 Restated for the classification of the Pakistan Business Unit as a discontinued operation. 2 Only item above not expected to be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss account. All comprehensive income is attributable to the equity holders of the parent. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 136 Consolidated Balance Sheet As at 31 December 2017 2017 2016 Note US$ million US$ million Non-current assets: Intangible exploration and evaluation assets 9 1,061.9 1,011.4 Property, plant and equipment 10 2,381.0 2,726.2 Goodwill 10 240.8 240.8 Long-term receivables 11 160.8 149.6 Deferred tax assets 19 1,461.5 1,304.0 5,306.0 5,432.0 Current assets: Inventories 13.5 22.3 Trade and other receivables 11 340.6 315.1 Derivative financial instruments 18 14.5 34.9 Cash and cash equivalents 12 365.4 255.9 Assets held for sale 7 96.6 – 830.6 628.2 Total assets 6,136.6 6,060.2 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 13 (572.9) (412.6) Short-term provisions 17 (91.2) (56.1) Derivative financial instruments 18 (99.8) (57.2) Short-term debt 15 – (273.0) Deferred income 14 (13.1) (27.3) Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 7 (46.6) – (823.6) (826.2) Net current assets/(liabilities) 7.0 (198.0) Non-current liabilities: Long-term debt 15 (2,972.6) (2,730.5) Deferred tax liabilities 19 (164.0) (192.6) Deferred income 14 (80.3) (88.1) Derivative financial instruments 18 (108.3) (101.6) Long-term provisions 17 (1,370.9) (1,312.1) (4,696.1) (4,424.9) Total liabilities (5,519.7) (5,251.1) Net assets 616.9 809.1 Equity and reserves: Share capital 20 109.0 106.7 Share premium account 284.5 275.4 Other reserves 26 223.4 427.0 616.9 809.1 The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 7 March 2018. They were signed on its behalf by: Tony Durrant Richard Rose Chief Executive Officer Finance Director Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 137 For the year ended 31 December 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Attributable to the equity holders of the parent GOVERNANCE Share Share premium Other capital account reserves Total US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million At 1 January 2016 106.7 275.4 352.6 734.7 Purchase of ESOP Trust shares – – 0.2 0.2 Provision for share-based payments – – 19.7 19.7 Profit for the year – – 122.6 122.6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other comprehensive expense – – (68.1) (68.1) At 1 January 2017 106.7 275.4 427.0 809.1 Issue of Ordinary Shares 2.3 9.1 1.1 12.5 Net release of ESOP Trust shares – – (0.2) (0.2) Provision for share-based payments – – 14.5 14.5 Incremental equity component of revised convertible bonds – – 57.2 57.2 Loss for the year – – (253.8) (253.8) Other comprehensive expense – – (22.4) (22.4) At 31 December 2017 109.0 284.5 223.4 616.9 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 138 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement For the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 Note US$ million US$ million Restated1 Net cash from operating activities 22 496.0 431.4 Investing activities: Capital expenditure (275.6) (662.6) Acquisition of subsidiaries – (135.0) Cash balance acquired in the period – 24.9 Decommissioning pre-funding 11 (16.7) (62.3) Decommissioning expenditure (25.7) (15.5) Proceeds from disposal of oil and gas properties 202.3 (8.8) Net cash used in investing activities (115.7) (859.3) Financing activities: Issuance of Ordinary Shares 0.8 – Net (release)/purchase of ESOP Trust shares (0.2) 0.2 Proceeds from drawdown of long-term bank loans 45.0 435.0 Debt arrangement fees (86.0) (26.3) Interest paid (223.7) (126.3) Net cash from financing activities (264.1) 282.6 Currency translation differences relating to cash and cash equivalents (6.7) (0.1) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 109.5 (145.4) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 255.9 401.3 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 22 365.4 255.9 Note: 1 Restated for certain line items to match current year classification. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 139 For the year ended 31 December 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1. Operating segments The Group’s operations are located and managed in five business units: namely the Falkland Islands, Indonesia, Vietnam, the United GOVERNANCE Kingdom and the Rest of the World. The results for Pakistan are reported as a discontinued operation; the income statement in the prior year has been restated to reflect this and certain line items to match current year reclassification. The results for Mauritania have been reclassified into the Rest of the World Business Unit. Some of the business units currently do not generate revenue or have any material operating income. The Group is only engaged in one business of upstream oil and gas exploration and production. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Restated Revenue: Indonesia 171.8 141.1 Vietnam 210.7 192.0 United Kingdom 655.9 598.0 Rest of the World1 4.7 5.9 Total Group sales revenue 1,043.1 937.0 Other operating income – United Kingdom 18.8 – ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Interest and other finance revenue 1.7 0.7 Total Group revenue from continuing operations 1,063.6 937.7 Group operating profit/(loss): Indonesia 65.3 35.6 Vietnam 82.6 86.3 United Kingdom (86.4) (225.0) Rest of the World1 (5.0) (32.2) Unallocated2 (22.7) (34.8) Group operating profit/(loss) 33.8 (170.1) Interest revenue, finance and other gains 12.6 15.0 Finance costs and other finance expenses (329.0) (258.8) Loss on substantial modification (83.7) – Loss before tax from continuing operations (366.3) (413.9) Tax 96.1 522.6 (Loss)/profit after tax from continuing operations (270.2) 108.7 Profit from discontinued operations 16.4 13.9 Balance sheet Segment assets: Falkland Islands 633.1 642.9 Indonesia 440.4 480.2 Pakistan (including Mauritania) – 44.8 Vietnam 374.4 399.0 United Kingdom 4,116.2 4,136.5 Rest of the World1 96.0 66.0 Assets held for sale 96.6 – Unallocated2 379.9 290.8 Total assets 6,136.6 6,060.2 Notes: 1 Segmental income, assets, liabilities and capital additions for Mauritania have been included within the Rest of the World for the current year. 2 Unallocated expenditure, assets and liabilities include amounts of a corporate nature and not specifically attributable to a geographical segment. These items include corporate general and administration costs, pre-licence exploration costs, cash and cash equivalents, mark-to-market valuations of commodity contracts and interest rate swaps, convertible bonds, warrants and other short-term and long-term debt. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 140 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 1. Operating segments continued 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Liabilities: Falkland Islands (8.2) (45.6) Indonesia (223.9) (244.5) Pakistan (including Mauritania) – (76.3) Vietnam (203.4) (202.1) United Kingdom (1,802.1) (1,516.8) Rest of the World1 (54.8) (3.5) Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale (46.6) – Unallocated2 (3,180.7) (3,162.3) Total liabilities (5,519.7) (5,251.1) Other information Capital additions and acquisitions: Falkland Islands 12.9 59.2 Indonesia 7.4 (2.7) Pakistan (including Mauritania) 7.1 0.9 Vietnam 20.2 (7.4) United Kingdom 444.3 1,247.7 Rest of the World1 28.7 26.4 Total capital additions and acquisitions 520.6 1,324.1 Depreciation, depletion, amortisation and impairment: Indonesia 57.2 52.7 Vietnam 64.5 45.0 United Kingdom 542.9 790.4 Rest of the World 3.2 0.2 Total depreciation, depletion, amortisation and impairment (continuing operations) 667.8 888.3 Total depreciation, depletion, amortisation and impairment3 (discontinued operations) 7.3 8.2 Notes: 1 Segmental income, assets, liabilities and capital additions for Mauritania have been included within the Rest of the World for the current year. 2 Unallocated expenditure, assets and liabilities include amounts of a corporate nature and not specifically attributable to a geographical segment. These items include corporate general and administration costs, pre-licence exploration costs, cash and cash equivalents, mark-to-market valuations of commodity contracts and interest rate swaps, convertible bonds, warrants and other short-term and long-term debt. 3 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation for the Pakistan Business Unit was charged until 30 June 2017, which was the date of reclassification to an asset held for sale. Out of the total Group worldwide sales revenues of US$1,043.1 million (2016: US$937.0 million restated), revenues of US$655.9 million (2016: US$598.0 million) arose from sales of oil and gas to customers located in the UK. Included in assets arising from the United Kingdom segment are non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets) of US$2,455.7 million (2016: US$2,640.6 million) located in the UK. Included in depreciation, depletion, amortisation and impairment are net impairment charges in relation to the UK of US$252.2 million (2016: US$587.9 million). Revenue from three customers (2016: three customers) each exceeded 10 per cent of the Group’s consolidated revenue and amounted to US$240.3 million arising from sales of crude oil (2016: two customers amounting to US$155.4 million and US$157.4 million), and US$121.4 million and US$168.3 million arising from sales of gas (2016: one customer US$112.0 million). Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 141 STRATEGIC REPORT 2. Costs of operation GOVERNANCE 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Restated1 Operating costs 438.4 402.7 Gas purchases 5.5 12.4 Stock overlift/underlift movement 1.3 (12.1) Royalties 10.2 9.7 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 455.4 412.7 Note: 1 Restated for the classification of the Pakistan Business Unit as a discontinued operation. 3. Auditors’ remuneration 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million2 Audit fees: Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the Company’s Annual Report 0.6 0.7 Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.2 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 0.9 0.9 Non-audit fees: Other services pursuant to legislation – interim review 0.2 0.1 Tax services – 0.3 Corporate finance services1 0.4 1.0 Other services – 0.1 0.6 1.5 Notes: 1 Other services relate to fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s joint operations and other assurance services. 2 The 2016 audit and non-audit fees were paid to Deloitte LLP. The Company has a policy on the provision of non-audit services by the auditor which is aimed at ensuring their continued independence. This policy is available on the Group’s website. The use of the external auditor for services relating to accounting systems or financial statement preparations is not permitted, as are various other services that could give rise to conflicts of interest or other threats to the auditors’ objectivity that cannot be reduced to an acceptable level by applying safeguards. 4. Staff costs 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Staff costs, including Executive Directors: Wages and salaries 94.0 102.3 Social security costs 6.8 7.3 Pension costs: Defined contribution 6.7 8.6 Defined benefit 3.0 2.8 110.5 121.0 Staff costs above are recharged to joint venture partners or capitalised to the extent that they are directly attributable to capital projects. The above costs include share-based payments to employees as disclosed in note 21 on page 162. 2017 2016 Average number of employees during the year: Technical and operations 531 557 Management and administration 258 244 789 801 Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 142 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 5. Interest revenue and finance costs 2017 2016 Note US$ million US$ million Restated1 Interest revenue, finance and other gains: Short-term deposits and loans 1.7 0.7 Derivative gains 18 10.9 5.2 Exchange differences and other gains – 9.1 12.6 15.0 Finance costs: Bank loans, overdrafts and bonds (177.3) (110.3) Payable in respect of convertible bonds (13.3) (10.9) Payable in respect of senior loan notes (34.3) (28.7) Long-term debt arrangements fees (22.0) (11.1) Exchange differences and other costs (34.7) (4.9) (281.6) (165.9) Other finance expenses: Unwinding of discount on decommissioning provision 17 (62.5) (57.4) Derivative losses 18 (33.0) (54.6) Finance income/(expense) on deferred income 14 6.8 (14.9) (88.7) (126.9) Gross finance costs and other finance expenses (370.3) (292.8) Finance costs capitalised during the year 41.3 34.0 (329.0) (258.8) Note: 1 Restated for the classification of the Pakistan Business Unit as a discontinued operation. The amount of finance costs capitalised was determined by applying the weighted average rate of finance costs applicable to the borrowings of the Group of 7.3 per cent (2016: 4.6 per cent) to the expenditures on the qualifying assets. 6. Tax 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Restated1 Current tax: UK corporation tax on profits (0.8) (3.0) UK petroleum revenue tax (8.2) (0.8) Overseas tax 75.6 44.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 8.2 0.7 Total current tax 74.8 41.5 Deferred tax: UK corporation tax (146.2) (544.4) UK petroleum revenue tax – (14.4) Overseas tax (24.7) (5.3) Total deferred tax (170.9) (564.1) Tax on loss on ordinary activities (96.1) (522.6) Note: 1 Restated for the classification of the Pakistan Business Unit as a discontinued operation. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 143 STRATEGIC REPORT The tax credit for the year can be reconciled to the loss per the consolidated income statement as follows: GOVERNANCE 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Restated1 Group loss on ordinary activities before tax (366.3) (413.9) Group loss on ordinary activities before tax at 29.1% weighted average rate (2016: 58.1%) 1 (106.6) (240.6) Tax effects of: Income/expenses that are not taxable/deductible in determining taxable profit 40.6 9.4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financing costs disallowed for UK supplementary charge 16.4 14.4 Non-deductible field expenditure 36.1 63.2 Tax and tax credits not related to profit before tax (mainly ring fence expenditure supplement) (69.9) (60.7) Unrecognised tax losses 6.1 2.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years (3.2) 8.6 Utilisation and recognition of tax losses not previously recognised (0.8) (392.5) Effect of change in tax rates (0.5) 161.5 Recognition that decommissioning provision will unwind at 50% (14.3) (27.1) Recognition of investment allowances not previously recognised – (61.6) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tax credit for the year (96.1) (522.6) Effective tax rate for the year 26.2% 126.3% Note: 1 Restated for the classification of the Pakistan Business Unit as a discontinued operation. The deferred tax credit primarily arises due to UK-specific deferred tax items. This includes the deferred tax credit associated with the UK impairment charge for the period (US$101.8 million) which is partially offset by an element of the UK impairment charge for the year that does not attract a deferred tax offset (US$19.6 million). This also includes the deferred tax credit which arises on the generation of new UK ring fence tax losses, allowances and ring fence expenditure supplement which are recognised in full for deferred tax purposes. The weighted average rate is calculated based on the tax rates weighted according to the profit or loss before tax earned by the Group in each jurisdiction. The change in the weighted average rate year-on-year relates to the mix of profit and loss in each jurisdiction. The future effective tax rate for the Group is impacted by the mix of jurisdictions in which the Group operates (with corporation tax rates ranging from 20 per cent to 55 per cent), assumptions around future oil prices and changes to tax rates and legislation. 7. Discontinued operations, disposals and assets held for sale 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Net profit for the year attributable to Pakistan Business Unit 16.4 22.7 Completion of disposal of Norway Business Unit – (8.8) Net profit for the year from discontinued operations 16.4 13.9 Note: The disposal of the Norway Business Unit completed in December 2015. 2017 US$ million Assets held for: Pakistan Business Unit 52.2 Esmond Transportation System (‘ETS’) 27.0 Kakap field 17.4 Total assets classified as held for sale 96.6 Liabilities held for: Pakistan Business Unit (25.4) Esmond Transportation System (‘ETS’) (7.0) Kakap field (14.2) Total liabilities classified as held for sale (46.6) Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 144 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 7. Discontinued operations, disposals and assets held for sale continued Disposals – Wytch Farm interests In September 2017, Premier announced that it had entered into a sale and purchase agreement (‘SPA’) to sell its entire interests in Licences PL089 and P534, which contain the Wytch Farm field (‘Wytch Farm’), to Verus Petroleum SNS Limited (‘Verus’) for a cash consideration of US$200 million, subject to certain customary financial adjustments, and that Premier would be able to release Letters of Credit totalling approximately US$75 million which have been issued in relation to future decommissioning liabilities that were to be transferred to Verus as part of the proposed disposal. The disposal was subject to the pre-emption rights of existing joint venture partners and Premier subsequently received notification from Perenco UK Limited (‘Perenco’) of its intention to exercise those rights. Therefore, in November 2017, Premier entered into a sale and purchase agreement with Perenco on materially the same terms as those agreed with Verus. The disposal completed in December 2017, with Premier receiving final cash consideration, after working capital adjustments, of US$177.1 million. This resulted in a gain on disposal of US$133.0 million. Assets held for sale Esmond Transportation System (‘ETS’) In December 2017, Premier signed an SPA to sell its entire equity interest in the Esmond Transportation System (‘ETS’) pipeline to CATS Management Limited (an Antin Infrastructure Partners portfolio company). Under the terms of the SPA, Premier will receive cash consideration of up to £23.6 million (US$31.6 million) for its entire 30 per cent interest in ETS. The consideration consists of an initial up front payment of £21.0 million (US$28.1 million) (subject to certain customary financial adjustments) payable on completion, plus a future potential payment of up to £2.6 million (US$3.5 million) linked to the achievement of certain key milestones in respect of any future development of the Pegasus field. The assets and liabilities for Premier’s ETS interest have been classified as assets held for sale in the balance sheet as at 31 December 2017, as the disposal is expected to complete within the next 12 months. An impairment charge has not been recognised at the time of this reclassification, as the initial up front consideration of US$28.1 million is greater than the carrying value of the ETS assets and liabilities held on Premier’s Group balance sheet. Kakap In December 2017, Premier signed an SPA with Batavia Oil to sell its entire 18.75 per cent non-operated interest in the Kakap field for a consideration of US$3.2 million. Completion is subject to receiving approval from the Government of Indonesia. Completion is expected to be achieved within the next 12 months; therefore, the assets and liabilities for Kakap have been classified as assets held for sale in the balance sheet as at 31 December 2017. On reclassification, an impairment charge of US$4.2 million has been recognised so that the carrying value of Premier’s interest in the Kakap field is equal to the agreed consideration. This charge has been recognised in the income statement against the gain on disposal recognised for Wytch Farm. Discontinued operations – Pakistan Business Unit In April 2017, Premier announced it had reached agreement and signed an SPA with Al-Haj Energy Limited (‘Al-Haj’) for the sale of Premier Oil Pakistan Holdings BV, which comprises Premier’s Pakistan Business Unit, for a cash consideration of US$65.6 million. During the year, Al-Haj paid a deposit to Premier of US$25.0 million. The disposal of the Pakistan Business Unit is expected to complete in 2018 and, as this is within 12 months of the balance sheet date, the business unit was classified as a disposal group held for sale on 30 June 2017 and presented separately in the year-end balance sheet. The results of the disposal group which have been included as discontinued operations in the consolidated income statement were as follows: 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Revenue 40.8 46.4 Expenses (22.4) (23.1) Profit before tax 18.4 23.3 Attributable tax charge (2.0) (0.6) Net profit for the period from discontinued operations 16.4 22.7 During the period to 31 December 2017, the Pakistan disposal group contributed US$16.8 million (2016: US$29.4 million) to the Group’s net operating cash flows and paid US$6.8 million (2016: US$8.5 million) in respect of investing activities. There were no financing cash flows in either the current or the prior years. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 145 STRATEGIC REPORT The consideration to be received for the Pakistan disposal group is greater than the carrying value of the net assets for the disposal group. Therefore, no impairment has been recognised on reclassification of the disposal group and a profit on disposal is expected GOVERNANCE to be recognised when the transaction completes. The effect of the disposal group on segment results is disclosed in note 1. The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the disposal group classified as held for sale are as follows: 2017 US$ million Property, plant and equipment 23.3 Long-term receivables 0.4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred tax asset 0.8 Inventory 9.0 Trade and other receivables 17.8 Cash 0.9 Pakistan assets classified as held for sale 52.2 Trade and other payables (7.8) Long-term provisions (17.6) Pakistan liabilities classified as held for sale (25.4) Net assets of disposal group 26.8 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Following completion of the disposal, Premier have retained a provision of US$16.4 million in relation to potential costs in relation to the business unit for the period of ownership prior to the disposal. This provision is not included in the discontinued operations assets and liabilities in the table above. 8. (Loss)/earnings per share The calculation of basic (loss)/earnings per share is based on the (loss)/profit after tax and on the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year. Basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per share are calculated as follows: 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Restated1 Loss/(earnings) (Loss)/earnings from continuing operations (270.2) 108.7 Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares: Interest on convertible bonds – anti-dilutive – – (Loss)/earnings for the purposes of diluted (loss)/earnings per share on continuing operations (270.2) 108.7 Profit from discontinued operations 16.4 13.9 (Loss)/earnings for the purposes of diluted (loss)/earnings per share on continuing (253.8) 122.6 and discontinued operations Number of shares (millions) Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic (loss)/earnings per share 513.7 510.8 Effects of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares: Contingently issuable shares – anti-dilutive – – Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of diluted (loss)/earnings per share 513.7 510.8 (Loss)/earnings per share from continuing operations (cents) Basic (52.6) 21.3 Diluted (52.6) 20.8 Earnings per share from discontinued operations (cents) Basic 3.2 2.7 Diluted 3.2 2.7 Note: 1 Restated for the classification of the Pakistan Business Unit as a discontinued operation. There are 98.3 million potentially dilutive contingently issuable shares related to unexercised equity warrants and share options and the inclusion of these contingently issuable shares gives rise to an anti-dilutive loss and earnings per share for both continuing and discontinued operations. Furthermore, there are 259.3 million potentially dilutive shares related to the convertible bonds at 31 December 2017. The inclusion of the convertible bond interest and shares to be issued on conversion of convertible bonds also produces an anti-dilutive loss and earnings per share for both continuing and discontinued operations. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 146 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 9. Intangible exploration and evaluation (‘E&E’) assets Total US$ million Cost: At 1 January 2016 749.7 Exchange movements 6.1 Additions during the year 103.8 Acquisition of subsidiaries 199.8 Exploration expense1 (48.0) At 31 December 2016 1,011.4 Exchange movements (0.9) Additions during the year 63.1 Assets classified as held for sale (0.5) Exploration expense1 (11.2) At 31 December 2017 1,061.9 Note: 1 Expensed in the income statement with pre-licence expenses of US$5.9 million in 2017 (2016: US$10.5 million). The amounts for intangible E&E assets represent costs incurred on active exploration projects. These amounts are written off to the income statement as exploration expense unless commercial reserves are established or the determination process is not completed and there are no indications of impairment. Assets written off in the year include costs incurred on the Ekland licence in the UK. The outcome of ongoing exploration, and therefore whether the carrying value of E&E assets will ultimately be recovered, is inherently uncertain. To the extent that we have an active licence to continue to explore for resources and have an intention to continue exploration activity, the exploration cost associated with the licence will remain capitalised as an E&E asset on the balance sheet. Once exploration activity has completed and we have no further intention to explore the licence for resources, costs capitalised until that point will be expensed and no further costs associated with the licence will be capitalised. The balance carried forward is predominantly in relation to the Group’s prospects in the Falkland Islands and the Tolmount project in the UK. We continue to progress both Sea Lion and Tolmount projects and are aiming to reach an investment decision on Sea Lion and to sanction Tolmount during 2018. E&E assets classified as held for sale in the year related to the Kakap entity in Indonesia. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 147 STRATEGIC REPORT 10. Property, plant and equipment GOVERNANCE Oil and gas Other fixed properties assets Total US$ million US$ million US$ million Cost: At 1 January 2016 7,025.7 61.4 7,087.1 Exchange movements (8.5) (4.8) (13.3) Acquisition of subsidiaries 600.0 7.1 607.1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Additions during the year 411.4 2.0 413.4 Disposals – (1.4) (1.4) At 31 December 2016 8,028.6 64.3 8,092.9 Exchange movements 4.6 2.4 7.0 Additions during the year 445.4 2.3 447.7 Asset acquisition 9.8 – 9.8 Assets classified as held for sale (489.6) (1.7) (491.3) Disposals (409.4) (0.6) (410.0) At 31 December 2017 7,589.4 66.7 7,656.1 Amortisation and depreciation: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION At 1 January 2016 4,430.9 44.5 4,475.4 Exchange movements (0.4) (3.4) (3.8) Charge for the year 332.2 8.1 340.3 Net impairment charge 556.2 – 556.2 Disposals – (1.4) (1.4) At 31 December 2016 5,318.9 47.8 5,366.7 Exchange movements (0.3) 1.8 1.5 Charge for the year 416.2 6.7 422.9 Net impairment charge 252.2 – 252.2 Assets classified as held for sale (434.6) (0.9) (435.5) Disposals (332.1) (0.6) (332.7) At 31 December 2017 5,220.3 54.8 5,275.1 Net book value: At 31 December 2016 2,709.7 16.5 2,726.2 At 31 December 2017 2,369.1 11.9 2,381.0 Note: Finance costs that have been capitalised within oil and gas properties during the year total US$41.3 million (2016: US$34.0 million), at a weighted average interest rate of 7.3 per cent (2016: 4.6 per cent). Other fixed assets include items such as leasehold improvements, motor vehicles and office equipment. Amortisation and depreciation of oil and gas properties is calculated on a unit-of-production basis, using the ratio of oil and gas production in the period to the estimated quantities of proved and probable reserves on an entitlement basis at the end of the period plus production in the period, on a field-by-field basis. Proved and probable reserve estimates are based on a number of underlying assumptions including oil and gas prices, future costs, oil and gas in place and reservoir performance, which are inherently uncertain. Management uses established industry techniques to generate its estimates and regularly references its estimates against those of joint venture partners or external consultants. However, the amount of reserves that will ultimately be recovered from any field cannot be known with certainty until the end of the field’s life. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 148 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 10. Property, plant and equipment continued Impairment charge The impairment charge in the current year relates entirely to UK fields and predominantly comprises of Solan (US$268.1 million), the Balmoral Area (US$20.7 million) and Glenelg (US$7.4 million). The impairment charge of US$296.6 million was calculated by comparing the future discounted pre-tax cash flows expected to be derived from production of commercial reserves (the value-in-use) against the carrying value of the asset. The future cash flows were estimated using an oil price assumption equal to the Dated Brent forward curve in 2018 and 2019, US$70/bbl in 2020 and US$75/bbl in ‘real’ terms thereafter (2016: two years at forward curve, year three at US$65/bbl followed by a long-term price of US$75/bbl ‘real’) and were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 9 per cent for the UK assets (2016: 8 per cent) and 12.5 per cent for the non-UK assets (2016: 12.5 per cent). Assumptions involved in impairment measurement include estimates of commercial reserves and production volumes, future oil and gas prices, discount rates and the level and timing of expenditures, all of which are inherently uncertain. The principal cause of the impairment charge being recognised in the year is a reduction of the 2P reserves expected to be recovered from Solan over its economic life, a reduction in the expected residual value of the Balmoral Area FPV and a delayed workover for Glenelg. The recoverable amount of the impaired assets based on the value-in-use assumptions set out above is US$246.1 million (Solan), US$18.6 million (Balmoral) and US$35.0 million (Glenelg). The recoverable amount for Glenelg assumes that a workover of the G10 well is performed in 2019, which is management’s current expectation based on discussions with the operator. If the workover is delayed or not performed, it is likely to reduce the recoverable amount of the asset, which would have the effect of increasing the impairment charge. Reversal of previously recognised impairment charges Under the requirements of IAS 36, if there is an indication that a factor that resulted in an impairment charge may have changed or been reversed, then the previously recognised impairment charge may no longer exist or may have decreased. For a number of assets, due to an increase in the near-term oil price assumption (based on the Dated Brent forward curve), we have reassessed the recoverable amount of the asset to assess whether an increase in the recoverable amount (value-in-use) is indicative of a reversal of a previously recognised impairment charge. The future cash flows were determined using the same assumptions as those used for the impairment charge outlined on the above. A reversal of impairment of US$44.4 million has been credited to the income statement in the year, which has partially offset the impairment charge recognised. The reversal of impairment relates entirely to Huntington in the UK. An increase in the short-term price assumption and an extension in the life of the field have driven the increase in the value-in-use. The recoverable amount of Huntington at 31 December 2017 was US$78.8 million. Sensitivity A 1 per cent increase in the discount rates used when determining the value-in-use for each oil and gas property would result in a further impairment charge of approximately US$8.3 million. A US$5/bbl reduction in the long-term oil price (to US$70/bbl ‘real’) would increase the impairment charge by approximately US$41.2 million. The value of the reversal of impairment recognised in the year would be unaffected by either an increase in the discount rate by 1 per cent or a reduction in the long-term oil price assumption to US$70/bbl ‘real’. Goodwill Goodwill of US$240.8 million has been specifically assigned to the Catcher field in the UK, which is considered the cash-generating unit for the purposes of any impairment testing of this goodwill. The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The recoverable amounts are determined from value-in-use calculations with the same key assumptions as noted above for the impairment calculations. The discount rate used is 9 per cent (2016: 8 per cent). The value-in-use forecast takes into consideration cash flows which are expected to arise during the life of the Catcher field as a whole, currently expected to be around 2025. This period exceeds five years but is believed to be appropriate as it is underpinned by estimates of commercial reserves provided by our in-house reservoir engineers using industry standard reservoir estimation techniques. The headroom between the recoverable amount and the carrying amount, including the goodwill, is US$305.7 million. The key assumptions to the calculation of value-in-use of the Catcher asset are discount rate, oil prices, forecasted recoverable reserves and estimated future costs. No reasonable possible change in any of these key assumptions would cause the asset’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 149 STRATEGIC REPORT 11. Receivables Trade and other receivables GOVERNANCE 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Trade receivables 197.5 149.4 Other receivables 54.6 79.9 Prepayments 65.8 56.4 Tax recoverable 22.7 29.4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 340.6 315.1 The carrying values of the trade and other receivables are equal to their fair value as at the balance sheet date. During the year, cash receipts included US$10.0 million deferred consideration received from Repsol for the disposal of the CRD prospect in Vietnam in 2013, which was recorded in trade receivables in the prior year. Long-term receivables 2017 2016 Note US$ million US$ million Other long-term receivables 97.6 82.3 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Decommissioning funding asset 62.7 66.7 Long-term employee benefit plan surplus 24 0.5 0.6 160.8 149.6 Other long-term receivables include US$88.1 million of cash held in escrow accounts for expected future decommissioning expenditure in Indonesia, Vietnam and Mauritania (2016: US$71.7 million). The decommissioning funding asset relates to the Decommissioning Liability Agreement entered into with E.ON, whereby E.ON agreed to part-fund Premier’s share of decommissioning the Johnston and Ravenspurn North assets. Under the terms of the agreement, E.ON will reimburse 70 per cent of the decommissioning costs between a range of £40 million to £130 million based on Premier’s net share of the total decommissioning cost of the two assets. This results in maximum possible funding of £63.0 million from E.ON. At 31 December 2017, a long-term decommissioning funding asset of US$62.7 million has been recognised utilising the year-end US$/£ exchange rate. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 150 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 12. Cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 Note US$ million US$ million Cash at bank and in hand 364.8 255.5 Short-term deposits 0.6 0.4 22 365.4 255.9 Included within cash at bank and in hand balances are partners’ share of cash balances on our operated assets of US$51.8 million (2016: US$46.4 million) and US$16.4 million (2016: US$6.6 million) held as security for the Mexican Letters of Credit. 13. Trade and other payables 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Trade payables 129.6 63.5 Other payables 47.7 13.2 Accrued expenses 354.2 290.7 Tax payable 41.4 45.2 572.9 412.6 The carrying values of the trade and other payables approximates to their fair value as at the balance sheet date. 14. Deferred income In June 2015, Premier received US$100.0 million from FlowStream in return for granting them 15 per cent of production from the Solan field until sufficient barrels have been delivered to achieve the rate of return within the agreement. This balance is being released to the income statement within revenue as barrels are delivered to FlowStream from production from Solan. The balance has reduced by US$22.0 million during the year, reflecting barrels delivered to FlowStream and a credit to finance costs of US$6.8 million. The finance credit is due to a revision in the settlement profile of the deferred income balance following the revision to Solan reserves. The portion of the deferred income that is expected to be delivered to FlowStream within the next 12 months has been classified as a current liability. 15. Borrowings The Group’s loans are carried at amortised cost as follows: 2017 US$ million 2016 US$ million Carrying Carrying value Fees Total value Fees Total Bank loans 2,165.0 (106.9) 2,058.1 2,108.0 (12.1) 2,095.9 Senior loan notes 541.6 – 541.6 491.1 (3.7) 487.4 Retail bonds 202.5 (10.1) 192.4 184.5 (1.7) 182.8 Convertible bonds 180.5 – 180.5 237.5 (0.1) 237.4 Total borrowings 3,089.6 (117.0) 2,972.6 3,021.1 (17.6) 3,003.5 Due within one year – 273.0 Due after more than one year 2,972.6 2,730.5 Total borrowings 2,972.6 3,003.5 A maturity analysis showing the ageing profile of the total borrowings is shown in note 18. At the year-end, the Group’s principal credit facilities comprised: • bank loans: US$2.5 billion revolving and letter of credit facility (‘RCF’), US$150 million and £100 million term loans (together the ‘Term Loan’); • senior loan notes: US$335 million and €63.6 million of US Private Placement (‘USPP’) notes and US$130 million Schuldschein (‘SSL’); • £150 million of retail bonds; and • US$237.9 million of convertible bonds. All of the above facilities mature in May 2021, except for the convertible bonds which, for those not already converted, mature in May 2022. The Company has financing in US$, £ and €. The £ and € loans have been swapped into US$ at the original issues dates. In total, £250.0 million and €60.0 million have been swapped into US$ using cross currency swap markets at an average exchange rate of US$1.64:£ and US$1.37:€ respectively. However, all liabilities in currencies other than US$ have been translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the year-end. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 151 STRATEGIC REPORT Refinancing In July 2017, Premier completed a comprehensive refinancing of its lending facilities (the ‘refinancing’) with all of the lenders under each facility. GOVERNANCE Under the requirements of IAS 39, if an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender, on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, measured at its fair value, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss. IAS 39 regards the terms of exchanged or modified debt as ‘substantially different’ if the net present value of the cash flows under the new terms (including any fees paid net of fees received) discounted at the original effective interest rate is at least 10 per cent different from the discounted present value of the remaining cash flows of the original debt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS instrument. Where an exchange or modification of financial liabilities is not considered substantial, no gain or loss is recognised; the fees are capitalised against the carrying value of the liability and any changes to the cash flows are recognised as interest over the remaining term. Completion of the refinancing also included a comprehensive security package, giving lenders collective security over materially all of the Group’s assets. The RCF, Term Loan, USPPs and SSL (together the ‘Private Lenders’) The refinancing included the following key amendments: • Confirmation of total existing facilities of US$3.9 billion with drawn capacity preserved. • Alignment of final maturity dates to 31 May 2021 for all facilities. • Amendment of Premier’s financial covenants, such that the net debt to EBITDA cover ratio was 8.5x until the end of 2017 reducing ADDITIONAL INFORMATION to 5.0x at the end of 2018, before returning to 3.0x from the beginning of 2019. • Interest cover ratio reduced to 1.5x before increasing to 3.0x in 2019. • Covenant net debt (which includes issued letters of credit) to be less than US$2.95 billion at the end of 2018. • A margin uplift of 1.5 per cent over existing pricing with an additional 1.0 per cent for the SSL lenders. • Amendment fees of 1.0 per cent with an additional 0.5 per cent for the SSL lenders. • Issuance of 67,234,316 equity warrants at an exercise price of 42.75 pence per share with a five-year term. In addition, 21,186,736 synthetic warrants have been issued, which have a four-year term. • Crystallisation of the make-whole fees on the USPPs on the effective date of the refinancing totalling US$41.3 million, which was added to the principal. The Group concluded that the amendments above represented a substantial modification of the USPPs and the SSL. The carrying values of the USPPs and the SSL have been recognised at fair value of the notes as of the completion date, which for the USPPs includes the make-whole fee added to the principal. The fair values were deemed to be equal to the principal amounts of the debt instruments, as the increase in the interest rate reflects the increased credit risk of the Group. The associated transaction costs were expensed. The amendments are not considered to be a substantial modification to the RCF or Term Loan. The retail bonds Substantially the same economic terms were agreed with the retail bondholders as the Private Lenders. The key terms are: • Maturity date extended by six months to 31 May 2021. • Enhanced economics comprising an interest rate uplift of 1.5 per cent and amendment fees of 1.0 per cent. • Issuance of 3,778,636 equity warrants at an exercise price of 42.75 pence per share with a five-year term. In addition, 189,116 synthetic warrants have been issued, which have a four-year term. These have been issued on the same terms as those issued to the Private Lenders. The Group concluded that the amendments above did not represent a substantial modification to the retail bonds. Convertible bonds The terms of Premier’s US$245.3 million convertible bonds were also amended. The key terms are: • Maturity date extended to 31 May 2022. • Interest rate to remain at 2.5 per cent, to be paid, at the election of the Company, either in new shares, or from the proceeds of sale of new shares or in cash. • Conversion price reset to 74.71 pence (from £4.21), with an exchange rate of £1:US$1.228. • Issuance of 18,097,019 equity warrants at an exercise price of 42.75 pence per share, on the same terms as those issued to the Private Lenders. • No cash amendment fee. • Issuer right to require conversion at the conversion price at any time after one year if the value of Premier’s shares is at least 140 per cent of the conversion price for 25 consecutive dealing days. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 152 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 15. Borrowings continued The Group concluded that the above amendments represented a substantial modification to the convertible bonds. The original conversion option had no significant value, therefore the refinancing was accounted for as the settlement of the original liability component with the modified convertible, measured at its aggregate fair value. The carrying value of the debt and equity components prior to the refinancing have been derecognised from the balance sheet and new debt and equity components have been recognised at their revised fair value as of the completion date to reflect the amended terms and conversion price. The US$58.7 million difference between the equity component of the convertible bonds prior to the completion of the refinancing and the revised fair value has been assigned to the equity reserves, giving a revised equity component of US$64.1 million. US$ million Convertible bonds – prior to the refinancing Liability component at 1 January 2016 232.6 Interest charged 10.9 Interest paid (6.1) Liability component at 1 January 2017 237.4 Interest charged 5.9 Interest paid (3.5) Liability derecognised at 28 July 2017 239.8 Convertible bonds – post the refinancing Liability recognised 28 July 2017 181.2 Interest charged 7.3 Interest paid (2.5) Partial conversion of convertible bonds (5.5) Total liability component at 31 December 2017 180.5 The total interest charged on the new bonds has been calculated by applying an effective annual interest rate of 6.37 per cent pre-partial conversion and 6.23 per cent post-partial conversion to the liability component for the period since the new bonds were issued. The effective annual interest rate on the old bonds was 4.58 per cent. Subsequent to completion, by 31 December 2017 US$7.4 million of convertible bonds were converted by bondholders at 74.71 pence. Loss on substantial modification Costs and third-party fees, which include the USPP make-whole adjustment, amendment fees and adviser fees paid and recognition of the warrants at fair value, have been allocated to each facility as follows: US$ million Bank loans 111.8 Senior loan notes 70.2 Retail bonds 9.8 Convertible bonds 13.5 205.3 Of the total fees above, US$83.7 million in relation to the senior loan notes and convertible bonds have been expensed to the income statement in the year. The fees in relation to the bank loans and retail bonds of US$121.6 million have been capitalised against the carrying value of the debt, and are being amortised over the revised maturity of the facility. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 153 STRATEGIC REPORT Financial covenants Financial covenants are the same across all Group financings except for the £150.0 million retail bonds and US$245.3 million convertible GOVERNANCE bonds which have no financial covenants. These financial covenants are tested on a quarterly (annualised) basis. The financial covenants are as follows: • Net debt/EBITDA cover ratio of 8.5x until the end of 2017, reducing to 5.0x at the end of 2018, before returning to 3.0x from the beginning of 2019. • Interest cover ratio reduced to 1.5x before increasing to 3.0x in Q1 2019. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Covenant net debt (which includes issued Letters of Credit) to be less than US$2.95 billion at the end of 2018. At 31 December 2017, covenant net debt, which includes letters of credit, the equity component of the convertible bond notes and deducting partners’ share of JV cash balances, was US$3.2 billion. Capital management The primary objective of the Group’s capital management policy is to ensure that it maintains healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and increase shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016. The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by net assets plus net debt. The Group’s policy is to keep ADDITIONAL INFORMATION the long-term gearing ratio below 50 per cent. Net debt comprises interest-bearing bank loans, senior loan notes, retail bonds and convertible bonds, less cash and short-term deposits. Note 2017 2016 Net debt (US$ million) 22 (2,724.2) (2,765.2) Net assets (US$ million) 616.9 809.1 Net assets plus net debt (US$ million) 3,341.1 3,574.3 Gearing ratio (%) 81.5 77.4 16. Obligations under leases 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 170.3 94.7 Outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: Within one year 203.8 155.2 In two to five years 509.4 523.2 Over five years 142.6 226.1 855.8 904.5 Operating lease payments represent the Group’s share of lease costs payable by the Group for FPSOs and for certain rentals of its office properties, office equipment and motor vehicles. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 154 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 17. Provisions 2017 2016 Note US$ million US$ million Decommissioning 1,432.1 1,325.3 Onerous contract – 1.2 Contingent consideration 10.3 24.0 Indonesia unfunded termination benefit provision 19.0 17.0 Long-term employee benefit plan deficit 24 0.7 0.7 1,462.1 1,368.2 2017 2016 Note US$ million US$ million Decommissioning costs: Total provisions at 1 January 1,325.3 1,062.6 Revision arising from: New provisions and changes in estimates 40.2 10.9 Paid/utilised (42.3) (28.6) Acquisition of subsidiaries – 427.9 Liabilities reclassified to held for sale in the year 7 (22.7) – Disposals 7 (46.8) – Exchange differences 115.9 (205.8) Unwinding of discount on decommissioning provision 5 62.5 58.3 Total provisions at 31 December 1,432.1 1,325.3 Reclassification of short-term provisions to current liabilities (91.2) (54.9) Long-term provisions at 31 December 1,340.9 1,270.4 The decommissioning provision represents the present value of decommissioning costs relating to oil and gas interests in the UK, Indonesia, Vietnam, Pakistan and Mauritania which are expected to be incurred up to 2038. These provisions have been created based on Premier’s internal estimates and, where available, operator estimates. Based on the current economic environment, assumptions have been made which are believed to be a reasonable basis upon which to estimate the future liability. These estimates are reviewed regularly to take into account any material changes to the assumptions. However, actual decommissioning costs will ultimately depend upon future market prices for the necessary decommissioning works required, which will reflect market conditions at the relevant time. Furthermore, the timing of decommissioning is likely to depend on when the fields cease to produce at economically viable rates. This in turn will depend upon future oil and gas prices, which are inherently uncertain. A discount rate of 4.6 per cent and an inflation rate of 2.5 per cent have been applied to all decommissioning estimates when determining the net present value of the decommissioning provision. Rig rates used to determine the relevant part of the decommissioning cost estimates are based on a rolling five-year average observed in the market place for similar types of rigs, except where decommissioning is expected to occur in the near-term and then a spot price (or actual price received during a rig tender process) is used. The oil and gas price assumptions used to determine the field life COP are consistent with those applied for the impairment assessment (see note 10). The increase in decommissioning provisions during the year was primarily due to the additional Catcher wells drilled during 2017 for the asset to achieve first oil in December 2017. Decommissioning provisions include expected future obligations for Ravenspurn North and Johnston assets in the UK. The first £63 million of decommissioning expenditure related to these assets is funded via a separate agreement with E.ON (see note 11). Onerous contract The onerous contract in the prior year related to the FPSO lease commitment for the Group’s interest in the Chinguetti field in Mauritania; following cessation of production in the year, this was released to the income statement. Contingent consideration The contingent consideration is the closing year-end fair value of the royalty stream payable to Chrysaor for the acquisition of 40 per cent of the Solan asset in May 2015. The estimate of fair value of this contingent consideration includes unobservable inputs and is level 3 in the IAS 39 hierarchy and is held at fair value through profit and loss. The movement in fair value for the year was US$10.7 million and has been recognised within other operating income. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 155 STRATEGIC REPORT Indonesia unfunded termination benefit provision In Indonesia, the Group operates a Service, Severance and Compensation pay scheme under a Collective Labour Agreement with GOVERNANCE the local workforce. In early 2003, the Government of Indonesia introduced a labour law which requires that on dismissal, companies are required to make certain payments to employees that are dependent on numbers of years’ service and salary. The ‘scheme’ effectively provides a termination benefit to employees, but does not represent a defined benefit pension scheme. The Company operates a defined termination benefit scheme; the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Gains and losses are recognised immediately. Past service cost is also recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. The provision recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost. 18. Financial instruments Financial risk management objectives and policies The Group’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivative financial instruments (‘derivatives’), are comprised of accounts payable, bank loans, convertible bonds, retail bonds and senior loan notes. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to manage shortterm cash flow and to raise finance for the Group’s capital expenditure programme. The Group has various financial assets, such as accounts receivable and cash and short-term deposits, which arise directly from its operations. It is Group policy that all transactions involving derivatives must be directly related to the underlying business of the Group. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative exposures. During the year the Group issued warrants and synthetic warrants ADDITIONAL INFORMATION in connection with the refinancing and these are also accounted for as derivatives. The main risks that could adversely affect the Group’s financial assets, liabilities or future cash flows are commodity price risk, cash flow interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange risk, credit risk, liquidity and the Group’s share price. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain of these risk exposures. The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies, as approved by the Board of Directors. Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivatives to manage its exposure to oil and gas price fluctuations and to changes in interest rates and foreign currency. Oil and gas hedging is undertaken using swaps, collar options, reverse collars, collar structures, hedges embedded in long-term crude offtake agreements and selling forward using fixed price sales contracts. Oil is hedged using Dated Brent oil price options. Indonesian gas is hedged using HSFO Singapore 180cst, which is the variable component of the gas price, and UK gas is hedged by selling gas forward through fixed price contracts and through UK NBP gas swaps and options. The Group’s exposure to interest rates is managed by maintaining an appropriate mix of both fixed and floating interest rate borrowings within its debt portfolio. However, given the very low level of fixed interest rates available relative to historical rates, a substantial portion of the current drawings have been converted to fixed interest rates using the interest rate swap markets. The Group has £ and € currency exposure as a result of its borrowings. These are managed through cross currency swap arrangements. As the Group reports in US dollars, since that is the currency in which the majority of the Group’s transactions are denominated, aside from some of its borrowing, significant exchange rate exposures currently relate only to certain local currency (such as pound sterling) receipts and expenditures within individual business units. Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters utilising forward foreign exchange contracts. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 156 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 18. Financial instruments continued Fair value hierarchy The fair values of all derivative financial instruments are based on estimates from observable inputs and are all level 2 in the IAS 39 hierarchy. Both the estimate of the Chrysaor contingent consideration (see note 17) and the fair value of the warrants (see below) include estimates based on unobservable inputs and are level 3 in the IAS 39 hierarchy. As at 31 December 2017, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value (excluding any primary financial instruments such as cash and bank loans): Assets measured at fair value Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss: 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Oil forward sales contracts – 15.0 Gas forward sales contracts – 0.4 Oil put options 0.2 3.5 Fair value of gas contracts acquired from E.ON 9.1 10.0 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.6 1.1 Interest rate swaps 4.6 4.9 Total 14.5 34.9 Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss: 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Oil forward sales contracts 36.1 18.2 Cross currency swaps1 108.4 140.6 Forward foreign exchange contracts 3.8 – Warrants 59.8 – Total 208.1 158.8 Note: 1 Of which US$108.3 million (2016: US$101.6 million) are classified within non-current liabilities. Income statement Fair value movements recognised in the income statement in the year: 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Interest revenue, finance and other gains: Change in fair value of embedded derivative within gas contract 2.0 1.9 Forward foreign exchange contracts – 3.3 Cross currency swaps 4.3 – Interest rate swaps 4.6 – 10.9 5.2 Finance costs: Fixed price gas contracts acquired from E.ON (3.7) (21.8) Oil forward sale contracts acquired from E.ON – (23.9) Cross currency swaps – (7.8) Forward foreign exchange contracts (4.3) – Oil put options (9.6) (1.1) Warrants (15.4) – (33.0) (54.6) Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 157 STRATEGIC REPORT Statement of comprehensive income Fair value movements recognised in the statement of comprehensive income for the year: GOVERNANCE 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Cash flow hedges: Commodity swaps – gas – (14.9) Commodity swaps – oil (14.2) (115.8) (14.2) (130.7) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cross currency swaps 28.2 (58.6) Interest rate swaps (5.1) 1.0 23.1 (57.6) Unrealised exchange differences (33.9) 60.9 Cash flow hedges on interest rate and foreign exchange swaps (10.8) 3.3 Commodity price risk At 31 December 2017, the Group had 3.6 mmbbls of Dated Brent oil hedged through forward sales for 2017 at an average floor price of US$55.9/bbl. The forward sales have been designated as cash flow hedges and were assessed to be effective, with a fair value movement of US$14.2 million charge (2015: US$115.8 million charge) in retained earnings. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION In December 2017, the Group paid total premiums of US$6.3 million to enter into oil option agreements for 2.9 mmbbls at an average price of US$53.5/bbl. Out of these options, 1.1 mmbbls expired in 2017 and 1.8 mmbbls will be settled during 2018 and are an asset on the Group’s balance sheet with a fair value at 31 December 2017 of US$0.2 million (2016: asset of US$3.5 million). These options will be held at fair value through profit and loss and hedge accounting is not applied. Included within physically delivered oil sales contracts are a further 1.8 mmbbls of oil that will be sold for an average fixed price of US$54.6/bbl during 2018 as these barrels are delivered. As these instruments are physically settled they do not meet the definition of financial instruments under IAS 39 and are accounted for as they are delivered. During the year, forward oil sales contracts for 1.5 mmbbls matured, generating a loss of US$11.4 million (2016: US$104.9 million income). This loss is a reduction to sales revenue. Additionally during the year oil option contracts for 1.95 mmbbls matured. The premium paid relating to these options has been released to the income statement. Equity and synthetic warrants In total, 89.1 million equity warrants and 21.4 million synthetic warrants have been issued. The equity and synthetic warrants were recognised on the balance sheet as derivative financial instruments at the completion date at their fair value of US$47.7 million. To the extent that the warrants related to debt facilities that have been substantially modified, the cost of issuing the liability has been recognised as an expense in the income statement (see note 15). The fair value of the warrants includes unobservable inputs and is level 3 in the IAS 39 hierarchy. The key assumptions underpinning the fair value relate to the expected future share price of the Company, US$:£ exchange rates and the expected date of exercise of the warrants. The fair value has been determined using a Black-Scholes valuation model. The equity warrants have an exercise price of 42.75 pence and are exercisable from their issuance until 31 May 2022, at the option of the warrant holder, and are settled with Ordinary Shares of the Company. The synthetic warrants are cash settled by the Group when certain net debt and leverage ratio conditions are achieved, linked to the Group’s market capitalisation, and expire in May 2021. Subsequent to the completion of the refinancing, and prior to the year-end 13.9 million equity warrants have been converted, resulting in an allotment of 4.4 million shares. The closing fair value of the open equity and synthetic warrants at 31 December 2017 was US$46.6 million and US$13.2 million respectively, giving a total of US$59.8 million after the exercise of warrants valued at US$3.3 million and resulting in a loss of US$15.4 million being expensed in the period after completion of the refinancing. When determining the fair value of the equity and synthetic warrants, if the share price assumed increased by 10 per cent, the closing total fair value recognised for the equity and synthetic warrants at the year-end would have increased by US$8.8 million. Commodity contract sensitivity analysis The key variable which affects the fair value of the Group’s hedging instruments is market expectations about future commodity prices. An increase of 10 per cent in oil prices would increase the mark-to-market loss of these instruments, and hence other comprehensive income, by US$17.9 million. A decrease of 10 per cent in forward oil prices would reduce the mark-to-market loss by US$18.0 million. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 158 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 18. Financial instruments continued Interest rate risk At 31 December 2017 US$750.0 million (2016: US$800.0 million) of the Group’s long-term bank borrowings have been swapped from floating rate to fixed rate. Under these interest rate swap contracts, the Group has agreed to exchange the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated on agreed notional principal amounts. Such contracts enable the Group to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates and the cash flow exposure on the issued variable rate debt held. Interest rate swaps sensitivity analysis The key variable which affects the fair value of the Group’s hedging instruments is market expectations about future interest rates. An increase of 50 basis points in this variable would increase the mark-to-market value, by US$3.0 million. As the interest rates are historically at a low level, no sensitivity for a decrease of 50 basis points is required. Foreign currency exchange risk The majority of the borrowings at year-end were denominated in US dollars to match the currency of the Group’s assets. The Group has issued £150.0 million retail bonds and £100.0 million term loan at a fixed exchange rate of US$1.64: £1, senior loan notes €25.0 million at a fixed rate of US$1.33: €1 and €35.0 million at a fixed rate of US$1.42: €1. All of these amounts have been hedged under cross currency swaps into US dollars. In addition, to cover sterling exposures an amount of £290.5 million was purchased and matured with spot and forward contracts during the year (2016: £478.4 million) to cater for its North Sea developments and operations. Other financial instruments Credit risk Credit risk arises from the Group’s trade receivables and its bank deposits. The amount of receivables presented in the balance sheet is net of allowances for doubtful receivables, which were immaterial in 2017 and 2016. The Group does not require collateral or other security to support receivables from customers or related parties. The credit risk on liquid funds and other derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with at least single A credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies. An indication of the concentration of credit risk is shown in note 1 on page 140, whereby the revenue from three customers each exceeded 10 per cent of the Group’s consolidated revenue in 2017 (2016: three). The ageing profile of the Group’s trade and other receivables and trade and other payables as at 31 December, including the related undiscounted interest amounts, was: Less than 2 to 3 3 months 1 to 5 Over 1 month months to 1 year years 5 years Total US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million 2017: Long-term receivables 0.4 4.3 9.1 4.9 141.6 160.3 Trade and other receivables 216.7 1.6 14.4 19.2 0.2 252.1 Trade and other payables (146.2) (4.9) (25.1) (1.1) – (177.3) Bank loans (3.6) (8.8) (99.9) (2,516.1) – (2,628.4) Convertible bonds – – – (237.9) – (237.9) Senior loan notes (0.3) (10.8) (33.8) (643.9) – (688.8) Retail bonds – – (13.2) (234.1) – (247.3) Total 67.0 (18.6) (148.5) (3,609.0) 141.8 (3,567.3) 2016: Long-term receivables – – – 78.8 70.2 149.0 Trade and other receivables 187.1 36.2 5.4 0.6 – 229.3 Trade and other payables (75.1) (1.1) (0.1) (0.4) – (76.7) Bank loans (7.3) (7.3) (359.3) (1,972.6) – (2,346.5) Convertible bonds (3.1) – (3.1) (248.4) – (254.6) Senior loan notes (0.3) (7.6) (27.8) (595.4) (42.5) (673.6) Retail bonds – – (9.4) (210.0) – (219.4) Total 101.3 20.2 (394.3) (2,947.4) 27.7 (3,192.5) Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 159 STRATEGIC REPORT Liquidity risk Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has approved an appropriate liquidity GOVERNANCE risk management framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking and borrowing facilities and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities and future capital and operating commitments. Borrowing facilities The Group has committed borrowing facilities of US$2,335.0 million (2016: US$2,323.0 million) and letters of credit facilities of FINANCIAL STATEMENTS US$450.0 million (2016: US$450.0 million), in addition to the convertible bonds, retail bonds and senior loan notes. The undrawn balance of the committed borrowing facilities as at 31 December 2017 was US$170.0 million (2016: US$215.0 million). The undrawn balance of the letter of credit facilities as at 31 December 2017 was US$74.3 million (2016: US$175.7 million). Interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities The interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the Group as at 31 December (excluding trade and other payables which are interest free) was: Fixed rate weighted average Fixed rate Floating rate Total interest rate ADDITIONAL INFORMATION US$ million US$ million US$ million % 2017: Bank loans1 750.0 1,415.0 2,165.0 4.95 Convertible bonds 237.9 – 237.9 2.50 Senior loan notes 411.6 130.0 541.6 7.65 Retail bonds 202.5 – 202.5 6.50 Total 1,602.0 1,545.0 3,147.0 2016: Bank loans1 800.0 1,308.0 2,108.0 3.10 Convertible bonds 245.3 – 245.3 2.50 Senior loan notes 361.1 130.0 491.1 6.15 Retail bonds 184.5 – 184.5 5.14 Total 1,590.9 1,438.0 3,028.9 Note: 1 At 31 December 2017 US$750.0 million of the Group’s bank borrowings have been swapped from floating interest rates to fixed interest rates and are therefore included as a fixed rate liability in the table above (2016: US$800.0 million). The floating rate financial liabilities at 31 December 2017 comprised bank borrowings bearing interest at rates set by reference to US$ and £ LIBOR, exposing the Group to a cash flow interest rate risk. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 160 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 18. Financial instruments continued Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values. The estimated fair values have been determined using market information and appropriate valuation methodologies. Values recorded are as at the balance sheet date, and will not necessarily be the amounts that are realised. Non-interest bearing financial instruments, which include amounts receivable from customers and accounts payable, are measured at amortised cost which, due to the short-term maturity, approximate to fair value. The carrying values and fair values of the Group’s non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding current assets and current liabilities for which carrying values approximate to fair values due to their short-term nature) are: 2017 2017 2016 2016 Fair value Carrying Fair value Carrying amount amount amount amount US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations: Retail bonds 196.1 202.5 147.6 184.5 Convertible bonds 266.9 180.5 177.9 237.5 The fair value of the retail bonds and convertible bonds are determined by reference to quoted prices for each of the instruments. The fair value for the bank loans and senior loan notes are considered to be materially the same as the amortised cost of the instruments. 19. Deferred tax 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Deferred tax assets 1,461.5 1,304.0 Deferred tax liabilities (164.0) (192.6) 1,297.5 1,111.4 (Charged)/ credited to Credited to At 31 At Exchange income retained Assets held December 1 January 2017 movements statement earnings for sale 2017 US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million UK deferred corporation tax: Fixed assets and allowances (719.6) (0.6) (21.8) – 4.6 (737.4) Decommissioning 394.5 4.0 78.9 – (0.5) 476.9 Tax losses and allowances 1,560.1 1.9 77.8 – – 1,639.8 Investment allowance 64.4 0.1 6.7 – – 71.2 Derivative financial instruments (0.7) (0.5) 4.6 7.5 – 10.9 Total UK deferred corporation tax 1,298.7 4.9 146.2 7.5 4.1 1,461.4 Overseas deferred tax1 (187.3) – 24.7 – (1.3) (163.9) Total 1,111.4 4.9 170.9 7.5 2.8 1,297.5 Note: 1 The overseas deferred tax relates mainly to temporary differences associated with fixed asset balances. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 161 STRATEGIC REPORT (Charged)/ At Acquisition credited to Credited to At GOVERNANCE 1 January Exchange accounting income retained 31 December 2016 movements 28 April 2016 statement earnings 2016 US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million UK deferred corporation tax: Fixed assets and allowances (581.0) – (371.2) 232.6 – (719.6) Decommissioning 378.8 – 172.3 (156.6) – 394.5 Deferred petroleum revenue tax 7.2 – – (7.2) – – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tax losses and allowances 1,129.4 – 33.5 397.2 – 1,560.1 Other – – (0.7) 65.1 – 64.4 Derivative financial instruments (49.1) 0.3 (21.2) 13.2 56.1 (0.7) Total UK deferred corporation tax 885.3 0.3 (187.3) 544.3 56.1 1,298.7 UK deferred petroleum revenue tax1 (14.4) – – 14.4 – – Overseas deferred tax2 (192.6) – – 5.3 – (187.3) Total 678.3 0.3 (187.3) 564.0 56.1 1,111.4 Notes: 1 The UK deferred Petroleum Revenue Tax (‘PRT’) credit reflects the reduction in PRT rate to 0 per cent during the period. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 2 The overseas deferred tax relates mainly to temporary differences associated with fixed asset balances. The Group’s UK deferred tax assets at 31 December 2017 are recognised to the extent that taxable profits are expected to arise in the future against which the UK ring fence tax losses and allowances can be utilised. In accordance with paragraph 37 of IAS 12 – ‘Income Taxes’, the Group reassessed its deferred tax assets at 31 December 2017 with respect to UK ring fence tax losses and allowances. The corporate model used to assess whether it is appropriate to recognise the Group’s deferred tax losses was re-run, using an oil price assumption of Dated Brent forward curve for two years, followed by US$70/bbl in 2020 and US$75/bbl ‘real’ terms thereafter and a gas price assumption of forward curve for two years, followed by 49 pence/therm in 2020 and 50.2 pence/therm ‘real’ terms thereafter. These price assumptions are consistent with those used when assessing the Group’s underlying assets for impairment. The cash flows included in the corporate model are predominantly derived from future revenue from UKCS assets which management consider to be probable to arise, including both existing producing assets and certain future currently unsanctioned projects. The results of the corporate model concluded that it was appropriate to continue to recognise the Group’s deferred tax assets in respect of UK ring fence tax losses and allowances in full. If the long-term oil price assumption was reduced to US$70/bbl ‘real’, then in 2017 it would have given rise to a UK derecognition charge of US$18.4 million. In addition, there are carried forward non-ring fence UK tax losses of approximately US$330.8 million (2016: US$363.8 million) and overseas tax losses of US$130.3 million for which a deferred tax asset has not been recognised. None of the UK tax losses (ring fence and non-ring fence) have a fixed expiry date for tax purposes. No deferred tax has been provided on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, following a change in UK tax legislation in 2009 which exempted foreign dividends from the scope of UK corporation tax, where certain conditions are satisfied. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 162 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 20. Share capital 2017 2017 2016 2016 12.5p shares £ 12.5p shares £ Ordinary Shares: Authorised, called-up, issued and fully paid 525,045,801 65,630,725 510,823,666 63,852,958 The rights and restrictions attached to the Ordinary Shares are as follows: Dividend rights: the rights of the holders of Ordinary Shares shall rank pari passu in all respects with each other in relation to dividends. Winding up or reduction of capital: on a return of capital on a winding up or otherwise (other than on conversion, redemption or purchase of shares) the rights of the holders of Ordinary Shares to participate in the distribution of the assets of the Company available for distribution shall rank pari passu in all respects with each other. Voting rights: the holders of Ordinary Shares shall be entitled to receive notice of, attend, vote and speak at any General Meeting of the Company. Issue of Ordinary Shares During the year, the Company issued 14,222,135 Ordinary Shares at a nominal value of 12.5 pence per share. This increased the share capital of the Company by US$2.3 million (2016: nil) to US$109.0 million (2016: US$106.7 million). Purchase and cancellation of own shares During 2017, none of the Company’s Ordinary Shares were re-purchased or cancelled. Own shares Total US$ million At 1 January 2016 6.2 Release of shares (3.5) At 31 December 2016 2.7 Purchase of ESOP Trust shares 0.3 Release of shares (1.2) At 31 December 2017 1.8 The own shares represent the net cost of shares in Premier Oil plc purchased in the market or issued by the Company into the Premier Oil plc Employee Benefit Trust. This ESOP Trust holds shares to satisfy awards under the Group’s share incentive plans. At 31 December 2017, the number of Ordinary Shares of 12.5 pence each held by the Trust was 796,147 (2016: 818,775 Ordinary Shares of 12.5 pence each). 21. Share-based payments The Group currently operates a Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) for all employees and a Share Incentive Plan and a Save As You Earn Scheme for UK-based and expatriate employees only. For the year ended 31 December 2017, the total cost recognised by the Company for equity-settled share-based payment transactions is US$14.5 million (2016: US$19.7 million). A credit of US$14.5 million has been recorded in retained earnings (2016: US$19.7 million) for all equity-settled payments of the Company. Like other elements of remuneration, this charge is processed through the time-writing system which allocates cost, based on time spent by individuals, to various entities within the Premier Oil plc group. Part of this cost is therefore recharged to the relevant subsidiary undertaking, part is capitalised as directly attributable to capital projects and part is charged to the income statement as operating costs, pre-licence exploration costs or general and administration costs. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 163 STRATEGIC REPORT Details of the various share incentive plans currently in operation are set out below: GOVERNANCE 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan (‘2009 LTIP’) The 2009 LTIP is comprised of the following three elements: Equity Pool Awards (‘EPA’), Performance Share Awards (‘PSA’) and Matching Share Awards (‘MSA’): • The EPA are funded by a per cent share of the growth in the Company’s equity value over a three-year performance period. One per cent of the compound growth is credited to the equity pool at 10 per cent compound annual growth rate (‘CAGR’), with maximum funding of 2.5 per cent at 20 per cent CAGR per annum. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Participants receive a percentage share of the equity pool which vests, if the relevant performance criteria are met, in shares at the end of the performance period. • Performance Share Awards of up to 150 per cent of salary may be granted under the 2009 LTIP, which vest on three-year TSR relative to a comparator group of oil and gas sector peers. 25 per cent of the award vests for median performance with full vesting for upper quartile performance. • 50 per cent of vested EPA and PSA shares are subject to compulsory deferral for a further three years for senior executives and are eligible for a discretionary share award. Awards under the 2009 LTIP were approved by Premier’s Remuneration Committee in August 2016 and the awards were granted to the Executive Directors and other members of senior management during the period August 2016 to April 2017 as a result of trading restrictions applying to certain participants over that period. The performance period for the 2016 awards is the period 1 January 2016 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION to 31 December 2018. As part of the April 2017 award, the EPA was capped at 50 per cent of salary and the PSA was scaled back by 50 per cent to 75 per cent, with no matching awards. The EPA and PSA elements of the April 2017 award have been fair valued by the Company using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The performance period commenced from January 2016. The main assumptions for the calculation are as follows: Volatility: 48% Risk-free rate of interest: 1.7% Correlation factor with comparator group: 0.39 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan (‘2017 LTIP’) The new Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) was introduced in the year for Executive Directors and certain senior management. This new LTIP comprises two types of awards which support different elements of the Company’s strategy. Vesting of the Performance Share Awards is subject to a performance target measured over the period 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019 based on Total Shareholder Return relative to a peer group of companies and aligns to longer-term strategic objectives. The new Restricted Share Award (‘RSA’) aligns to the primary objective of balance sheet recovery, independent of other performance objectives, and vesting of awards is subject to a financial underpin and continued employment. Long-term alignment to shareholders’ interests is maintained with the introduction of a compulsory two-year holding period for both Performance Share Awards and Restricted Share Awards, ending on the fifth anniversary of the award date. As part of the September 2017 award, the RSA was scaled back by 50 per cent to 20 per cent and the PSA was scaled back by 50 per cent to 87.5 per cent. The PSA elements of the September 2017 award have been fair valued by the Company using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The performance period commenced from January 2017. The main assumptions for the calculation are as follows: Volatility: 83% Risk-free rate of interest: 0.2% Correlation factor with comparator group: 0.32 The RSA represents a fixed award equal in value of up to 40 per cent of salary. They vest subject to continued employment in one-third annual increments over three, four and five years, subject to a holding requirement over the full five-year cycle from grant. This fixed value award is being accrued at cost. At 31 December 2017, there were a total of 7.1 million shares awarded (all during 2017) under the 2017 LTIP (2016: nil). Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 164 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 21. Share-based payments continued Premier Value Share Plan (‘PVSP’) The broader employee population participates in the Premier Value Share Plan (‘PVSP’), which forms part of the 2017 LTIP. The PVSP is made up of two awards, Base Awards and Multiplier Awards. Under the PVSP, annual awards of time-vesting restricted shares and three-year performance-vesting shares may be made. PVSP awards were granted to employees in 2016 and 2017 and these two awards will vest in March 2018 and September 2019 respectively. Owing to the prevailing business environment, the multiplier element of the PVSP (Multiplier Award) was removed from both the 2016 and 2017 awards, resulting in each employee receiving, in effect, a fixed award at the end of the vesting period (Base Award). The value of the Base Award is set at a fixed percentage of each employee’s salary and the number of shares awarded is fixed according to the average closing price of a Premier Oil share over the five dealing days immediately preceding the award date: 75 pence for 2016 awards and 55 pence for 2017 awards. 2016 and 2017 awards were scaled back by 50 per cent. During 2017, 8.4 million shares were granted and 0.2 million shares were forfeited by employees who left the Company. At 31 December 2017, there were 14.0 million shares outstanding for the PVSP (2016: 5.8 million). No shares were exercised or lapsed during the year. Share Incentive Plan Under the Share Incentive Plan employees are invited to make contributions to buy partnership shares. If an employee agrees to buy partnership shares, the Company currently matches the number of partnership shares bought with an award of shares (matching shares), on a one-for-one basis. After three years the employee has the right to receive their original contributions plus the shares awarded in either cash or shares of the Company, at the employee’s option. The amount owed by the Company to employees under this scheme is deemed to be insignificant. Save As You Earn (‘SAYE’) scheme Under the SAYE, eligible employees with one month or more continuous service can join the scheme. Employees can save up to a maximum of £500 per month through payroll deductions for a period of three or five years, after which time they can acquire shares at up to a 20 per cent discount. 2017 2016 Weighted Weighted 2017 average 2016 average Options exercise price Options exercise price Outstanding at the beginning of the year 5,363,957 £0.45 2,122,551 £1.31 Granted during the year 490,776 £0.62 5,369,088 £0.42 Lapsed during the year (473,936) £0.61 (2,115,077) £1.21 Exercised during the year1 (99,973) £0.42 (12,605) £0.42 Outstanding at the end of the year 5,280,824 £0.46 5,363,957 £0.45 1 99,937 Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of £12,496.63 were issued under the Group’s share option scheme during the year (2015: 12,605). The weighted average share price as at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was £0.67. The options outstanding at 31 December 2017 had a weighted average exercise price of £0.46 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of two years. The fair value of the options granted during the year was determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model and is not significant. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 165 STRATEGIC REPORT 22. Notes to the cash flow statement GOVERNANCE 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Restated1 Loss before tax for the year (366.3) (413.9) Adjustments for: Depreciation, depletion, amortisation and impairment 667.8 888.3 Other operating (income)/costs (18.8) 6.1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Exploration expense 11.2 48.0 Excess of fair value over consideration – (228.5) Provision for share-based payments 8.6 8.7 Reduction in decommissioning estimates – (75.7) Interest revenue and finance gains (12.6) (15.0) Finance costs and other finance expenses2 412.7 258.8 Profit on disposal of non-current assets (129.0) – Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 573.6 476.8 (Increase)/decrease in inventories (1.2) 1.3 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION (Increase)/decrease in receivables (161.3) 25.1 Increase/(decrease) in payables 136.6 (40.9) Cash generated by operations 547.7 462.3 Income taxes paid (69.6) (60.9) Interest income received 1.1 0.6 Net cash from operating activities 479.2 402.0 Net cash from discontinued operating activities 16.8 29.4 Total net cash from operating activities 496.0 431.4 Notes: 1 Restated for the classification of the Pakistan Business Unit as a discontinued operation. 2 Includes loss on substantial modification. Analysis of changes in net debt: 2017 2016 Note US$ million US$ million a) Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt: Movement in cash and cash equivalents 109.5 (145.4) Proceeds from drawdown of long-term bank loans (45.0) (435.0) USPP make-whole adjustment (41.3) – Adjustment to revised fair value of convertible bonds 58.6 – Partial conversion of convertible bonds 5.5 – Non-cash movements on debt and cash balances (predominantly foreign exchange) (46.3) 57.4 Decrease/(increase) in net debt in the year 41.0 (523.0) Opening net debt (2,765.2) (2,242.2) Closing net debt (2,724.2) (2,765.2) b) Analysis of net debt: Cash and cash equivalents 365.4 255.9 Borrowings 15 (3,089.6) (3,021.1) Total net debt (2,724.2) (2,765.2) The carrying amounts of the borrowings on the balance sheet are stated net of the unamortised portion of the refinancing fees of US$117.0 million (2016: US$17.6 million). 23. Capital commitments and guarantees At 31 December 2017, the Group had capital commitments on exploration and development licences totalling US$207.1 million (2016: US$372.1 million). In addition, the Group had issued letters of credit for future decommissioning liabilities totalling £282.7 million and US$16.4 million held as security for the Mexican Letters of Credit (US$398.0 million) (2016: US$328.6 million). Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 166 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 24. Group pension schemes Balance sheet 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million UK funded pension scheme 0.5 0.6 Total surplus in balance sheet 0.5 0.6 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million UK unfunded pension scheme 0.7 0.7 Total liability in balance sheet 0.7 0.7 Unfunded pensions The Group is paying an unfunded pension to a former Director in the UK in regard to which annual increases and a reversionary spouse’s pension apply on the same basis as to pensions paid under the Scheme. On the same actuarial basis as used to assess the Scheme’s pension costs, the present value as at 31 December 2017 of the future payments projected to be made in respect of UK unfunded pensions is US$0.7 million (2016: US$0.7 million). Funded pensions The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme in the UK – The Premier Oil plc Retirement and Death Benefits Plan (‘the Scheme’) primarily inflation-linked annuities based on an employee’s length of service and final salary. The Scheme was closed to new members (aside from the provision of insured death in service benefits) in 1997 and a new scheme, providing benefits on a defined contribution basis, was started. Both schemes are funded by the payment of contributions to separately administered trust funds. The disclosures set out below are based on calculations carried out as at 31 December 2017 by a qualified independent actuary. The figures have been prepared in compliance with IAS 19 – ‘Employee Benefits’. The Scheme’s assets are held in a separate trustee-administered fund to meet long-term pension liabilities to past and present employees. The Trustee of the Scheme is required to act in the best interest of the Scheme’s beneficiaries. The appointment of members of the Trustee Board is determined by the trust documentation. The liabilities of the defined benefit scheme are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out of the Scheme using the projected unit credit method. This amount is reflected in the surplus or the deficit in the balance sheet. The projected unit credit method is an accrued benefits valuation method in which the Scheme liabilities make allowance for the projected earnings. The liabilities set out in this note have been calculated using membership data current as at 31 December 2017. The results of the calculations and the assumptions adopted are shown below. As at 31 December 2017, contributions are payable to the Scheme by the Group at the rates set out in the schedule of contributions signed by the trustees on 23 March 2015. Under this schedule, the Company contributes on a monthly basis at the rate of 30 per cent of the aggregate of members’ pensionable salaries. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 167 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date were: GOVERNANCE At 31 December At 31 December 2017 2016 Discount rate 2.4% pa 2.6% pa RPI inflation 3.2% pa 3.4% pa CPI inflation 2.2% pa 2.4% pa Rate of increase in salaries 3.2% pa 3.4% pa FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Rate of increase in pensions in payment: LPI (max 5%) 3.1% pa 3.3% pa Mortality S2PA Light CMI_2016 1.25% S2PA Light CMI_2015 1.25% Long term plus one year age rating Long term plus one year age rating Proportion married 80% 80% Withdrawals No allowance No allowance Cash commutation 75% of maximum tax-free cash 75% of maximum tax-free cash Life expectancy of male aged 65 now 22.3 22.4 Life expectancy of male aged 65 in 20 years 23.6 24.0 Life expectancy of female aged 65 now 23.3 23.5 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Life expectancy of female aged 65 in 20 years 24.7 25.3 Asset breakdown The major categories of Scheme assets as a percentage of total Scheme assets are: At 31 December At 31 December 2017 2016 Equities 51.4% 50.1% Gilts 24.2% 25.0% Corporate bonds 24.0% 24.8% Cash 0.4% 0.1% Total 100.0% 100.0% Reconciliation of funded status and amount recognised in balance sheet At 31 December At 31 December 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Fair value of Scheme assets (46.3) (39.0) Present value of defined benefit obligation 32.4 29.5 (Surplus)/deficit (13.9) (9.5) Unrecognised amount due to effect of IFRIC141 13.4 8.9 Surplus (0.5) (0.6) Note: 1 The trustees have certain rights to grant benefit increases to members and, accordingly, it has been concluded the Group does not have an unconditional right to the surplus by way of a refund. Statement of amount recognised in the income statement 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Current service cost 0.2 0.2 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability/(asset) – – Total 0.2 0.2 Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 168 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 24. Group pension schemes continued Reconciliation of defined benefit obligation 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Opening present value of defined benefit obligation 29.5 32.5 Service cost 0.2 0.2 Interest cost 0.8 1.1 Actuarial (gains)/losses from changes in demographic assumptions (0.5) 0.3 Actuarial (gains)/losses from changes in financial assumptions 0.1 6.4 Changes due to experience adjustments 0.1 (1.4) Benefits paid (0.7) (4.2) Currency translation effects 2.9 (5.4) Closing defined benefit obligation 32.4 29.5 Reconciliation of fair value of assets 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Opening fair value of Scheme assets 39.0 41.4 Interest income 1.1 1.4 Return on assets less interest income 2.8 7.5 Contributions by employer 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid (0.7) (4.2) Currency translation effects 4.0 (7.2) Closing fair value of Scheme assets 46.3 39.0 Actual return on Scheme assets 3.9 8.9 Statement of amount recognised in other comprehensive income At 31 December At 31 December 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million (Gain)/loss from changes in the financial assumptions for value of Scheme liabilities 0.1 6.4 (Gain)/loss from changes in the demographic assumptions for value of Scheme liabilities (0.5) 0.3 Changes due to experience adjustments 0.1 (1.4) Return on assets (excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability) (2.8) (7.5) Change in the effect of the asset ceiling excluding amounts included in net interest on the 4.2 0.2 net defined liability Currency translation effect (1.1) 1.8 Other comprehensive income – (0.2) Statement of amount recognised in profit and loss and other comprehensive income At 31 December At 31 December 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Amount recognised in profit and loss 0.2 0.2 Other comprehensive income – (0.2) Total comprehensive income 0.2 – Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 169 STRATEGIC REPORT Sensitivity of balance sheet at 31 December 2017 The results of the calculations are sensitive to the assumptions used. The balance sheet position revealed by IAS 19 calculations must GOVERNANCE be expected to be volatile, principally because the market value of assets (with significant exposure to equities) is being compared with a liability assessment derived from corporate bond yields. The table below shows the sensitivity of the IAS 19 balance sheet position to small changes in some of the assumptions. Where one assumption has been changed all the other assumptions are kept as disclosed above. Change from Revised disclosed FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (surplus)/deficit (surplus)/deficit US$ million US$ million Discount rate less 0.1% p.a. (13.4) 0.5 RPI inflation and linked assumptions plus 0.1% p.a. (13.6) 0.3 Members living one year longer than assumed (12.8) 1.1 Projected components of pension costs for period to 31 December 2018 Because of the significant volatility in investment markets, it is difficult to project forward the IAS 19 figures for the next year with confidence. The following projections should therefore be treated with caution. Assumptions implicit in the following projections are: • the interest on the defined benefit liability/(asset) from 31 December 2017 is 2.4% p.a; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION • contributions to the Scheme will continue throughout 2018 in accordance with the current Schedule of Contributions in place at the date of signing this report; and • there will be no changes to the terms of the Scheme. The amounts recognised in the components of pension expense are: 2018 US$ million Current service cost 0.2 Interest on defined benefit liability/(asset) – Net actuarial (gain)/loss recognised – Total 0.2 Defined contribution scheme The Group operates a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme. The only obligation of the Group with respect to the retirement benefit scheme is to make specified contributions. Payments to the defined contribution scheme are charged as an expense as they fall due. The total cost charged to income of US$6.7 million (2016: US$8.6 million) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the scheme. 25. Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Directors and executive remuneration The remuneration of Executive Directors during the year is set out below. Further information regarding the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report. 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Short-term employee benefits 3.1 3.6 Post-employment benefits 1.8 2.6 Other long-term benefits: share-based payments 0.1 – 5.0 6.2 Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 170 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 26. Other reserves Capital Retained Merger redemption Translation Hedge Equity earnings reserve 1 reserve2 reserves3 reserves4 reserve5 Total Note US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million At 1 January 2016 (37.6) 374.3 8.1 (85.7) 83.9 9.6 352.6 Purchase of ESOP Trust shares 0.2 – – – – – 0.2 Provision for share-based payments 21 19.7 – – – – – 19.7 Transfer between reserves 4.6 – – – – (4.6) – Profit for the year 122.6 – – – – – 122.6 Other comprehensive expense 0.2 – – 3.0 (71.3) – (68.1) At 1 January 2017 109.7 374.3 8.1 (82.7) 12.6 5.0 427.0 Issue of Ordinary Shares 1.1 – – – – – 1.1 Net release of ESOP Trust shares (0.2) – – – – – (0.2) Provision for share-based payments 21 14.5 – – – – – 14.5 Incremental equity component of revised – – – – – 57.2 57.2 convertible bonds Transfer between reserves 4.8 – – – – (4.8) – Loss for the year (253.8) – – – – – (253.8) Other comprehensive expense – – – (4.9) (17.5) – (22.4) At 31 December 2017 (123.9) 374.3 8.1 (87.6) (4.9) 57.4 223.4 Notes: 1 In 2012 the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to Merger Relief (s612 and s613) were applied to the EnCore plc acquisition. The non-statutory premium arising on shares issued by Premier as consideration has been recognised in the merger reserve. 2 The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of shares transferred following the Company’s purchase of them. 3 The translation reserve is used to record unrealised exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of entities within the Group that have a functional currency other than US dollars. 4 The hedging reserve is used to record unrealised movements in the Group’s hedging instruments. 5 This balance represents the equity component of the convertible bonds. The transfer between reserves relates to the non-cash interest on the convertible bonds. 27. Subsequent events Convertible bond notes In January 2018, Premier invited convertible bondholders to exercise their exchange rights in respect of any and all of their bonds. 87.5 per cent, or US$205.8 million of the US$235.2 million bonds outstanding, were accepted for early exchange with an incentive amount of US$50 per US$1,000 in principal of bonds. The exchange resulted in the issue of 231,882,091 Ordinary Shares including 7,578,343 of incentive shares. It is expected that the value of the incentive shares will be expenses in the 2018 income statement. Subsequent to the year-end, prior to the offer made by the Group, a further US$2.7 million were converted by bondholders. Equity warrants Subsequent to the year-end until the date of this report, 8,117,546 equity warrants have been exercised into 7,951,992 Ordinary Shares of the Company. Debt reduction Net cash proceeds received for the Wytch Farm disposal of US$176 million in December 2017 were used to pay down and cancel the RCF debt facility in January 2018. This reduced the total available RCF facility from US$2,050 million to US$1,874 million. As a result of this disposal US$75 million Letters of Credit was released. In addition, the US$16.4 million Letters of Credit held for the Zama exploration well in Mexico, which was included within covenant net debt at 31 December 2017, was also released in January 2018. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 171 STRATEGIC REPORT 28. Investments Joint ventures GOVERNANCE The Group has a 49 per cent interest in Premco Energy Projects Company LLC, a company registered in the United Arab Emirates. The result of this jointly controlled entity, which is indirectly held through subsidiary undertakings and which are involved in business development opportunities across the Middle East and North Africa region, was immaterial to the Group in 2017 and 2016. Subsidiary undertakings At 31 December 2017, the Group had investments in the following 100 per cent owned subsidiaries. Principal subsidiaries FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Name of company Business and area of operation Registered office address Premier Oil Group Holdings Limited1 Intermediate holding company, UK 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil Group Limited Intermediate holding company, UK 4th Floor, Saltire Court, 20 Castle Terrace, Edinburgh, EH1 2EN Premier Oil Finance (Jersey) Limited1 Convertible bond issuing company, Jersey 13 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RT Premier Oil Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company, UK 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil Overseas BV Intermediate holding company, Netherlands Atrium Building, 8th Floor, Strawinskylaan 3127, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam, Netherlands Premier Oil UK Limited Exploration, production and development, UK 4th Floor, Saltire Court, 20 Castle Terrace, Edinburgh, EH1 2EN ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Premier Oil E&P Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company, UK 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil E&P UK Limited Exploration, production and development, UK 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil E&P UK EU Limited Exploration, production and development, UK 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil E&P UK Energy Gas trading company, UK 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Trading Limited Premier Oil Natuna Sea BV Exploration, production and development, Indonesia Atrium Building, 8th Floor, Strawinskylaan 3127, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam, Netherlands Premier Oil Kakap BV Exploration, production and development, Indonesia Atrium Building, 8th Floor, Strawinskylaan 3127, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam, Netherlands Premier Oil Pakistan Holdings BV Intermediate holding company, Netherlands Atrium Building, 8th Floor, Strawinskylaan 3127, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam, Netherlands Premier Oil Pakistan Exploration, production and development, Pakistan 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Exploration Limited Premier Oil Pakistan Exploration, production and development, Pakistan 190 Elgin Avenue, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-9005 Kadanwari Limited Premier Oil Pakistan Kirthar BV Exploration, production and development, Pakistan Atrium Building, 8th Floor, Strawinskylaan 3127, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam, Netherlands Premier Oil Vietnam Offshore BV Exploration, production and development, Vietnam Atrium Building, 8th Floor, Strawinskylaan 3127, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam, Netherlands Premier Oil (Vietnam) Limited Exploration, production and development, Vietnam Commerce House, Wickhams Cay 1, Road Town, Tortola, VG1110 Premier Oil Exploration and Exploration, production and development, 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Production Limited Falkland Islands Premier Oil do Brasil Exploration, production and development, Brazil Rua Lauro Müller, 116 – Sala 2006, Botafogo, Petróleo e Gás Ltda Rio de Janeiro, 22.290-906 Premier Oil Exploration and Exploration, production and development, Mexico Calle Montes Urales, 424, Oficina 03-110 y 03-117 Production Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Lomas de Chapultepec V Sección, Miguel Hidalgo, Ciudad de México, 11000 Note: 1 Held directly by Premier Oil plc. All other companies are held through a subsidiary undertaking. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 172 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 Other subsidiaries Name of company Business and area of operation Registered office address EnCore (NNS) Limited Intermediate holding company, UK 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR EnCore (VOG) Limited Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR EnCore CCS Limited Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR EnCore Gas Storage Limited Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR EnCore Natural Resources Limited Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR EnCore North Sea Limited Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR EnCore Oil and Gas Limited Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR EnCore Oil Limited Intermediate holding company, UK 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR FP Mauritania A BV Exploration, production and development, Mauritania Atrium Building, 8th Floor, Strawinskylaan 3127, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam, Netherlands FP Mauritania B BV Exploration, production and development, Mauritania Atrium Building, 8th Floor, Strawinskylaan 3127, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam, Netherlands Premier Exploration Services Dormant 507 Bhikaiji Cama Bhawan, Bhikaiji Cama Place, Private Limited New Delhi, 110 066 Premier Oil (EnCore Exploration UK) Limited Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil (EnCore Petroleum) Limited Intermediate holding company, UK 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil A Limited Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil Aberdeen Services Limited Service company, UK 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil and Gas Services Limited Service company, UK 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil B Limited Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil Bukit Barat Limited Exploration, production and development, Indonesia 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil Buton BV Dormant Atrium Building, 8th Floor, Strawinskylaan 3127, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam, Netherlands Premier Oil CCS Limited Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil Congo (Marine IX) Limited Dormant 13 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RT Premier Oil Exploration (Mauritania) Limited Exploration, production and development, Mauritania 13 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RT Premier Oil Exploration and Production (Iraq) Exploration, production and development, Iraq 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Limited Premier Oil Exploration Limited Dormant 4th Floor, Saltire Court, 20 Castle Terrace, Edinburgh, EH1 2EN Premier Oil Exploration ONS Limited Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil Far East Limited Service company, Singapore 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil International Holding BV Intermediate holding company, Netherlands Atrium Building, 8th Floor, Strawinskylaan 3127, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam, Netherlands Premier Oil Investments Limited Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil Mauritania B Limited Exploration, production and development, Mauritania 13 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RT Premier Oil Mexico Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company, UK 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil ONS Limited Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil Pacific Limited Dormant 36/F, Tower Two, Time Square, 1 Matheson Street, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong Premier Oil Pakistan Offshore BV Dormant Atrium Building, 8th Floor, Strawinskylaan 3127, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam, Netherlands Premier Oil Philippines BV Dormant Atrium Building, 8th Floor, Strawinskylaan 3127, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam, Netherlands Premier Oil Red Sea Limited Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil Tuna BV Exploration, production and development, Indonesia Atrium Building, 8th Floor, Strawinskylaan 3127, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam, Netherlands Premier Oil Ventures Limited Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil Vietnam 121 Limited Exploration, production and development, Vietnam 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil Vietnam North BV Dormant Atrium Building, 8th Floor, Strawinskylaan 3127, 1077 ZX, Amsterdam, Netherlands Premier Oil West Tuna Limited Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Overseas Holdings Ltd Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR XEO Exploration plc Dormant 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London, SW1W 0NR Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements Company Balance Sheet 173 As at 31 December 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 2017 2016 Note US$ million US$ million GOVERNANCE Restated1 Non-current assets: Investments in subsidiaries 3 565.5 563.4 Long-term employee benefit plan surplus 7 0.5 0.6 Long-term receivables 4 955.4 861.9 Total non-current assets 1,521.4 1,425.9 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Current assets: Other receivables 4 0.7 0.7 Total current assets 0.7 0.7 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 5 (61.6) (1.8) Net current liabilities (60.9) (1.1) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Non-current liabilities: Borrowings 6 (192.4) (182.8) Long-term employee benefit plan deficit 7 (0.7) (0.7) Derivative financial instruments (41.1) (60.7) (234.2) (244.2) Net assets 1,226.3 1,180.6 Equity and reserves: Share capital 9 109.0 106.7 Share premium account 284.5 275.4 Retained earnings 388.2 354.0 Other reserves 444.6 444.5 1,226.3 1,180.6 Note: 1 Restated for certain line items to match current year classification. Profit for the year ending 31 December 2017 was US$15.3 million (2016: US$20.5 million). The financial statements of Premier Oil plc (registered number SC234781) were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 7 March 2018. They were signed on its behalf by: Tony Durrant Richard Rose Chief Executive Officer Finance Director Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 174 Company Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended 31 December 2017 Share Merger Capital Share premium Profit and reserve redemption Equity capital account loss account account reserve reserve Total Note US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million At 1 January 2016 106.7 275.4 312.0 374.3 8.1 62.1 1,138.6 Net purchase of ESOP Trust shares – – 0.2 – – – 0.2 Profit for the financial year 2 – – 20.5 – – – 20.5 Provision for share-based payments – – 19.7 – – – 19.7 Movement in cash flow hedges – – 1.4 – – – 1.4 Pension costs – actuarial gains – – 0.2 – – – 0.2 At 1 January 2017 106.7 275.4 354.0 374.3 8.1 62.1 1,180.6 Issue of Ordinary Shares 2.3 9.1 1.1 – – – 12.5 Net release of ESOP Trust shares – – (0.2) – – – (0.2) Profit for the financial year 2 – – 15.3 – – – 15.3 Provision for share-based payments – – 14.5 – – – 14.5 Movement in cash flow hedges – – 1.6 – – – 1.6 Derecognition of equity component of – – – – – (62.1) (62.1) modified convertible bonds Recognition of equity component of – – – – – 64.1 64.1 revised convertible bonds Conversion of convertible bonds – – 1.9 – – (1.9) – At 31 December 2017 109.0 284.5 388.2 374.3 8.1 62.2 1,226.3 Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements 175 For the year ended 31 December 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1. Significant accounting policies The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The Company meets the GOVERNANCE definition of a qualifying entity under Financial Reporting Standard 100 (‘FRS 100’) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’. As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to accounting standards issued but not yet effective or implemented, share-based payment information, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, presentation of a cash flow statement and certain related party transactions. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. Further information relating to the going concern assumption is provided in the Financial Review on page 42. Where required, the equivalent disclosures are given in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Key sources of estimation uncertainty disclosure are provided in the Accounting Policies and in relevant notes to the Group consolidated financial statements as applicable. Details of the Company’s share-based payment schemes are provided in note 21 of the Group consolidated financial statements on page 162. The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the remeasurement of certain financial instruments to fair value. The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those set out on pages 127 to 133 to the Group consolidated financial statements except as noted below: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment. 2. Profit for the year As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year. The Company reported a profit for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 of US$15.3 million (2016: US$20.5 million). Other comprehensive income for the year was US$1.6 million (2016: US$2.6 million expense). The auditors’ remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in note 3 to the Group consolidated financial statements on page 141. 3. Fixed asset investments 2017 US$ million Cost and net book value: At 1 January 563.4 Movement in the year 2.1 At 31 December 565.5 A list of all investments in subsidiaries held at 31 December 2017, including the name and type of business, the country of operation and the country of incorporation or registration, is given in note 28 to the Group consolidated financial statements on page 171. During the year, the Company’s investment in Premier Oil Finance (Jersey) Limited increased by US$2.1 million, reflecting the increase in the fair value of the equity component of Premier Oil Finance (Jersey) Limited’s convertible bonds. Additionally during the year, the Company’s investment in its subsidiary Premier Oil Group Limited was transferred to a newly created 100 per cent owned subsidiary, Premier Oil Group Holdings Limited. This was transferred at cost and therefore there is no further increase in the Company’s investments. 4. Receivables Long-term receivables: amounts falling due after more than one year 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 955.4 861.9 The amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings comprise a loan which bears interest based on LIBOR. This loan is denominated in US dollars and falls due for repayment in 2021. Other receivables: amounts falling due within one year 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 0.7 0.7 The carrying values of the Company’s debtors approximate to their fair value. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 176 Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 5. Trade and other payables 2017 2016 US$ million US$ million Derivative financial instruments – warrants 59.8 – Accruals 1.8 1.8 61.6 1.8 The carrying values of the Company’s creditors approximate to their fair value. During the year the Company issued 89.1 million equity warrants and 21.4 million synthetic warrants, of which 13.9 million equity warrants were exercised by year-end. Further details on the warrants are disclosed in note 18 to the Group consolidated financial statements. 6. Borrowings 2017 2017 2016 2016 Fair value Carrying Fair value Carrying amount amount amount amount US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million Retail bonds 196.1 202.5 147.6 184.5 In December 2013, the Company put in place a £500.0 million Euro Medium Term Notes (‘EMTN’) programme under which it has issued £150.0 million UK retail bonds (the ‘bonds’). The bonds have been listed on the Official List of the UK Listings Authority and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange’s regulated market and the electronic Order Book of Retail Bonds (‘ORB’). The bonds initially had a fixed coupon of 5 per cent and maturity of seven years. Post refinancing the fixed coupon increased to 6.5 per cent, with maturity increasing to 2021. The carrying value of the retail bonds are stated in the Company balance sheet net of the unamortised portion of the debt arrangement fees of US$10.1 million (2016: US$1.7 million) and the liability is translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the year-end. Details of the refinancing of the retail bonds, which was not considered to be a substantial modification, as part of the Group’s wider refinancing are included in note 15 to the Group consolidated financial statements. 7. Long-term employee benefit plan Defined benefit schemes The Company operates a defined benefit scheme in the UK – The Premier Oil plc Retirement and Death Benefits Plan (the ‘Scheme’). Further details of the Scheme are disclosed in note 24 to the Group consolidated financial statements on page 166. Defined contribution schemes The Company operates a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme. Further details of this scheme are provided in note 24 to the Group consolidated financial statements on page 169. 8. Commitments and guarantees At the year-end date the Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, had jointly guaranteed the Group’s borrowing facilities. These consist of the following: • bank loans: US$2.5 billion revolving and letter of credit facility (‘RCF’), US$150 million and £100 million term loans (together the ‘Term Loan’); • senior loan notes: US$335 million and €63.6 million of US Private Placement (‘USPP’) notes and US$130 million Schuldschein (‘SSL’); • £150 million of retail bonds; and • US$237.9 million of convertible bonds. All of the above facilities mature in May 2021, except for the convertible bonds which mature in May 2022. 9. Share capital and share premium Further details of these items are disclosed in note 20 to the Group consolidated financial statements on page 162. 10. Dividends No dividend is proposed for the year ended 31 December 2017 (2016: nil). Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements UK Government Payment Reporting 177 STRATEGIC REPORT EUAD – Basis of preparation Our total economic value distributed to all stakeholders can The Reports on Payments to Governments Regulations (‘UK be found on page 57 of the Annual Report. GOVERNANCE Regulations’) came into force on 1 December 2014 and require UK Reporting currency – Payments disclosed in this report have companies in the extractive sector to publicly disclose payments been disclosed in US dollars, consistent with the rest of the 2017 made to governments in the countries where they undertake Annual Report. Where actual payments have been made in a extractive operations. The aim of the regulations is to enhance the currency other than US dollars, they have been translated using transparency of the payments made by companies in the extractive the prevailing exchange rate when the payment was made. sector to host governments in the form of taxes, bonuses, royalties, fees and support for infrastructure improvements. Production entitlements in barrels – Includes non-cash royalties FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The regulations implement Chapter 10 of EU Accounting and state non-participating interest paid in barrels of oil or gas out Directive (2013/34/EU) (‘EU Directive’). of the Group’s working interest share of production in a licence. The figures disclosed are on a cash paid liftings basis. The UK Regulations have an effective date of 1 January 2015, and this section of the Annual Report is in line with the EU Directive Income taxes – This represents cash tax calculated on the basis of and the UK Regulations. This basis of preparation provides an profits including income or capital gains and taxes on production explanation of the payments that we are disclosing. such as Petroleum Revenue Tax (‘PRT’). Income taxes are usually reflected in corporate income tax returns. The cash payment of The payments disclosed are based on where the obligation for income taxes occurs in the year in which the tax has arisen or up the payment arose: payments levied at a project level have been to one year later. Income taxes also include any cash tax rebate disclosed at a project level and payments levied at a corporate received from the government or revenue authority during the ADDITIONAL INFORMATION level have been disclosed on that basis. year. Income taxes do not include fines and penalties. In Within the UK Regulations, a project is defined as being the accordance with the UK Regulations, payments made in relation operational activities which are governed by a single contract, to sales, employee, environmental or withholding taxes have not licence, lease, concession or a similar legal agreement. The been disclosed. Company undertakes extractive activities in different types of fiscal Dividends – This includes dividends that are paid in lieu of a petroleum regimes and therefore the types of payments disclosed production entitlement or royalty. It does not include any dividends vary from country to country. For the purposes of our reporting, for paid to a government as an Ordinary Shareholder. the UK and Pakistan we have classified each individual concession/ licence as a project, whereas for Indonesia and Vietnam each PSC Royalties – This represents cash royalties paid to governments arrangement has been classified as a project. during the year for the extraction of oil or gas. The terms of the royalties are described within our PSCs and can vary from project All of the payments disclosed in accordance with the EU to project within one country. Export duties paid in kind have been Directive have been made to National Governments, either recognised within the royalties category. The cash payment of directly or through a Ministry or Department, or to a national royalties occurs in the year in which the tax has arisen. oil company, who have a working interest in a particular licence. For projects where we are the operator we have disclosed the Bonus payments – This represents any bonus paid to governments full payment made on behalf of the project; where we have a during the year, usually as a result of achieving certain milestones, non-operated interest we have not disclosed payments made such as a signature, discovery or production bonuses. on our behalf by another party. Licence fees – This represents licence fees, rental fees, entry fees In line with the UK Regulations, where a payment or a series of and other consideration for licences and/or concessions paid for related payments do not exceed US$116,100 (£86,000), they have access to an area during the year (with the exception of signature not been disclosed. Where the aggregate payments made in the bonuses which are captured within bonus payments). period for a project or country are less than US$116,100 we have Infrastructure improvement payments – This represents not disclosed the payments made for this project or country. payments made in respect of infrastructure improvements for projects that are not directly related to oil and gas activities during the year. This can be a contractually obligated payment in a PSC or a discretionary payment for building/improving local infrastructure such as roads, bridges and ports. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 178 UK Government Payment Reporting continued 2017 European Transparency Directive disclosure Infrastructure Production Production Income Royalties Bonus Licence improvement Licence/ entitlements entitlements taxes (cash only) Dividends payments fees payments Total Country company level bbls (‘000) US$ (‘000) US$ (‘000) US$ (‘000) US$ (‘000) US$ (‘000) US$ (‘000) US$ (‘000) US$ (‘000) Brazil CE-M-665-R11 – – – – – – 189 – 189 CE-M-717-R11 – – – – – – 123 – 123 Total Brazil – – – – – – 312 – 312 Falkland Sea Lion – – – – – – 375 – 375 Islands Corporate – – – – – – 142 – 142 Total Falkland Islands – – – – – – 517 – 517 Indonesia Natuna Sea Block A 3,635 166,946 35,166 – – – – – 205,747 Kakap – – 260 – – – – – 260 Corporate – – – – – – – – – Total Indonesia 3,635 166,946 35,426 – – – – – 206,007 Pakistan Bhit/Badhra – – – 1,298 – – – – 1,298 Zarghun South – – – 233 – – – – 233 Kadanwari – – – 415 – – – – 415 Zamzama – – – 537 – – – – 537 Qadipur – – – 1,347 – – – – 1,347 Corporate – – 4,862 – – – – – 4,862 Total Pakistan – – 4,862 3,830 – – – – 8,692 United Nelson – – (324) – – – – – (324) Kingdom Ravenspurn North – – – – – – 754 – 754 Johnston – – – – – – 335 – 335 Hunter – – – – – – 101 – 101 Rita – – – – – – 341 – 341 Huntington – – – – – – 335 – 335 Balmoral – – – – – – 234 – 234 Brenda – – – – – – 457 – 457 Solan – – – – – – 131 – 131 Catcher – – – – – – 654 – 654 Tolmount – – – – – – 754 – 754 Lyra – – – – – – (277) – (277) Corporate – – (1,593) – – – – – (1,593) Total UK – – (1,917) – – – 3,819 – 1,902 Vietnam Chim Sáo 895 45,294 – – – 450 – – 46,639 Corporate – – 40,526 19,307 – – – – 59,833 Total Vietnam 895 45,294 40,526 19,307 – 450 – – 106,472 Total Group 4,530 212,240 78,897 23,137 – 450 4,648 – 323,902 2017 European Transparency Directive disclosure Infrastructure Production Production Income Royalties Bonus Licence improvement entitlements entitlements taxes (cash only) Dividends payments fees payments Total Country Government bbls (‘000) US$ (‘000) US$ (‘000) US$ (‘000) US$ (‘000) US$ (‘000) US$ (‘000) US$ (‘000) US$ (‘000) Brazil National Petroleum – – – – – – 312 – 312 Agency Total Brazil – – – – – – 312 – 312 Falkland Department of Mineral – – – – – – 517 – 517 Islands Resources Total Falkland Islands – – – – – – 517 – 517 Indonesia SKK Migas 3,635 166,946 – – – – – – 170,581 Directorate General – – 35,426 – – – – – 35,426 of Taxes Total Indonesia 3,635 166,946 35,426 – – – – – 206,007 Pakistan Federal Board of Revenue – – 4,862 – – – – – 4,862 Directorate General of – – – 3,830 – – – – 3,830 Petroleum Concession Total Pakistan – – 4,862 3,830 – – – – 8,692 United HM Revenue – – (1,917) – – – – – (1,917) Kingdom & Customs Department of Energy – – – – – – 3,819 – 3,819 and Climate Change Total UK – – (1,917) – – – 3,819 – 1,902 Vietnam Petro Vietnam 895 45,294 – – – 450 – – 46,639 HCM Tax Department – – 40,526 10,544 – – – – 51,070 Vung Tau Customs Office – – – 8,763 – – – – 8,763 Total Vietnam 895 45,294 40,526 19,307 – 450 – – 106,472 Total Group 4,530 212,240 78,897 23,137 – 450 4,648 – 323,902 Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements Five Year Summary 179 STRATEGIC REPORT Financials 20171 2016 2015 2014 2013 GOVERNANCE Sales revenues (US$ million) 1,083.9 983.4 1,067.2 1,629.4 1,501.0 (Loss)/profit before tax (US$ million) (347.9) (390.6) (829.4) (384.0) 285.4 Net (loss)/profit for the year after tax (US$ million) (253.8) 122.6 (1,103.8) (210.3) 234.0 Cash flow from operating activities (US$ million) 496.0 431.4 809.5 924.3 802.5 Shareholders’ funds (US$ million) 616.9 809.1 734.8 1,872.2 2,124.4 Net debt (US$ million) (2,724.2) (2,765.2) (2,242.2) (2,122.2) (1,452.9) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Per share statistics: Revenue per share (cents/share) 211.0 192.5 208.9 312.2 283.6 (Loss)/earnings per share – basic (cents/share) (49.4) 24.0 (216.1) (40.3) 44.2 (Loss)/earnings per share – diluted (cents/share) (49.4) 23.7 (216.1) (40.3) 43.2 Cash flow from operating activities per share (cents/share) 96.6 84.5 158.5 177.1 151.6 Reserves per share – year-end (boe/share) 0.59 0.69 0.65 0.47 0.49 Issued Ordinary Shares – average (million) 513.7 510.8 510.8 521.9 529.2 Operations: Production (working interest basis) (kboepd) 75.0 71.4 57.6 63.6 58.2 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Proved and probable reserves (working interest basis) (mmboe) 301.8 353.3 331.9 243.3 259.4 Employees (average) – UK (number) 237 242 263 242 248 – Overseas (number) 552 559 608 698 634 Key indices: Realised average oil price (US$/bbl) 52.9 44.1 52.6 98.2 109.0 Average exchange rates (US$/£) 1.29 1.36 1.53 1.65 1.56 Closing exchange rates (US$/£) 1.35 1.23 1.47 1.56 1.66 Note: 1 From all operations (continuing and discontinued) unless otherwise stated. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 180 Oil and Gas Reserves Working interest reserves as at 31 December 2017 Working interest basis Falkland Islands Indonesia Pakistan UK Vietnam Total Oil Oil Oil Oil Oil Oil Oil, and and and and and and NGLs NGLs Gas NGLs Gas NGLs Gas NGLs Gas NGLs Gas NGLs Gas4 and gas mmbbls Bcf mmbbls Bcf mmbbls Bcf mmbbls Bcf mmbbls Bcf mmbbls Bcf mmboe Group proved plus probable reserves: At 1 January 2017 126.5 43.8 1.7 243.5 0.1 74.3 103.1 136.0 23.8 35.6 255.2 533.2 353.3 Revisions1 – – 0.1 (18.1) – (8.7) (13.0) 33.7 (0.3) (3.7) (13.2) 3.3 (12.4) Discoveries and extensions2 – – – – – – – – – – – – – Acquisitions and divestments3 – – – – – – (11.2) (1.3) – – (11.3) (1.4) (11.7) Production – – (0.3) (26.0) – (14.4) (9.9) (24.0) (4.3) (5.4) (14.5) (69.7) (27.4) At 31 December 2017 126.5 43.8 1.5 199.4 0.1 51.2 69.0 144.4 19.2 26.5 216.2 465.4 301.8 Total Group developed and undeveloped reserves: Proved on production – – 0.8 121.1 0.1 34.9 20.0 80.2 15.8 18.2 36.6 254.5 83.3 Proved approved/ justified for development 102.8 28.5 0.4 36.5 – – 21.2 26.5 0.5 6.2 124.7 97.7 143.3 Probable on production – – 0.1 9.9 – 16.3 5.6 32.4 2.8 1.7 8.6 60.3 19.1 Probable approved/ justified for development 23.7 15.3 0.2 31.9 – – 22.2 5.3 0.1 0.4 46.3 52.9 56.1 At 31 December 2017 126.5 43.8 1.5 199.4 0.1 51.2 69.0 144.4 19.2 26.5 216.2 465.4 301.8 Notes: 1 Revisions to reserves are based on re-evaluation of production performance; drilling results and future plans in Dua (Vietnam); Anoa and Gajah Baru (Indonesia); Solan, Babbage and Huntington (UK); Qadirpur (Pakistan). 2 The Zama discovery in Mexico is classified as contingent resource and does not appear in this table. 3 Divestment of Wytch Farm (UK). 4 Proved plus probable gas includes 95 Bcf of fuel gas reserves. Premier Oil plc categorises petroleum resources in accordance with the 2007 SPE/WPC/AAPG/SPEE Petroleum Resource Management System (‘SPE PRMS’). Proved and probable reserves are based on operator, third-party reports and internal estimates and are defined in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice (‘SORP’) issued by the Oil Industry Accounting Committee (‘OAIC’), dated July 2001. The Group provides for amortisation of costs relating to evaluated properties based on direct interests on an entitlement basis, which incorporates the terms of the PSCs in Indonesia and Vietnam. On an entitlement basis, reserves were 284.9 mmboe as at 31 December 2017 (2016: 332.3 mmboe). This was calculated at year-end 2017, using an oil price assumption equal to US$65/bbl in 2018, US$61.5/bbl in 2019, US$70/bbl in 2020 and US$75/bbl in ‘real’ terms thereafter (2016: Dated Brent, 2017 US$58/bbl, 2018 US$58/bbl, US$65/bbl in 2019 and US$75/bbl in ‘real’ terms thereafter). In 2018, it is anticipated that there will be changes to SPE Petroleum Resource Management System standards which are likely to include revised commercial requirements for reserve classification. If the Sea Lion development, which is currently booked with 2P reserves of 134 mmboe, does not pass through the Sanction Gate currently planned during 2018, there would be the potential for these resources to be recategorised as contingent at the end of 2018. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements Worldwide Licence Interests 181 As at 7 March 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Premier Unit interest Associated fields Licence Blocks Operator equity (if applicable) /discoveries GOVERNANCE Brazil CE-M-661 CE-M-661 Total 30.00 CE-M-665_R11 CE-M-665 Premier 50.00 CE-M-717_R11 CE-M-717 Premier 50.00 Pecem Falkland Islands PL003a 14/14 (part) & 14/19 (part) Rockhopper 4.50 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PL003b 14/14 (part) & 14/19 (part) Rockhopper 4.50 PL004a 14/15 (part), 14/20, 15/11 (part) & 15/16 (part) Premier 36.00 Isobel Deep PL004b 14/15 (part) Premier 36.00 Beverley; Casper South; Zebedee PL004c 14/15 (part) Premier 36.00 PL032 14/5, 14/10 Premier 60.00 Casper North; Sea Lion PL033 15/1 (part) & 15/6 (part) Premier 60.00 Indonesia Kakap Block Kakap Block Star Energy 18.75 Kakap Natuna Sea Block A Natuna Sea Block A Premier 28.67 Anoa; Gajah Baru; Naga; Pelikan Tuna Block Tuna Block Premier 65.00 Kuda Laut; Singa Laut ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Mauritania PSC B Chinguetti EEA Petronas 8.12 Chinguetti Mexico Mexico Block 2 2 Talos 10.00 Mexico Block 7 7 Talos 25.00 Zama Pakistan D&PL No.140/PAK/2000 Kirthar ENI 6.00 Bhit D&PL No.150/PAK/2002 2667-1 (Dadu) Orient 9.38 Zamzama D&PL No.160/PAK/2003 Kirthar ENI 6.00 Badhra D&PL No.161/PAK/2003 Bolan Mari 3.75 Zarghun South D&PL No.84/PAK/92 Tajjal ENI 15.79 Kadanwari D&PL No.85/PAK/93 Qadirpur OGDCL 4.75 Qadirpur United Kingdom P077 22/12a (Nelson Field (NELS)) Shell 50.00 1.66 Nelson P087 22/7a (Nelson Field (NELS)) Premier 46.50 1.66 Nelson P111 22/25a (Merganser down to 3,300 metres (MERG)) Premier 65.99 7.92 Merganser P164 205/26a (ALL) Premier 100.00 Solan P185 15/22 (Rest of Block (Non-Palaeocene Formation) (A)) Nexen 50.00 Blackhorse P188 22/30b (Area A – Elgin Field (ELGN)) Total 5.20 5.20 Elgin; Franklin P201 16/21a Balmoral & Glamis Field Areas (BALMO), Rest Premier 85.00 Balmoral: 78.12 Balmoral; Glamis; Stirling of Block (Exploration Area) (REST), Stirling Field Area Stirling: 68.68 (STIRL); and 16/21d Balmoral & Glamis Field Areas (BALMO), Rest of Block (Exploration Area) (REST) P201 16/21d (Brenda Field Area (above 7,500 feet) (A)) Premier 100.00 Brenda P213 16/26a (Area P – Caledonia Field Area (P-CAL)) Premier 100.00 Caledonia P233 15/25a (ALL) Premier 70.00 Nicol P264 23/26d (Scoter Field Area (A)) Premier 100.00 12.00 Scoter P344 16/21b & 16/21c (Balmoral Field Area (BALM)) Premier 44.20 Balmoral: 78.12 Balmoral; Stirling and 16/21c (Stirling Field (STIR)) Stirling: 68.68 P362 29/5b (ALL) Total 5.20 5.20 Franklin P380 43/26a (Rave (RAVE A)) and (Rave (RAVE B)) Perenco 35.94 28.75 Ravenspurn North P380 43/26a (Ravenspurn North Field Carboniferous Area BP 5.00 (RAVE (CA)) Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 182 Worldwide Licence Interests continued As at 7 March 2018 Premier Unit interest Associated fields Licence Blocks Operator equity (if applicable) /discoveries United Kingdom (continued) P380 43/26a (Residual Area excluding Ravenspurn North Premier 72.22 50.11 Johnston (RESID) P452 44/23a (Caister Field (AREA AA) ConocoPhillips 40.00 Caister P452 44/23e (ALL (D)) Premier 79.00 Hunter P454 44/29b (Orca Field Area (B)) Engie 42.67 23.47 Orca P456 48/2a (ALL) Premier 47.00 Babbage P611 44/24a (ALL) and 44/30a (ALL) Engie 42.67 Orca: 23.47 Minke; Orca P666 22/30c (ALL) and 29/5c (ALL) Total 5.20 5.20 Elgin; Franklin; West Franklin P686 43/27a (ALL) Premier 42.22 50.11 Johnston P748 29/2c (ALL) CNR 40.00 Kyle P752 29/4d (ALL) Total 18.57 Glenelg P766 44/21b (ALL) Premier 68.31 74.00 Rita P771 44/22c (ALL) Premier 76.00 74.00 Rita P1042 15/25b (ALL) Premier 100.00 Brenda P1114 22/14b (ALL) Premier 100.00 Huntington P1330 42/28d (ALL) Premier 50.00 Tolmount P1430 28/9a (ALL) Premier 50.00 Burgman; Carnaby; Catcher; Varadero P2068 22/29b (ALL) Total 5.20 5.20 Elgin; Franklin P2070 28/4a (ALL) Premier 54.00 Laverda P2077 28/8a (ALL) Premier 54.00 P2212 48/1b (ALL) and 48/2b (ALL) Premier 50.00 Greater Babbage P2290 48/3 (ALL) Premier 50.00 Greater Babbage P2301 48/1c (ALL) Premier 50.00 Greater Babbage P2305 42/28c (ALL) Premier 50.00 Greater Tolmount Vietnam Block 12W 12W Premier 53.13 Chim Sáo; Dua Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements Glossary 183 STRATEGIC REPORT AGM Annual General Meeting GOVERNANCE bbl barrel BBtud billion British thermal units per day Bcf billion cubic feet BMS Business Management System boe barrels of oil equivalent boepd barrels of oil equivalent per day bopd barrel(s) of oil per day FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DECC Department of Energy and Climate Change DSA Domestic Swap Agreement EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation ExCo Executive Committee FDP field development plan FEED front end engineering and design FPSO floating production, storage and offtake vessel GHG greenhouse gases GRI Global Reporting Initiative ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GSA Gas Sales Agreement HiPoR High Potential Incident Rate HSES health, safety, environment and security HSFO High Sulphur Fuel Oil IAS International Accounting Standard IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard IPIECA International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association kbopd thousand barrels of oil per day kboepd thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day KPI key performance indicator LOPC loss of primary containment LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan mmbbls million barrels mmboe million barrels of oil equivalent mmscfd million standard cubic feet per day mscf thousand standard cubic feet mt metric tonne NAV net asset value PDO Plan for Development and Operation PSA Performance Share Awards PSC production sharing contract PSR Project Safety Reviews Tcf Trillion cubic feet te Tonnes TLP Tension Leg Platform ToP Take or Pay TRIR total recordable injury rate TSR total shareholder return 2P Proved and probable reserves Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements 184 Glossary continued Non-IFRS measures The Group uses certain measures of performance that are not specifically defined under IFRS or other generally accepted accounting principles. These non-IFRS measures are EBITDAX, Operating cost per barrel, DD&A per barrel, Free cash flow, Net Debt and Liquidity and are defined below. EBITDAX Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, impairment, exploration spend and other one-off items. In the current year it also excludes the gain on disposal recognised in the income statement. This is a useful indicator of underlying business performance. Operating cost per barrel Operating costs for the year divided by working interest production. This is a useful indicator of ongoing operating costs from the Group’s producing assets. DD&A per barrel Depreciation and amortisation of oil and gas properties for the year divided by working interest production. This is a useful indicator of ongoing rates of depreciation and amortisation of the Group’s producing assets. Free cash flow Positive cash flow generation from operating, investing and financing activities excluding drawdowns from borrowing facilities. Net Debt The net of cash and cash equivalents and long-term debt recognised on the balance sheet. This is an indicator of the Group’s indebtedness and capital structure. Liquidity The sum of cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet, and the undrawn amounts available to the Group on our principal facilities, including letters of credit facilities, less our JV partners’ share of cash balances. This is a key measure of the Group’s financial flexibility and ability to fund day-to-day operations. Each of the above non-IFRS measures are presented within the Financial Review with detail on how they are reconciled to the statutory financial statements. Premier Oil plc // 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements Shareholder Information Registrar Dividends E-communications All enquiries concerning your shareholding Dividend history Shareholders have the option to receive should be directed to Link Asset Services: Details of dividend payments made are communications including annual reports included within the Shareholder Information and notices of meetings electronically. This Link Asset Services section of the Investors area of the Company is a faster, more environmentally friendly and, The Registry for Premier Oil plc, a more cost-effective way website: www.premier-oil.com. 34 Beckenham Road for shareholders to receive annual reports and Beckenham Tax on dividends up to April 2016 other statutory communications as soon as Kent For any dividends paid up to April 2016, they are available. For every shareholder BR3 4TU shareholders would have received a tax that actively registers their email address United Kingdom voucher showing a 10 per cent ‘tax credit’ online, Premier Oil plc has pledged to representing the tax that has already been donate £1 to Pure Leapfrog’s carbon Telephone: UK: 0871 664 0300 paid by the Company on profits generated. offsetting programme which supports carbon (calls cost 12p per minute plus your This 10 per cent tax credit can be offset reduction projects in Africa, India and other phone company’s access charge). against any UK income tax due on dividend developing countries (www.pureleapfrog.org). If you are outside the United Kingdom, income. For more information on the UK please call +44 (0)371 664 0300. Calls outside dividend tax credit, please visit the HMRC To register for this service, please visit the the United Kingdom will be charged at the website: www.gov.uk/tax-on-dividends. share portal: www.premier-oil-shares.com. applicable international rate. You will need your Investor Code (‘IVC’) which Tax on dividends from April 2016 can be found on your share certificate. Once Lines are open 9.00am – 5.30pm Monday to From 6 April 2016 the dividend ‘tax credit’ registered, Premier Oil plc will communicate Friday, excluding public holidays in England was replaced by a new ‘dividend allowance’ with you via email rather than post. and Wales. in the form of a 0 per cent tax rate on the first £5,000 of dividend income per year. Shareholder security Email: shareholderenquiries@linkgroup.co.uk Shareholders are advised to be cautious UK residents will pay tax on any dividends about any unsolicited financial advice, Share portal received over the £5,000 allowance at the including offers to buy Premier Oil plc shares As a shareholder you have direct access to following rates: at inflated prices, or offers of free reports an online share portal operated by Link Asset • 7.5 per cent on dividend income within about Premier. More information can be Services at www.premier-oil-shares.com. You the basic rate band found at www.fca.org.uk/consumers/scams can access the share portal with your Investor • 32.5 per cent on dividend income within and in the Shareholder Information section Code (‘IVC’) which can be found on your the higher rate band of the Investors area of the Company website: share certificate. The portal provides a range www.premier-oil.com. of services, free of charge, to help you to • 38.1 per cent on dividend income within administer your shareholding quickly and the additional rate band American Depositary Receipt programme efficiently by allowing you to: Premier Oil plc has a sponsored Level 1 Dividends received on shares held in • check your share balance; an Individual Savings Account (‘ISA’) American Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) • change your address details; will continue to be tax free. programme which BNY Mellon administers and for which it acts as Depositary. Each • choose to receive electronic shareholder ADR represents one Ordinary Share of communications; the Company. The ADRs trade on the • set up or amend a dividend mandate so US over-the-counter market under the dividends can be paid directly to your bank symbol PMOIY. When dividends are paid to account; and shareholders, the Depositary converts such • buy and sell Premier Oil plc shares using the dividends into US dollars, net of fees and dealing service operated by Link Share Deal. expenses, and distributes the net amount to ADR holders. Registered Depositary Receipt holders can trade, access account balances and transaction Further details regarding history, find answers to frequently asked all aspects of shareholder questions and download commonly needed information can be forms online at www.adrbnymellon.com. To speak directly to a BNY Mellon representative, found on our website, please call 1-888-BNY-ADRS (1-888-269-2377) www.premier-oil.com if you are calling from within the United States. If you are calling from outside the United States, please call 001-201-680-6825. You may also send an email inquiry to shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com or visit the website at www.computershare-na.com/bnym_adr. Designed and produced by SampsonMay Printed by CPI Colour offsetting supports the Uchindile Mapanda Telephone: 020 7403 4099 This Annual Report is printed on material reforestation programme in Tanzania, an www.sampsonmay.com derived from sustainable sources, and environmental project to establish printed using vegetable-based inks. Both commercial forests at two locations the manufacturing paper mill and printer are in Africa. registered to the Environmental Management This report is recyclable and bio-degradable System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship – if you have finished with this document and Council® (FSC®) chain-of-custody certified. no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on CPI Colour is also a Carbon Neutral Printing to other interested readers or dispose of it Company and reduces its CO2 emissions to in your recycled paper waste. Thank you. net zero in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol. This carbon Registered Office Premier Oil plc 4th Floor Saltire Court 20 Castle Terrace Edinburgh EH1 2EN Registered No. SC234781 Head Office Premier Oil plc 23 Lower Belgrave Street London SW1W 0NR Tel: +44 (0)20 7730 1111 Email: premier@premier-oil.com Full contact details for all of our advisers are available on the Company website: www.premier-oil.com
