UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Steelcase 2018 Promise + Progress Corporate Sustainability Report 2017 Table of Contents INTRODUCTION 24 OUR PROMISES + PROGRESS 03 Welcome from Jim Keane Customers 26 Innovative Products + Spaces 04 Our Vision 28 Sustainable Procurement 06 Our Sustainability Promise Strategies 08 OUR YEAR IN FOCUS 30 Circular Services 10 Targets and Performance Partners Feature Stories 32 Dealer Network 12 New Hub for Innovation, Wellbeing and Community 34 Supplier Relationships 14 Customer Story: Société Générale Communities 36 Social Investment 16 Contributing to the Expansion of Renewable Energy Employees 18 Active Learning Center Grants 38 Employee Health + Wellbeing 20 New Black + Steelcase Series 1 40 Learning + Development 22 GLOW Camp 42 Culture + Engagement Environment 44 Energy + Greenhouse Gas Emissions 46 Waste + Water 48 Transportation + Packaging 50 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX Promise + Progress 2 Steelcase Welcome That's one reason we invest deeply As we focus on growth, we continue in global standards, including to identify new opportunities to help alignment with BIFMA level® organizations better manage their parameters measuring material space and resources. Commercial health, material optimization and buildings consume a tremendous reutilization, renewable energy, amount of energy, yet they're water stewardship and social often only 50-60% utilized. Our fairness. These investments are developments in software and data just some of the ways we seek to can help organizations create harderdeliver on our promise — and create working spaces – by optimizing their the conditions for people to thrive. real estate and energy footprint, delivering value to employees, Here are a few of the highlights of customers and shareholders. Steelcase has been in some of this year's efforts: business for over a hundred Helping organizations use space • Launched new products and more effectively enhances the worker years. We know staying in materials designed for circularity business for another hundred experience and boosts engagement. such as Steelcase Series 1, New By creating spaces that allow will depend on our ability Black and Planked Veneer. to remain agile and grow people to be productive and enjoy sustainably. Sustainable their workday, they return home as • Invested in our communities growth initiatives protect our better partners, parents, friends and with over 46,000 employee people and our planet, and community members. volunteer hours and $4 million in I'm delighted they're integral donations, including $470,000 in Some may think of Steelcase as a to our business strategy. matching gifts. furniture company, but we're really We live in a fast-paced in the people business. Our mission • Employee inclusion groups grew world with trends that move is to unlock human promise. We’re to over 20 diverse networks of quickly, blur lines and disrupt pursuing this mission creatively, people and topics including ecosystems. People are drawn passionately — and sustainably. multi-cultural, veterans, wellbeing, to what's new, bigger, better, young professionals, women, pride, Thanks for reading this year's report. brighter. This is certainly true social responsibility committees in our industry. Product quality and more. and life cycle performance can often be sacrificed in the name • Expanded our end-of-use services of a quick fix or a new trend. to help customers with their own James P. Keane But we don't think customers sustainability goals and divert President and CEO should have to make those millions of furniture items from tradeoffs. We're working the landfill. hard to build literacy around these issues, and to play a role in bringing sustainability to everything people need in today's workplace. Promise + Progress 3 Steelcase Our Vision Our Vision People are at the heart of everything we do and everything we create. Recognizing and celebrating this truth drives our approach to sustainability. With people at the center, we can deliver meaningful, lasting economic, environmental, and social change through the choices we make and the behaviors and actions we demonstrate. Promise + Progress 4 Steelcase Our Vision Sustainability In Action Holding Ourselves The formal governance • Strengthening sustainable Accountable structure is important development in our global Sustainable business and to drive accountability. operations and those of circular economy is core to However, each and every our supplier partners, our strategy. There are three including a focus on important groups governing Steelcase employee environmental and human our activities: is responsible for the health, social responsibility integration of social and economic prosperity. • Our Board of Directors, a and environmental hardworking combination • Working to ensure our of proven business leaders sustainability in his or operations protect the including thirdand fourthher particular role. No environment and health of generation founding family matter their title or employees, neighbors and members, set the tone for responsibilities — they are customers through actions our company’s future. empowered to innovate that conserve resources, • Our Executive Leadership team and drive sustainable reduce waste and promote closed loop business systems. is committed to our mission change, expected to be to unlock human promise by responsible stewards and • Investing in education to transforming work, worker and contribute to the overall increase stakeholder and workplace, deliver long-term safety and wellbeing employee engagement. shareholder value and drive sustainable business fitness. of fellow workers, • Engaging with suppliers, their communities and dealers, customers, • Our Global Sustainability the natural world. researchers and environmental Steering Committee is agencies to share and responsible for building distribute best practices a culture of sustainable and discover new ideas. innovation, and developing communication and processes to advance our value proposition, brand reputation and business performance. The Committee is charged with: Driving explicit connections between sustainability, corporate resilience and growth Sponsoring key initiatives to design our company’s roadmap forward Fueling deeper engagement across multiple levels and disciplines within the organization. Promise + Progress 5 Steelcase Our Promise Our Sustainability Beliefs • Businesses, communities and people are inextricably linked Sustainability and more powerful when they act with a shared purpose. • When you tell the truth, Promise you become part of the solution. We work hard to be transparent and authentic with others and with ourselves. • Sustainability is a lens for innovation and growth, We unlock human promise contributing to the by transforming work, worker overall financial wellbeing and workplace. Delivering of our company. on this purpose takes • There is no greater design continuous and coordinated challenge than building a more sustainable, circular economy. efforts. We believe our actions It demands systems-level can help create the social, design thinking in all aspects environmental and economic of our business. conditions that allow people and communities  e have an opportunity W to thrive. We’re putting to use our assets and influence to create those beliefs into action. significant, positive change in the world. Our Corporate Values By fully leveraging our Every day — from Michigan to Malaysia, assets to this end, we Dongguan to Cluj, Munich to Pune — will become an even our values frame our beliefs and inform our actions: stronger partner and an increasingly better• Act with integrity performing company. • Tell the truth • Keep commitments People are at the center • Treat people with dignity of sustainability; we begin and respect and end our product, • Promote positive relationships application and service • Protect the environment efforts with a commitment • Excel. to human-centered design and sustainability. Promise + Progress 6 Steelcase Engaging With Key Actions Stakeholders • Identified sustainability aspects material to our business to Steelcase works diligently help us advance our social and environmental performance to to understand the potential align with the expectations of of sustainability through the our many stakeholders, shareholders and partners. eyes of our stakeholders, now and in the future. • Conducted a circular economy-readiness assessment to understand current state, and developed an eight-year roadmap to drive towards a more sustainable, circular economy. • Surveyed our customers and studied their inquiries to understand their corporate sustainability priorities relating to our business. • Partnered with leading organizations to understand and explore emerging issues and opportunities — ­ as broad as circular economy and as critical as advanced materials. • Empowered employees through education and partnerships to understand their role in advancing the mission and goals of our company — as well as those of our partners, customers and communities. Promise + Progress 7 Steelcase Our Year in Focus Promise + Progress 8 Steelcase Our sustainability aspirations are ambitious, especially as we work to drive value in a more circular economy. Everyone must be actively engaged in strengthening our performance and reaching our goals. This year, Steelcase celebrates how innovation drives growth for our people, our customers, our communities and our organization. We’re highlighting grassroots employee initiatives that deliver on our purpose — from product development to employee wellbeing to customer service. Promise + Progress 9 Steelcase Our Year in Focus Targets + Performance We’ve set our sights high as Employee Retention we think about what it means to create holistic value as a globally-integrated company operating in a globallyconnected world. Across our global footprint, we’re measuring our progress against our sustainability goals. We strive to enhance our reporting and refine 85.6% our metrics, using our progress to inspire FY2017 change and drive our performance. Gender Distribution FY2017 32% 68% female male Volunteer Hours 46,000 38,000 FY2017 FY2016 +18% Promise + Progress 10 Steelcase Our Year in Focus Investments in clean energy Shareholder Return FY2017 technologies are equivalent Assuming a $100 investment on February 24, 2012 to 100% of our global Steelcase S&P 500 Stock Index electricity use. 200 Peer Group 150 Progress Toward Environmental Goals CY16 100 Energy Volatile Organic Waste Water 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Use Output Use Compounds Monetary + In-Kind Donations 79% $1.3 Million Steelcase FY2017 $4.0 Million Steelcase Foundation CY2016 45% Revenue FY2017 Goal 25% reduction by end of 2020 $3.0 Billion 33.3% margin 20% Net Income FY2017 2010 8% Baseline $124.6 Million Promise + Progress 11 Steelcase 25 Nationalities Represented in our new Munich office New Hub for Innovation, Wellbeing and Community Promise + Progress 12 Steelcase Our Year in Focus Change doesn’t always have to come from the top: employees are critical partners in driving personal and community wellbeing. In our new Learning and Innovation Center (LINC) in Munich, Germany, grassroots, employee-driven committees for sports and wellbeing, corporate social responsibility and employee experience bring people together around common interests and help bridge gaps across cultures, languages and backgrounds. These employee groups are particularly important because only half of our Munich-based employees are German, with team members representing 25 nationalities. At the company level, programs are available to help connect employees to the Munich community, to emerging ideas and to each other. These include options like Live at the LINC, where employees can hear from speakers on an array of topics, and Language Breakfasts, where employees can practice their German or English in a relaxed setting. Additionally, sports and outdoor activities (including community soccer matches, skiing, running groups, swimming and on-site yoga classes) give all LINC employees a chance to get involved and share their hobbies and knowledge with co-workers. With so much diversity, LINC Munich is strengthening the Steelcase community in Europe — and around the world. Promise + Progress 13 Steelcase Our Year in Focus Société Générale: Extending Value High quality furniture deserves a second life. Promise + Progress 14 Steelcase Our Customers Year in Focus Eco’Services is Steelcase’s asset recapture and redeployment service in the Europe, Middle East and Africa regions. In 2016, we began a partnership with the real estate division of Société Générale Group in France to help the organization manage their furniture assets. In one year, we’ve collaboratively managed a total of six projects. Thanks to this trustworthy relationship and efficient operations, over 1,800 workstations from Société Générale’s facilities have been reused and recycled. 1,830 Total number of workstations 768 m3 recycled 901 m3 reused 1,669 m3 furniture handled in total The Steelcase and Société Générale teams continue to work together. This partnership is one of many examples of Eco’Services helping customers to manage assets and extending the useful life of products. Promise + Progress 15 Steelcase Our Year in Focus Top 30 Steelcase is currently listed in the top 30 100% Green Power Users in the U.S., according to the Environmental Protection Agency. Promise + Progress 16 Steelcase Our Year in Focus Since 2014, Steelcase has invested in clean energy equivalent to 100% of our global electricity consumption. Contributing In 2016, we continued our commitment to investing in clean energy technologies by to the announcing a twelve year virtual power purchase agreement (VPPA) for 25 megawatts of wind Expansion power from Southern Company subsidiary Southern Power’s Grant Plains Wind Facility of Renewable in Oklahoma. The Grant Plains Wind Facility Energy officially began production in December 2016. Promise + Progress 17 Steelcase Our Year in Focus Boyce Middle School: New Active Learning Classroom Advances STEAM Education Promise + Progress 18 Steelcase Customers Steelcase Education has a passion for understanding how learning takes place, and how smarter, active learning spaces can help improve student engagement and success. Boyce Middle School near Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania was a recipient of a Steelcase Education Active Learning Center grant. Boyce used grant funds to incorporate mobile, adaptable furniture and space design to propel their STEAM Design program and increased students’ learning opportunities in the core STEAM disciplines: science, technology, engineering, arts and math. “The STEAM design classroom gives kids the freedom that we can’t quite give them in a traditional classroom,” said Matt Henderson, STEAM Design Instructor, Boyce Middle School. “With the versatility of the furniture, I can quickly move things around to set up for various activities. Plus, multiple outlets allow components to be plugged in anywhere throughout the room which helps our robotics and computer science run smoothly.” Promise + Progress 19 Steelcase Our Year in Focus New In our manufacturing operations, even scraps are valuable. A unique collaboration with This fabric is melted down and mixed with PET from recycled bottles to create yarn, which Black: suppliers helped one of our manufacturing facilities find a way to recover leftover material. is then dyed black and woven into the New Black textiles. The 100% recycled material is Scrap Fabric The fabric was transformed into an elegant, durable and available in five patterns which bring a warm, comfortable, Weaves sustainable fabric called human feeling — and thoughtful, New Black. sustainable design — to the workplace. It’s just another Award-winning The New Black collection gives way closed-loop thinking life to previously used materials, drives innovation and and works toward designing sustainable solutions. Textiles textile waste out of the system. To create New Black, we devised a method that uses scrap panel The industry recognized New Black with an innovation award fabric from our Athens, Alabama at NeoCon 2016. panel manufacturing facility. Promise + Progress 20 Steelcase Our Year in Focus Steelcase Series 1 ™ The Steelcase Series 1 chair demonstrates how thinking backwards can lead to In the process, they proved that what are often considered design constraints are really innovation breakthroughs. untapped opportunities for Instead of starting with a design creative discovery. concept — and then discovering later in the process it couldn’t Drawing on our deep expertise meet the performance and value in circular product design, goals — the Series 1 team tried sustainability was intentionally a different approach, convening designed into the Series 1 chair: engineering, materials, marketing • Eliminating glue — making and global supply chain experts refurbishing and recycling easier at the forefront of the project. • Undergoing a life cycle assessment Working collaboratively, they • Targeting five product rapidly brainstormed ideas and certifications globally concepts for how a chair could • Up to 95% recyclable be created to meet demanding • Up to 23% recycled content. criteria for quality, ergonomic comfort, aesthetics, price accessibility and sustainability. Promise + Progress 21 Steelcase Our Year in Focus Girls Leading our World Cluj, Romania Promise + Progress 22 Steelcase Our Year in Focus In July 2016, 25 teenage girls Alexandra Moldovan, the Steelcase works with and 10 Steelcase facilitators Steelcase leader who headed the from Cluj, Romania participated camp this year, had previously GLOW to help girls build in Camp GLOW (Girls Leading Our World). A global gender experienced GLOW as a teenage camper and a counselor. confidence and learn empowerment initiative “Sharing my experience and how to lead change. founded in 1995 by the Peace knowledge to help these Corps, GLOW aims to build motivated and determined young self-confidence, help girls girls become the positive change develop communication and they want to see in the world teamwork skills and create was an experience of a lifetime.” an understanding of how to lead positive change in their Steelcase plans to continue communities and the world. supporting youth leadership development through the Cluj The same model was applied to GLOW camp and facilitated a an all-boys camp, Camp BRO BRO camp during the summer (Boys Reaching Out) in 2015. of 2017. This year’s Camp GLOW in Cluj included a working session where both camps sent a video to each other, so they could learn from one another. Promise + Progress 23 Steelcase Our Promises + Progress Promise + Progress 24 Steelcase Every day around the world, we work to bring lasting value to our customers, employees, shareholders, partners, communities and the environment. We do this by designing products and solutions to benefit people, consulting with customers to help meet sustainability goals, collaborating to further the science and practice of sustainability and operating in a socially responsible way. Promise + Progress 25 Steelcase Customers Innovative Understanding Our Materials Steelcase takes a comprehensive approach to understanding what Products + goes into our products. As a leader in our industry, we’ve assessed over 1,800 materials in our portfolio and are actively working with our supply Spaces chain to phase out materials of concern, even developing suitable alternatives where they may not yet exist. We continuously promote better chemical standards through public policy advocacy and research partnerships with leading universities and institutions. Life Cycle Performance Using closed-loop thinking and Life Cycle Assessments (LCA), we use metric-based insights to drive PROMISE For over 105 years, we have innovation opportunities and deliver value at every step of the product Provide innovative been turning insights into lifecycle — from product design and products, materials and applications to innovations that unlock the manufacture to delivery, use and end-of-use options. We conduct create more resilient promise of people at work. working, learning and research and uncover insights along We use three strategic lenses the way, sharing our findings with healing spaces that support human and when we design products: partners, industry groups and leading organizations to maximize environmental we carefully select materials, shared successes. wellbeing. optimize lifecycle performance, and enable life extension and Closing the Loop PROGRESS end-of-use strategies. We pair Steelcase products reconfigure to Continued leadership in designing products for sustainable products with an work in new ways as a customer’s needs change. Many disassemble a circular economy — ecosystem of spaces designed with ease to replace worn parts. through materials to adapt and evolve over time, And if our products outlast a innovation, life cycle performance and proof optimizing real estate while customer’s need or desire, Steelcase offers end-of-use of performance through fostering higher levels of options to optimize material third-party certifications. employee engagement. recovery or product redeployment. Head over to the Circular Services section on pp. 30–31 to learn more about how we extend the value of assets through resale, refurbishing, donating or recycling. Promise + Progress 26 Steelcase Customers Innovative Products + Spaces A Resilient Ecosystem Third-Party Certified of Spaces We work with leading certification programs Steelcase is redefining the office around the world to demonstrate authenticity by crafting work spaces that and validate our progress in delivering inspire new ways of working and sustainable solutions, including: fueling creativity. We’re blending design and materiality without • AFNOR NF Environment certification program compromising performance. Through • BIFMA level® certification program ongoing research, exploration and • Blue Angel certification program behavioral prototyping, Steelcase • Cradle to Cradle CertifiedTM Products Program has uncovered key insights to help organizations create resilient, • Forestry Stewardship Council Chain cost-effective workplaces that of Custody certification engage employees: • Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification • Designing workplaces to support • SCS Indoor AdvantageTM certification program. the holistic wellbeing of people can amplify employee engagement For a full list of our partners, see and satisfaction GRI Indicator G4-15. •C  reating a workplace ecosystem that provides individuals and 50+ groups with a range of options More than 50 products certified under the within the workplace can support Cradle to Cradle Certified Products Program, employee wellbeing. including some of our best-known product brands like Answer®, Brody®, Think® and Thread®. Partnerships to Drive Change We aim to drive change beyond our own operations and industry, 45+ Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) so we’re advocating for better sustainability standards, and partnering with academia and Steelcase wins Best of NeoCon leading companies to find answers Awards + More to complex challenges. Last year, • SurroundTM won Best of NeoCon Gold in we began a joint research project Healthcare Guest/Lounge Seating and with the Biomimicry Institute Finalist for the Best of NeoCon award exploring biomimetic alternatives • The Biophilia Collection by Designtex to pervasive materials of concern. won Gold in Best of NeoCon Healthcare, We have also engaged young minds Fabrics & Textiles around the topic of green chemistry • CasperTM Cloaking Technology by Designtex to spark interest and energize won Best of NeoCon Silver and Innovation the next generation of progress. Award for Technology-Integrated Solutions We continue to invest in research to advance innovation around • Verb® Active Media Table by Steelcase materials innovation, social life cycle Education was awarded Best of NeoCon assessments, technology in the Silver in the Education Solutions category. workplace, employee engagement and satisfaction and wellbeing. 1,800+ More than 1,800 materials in our product portfolio evaluated against a variety of human We led a cross-value-chain collaboration and environmental indicators. to convert fabric scraps into new fabrics —­ Steelcase Redeem + Retrieve, Designtex® Loop to Loop and New Black fabric lines. Promise + Progress 27 Steelcase Customers Sustainable Procurement Strategies PROMISE When organizations engage with Designing for Circularity Help organizations Steelcase for their workplace Our design approach begins with achieve their closed-loop thinking about the sustainability goals. solutions, they’re relying on product lifecycle. We work to our products, applications and measure and maximize positive services to help drive their impacts at every stage, from PROGRESS product design and manufacturing Continued to forge sustainability progress forward. to delivery, use and end-of-use strong partnerships We foster strong relationships options. In partnership with our with customers by suppliers, we target narrow and delivering products, early to better understand large-scale opportunities, from the performance metrics, corporate and project-related optimization of chemical profiles to certifications and objectives, and consult on goal the adaptability and reuse of services to support furniture over time. human, environmental setting and decision making. and organizational These collaborations result in Check out the Innovative Products + Spaces section on health. work environments that promote pp. 26–27 to learn more about our wellbeing for workers and deliver approach to product design and the value customers expect. application development. Services for a Circular Economy We’re imagining a more holistic approach to workplace flexibility: an ecosystem of spaces and services designed to support an organization’s changing needs. We have multiple circular productservice systems including an end-of-use removal and redeployment program, pay-forexperience services, sensor-based offerings and alternative-toPromise + Progress 28 Steelcase Customers Sustainable Procurement Strategies 346 Customized environmental metrics reports for companies spanning 19 industries 300+ Product Environmental Profiles Product Environmental Profiles (PEPs) document the environmental attributes of a product, including recycled content, product recyclability information, sustainability certifications and more. PEPs can be found on ownership offerings. We continue the highest value and performance our website in the to iterate and scale services and through sustainable design and Resource Center. test new models, deepening the giving our customers the assurance value we provide and helping they need to make informed, organizations thrive. confident choices. Head over to the Circular Services section on pp. 30–31 to learn more. Building Certification Contributions We help customers leverage Environmental Metrics Reports Good information drives better our product performance in the certification of their buildings in 20+ decision making. Steelcase provides global and regional standards, Steelcase participates in customized Environmental Metrics including the LEED® green over 20 third-party-verified Reports so customers can evaluate building rating system and the sustainability performance past purchases and make informed WELL Building Standard™. programs and certifications decisions about future purchases. covering operations, The resulting metrics are often facilities, materials, used to drive customer decisions and products, globally. and demonstrate sustainability LEED WELL performance with their employees Certification Building Standard and stakeholders. Steelcase products Steelcase products contribute to LEED support WELL Third-Party Certified Products certification through: concepts of: Steelcase works with respected Materials and Air third-party certifiers to independently resources Light validate sustainable product Ergonomics Fitness performance attributes like air quality, materials, health, closed-loop Social equity in Comfort textiles and sustainably-harvested the supply chain Nutrition wood. While we’re proud to earn Innovation in design Mind these endorsements, our goal is Low-emitting always centered around delivering materials Promise + Progress 29 Steelcase Customers Circular Finding New Beginnings at End-of-use Each year, over 8.5 million tons Services of office furniture find their way into landfills across the globe, permanently removing useful materials from the value stream. Our goal is to intercept used furniture assets, working collaboratively with organizations and dealers to redirect assets toward productive uses and closed-loop systems. Asset Recapture + Redeployment Through our recapture and redeployment programs, Eco’Services in France, Belgium, Switzerland and Luxembourg, and Phase 2 in North America, Steelcase PROMISE At Steelcase, we’re imagining helps customers assess furniture inventory and create optimized Offer an ecosystem of a more holistic approach redeployment plans. These programs spaces and services designed to support to workplace flexibility: an employ an extensive network of partners to help with redeployment, an organization’s ecosystem of spaces and changing needs. refurbishment, resale and donations services designed to support an or transport to licensed recycling organization’s changing needs. facilities for material recovery. PROGRESS Expanded existing This circular mindset decouples ReMarket™ offerings and piloted economic growth from resource In North America, the ReMarket new services to support ever-changing space consumption. It goes beyond program redeploys customers’ leased assets through our dealer needs and pave diverting furniture from network, cleaning and repairing a path towards landfills to presenting new, gently-used furniture. This offering a more sustainable, circular economy. innovative uses for hundreds of makes high-quality furniture available to a broader set of markets and thousands of products through customers at affordable prices. resale, redistribution, repair, refurbishment, remanufacture and material recovery. We’re exploring ways to leverage technology and emerging purchasing models to help customers quickly adapt their spaces to constantly changing business needs. Promise + Progress 30 Steelcase Customers Circular Services Performance Management 5,320 Our Performance Management WORKSTATIONS team serves large organizations SINCE 2016 with multiple locations, through a 55,000+ strategic approach to managing SINCE 2008 complex facility needs. Through Last year, Eco’Services a single point of accountability, redeployed more than we apply our experience and 5,000 workstations. processes in furniture and asset Since the service management to maximize real estate began in 2008, over utilization. This includes strategic 167,700m3 of furniture, approaches to furniture acquisition, or the equivalent of 44 moves and maintenance and Olympic pools, has decommissioning solutions. This been redirected. partnership guarantees customers a measurable and consistently high Managing Assets level of service and accountability. at Every Step of the $4.4 Customer Lifecycle Million Alternatives to Ownership Saved by organizations Eco’Services has a long-standing For over 20 years, Steelcase has through reuse of partnership with the French Ministry offered financing programs with existing furniture of Ecology, and continued their options to own or return assets. assets. Performance work with them in 2016. Over the These alternative-to-ownership Management course of one month, Eco’Services options help organizations conserve executed more than specialists managed a team of 26 capital, preserve borrowing power, 1,400 requests for people to remove 2,200 workstations manage balance sheet and offer decommissioning from three different ministry flexibility to change. projects in 2016. buildings. In total, it represented over As we explore new and better 12,000m3 of furniture removed and ways to serve organizations diverted from the landfill. through product-service systems, Check out the Our Year in Focus we are testing and piloting new section on pp. 14–15 to learn more. business models including subscription-like offerings and pay-for-experience models. Event Experiences Today, organizations and meeting planners are required to deliver high-impact experiences. In the development of events, the spatial experience is key. Steelcase event experiences helps transform event spaces through experience design and premium quality furniture to create powerful, purposeful events. This circular-economy inspired business model is in its third year of operation and continues to grow. Promise + Progress 31 Steelcase Partners Dealer Network PROMISE Most Steelcase dealerships are Global Teamwork Serve organizations independent businesses, owned To meet the needs of our global around the world through customers, Steelcase works closely a network of dealer and operated by people deeply with our dealer network to support partners and deliver invested in the communities they their business goals and provide work environments that coordinated cross-regional support serve. In addition to providing promote the wellbeing for projects and installations around of people, organizations Steelcase products and resilient the world. and the planet. spaces, our dealers offer a range of value-added services PROGRESS for customers including space In partnership with planning, design, installation, our thriving global network of established, technology and audiovisual diverse dealer partners, integration, moving services we delivered global and more. solutions to customers, contributed to community development, and cultivated knowledge exchange. Promise + Progress 32 Steelcase Partners Dealer Network 800+ Steelcase dealers globally 15% Steelcase U.S. dealers are minority-owned, women-owned and veteran-owned businesses Dealer Diversity in the United States WBE 19 MBE 8 HUBzone 3 Veteran/DSVO 8 Knowledge Sharing Recognizing Premier Performance 95 Years A dedicated Steelcase team works Our oldest dealer closely with dealers to share insights Every day, our dealer partners partnership has been and help them secure a leadership deliver best-in-class Steelcase in place since 1922. position in the markets they serve. experiences to customers across Steelcase also assists with financial the globe. Our dealer partners meet services, talent management and our high standards for quality and diversity and inclusion practices. performance thanks to a number of Globally, regional dealer councils practices and policies we implement provide feedback to Steelcase on around the world. In the U.S. and market dynamics and emerging Canada, the Blue Book outlines needs, and offer suggestions the respective expectations, rights and recommendations on future and obligations of both Steelcase investments. Dealers can access the and Steelcase dealers. In all other knowledge and expertise of dealers markets, we have formal agreements across the globe through electronic with our dealers. platforms, communities of practice and peer-to-peer workshops. Dealer Diversity We continue our drive for diversity within our dealerships by providing programs for talent management and leadership in the U.S. and Canada. Steelcase assists dealers with securing minority council certifications, facilitating strategic alliances with minorityand non-minority-owned dealers, and recruiting women, veteran, disabled and disadvantaged dealer candidates, among other activities. Promise + Progress 33 Steelcase Partners Supplier Relationships PROMISE Our suppliers help ensure we Global Alignment + Collaboration We work with our provide inspiring and innovative suppliers – and our As Steelcase operates in an suppliers’ suppliers – solutions for our customers by increasingly interconnected world, ensuring the materials delivering superior materials, promoting our common values helps and services they encourage consistent behaviors. technology, expertise and provide meet our strict Together with our suppliers, we standards for quality, reliable performance. We exchange best practices through performance and expect them to adhere to the our global supplier conference. We sustainability. work with our suppliers to monitor highest standards for safety, and grow performance through a quality and sustainability. system of common metrics on a PROGRESS daily, weekly, monthly and Established global quarterly basis. guidelines, tools and knowledge exchange To set consistent standards globally, programs to ensure we we communicate our expectations deliver the best value through a Supplier Code of Conduct. to our stakeholders The code outlines requirements for through a diverse set organizational governance, human of suppliers. rights, labor practices, environmental stewardship, fair operating practices, consumer issues and community involvement and development. Steelcase suppliers are required to comply with the code under the terms of their global contract with Steelcase. Suppliers are evaluated through questionnaires and select site visits. We continue to partner with them to continuously improve their performance in areas addressed within the code. Promise + Progress 34 Steelcase Partners Supplier Relationships Supplier Diversity Partnering to Drive Innovation Resiliency and success can only We continue to engage with multiple happen when we cultivate a diversity levels of our supply chain to of perspectives, experiences and innovate all aspects of product and ideas. For more than 25 years, business systems. For example, a the Steelcase supplier diversity key area of focus is understanding program has focused on promoting the growth and development of the composition of materials, avoiding chemicals of concern and 10% minority-owned, women-owned, determining alternatives. Where Steelcase suppliers in service-disabled veteran-owned and suitable alternatives don’t exist, we the U.S. are minorityHUBzone businesses in the U.S. We partner together to find solutions. owned, women-owned continue to invest in these business This deep work leads to innovations and veteran-owned relationships, which comprise in sustainability like our New Black businesses just over 10% of all supplier fabric collection and Steelcase relationships. We place emphasis Series 1 chair. First-of-Its-Kind on infrastructure and reporting, Steelcase extended communication, networking, supplier Head over to the Our Year in Focus our corporate discount development and mentoring. section on p. 21 to learn more. on renewable energy to our suppliers — believed to be the first program of its kind Promise + Progress 35 Steelcase Communities Social Employee Impacts Steelcase employees are encouraged to volunteer and support Investment the causes they care about. Global volunteer hours reported in 2016 are up more than 18% from the previous year, with employees giving their time to more than 160 community organizations. And as a direct result of employee giving, the Steelcase Foundation donated over $470,000 in matching gifts. Meaningful Engagement Our long-standing involvement in communities and charitable organizations continues to produce powerful results. At Steelcase locations around the world, social responsibility committees identify PROMISE To be a force for good and pressing local needs and respond with time and resources. The effects Together, we join forces affect positive change in our of those investments have not only with our employees to share our time, skills communities, we work closely impacted our communities but also our business growth. We are proud and resources to create with community organizations to lasting change in to be recognized as one of “The extend their offerings and further Civic 50” for the third year in a communities where we live, work and serve. their impact. We invest in the row, an honor given to the most community-minded companies in following areas: the nation1. PROGRESS Human service 1 Awarded by Atlanta-based Points of Light, for Expanded our global Health companies with annual revenues of at least $1 billion community involvement. Education $5.3 In 2016, our employees reported over 46,000 Community development hours of volunteer Arts work, and Steelcase Inc. and the Steelcase Foundation donated Environment. Million over $5.3 million to Together, Steelcase organizations around and the Steelcase the world. Foundation donated over $5.3 million to more than 100 organizations around the world. Promise + Progress 36 Steelcase Communities Social Investment Growing Steam for 46,000+ volunteer hours STEM at Cook Museum of Natural History To encourage careers in science, engineering and advanced manufacturing, Steelcase has increased its emphasis on STEM education, focusing on underserved geographies. A $125,000 investment in the new Cook Museum of Natural History in Northern Alabama will provide science-centered professional development, helping local resource-strapped schools In over 16 countries inspire the next generation of young people to pursue scienceand math• Australia • Germany • Singapore based careers. Scheduled to open • Belgium • India • Spain in 2018, the museum is projected to • Brazil • Ireland • United Kingdom attract an added $50 million a year to • Canada • Malaysia • United States the local economy. • China (Hong Kong) • Mexico • France • Romania Global Youth Forum This year, eight Steelcase leaders in five countries participated in the annual Global Youth Forum, a $1 Million seven-week design challenge that Based on Independent Sector’s estimated connects teens with their peers around the world to improve skills average value of a volunteer hour, Steelcase in strategy, communication and employees saved over $1 million USD for teamwork. Students from France, Germany, Mexico, Romania and the charities and nonprofits around the world this year U.S. worked together to answer the question, “How might we design a Other public transit stop to be a place for deeper connections with others?” At Arts & Culture the conclusion of the program, they 2016 Employee Matching Gifts presented their solutions to business and community leaders in Grand Total $470,658 Rapids, Michigan. Munich-based Steelcase leader Andrea Morais said Education $378,216 “The whole experience was amazing! Arts & Culture $71,502 It was a great opportunity to connect with new people from different Other/Environmental $20,940 countries and backgrounds, [and] a & Conservation chance to develop new skills and be in touch with brilliant minds.” Education Promise + Progress 37 Steelcase Employees Employee Balancing Act Steelcase understands that work and home continue to intersect Health + and overlap. We’ve taken proactive steps to support aspects of our employees’ lives. Wellbeing • Each of our global locations integrates wellbeing activities. Some examples include on-site yoga classes, access to company bicycles, language tables, hosting speakers on a variety of topics, and facilitating after-work outdoor activities and team sports. • Work/life balance groups for grief support, working moms and elderly care offer Steelcase employees opportunities to connect with coworkers. • In the U.S. all employees have a $100 wellness reimbursement account to encourage healthy habits, like joining PROMISE Good health, quality of life and a gym or trying out kickboxing classes. Create and maintain sound safety practices are as • In addition to standard family medical a safe, healthy and leave and existing maternity leave enriching workplace. important to us as production programs, all parents in the U.S. and Provide ongoing efficiency and quality. To enhance Canada are given three additional weeks opportunities for all the health, safety and wellbeing of paid bonding leave following the birth employees to improve or adoption of a child. their physical, cognitive, of all Steelcase employees in a emotional and meaningful way, we are proactive Proactive Approaches financial wellbeing. in embedding standards and We believe protecting and enhancing creating initiatives throughout our the health and safety of our PROGRESS organization. We regularly engage employees is multidimensional and Created work holistic. That’s why we’re enacting environments to support our employees in the creation of a variety of measures aimed at the multidimensional programs and the measurement involving employees in supporting positive behaviors and promoting nature of wellbeing and evaluation of our progress clear lines of communication. and safety, engaged employees in proactively through surveys, focus groups Our hard work and continual planning for safety, and and interviews. For example, senior improvement is paying off. We’re launched programs executives host regular meetings proud to report our injury and targeting nutrition, with groups of employees to listen lost time rates are almost half the exercise, life coaching, industry standard. In fact, thanks to stress management and to their stories and experiences our safety efforts, we’ve been able financial planning. working for Steelcase. These to reduce our workplace incidents by 40% over the past two years. roundtables complement research To achieve this, we engage with efforts and uncover insights — employees about the importance insights we translate into of identifying and reporting unsafe conditions and behaviors before initiatives to improve the they become injuries. employee experience. Promise + Progress 38 Steelcase Employees Employee Health + Wellbeing 10+ Vendor partners available to help employees navigate and improve their physical, mental, financial and nutritional wellbeing $170,000 1,700 employees took advantage of the $100 wellness reimbursement. 170+ More than 170 employees took advantage of Steelcase's paid bonding leave. Emphasizing the Phased Retirement Incident-free Workplace Works for Employees Our people are our priority. Learning and Business from near-misses (instances where This year, 47 Steelcase employees accidents could have happened, elected a phased retirement plan, but didn’t) are crucial in preventing reducing their hours to ease the future injuries. Building off of a transition into retired life. Phased successful pilot project two years retirement plans are a win-win for ago, we issued a challenge to five employees and teams, allowing U.S. regional distribution centers valuable skills and knowledge to be (RDCs) last year: whichever RDC transferred gradually while hobbies could identify, report and fix the most and new opportunities for the future near-misses before they turned into can be more thoroughly explored — more serious situations would win and enjoyed. lunch on the company. Zone leaders were tasked with recording detailed descriptions and photos of any nearmisses in their plant. The challenge was a success, helping employees recognize how recording near-misses creates a safer work environment for all — moving us closer to an incident-free workplace. Promise + Progress 39 Steelcase Employees Learning + Steelcase Learning Group The Steelcase Learning Group offers a variety of training and development Development courses and programs on campus and online. This enables employees around the world to take courses and track progress for their personal and professional development. We also provide a career development tutorial to guide employees through the process of identifying their career ambitions, strengths, networks and develop action plans to achieve their goals. We offer a retirement program to help employees plan their career transition, including financial planning. U.S.-based employees have access to a phased retirement program. PROMISE Steelcase’s approach to learning For those who exited the company Unlock the human fosters an environment where due to position elimination and plant promise of all our closings, we offer services from a employees by we all teach — and we all learn. professional outplacement company, offering learning and We provide the tools, processes including career counseling, tools development programs. and strategies that enable and techniques for job searching and courses to update skill sets. employees to take ownership of We provide learning programs PROGRESS their learning and develop their to increase employability Expanded learning opportunities and skills and competencies. outside Steelcase. introduced a new coaching-based model Across our global footprint, Leadership at Every Level to drive employee we spread learning and In an ever-changing business development. teaching through: climate, we recognize the need for leadership throughout all parts Classes and online courses of the organization. In addition to existing knowledgeand skillSocial learning sharing opportunities available to all employees, a new program called Speaker series CONNECT was launched to help Conferences inspire employees to lead where they are — wherever they are in the Lunch and learn events organization. With cohort groups in all global regions, CONNECT brings Mentoring and coaching. together high-performing, motivated contributors through a series of three in-person modules: Connecting to Purpose, Growing your Influence, and Leading with Impact. Promise + Progress 40 Steelcase Employees Learning + Development 94,000+ Training hours for employees, contractors and temporary workers 91% Employees who engaged in Impact Coaching conversation(s) said the time they spent engaging in the new process was valuable New Coaching Approach We believe advancing our culture requires our people to engage Meaningful Progress 30+ We make progress when we Thought Leaders in new ways. One example of disagree or when we fail in new Hosted this is transitioning from annual and interesting ways, but only if Thought leaders spoke to performance reviews to impact we learn from our mistakes. At employees about topics such coaching, which engages employees our Kentwood, Michigan plant, a as digital transformation, and leaders in frequent, purposeful community of employees has been human performance, culture, dialogue to inspire continuous forming around GTD: David Allen's design thinking, biomimicry, achievement and growth. These method of “getting things done.” and social innovation through conversations shift focus away from They are committed to improving our Curious Minds program. the mindset of simply meeting goals their own productivity, but also and expectations to creating goals tracking group progress in tangible and advancing development. Impact coaching emphasizes: way. This movement is building 500+ momentum, and in the past four Learning Programs • Building a strong partnership years they’ve taken over 1,000 Covering the topics of between leaders and employees people through a customized training business acumen, human program to help others get more • Collaborating on the resources, languages, done, too. By celebrating progress employee’s performance and process quality, computer and emphasizing continued learning, development objectives skills, policy and compliance, we unlock the human promise of our • Engaging in ongoing coaching quality, leadership and people and ensure the future fitness and feedback interpersonal skills, to of our company. name a few • Reflecting upon the employee’s key accomplishment, challenges and growth opportunities. Promise + Progress 41 Steelcase Employees Culture + A Culture of Engagement To support employees as we continue building a culture which Engagement embraces innovation, inspiration and inclusion, Steelcase introduced five principles to act: 1. Speak up and take action 2. See the big picture 3. Follow the user 4. Chose inclusion 5.Start small, learn quickly… and try again. These principles serve as a guide for our culture, encouraging each individual within our organization to seek higher levels of accountability, foster collaboration and encourage experimentation. PROMISE In our company, we’re fortunate Diversity Create and advance a to have as many different culture that embraces We foster an environment that diversity and inclusion perspectives and passions as supports understanding and across our workforce, there are people. We celebrate openness to ideas and cultural within our partnerships this diversity — it’s what allows approaches different from our own and throughout experiences, creating opportunities our communities. us to challenge one another, for people to work well across build upon each other's ideas those differences and be better and innovate together. because of them. PROGRESS Developed initiatives to But valuing diversity as a business encourage and honor driver isn’t enough. We must diverse perspectives, embrace it as individuals, and this emphasize inclusivity is difficult, deliberate work. One of across our global the ways we do this is by offering footprint and ensure global awareness training in order a promising future for to better understand other cultures’ our employees and behaviors and norms. The interactive our company. sessions are available to employees worldwide, providing a framework to encourage dialogue and help dispel stereotypes. Building a culture which encourages each member of our organization to broaden horizons, think critically and uncover opportunities to integrate new, diverse thinking is the first step in achieving new, more ambitious goals. Promise + Progress 42 Steelcase Employees Culture + Engagement 20%+ Steelcase was recognized as a Winning “W” Company by 2020 Women on Boards, a national campaign to increase the percentage of women on U.S. company boards to 20% or greater by the year 2020 for six consecutive years. For the third year in a row, Steelcase earned a perfect 100 score in all categories on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index, and was named one of their “Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality”. 20+ Inclusion Groups Foster Inclusion Groups, Deeper Connections Women’s Innovative Thousands Engaged Steelcase employees are Network Over 20 grassroots inclusion encouraged to take ownership of groups represent thousands diversity and inclusion. Employees Launched in our Schiltigheim, of perspectives, passions and with common interests or at similar France location, the goal of the progress looking forward life stages come together to discuss Women’s Innovative Network (WIN) challenges and opportunities, is to welcome, inspire and support conduct educational sessions and women working at Steelcase. communicate among themselves Though a series of networking and across the organization. Some events, mentorship programs and peer groups include: skill-sharing opportunities, WIN is spreading awareness and building • Multicultural and inclusive competencies of employees around communities the world. • Steelcase Pride • Social responsibility Since its founding in May 2016, 25 WIN has grown by 66% globally. Nationalities • Employees near retirement age In addition to creating regional Represented in our • Veterans chapters, WIN has focused on new Munich office developing its external network • Women’s Innovative Network through partnership with leading • Young professionals. organizations to network, share experiences and highlight insights. Many groups have a Steelcase Executive Team (SET) sponsor. In addition to being on the committee, the SET member shares feedback and ideas generated by these groups, continuing to shape a culture of inclusion at Steelcase. Check out our feature story: New Hub for Innovation, Wellbeing and Community on pp. 12–13 to learn more. Promise + Progress 43 Steelcase Environment Energy + Greenhouse Gas Emissions PROMISE We take a comprehensive Driving Efficiency Reduce our global approach to optimizing energy We’re actively tracking the energy greenhouse gas use of 150+ offices, showrooms and emissions and cut by continuously improving manufacturing facilities worldwide. our energy use by tracking systems, honing in on One of the many strategies we’re 25% by 20201, while pursuing to meet our energy goals is efficiency efforts and investing continuing to invest in rolling out a new software program to 100% renewable energy in renewable energy. While track our global energy consumption. equivalent to our global we’ve made great progress In collaboration with third-party electricity consumption. consultants, we are able to collect, on our reduction activities, we analyze and report our global energy 1 Based on 2010 baseline continue to challenge ourselves data more quickly and accurately to do more. than ever before. This allows us to respond to any issues and accurately PROGRESS gauge our progression toward Reduced our global our goals. energy use by 20% since 2010 by carefully In 2016, we initiated a project at our measuring and wood plant in Michigan to replace managing our energy more than 1,300 energy-intensive consumption. Continued light fixtures with 1,250 energyour investments in efficient LED lights. To further renewable energy. maximize energy and cost savings, we paired the new fixtures with an advanced, cloud-based control system, allowing us to remotely schedule, monitor and control light conditions. This has translated into energy savings by dimming fixtures when appropriate and turning off entire sections when they are not needed. Promise + Progress 44 Steelcase Environment Energy + Greenhouse Gas Emissions Investing in Renewables Top 30 2016 Total Steelcase continues its commitment We’re now the 26th largest 100% Green Power Energy to invest in renewable energy equivalent to our global electricity User in the U.S., according to the EPA’s Green Consumption Power Partnership. usage in the regions where Fuel Type MWh we operate. Market-based and Location-based Natural gas 224,787 GHG Emissions What started nearly a decade Propane 1,769 ago as a collection of regional In accordance with updated reporting guidelines from the Electric Power 190,144 investments is now a global, World Resources Institute, we’re sharing our GHG emissions using both market-based and location-based methods. The Coal – cohesive clean energy portfolio in the form of Renewable Energy market-based method reflects emissions from electricity Diesel 13,216 Credits (RECs) and a Virtual Power purchased, and includes REC purchases. The location-based Gasoline Purchase Agreement (VPPA). In method relies on average emissions data for the local energy (Petrol) 472 2016, Steelcase executed a 12-year grids where electricity consumption occurs. Liquefied VPPA for 25 megawatts of wind Petroleum power from Southern Company SCOPES MARKET-BASED LOCATION-BASED Gas (LPG) 2,962 subsidiary Southern Power’s Grant (tonnes CO2e) Jet Fuel 2010 2016 2010 2016 Plains Wind Facility in Oklahoma. (Jet A or A-1) 18,293 This new clean energy facility came Scope 1 56,216 46,698 56,216 46,698 Steam 2,601 online in 2016 and has a capacity Scope 2 90,164 0 109,526 97,293 of 147 megawatts. This purchase Total 454,244 represents nearly half of our global Total Scope 1 146,380 46,698 165,742 143,991 renewable energy investments. and Scope 2 % Change* -68.10% -13.12% Check out our renewable energy *From base year story featured on pp. 16–17 to learn more. Expanding our Impact One of our biggest opportunities to 100% drive energy efficiency is through APAC the millions of square feet of space 7,209,565 Renewable we furnish globally each year for our Americas 191,586,912 Energy customers. As a human-centered 141,625,602 Total Renewable company, we spend considerable Energy Purchased Steelcase has invested EMEA in 100% clean energy time and resources researching and (2016 kWh) 42,751,745 designing products and spaces equivalent to global which help companies get the electricity usage. most from their real estate, even when space is compressed. An optimized real estate footprint is a more sustainable one – with less construction cost and impact, less energy use and fewer greenhouse Reduction of Fuel Since 2010 gas emissions. Electric Power 13.8% Gasoline (Petrol) 65.7% Coal 100% Jet Fuel 14.7% 20% Diesel 46.8% Reduction in global energy use since 2010 Promise + Progress 45 Steelcase Environment Waste + Water PROMISE For more than fifteen years, Steelcase Measure, manage and has had global goals to reduce the Planked Veneer reduce our waste and environmental footprint of our operations. In our Michigan wood plant, high water use by 25% Thanks to the efforts of countless standards and specifications meant by the year 20201, employees around the world, we’ve wood with knots or uneven grain and meet or exceed experimented and implemented initiatives wasn’t always able to be used in all applicable codes, to reduce water consumption and waste finished products, and had to be laws and regulations output at all of our owned and leased recycled or resold. Two members of wherever we work. facilities globally. the Steelcase operations team were 1 Based on 2010 baseline searching for how to utilize this extra Each Steelcase facility pursues initiatives to wood, and began experimenting with reduce waste and water use in accordance a simple table design. At the same PROGRESS with their Environmental Management time, a customer requested a unique Reduced our waste Systems registered under ISO 14001. Some table. The prototype planked oak output by 45% and plants in Europe also having an additional table was shared with the customer, water consumption by EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme and it happened to align with their 8% since 2010 thanks (EMAS). As insights and successes are design aspirations perfectly. The to the creativity of our team turned concept into production uncovered, they’re added to a library of employees and our in a matter of weeks, and their work best management practices shared by all global Environmental led to a new material offering using locations, so we can quickly implement and this previously discarded wood — Management Systems. scale efforts to drive results. which is now available for everyone. Since 2010, we’ve reduced waste by 45% and water consumption by 8%. This is our second round of 25% footprint reduction goals, having met our first set of goals in 2012. New thinking, new initiatives and creative solutions are necessary to drive success in these areas. Reducing by 25% yet again is infinitely more difficult — but we remain optimistic and are committed to meeting our goal. Promise + Progress 46 Steelcase Environment Waste + Water 45% Reduction in waste output since 2010 8% Reduction in water use since 2010 Scrap Supports Clean Corporate Shipments Citizen Designation We continue to identify ways to Notably in FY17, Steelcase Michigan $1 reduce material inputs and reuse, locations achieved the “Clean Million recycle, compost or donate Corporate Citizen” (C3) designation Using planked materials for new use at nonprofits. from the State of Michigan. This veneer helped save One notable example of creative designation recognizes that we have over $1 million and reuse came from the Steelcase consistently demonstrated a strong 400 trees. wood plant in Michigan: operations environmental ethic and stewardship team members were looking to carry out our environmental for opportunities to use excess protection responsibilities. The C3 melamine at the same time the program requires environmental packaging team was looking to performance in three areas including better support a finished product Environmental Management Systems during shipment. The teams realized (EMS), pollution prevention and they could use leftover melamine environmental compliance related to to build better pallets on-site. In air quality, water quality and waste addition to repurposing materials, management programs. the new pallets have improved support and protection for the Check out our feature story on product during shipment. p. 20 to learn more about how we're using scrap material to create beautiful new products. Promise + Progress 47 Steelcase Environment Transportation + Packaging PROMISE Steelcase continuously refines Moving Products with Care + Efficiency Deliver our products its packaging and transportation and our people safely As our global footprint expands, to their destinations strategies to ensure products we remain committed to optimizing with intentional focus on arrive quickly, efficiently and delivery routes to shorten travel efficiency and reducing distances and minimize fuel usage. safely. We rely on research, environmental footprint. Steelcase transportation models experienced logistics and take into account unique weather packaging specialists, as well and transportation considerations for PROGRESS nearly every continent and country, Ongoing efforts to as partnerships with dealers from Australia to Iceland, Ecuador refine product and transporters to inform our to China. Our incident management packaging and delivery approach and scale initiatives system allows real-time visibility approaches. Recognized into weather and road conditions, for leadership in and improvement. And we apply enabling adjustments that minimize commuter-friendly these same insights as we idle drive time. and sustainable consider employee commutes, Steelcase packaging is subjected to transportation options. business travel and more. a rigorous testing model, determining tolerances for temperature changes, vibrations, crush tests and drops. At times, we’ll use a simulation track to mimic actual road conditions, whether they’re open country roads or bustling city streets. We’re exploring new packaging options and materials to uncover innovative solutions and methods to ensure products arrive safely to our customers. Check out Scrap Supports Shipments on p. 47 in Waste + Water to learn more. Promise + Progress 48 Steelcase Environment Transportation + Packaging 65 Since 2015, Steelcase Transportation has completed over 65 projects in our air, rail, road and water transportation activities which have led to a reduction in both cost and emissions. 8,514 Because of these 65 initiatives, Steelcase was able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions associated with these transportation activities by 8,514 metric tons — equivalent to the energy use of 1,276 homes for one year. Moving People, Too Steelcase considers employee transportation, from commuting to business travel, as part of its footprint reduction initiatives. This year, Steelcase’s offices in Grand Rapids received a Silver-level Bicycle Friendly BusinessSM award from the League of American Bicyclists for making workplaces and communities safer, happier, healthier and more sustainable. To encourage twowheeled commutes, Steelcase employees have access to bike racks, locker rooms and shower facilities. Through our videoconferencing technology and alternative work In our new Munich location, strategies, we’re minimizing company-owned bikes are available employee travel and reducing our to visitors and residents. environmental footprint. In addition to reducing travel costs and emissions, it’s an important part of supporting the work/life balance, health and wellbeing of our people. Promise + Progress 49 Steelcase Global Steelcase has publicly reported our vision, goals and progress related to our sustainability Reporting initiatives for over a decade. The GRI Index provides stakeholders with additional information related to Initiative our sustainability strategy and progress. We are continually evolving Index our sustainability reporting practices to increase transparency, communicate authenticity and best reflect our corporate goals, standards and objectives. We do this while remaining consistent with external guidelines and expectations. Promise + Progress 50 Steelcase Sustainability Prioritization Validation Materiality Overview Each potentially material issue Key internal senior decision Steelcase’s sustainability is evaluated based on the makers validate the sustainability materiality assessment covers following criteria: materiality issues included within environmental, social and this report. governance issues. Areas • Influence on external identified as material are those stakeholders’ decisions which significantly impact our and assessments Review ability to meet its strategic goals • Impact on the business. The sustainability materiality and/or significantly influence assessment results and the decisions and evaluations These evaluations are based supporting research is reviewed of stakeholders. The process on primary and secondary annually. These findings inform for identifying material issues research including surveys, future assessments and and defining reporting content interviews and workshops, many ensure alignment with is outlined in the following of which have been conducted stakeholder expectations sections. It generally follows by third parties. The results are and the business context. GRI guidelines and adheres plotted on a matrix to illustrate to the Principles for Defining the relationships of material Report content. issues to business impacts and influence on stakeholders’ decisions and assessments. Identification Methods to engage with and A list of potentially material collect input from internal sustainability issues is and external stakeholders maintained through internal are continually integrated into and external research, including ongoing engagement activities. benchmarking and reviewing The sustainability materiality relevant reporting standards. assessment is updated as The Steelcase Sustainability additional research is Steering Committee validates conducted and new data this list, taking into account and insights become available. the business and sustainability strategy. Promise + Progress 51 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures Strategy + Analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior Corporate Sustainability Report p. 3 decision-maker of the organization (such as (Welcome from Jim Keane) CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, Annual Report pp. 1–10 and opportunities Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the reporting organization Steelcase Inc. G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Annual Report pp. 1–3 G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters Steelcase is headquartered in Grand Rapids, Michigan, U.S.A. G4-6 Report the number of countries where the www.steelcase.com organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. Steelcase Inc. (SCS) is a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange. G4-8 Report the markets served (including Annual Report pp. 1–4 geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-9 Report the scale of the organization. Annual Report Intro Promise + Progress 52 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures G4-10 a. R  eport the total number of employees by EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND GENDER employment contract and gender. Americas Asia Pacific Europe, Middle b. R  eport the total number of permanent East + Africa Total employees by employment type and gender. Female Hourly 810 119 198 1126 c. R  eport the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. Female Salaried 1466 363 623 2451 d. R  eport the total workforce by region Female Total 2276 482 820 3577 and gender. Male Hourly 3476 370 661 4506 e. R  eport whether a substantial portion of the Male Salaried 1918 394 1072 3384 organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as selfemployed, Male Total 5394 764 1733 7891 or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees PERMANENT EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER and supervised employees of contractors. Americas Asia Pacific Europe, Middle f. R  eport any significant variations in East + Africa Total employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism Female Dealer Employee 74 74 or agricultural industries). Female Employee 2228 470 613 3311 Female Non-Employee 48 12 133 192 Female Total 2276 482 820 3577 Male Dealer Employee 94 94 Male Employee 5259 758 1317 7335 Male Non-Employee 134 6 322 462 Male Total 5394 764 1733 7891 TOTAL WORKFORCE BY REGION AND GENDER Americas Asia Pacific Europe, Middle East + Africa Total Female 2276 482 820 3577 Male 5394 764 1733 7891 Total 7669 1246 2553 11468 G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees Approximately 100 employees in the U.S. are covered by collective bargaining covered by collective bargaining agreements. agreements. Outside of the U.S., 1,900 employees are represented by workers’ councils that operate to promote the interests of workers. Americas: • Steelcase Transport 100% • PolyVision 65% • Designtex 32% France, Germany, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Czech Republic, and Spain: 100% Mexico: 80% Promise + Progress 53 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. Annual Report pp. 4–5 G4-13 Report any significant changes during the None reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary Steelcase takes a precautionary approach toward environmental management. approach or principle is addressed by We follow insights gained from decades of research, leverage partnerships the organization. with leading companies and organizations, and our experiences and feedback from customers, giving us valuable guidance and perspective. It is for these and many other reasons we have taken a leading role in finding creative and responsible ways to operate and design products and applications. Please see the Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 26–31 (Customers) and pp. 44–49 (Environment). G4-15 List externally developed economic, Steelcase participates in the following initiatives: environmental and social charters, principles, • AFNOR NF Environment certification program or other initiatives to which the organization • BIFMA level® certification program subscribes or which it endorses. • Blue Angel certification program • CDP • Circular Economy 100 (CE100) • Civic 50 • Cradle to Cradle CertifiedTM Products Program • Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) • Forestry Stewardship Council Chain of Custody certification • Global Reporting Initiative • ISO 14001 • ISO 26000 • LEED® certification program • OEKO-TEX® certification program • OHSAS 18001 • Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification • Renewable Energy 100 (RE100) • SCS Indoor Advantage™ certification program • World 50 • U.S. EPA Green Power Partnership • UN Global Compact Promise + Progress 54 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures G4-16 List memberships of associations (such There are a number of organizations around the world that we are members as industry associations) and national or and active partners in. Here are a few: international advocacy organizations in • Business and Industrial Furniture Manufacturers Association (BIFMA) which the organization: Holds a position on • Business Leaders for Michigan the governance body, Participates in projects or committees, Provides substantive funding • Business Roundtable beyond routine membership dues, Views • Circular Economy 100 (CE100) membership as strategic • Design Industry for Fighting Aids (DIFA) • Gilda’s Club, Leadership and Incubation • Grand Rapids Community College Diversity Speaker Series Sponsor • Greenbiz Executive Forum (GBEN) • Michigan Manufacturing Association • Michigan Minority Supplier Development Council • National Association of Manufacturers • National Association of World Affairs, Executive Leadership Council, Diversity Executive • National Civil Rights Museum • National Minority Supplier Development Council • Renewable Energy 100 (RE100) • Sustainable Brands • Student Advancement Foundation • Talent 2025 • United Way • University Prep Academy • West Michigan Center for Arts & Technology (WMCAT) • West Michigan Environmental Action Council For more information on our partnerships and commitments, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 36–37 (Communities), and the Community Relations page on our website. Promise + Progress 55 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 a. List all entities included in the organization’s Annual Report consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. Not applicable b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries Please see the Sustainability Materiality Overview on p. 51 of this report. b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the Business Integrity, Consumer Health + Safety, Diversity, Inclusion + Equal Rights, process for defining report content. Employee Wellbeing + Development, Energy + Emissions, Sustainable Business Integration, and Waste G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect All material aspects apply to all Steelcase operations. Boundary within the organization. G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect CUSTOMERS PARTNERS COMMUNITIES EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT Boundary outside the organization. Business x x x x x Integrity Consumer x x x x Health + Safety Employee Wellbeing + x x x Development Energy + x x x x Emissions Diversity, Inclusion + x x x Equal Rights Sustainable Business x x x x Integration Waste x x x x G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of There are no restatements of information provided in previous reports. information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous No significant changes. reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Promise + Progress 56 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by The stakeholder groups Steelcase engages with are global businesses and the organization. organizations (customers), the architectural and design community, employees, academic and research institutions, dealer partners, supplier partners, governmental agencies, industry organizations, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), community partners, nonprofits, investors and media. Please see Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 6–7 (Our Sustainability Promise). G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection Stakeholder groups were defined and identified based on their connection to of stakeholders with whom to engage. Steelcase’s business. The degree of engagement depends on the potential impact each group has on the business. G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to Steelcase regularly conducts research to understand our stakeholder stakeholder engagement, including frequency expectations around sustainability. We use the results of this research to drive our of engagement by type and by stakeholder business strategies and engage with stakeholders on the topics that are most group, and an indication of whether any of the relevant to their priorities. We continue to engage with stakeholders through engagement was undertaken specifically as informal discussions, surveys, focus groups and social media. For more part of the report preparation process information, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 6–7 (Our Sustainability Promise). G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been Corporate Sustainability Report pp. 6–7 (Our Sustainability Promise). raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar This report covers the calendar year 2016 (CY2016), spanning January 1, 2016, year) for information provided. to December 31, 2016 and the company’s fiscal year 2017 (FY2017), spanning February 28, 2016 to February 26, 2017. Key environmental impact metrics (energy, GHG emissions, VOCs, water and waste) are tracked on a calendar year basis for 2016 (CY2016). G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). The previous Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report was published in December 2016 and covered calendar year 2015 (CY2015) and Steelcase’s fiscal year 2016 (FY2016), March 1, 2015 to February 27, 2016. G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Steelcase publishes a corporate sustainability report annually. G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regardsustainability@steelcase.com ing the report or its contents Promise + Progress 57 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures G4-32 a. R  eport the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. R eport the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). Steelcase is reporting at the Core level for the 2017 GRI report. c. R  eport the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. (GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines.) G4-33 a. R  eport the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. At this time, Steelcase does not utilize an external organization to assess this report. c. R  eport the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. R eport whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the Steelcase Inc. Corporate Governance Principles organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Ethics + Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, Steelcase has developed standards and codes that embody the fundamental standards and norms of behavior such as codes of principles that govern our ethical and legal obligations. They pertain not only conduct and codes of ethics. to conduct within our company, but also to conduct involving our customers, dealers, suppliers and other stakeholders. They include: • Steelcase Global Business Standards • Steelcase Code of Business Conduct • Steelcase Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers Promise + Progress 58 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for Steelcase outlines the policies and resources for employees, including seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and the global numbers for our Integrity Line in our Global Business matters related to organizational integrity, such as Standards document. helplines or advice lines. G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for In the Steelcase Global Business Standards document, a general procedure is reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful outlined for employees to follow when they have concerns about anything that behavior, and matters related to organizational might be considered unethical or unlawful. First, employees are encouraged to integrity, such as escalation through line take their concerns to their manager or team leader. If they are unable to help, management, whistleblowing mechanisms or if this is inappropriate, employees can use the Integrity Line. It ensures or hotlines. employees can speak out about situations that have the potential to cause legal, safety, environmental or other problems at work. The purpose of the Integrity Line is to help resolve concerns. Every effort is made to keep this service confidential. The consultant employees speak with is not a Steelcase employee, no recording devices are used and employees are not required to give their name. If an employee chooses to file a report, they will be given a tracking number to check on the status of the report without revealing their name. Promise + Progress 59 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Consumer Health + Safety G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with It is a Steelcase Inc. policy to work in full cooperation with the agencies that regulations and voluntary codes concerning the regulate our business to ensure that it is compliant with applicable laws and health and safety impacts of products and services regulations. In the current fiscal year, Steelcase had no material issues occur during their life cycle, by type of outcomes related to non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products or services. Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Please see the Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 30–31 (Circular Services) and pp. 46–47 (Waste + Water). Steelcase tracks and reports according to the following categories: landfill, incineration, compost and recycle. Type Disposal Method TONS (2016) Composting Composted 154 Hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste 470 Disposal Facility Incineration/Cogeneration Incinerated 8693 Coal Ash Landfilled 0 Enamel Cake Waste Landfilled 261 Landfill Waste Landfilled 2982 Non-Steel Recycling Recycled 13,206 Steel Recycling Recycled 12,820 Promise + Progress 60 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Learn about Steelcase strategies in our Corporate Sustainability Report, a. Report ​ total fuel consumption from non-renewpp. 44–45 (Energy + Greenhouse Gas Emissions). Additionally, Steelcase able sources in joules or multiples, including fuel shares in-depth information related to our energy usage and greenhouse gas types used. emissions in our annual CDP submission. Please see our 2017 CDP response for more information. ​b. R  eport total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. c. R  eport in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity consumption Heating consumption Cooling consumption Steam consumption d. R  eport in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity sold Heating sold Cooling sold Steam sold ​e. R  eport total energy consumption in joules or multiples. ​f. R  eport standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. g. ​Report the source of the conversion factors used. Promise + Progress 61 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures G4-EN15 Energy intensity Learn about Steelcase energy and greenhouse gas reduction strategies in a. R  eport gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 44–45 (Energy + Greenhouse Gas metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of Emissions). Additionally, Steelcase shares in-depth information related to our any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions in our annual CDP submission. transfers of offsets or allowances. Please see our 2017 CDP response for more information. ​b. R  eport gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). ​c. R  eport biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. ​d. R  eport the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. ​e. R  eport standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. ​f. R eport the source of the emission factors used and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used or a reference to the GWP source. ​g. Report the chosen consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, operational control). Diversity, Inclusion + Equal Rights LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Total average age of all employees: of employees per employee category according to • Global: 42 gender, age group, minority group membership, • Americas: 42 and others indicators of diversity. • Asia: 36 • EMEA: 41 Total gender breakdown globally: • Male: 68% • Female: 32% Estimated U.S. minority breakdown: • Salaried: 11% • Hourly: 33% • All U.S.: 21% HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Steelcase takes seriously its commitment to maintaining workplaces compliant corrective action taken. with applicable anti-discrimination laws and free from any type of discrimination. All Steelcase employees are expected to follow the Steelcase Statement of Values and Global Business Standards which include commitments to treating all people with dignity and respect and creating a culture of inclusion and non-discrimination. In the current fiscal year, Steelcase had no material issues occur related to incidents of discrimination or corrective actions taken. LA13 Ratio of basic salary and renumeration of women Steelcase routinely assesses discrepancies in compensation with the intent of to men by employee category, by significant meeting both corporate values and legal requirements regarding equal pay. locations of operations. Promise + Progress 62 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures Employee Wellbeing + Development G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in Nearly 15 percent of our total workforce worldwide is represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety formal joint management-worker health, safety and wellness committees. committees that help monitor and advise on These committees help monitor and advise on occupational health and occupational health and safety programs: safety programs. a. R  eport the level at which each formal joint management-worker health and safety committee typically operates within the organization. b. R  eport the percentage of the total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires Approximate total new hires worldwide: 3,465. and employee turnover by age group, gender Approximate turnover rates by region: and region: • Americas: 19.1% a. R  eport the total number and rate of new • Asia: 17.0% employee hires during the reporting period, • EMEA: 6.9% by age group, gender and region. Approximate turnover rates by gender: b. R  eport the total number and rate of employee • Male: 14.4% turnover during the reporting period, by age • Female: 17.6% group, gender and region. Approximate turnover rates by generation: • Boomers: 7.0% • Gen X: 8.4% • Gen Y: 31% G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 40–41 (Learning + learning that support the continued employability Development) for more information. of employees and assist them in managing career endings: a. R  eport on the type and scope of programs implemented and assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. b. R  eport on the transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment. Business Integrity S08 Monetary value of significant fines and total numAs a 100+ year old industry-leading company with global operations, Steelcase ber of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Inc. gets involved in periodic legal proceedings including contract disputes with laws and regulations. and other claims arising from time to time in the normal course of business. Steelcase business practices have been sound throughout our existence, and we believe there is no past, current, or contemplated future situation that would have any material adverse effect on Steelcase’s integrity, financial stability or reputation, or that should cause our customers concern regarding Steelcase’s overall business practices or continuing ability to serve them. Promise + Progress 63 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance During the fiscal year there were no instances identified of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning with regulations or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes: a. R  eport the total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption Globally, all salaried and hourly employees are required to take policy and policies and procedures: compliance training regarding our Global Business Standards. We have a. Report ​ the total number and percentage of govupdated the GBS course materials and plan to roll out training during FY2018. ernance body members that the organization’s In addition, Foreign Corrupt Practices training is required for sales and other anti-corruption policies and procedures have employees where applicable. been communicated to, broken down by region. b. Report ​ the total number and percentage of employees that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. ​c. R eport the total number and percentage of business partners that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by type of business partner and region. d. Report ​ the total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by region. ​e. R  eport the total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by employee category and region. Promise + Progress 64 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures Sustainable Business Innovation EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Some of the key materials Steelcase uses in products include steel, petroleum-based products, aluminum, other metals, wood, particleboard and other materials and components. Due to the complexity of manufacturing Steelcase products, material weight and volume vary significantly by product type and options selected. Steelcase calculates materials used by products on an individual basis. For more information on how Steelcase incorporates sustainability in our materials, products and services, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 26–27 (Innovative Products + Spaces), pp. 30–31 (Circular Services) and website: csr.steelcase.com EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Steelcase’s approach to embedding sustainability into its business systems input materials is holistic, research-based and measurable. Every step of the way—from design, manufacture, delivery and product life cycle—Steelcase considers the impact of its products and processes on human and environmental health. For our operational initiatives and progress, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 26–27 (Innovative Products + Spaces), pp. 30–31 (Circular Services). For more detailed information about the recycled content in our products, please reference Product Environmental Profiles which are available in the Document Library of steelcase.com EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environment impacts See EN2 of products and services EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Designing products for disassembly and recyclability is an embedded materials that are reclaimed by category approach in Steelcase’s product development process. To explore our sustainability product design platforms, including our transportation and packaging strategies, please see pp. 26–27 (Innovative Products + Spaces) and pp. 48–49 (Transportation + Packaging). Steelcase offers a convenient way for businesses to responsibly dispose of furniture and equipment, with options ranging from refurbishing and resale, to donation or recycling. For details on how we help our customers with end-of-use strategies, please see pp. 30–31 (Circular Services). Promise + Progress 65 Steelcase Thank You Our path to sustainable business development is a shared endeavor, touching all levels of our organization, and all of our stakeholders, in all corners of the globe. Our successes come from individual employees, from departments, from regions, from offices, from manufacturing lines, from customers, from our dealers, from our suppliers and from our partners. The end of this report is just the beginning of what we hope is an ongoing conversation. Please reach out to us at sustainability@steelcase.com and share your sustainability dreams. ©2017 Steelcase Inc. All rights reserved. Please recycle. Trademarks used herein are the property of Steelcase Inc. or their respective owners. Cradle to Cradle Certified™ is a certification mark licensed by the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. The U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED® green building program is the preeminent program for the design, construction, maintenance and operations of high-performance green buildings. The WELL Building Standard™ is the first standard to integrate human health and wellness into the design, construction, maintenance and operations of buildings. 2017 Corporate Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Goals Index Sustainable Development Goal Corporate Sustainability Report Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 1 No Poverty Social Investment, pp. 36-37 2 Zero Hunger Social Investment, pp. 36-37 3 Good Health + Well-Being Innovative Products + Spaces, pp. 26-27 G4-EN23, p.60 Social Investment, pp. 36-37 G4-EN15, p.62 Employee Health + Wellbeing, pp. 38-39 4 Quality Education Social Investment, pp. 36-37 Learning + Development, pp. 40-41 5 Gender Equality Dealer Network, pp. 32-33 LA12, p.62 Supplier Relationships, pp. 34-35 LA13, p.62 Social Investment, pp. 36-37 HR3, p.62 Culture + Engagement, pp. 42-43 G4-LA1, p.63 6 Clean Water + Sanitation Social Investment, pp. 36-37 G4-EN23, p.60 Waste + Water, pp. 46-47 G4-EN3, p.61 7 Affordable + Clean Energy Energy + Greenhouse Gas Emissions, pp. 44-45 EN2, p.65 8 Decent Work + Economic Growth Our Vision, pp. 4-5 G4-10, p.53 G4-LA5, p.63 Our Sustainability Promise, pp. 6-7 G4-11, p.53 G4-LA10, p.63 Innovative Products + Spaces, pp. 26-27 G4-EN3, p.61 G4-EN1, p.65 Employee Health + Wellbeing, pp. 38-39 G4-LA12, p.62 G4-EN2, p.65 Learning + Development, pp. 40-41 G4-LA13, p.62 G4-EN27, p.65 G4-HR3, p.62 G4-EN28, p.65 G4-LA1, p.63 9 Industry, Innovation + Infrastructure Our Vision, pp. 4-5 Our Sustainability Promise, pp. 6-7 Social Investment, pp. 36-37 10 Reduced Inequalities Our Vision, pp. 4-5 G4-LA13, p.62 Our Sustainability Promise, pp. 6-7 Learning + Development, pp. 40-41 Culture + Engagement, pp. 42-43 Promise + Progress 1 Steelcase 11 S  ustainable Cities + Communities Our Vision, pp. 4-5 Our Sustainability Promise, pp. 6-7 Sustainable Procurement Strategies, pp. 28-29 Social Investment, pp. 36-37 Energy + Greenhouse Gas Emissions, pp. 44-45 Waste + Water, pp. 46-47 12 R  esponsible Consumption + Production Innovative Products + Spaces, pp. 26-27 G4-EN23, p.60 G4-EN2, p.65 Sustainable Procurement Strategies, pp. 28-29 G4-EN3, p.61 G4-EN27, p.65 Circular Services, pp. 30-31 G4-EN15, p.62 G4-EN28, p.65 Supplier Relationships, pp. 34-35 G4-EN1, p.65 Learning + Development, pp. 40-41 Energy + Greenhouse Gas Emissions, pp. 44-45 Waste + Water, pp. 46-47 Transportation + Packaging, pp. 48-49 13 Climate Action Sustainable Procurement Strategies, pp. 28-29 G4-EN3, p.61 Learning + Development, pp. 40-41 G4-EN15, p.62 Energy + Greenhouse Gas Emissions, pp. 44-45 G4-EN27, p.65 14 Life Below Water Social Investment, pp. 36-37 G4-EN15, p.62 Waste + Water, pp. 46-47 G4-EN27, p.65 15 Life on Land Innovative Products + Spaces, pp. 26-27 G4-EN15, p.62 Sustainable Procurement Strategies, pp. 28-29 G4-EN27, p.65 Supplier Relationships, pp. 34-35 Waste + Water, pp. 46-47 Transportation + Packaging, pp. 48-49 16 Peace, Justice + Strong Institutions Our Vision, pp. 4-5 G4-56, p.58 G4-HR3, p.62 Dealer Network, pp. 32-33 G4-57, p.59 G4-SO8, p.63 Supplier Relationships, pp. 34-35 G4-58, p.59 G4-PR7, p.64 Social Investment, pp. 36-37 G4-PR2, p.60 G4-SO4, p.64 Learning + Development, pp. 40-41 17 Partnerships for Goals Our Vision, pp. 4-5 Our Sustainability Promise, pp. 6-7 Dealer Network, pp. 32-33 Supplier Relationships, pp. 34-35 Learning + Development, pp. 40-41 Promise + Progress 2 Steelcase
