United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress March 2017 – March 2018 Statement of Continued Support of the United Nations Global Compact Principles PKF Eastern Africa has a strong commitment to responsible business practices and recognize the importance of balancing the interests of all our key stakeholders our clients, our employees, and the communities in which we work. We endeavor to adhere to the United Nations Global Compact Principles through the services we offer to our clients, and in our operations and interactions with the community around us. Even though PKF Kenya is the signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, our offices in the region embrace and implement the ten principles. We are pleased to enclose our communication on progress reaffirming our continued support of the United Nations Global Compact principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By delivering this communication on progress, we are reaffirming our continued adherence to the Global Compact and our voluntary commitment to implementing the Global Compact principles and its ten principles within the firm and to addressing them as a key issue in our dealings with partners and commissioning parties. W e hereby give a detailed account of actions taken between March 2017 and March 2018 with regard to implementation of the United Nations Global Compact principles. Atul Shah Chief Executive Officer PKF Eastern Africa 1 Table of Contents About us .............................................................................................................................. 1 Introduction .......................................................................................................................... 3 1. Human rights ................................................................................................................ 5 2. Labour ........................................................................................................................ 19 3. Environment ............................................................................................................... 21 4. Anti-Corruption .......................................................................................................... 26 i About us PKF Eastern Africa has offices in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and Zambia with over 800 staff and 40 partners. Since 1964, we have served a wide client profile across diverse industries and sectors in Africa. We are one of East Africa’s leading firms of accountants and business advisers, specialising in advising the management of developing private and public businesses. We offer Audit and Assurance, Tax and Advisory services to a wide variety of public and private sector organisations. The firm prides itself in being an equal opportunity, multicultural firm with the majority of its partners born and raised in East Africa. As a result, we have a unique understanding of the local markets that enables us to offer holistic, innovative and relevant business solutions, taking into account the distinct market forces and constraints that come into play within the region. We are a member firm of PKF International, a global network of legally independent firms bound together by a shared commitment to quality, integrity and the creation of clarity in a complex regulatory environment. With offices in 440 cities, PKF member firms operate in 150 countries across 5 continents and specialise in providing high quality audit, accounting, tax, and business advisory services to international and domestic organizations. The network is a member of the Forum of Firms an organisation dedicated to consistent and high quality standards of financial reporting and auditing practices worldwide. Our vision To be a leading regional accounting and business advisory firm with a recognised global presence, providing quality and personalised service through relationships and empowered professional manpower. Our mission  To support and guide clients to achieve success in their business by acting as their trusted business advisers.  To provide quality, cost effective, personalized and innovative business solutions to meet the changing needs of our clients.  To empower our manpower through continuous professional development to face the dynamic global challenges. 1 Our Services Today, we provide a wide range of services to clients ranging from large companies to SMEs in virtually all sectors of the economy. These include:  Audit, assurance and advisory  Tax consultancy  Corporate finance  Management consultancy  Human resource management  Business process outsourcing  Corporate recovery and restructuring  IT consultancy  Public sector consultancy  Company secretarial services  Forensic 2 Introduction As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, we reaffirm our commitment to aligning our strategic plans and operations, internal and external to our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy. Our CSR Policy states “PKF Eastern Africa prides itself in having a deep heritage of operating at the highest level of integrity. We have a strong commitment to responsible business practices and recognise the importance of balancing the interests of all our key stakeholders – employees, clients and the communities in which we work with.” Our CSR Policy revolves around four pillars: 1. The workplace This involves all activities which uphold the wellbeing of employees within the workplace by incorporating work practices such as workforce diversity, work-life balance, health and safety, training etc. 2. The marketplace We implement our policy by engaging in fair, ethical and responsible business practices in the marketplace. 3. The community We offer support for community initiatives and institutions involved in community work and communal concerns by providing either or both financial and non-financial assistance. 4. The environment We advocate for good environmental practices and engaging in environmentally friendly practices at the firm, with clients, corporate partners and the general public. The above pillars guide our approach to the Global Compact Principles on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti–Corruption. PKF Foundation We established the PKF Foundation to fund all CSR activities implemented by PKF in Eastern Africa and a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) committee having representatives from all offices that have: Established a collective CSR commitment  Identified areas of focus that will create sustainable development impacts, foster improved communication with stakeholders and ensure sustainability of the business as a whole. 3 Furthermore, as a member of the United Nations Global Compact, PKF is committed to aligning its strategic plans and daily operations, internally and externally, in line with the UN Global Compact’s principles Our submission This communication of progress (COP) highlights practical actions the firm has taken to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption between March 2017 and March 2018. PKF here refers to PKF Eastern Africa. 4 1. Human rights PKF Eastern Africa recognises that Human Rights are an integral part of corporate citizenship and we respect and support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The first two principles of the UN Global Compact, which are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, are:  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Implementation We have an established code of conduct and core values which is consequently rooted in our culture of experience, confidence and delivery. Our culture is about fostering the best values and attitudes for pursuing our business drivers. These have been defined as i) producing quality work, ii) meeting clients’ needs, iii) leading and enabling, iv) achieving financial results and v) growing the business 1. Our core values We expect our staff to project the following individual values of professionalism: Clients We are here to please our customers, without them nothing else matters. We only succeed when our customers improve their operations by using our services. We must understand their needs, how they use our services, and how they improve their business. Buying our services is just the first step. Successful implementation and value creation must follow. 5 Teamwork – At PKF Eastern Africa we:  Are responsive  Share knowledge  Respect each other  Share information and work collaboratively  Offer help to others  Celebrate success & share experiences Clarity At PKF Eastern Africa we:  Are clear and concise  Are open and transparent  Don’t use jargon  Are straight to the point  Communicate effectively  Ask questions to clarify understanding Integrity At PKF Eastern Africa we:  Take responsibility  Do what we say  Are honest  Keep all information confidential  Do not compromise our independence  Are ethical Quality At PKF Eastern Africa we:  Maintain the highest standards  Are consistent in service delivery  Consult when in doubt  Hold ourselves accountable  Understand and manage risk  Embrace technology  Are skeptical  Always strive for improvement  Keep abreast with change 6 Passion At PKF Eastern Africa we:  Never say “No”  Are enthusiastic  Are engaged  Are proactive  Exceed expectations Our values guide our actions and beliefs. Our values are aligned to the human rights principles. It is the personal responsibility of everyone in the firm to ensure that we put these behaviours into practice. We also have a responsibility to intervene where we see others failing to uphold them. We provide several avenues to address any issue that contravenes the code of conduct as well as use of the confidential whistle-blowing procedure. 2. Our ethical policy Our ethical policy is at the core of our approach to our business. At PKF Eastern Africa, we aim to ensure that we maintain the highest level of professional integrity with our clients, our staff, professional regulators and others with whom we interact. This means that in all our dealings we aim to exceed the regulatory standards by which we are required to operate. We take great care to ensure that client confidentiality, our objectivity and our independence are hallmarks of everything we do. PKF Eastern Africa also seeks to support the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) through its business practices. The core requirements of the UDHR include freedom from torture, unjustified imprisonment, unfair trial and other oppression, along with freedom of expression, religion and political or other representation. Therefore PKF Eastern Africa will not provide support or work with businesses or organisations which:  fail to uphold basic human rights within their sphere of influence  are involved in the manufacture or transfer of armaments to oppressive regimes  are involved in the manufacture of torture equipment or other equipment that is used in the violation of human rights PKF Eastern Africa also advocates and supports the Fundamental International Labour Organisation Conventions. These are the most widely-accepted standards for minimum labour rights and cover the use of under-age or forced labour. This policy is also published on our website and can be found at: http://www.pkfea.com/index.php/our-ethical-policy 7 3. Our CSR policy PKF Eastern Africa prides itself in having a deep heritage of operating at the highest level of integrity. We have a strong commitment to responsible business practices and recognize the importance of balancing the interests of all our key stakeholders our clients, our employees, and the communities in which we work. We:  Adopt business practices that are socially and environmentally responsible with the aim of making a positive difference to the individuals and communities around us.  Invest in the well-being of the community we live and work by initiating or supporting efforts in, environmental management and protection, upholding the standards and development of the profession, improving the lives of disadvantaged persons and community development.  Encourage our staff, clients and associates to individually and collectively adopt and implement an active and positive attitude towards Corporate Social Responsibility. Our CSR activities are primarily led by the staff through office CSR Committees with all planned activities review by the PKF partners. The PKF Foundation was set up to support the CSR activities of the firm. Our presence in the community around us At PKF Eastern Africa, we have long recognised that local businesses and local communities are inextricably linked. The firm plays an active role in contributing to society through both financial support and through enabling our people to take part in activities organised by the firm as well as supporting them in their own initiatives. We encourage all of our people to take part in charitable and voluntary activities as we recognise that this strengthens our bond with the communities in which we work. PKF Eastern Africa’s work in the community is supported by our CSR Policy. We strive to be a leader in corporate social accountability. Our CSR activities revolved around the four pillars of our CSR matrix: workplace, marketplace, environment and community. 1. Workplace activities These focus on upholding the wellbeing of employees within the workplace. The activities in 2017 include: 8 NAIROBI Staff Christmas party Every end of year PKF staff gather in a relaxed setting and participate in well organised games and make merry. Our people also get to contribute to the PKF Foundation by purchasing raffle tickets for a chance to win a variety of prices. We also take this opportunity to recognize members of staff who completed professional courses during the year. Partners among other things communicate matters on commitment to quality and professionalism. 2017 was the year, we got to bid farewell to our tax compliance director who has served the ﬁrm for 37 years, Mr. John Thindi. We wish him all the best in his retirement Picture 1: Fun activities for staff Partners among other things communicate matters on commitment to quality and professionalism. 2017 end year party was not exceptional. We bid farewell to a director who has served the ﬁrm for 37 years, Mr. Atulesh Patel. The event was well organized and was characterised by cool music, variety of food and drinks, all which kept staff engag ed and entertained. Picture 2: John Thindi’s farewell cake cutting 9 Consulting department team building The Nairobi office consulting department is a relatively large team broken into corporate finance, project audit, human resource and forensic audit. The four sections work in harmony to ensure that they deliver quality work. The team building exercise is therefore very vital to ensure teams maintain a Picture 3: PKF Nairobi Consulting department celebrating their wins during positive energy around team building each other, understand each other’s strengths and weaknesses leading to competencies optimization. The team was treated to a one day PKFI Conference at Maasai Mara Picture 4: PKF Partners enjoy a hot air balloon ride at Maasai Mara In September 2017, PKF hosted a four day conference at Maasai Mara which commenced on the 19 and ended on the 22 of the same month. Senior accountants and auditors from PKF member firms across Africa, Asia and Europe were in attendance. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) were the main focus during the training sessions. Standardization and 10 harmonization of the global accounting and auditing industry including updates to the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA) code of Ethics and PKF International Professional Standards Manual were looked into. To welcome our global partners, PKF Kenya hosted a cocktail for the partners, clients and friends of PKF. This turned out to be a very good platform for the attendees to get a feel of our global family 2. Marketplace activities This involves engaging in fair, ethical and responsible business practices in the marketplace by observing laws and statutory requirements, encouraging sustainable business practices, refraining from corruption amongst other professional practices. Our main and core purpose is creating and sustaining supportive relationships where objective and timely advice enables our clients to thrive, develop and succeed by advising the management of developing private and public businesses. We have done this by: i. Providing information to our clients and the general public through seminars. National Budget Seminars: We hosted our clients on the content and implications of the 2017/2018 budget that had been presented by the Ministry of Finance. In our mandate as key stakeholders in the economy, we also held a pre-budget briefing where as a firm we projected the firms’ expectations and suggestions to the Ministry of Finance for input into the national budget. ii. We contributed to the improved efficiency and competitiveness of other companies and sectors by supporting initiatives that reward excellence in various sectors. For the first time ever, PKF was the judging Partner of Pension Awards. The awards recognised the best individuals, pension schemes and service providers in the pension sector in Kenya. We had a uniquely experienced panel drawn from the sector players. PKF Kenya was the Judging Process Partner at the 2017 Think Business Insurance Awards. This is an annual event meant to encourage innovation, prudence and stability in the sector by recognizing, outstanding individuals and organizations in the sector. PKF was also part of the judging panel in Banking awards. iii. Partnerships and Mentoring Opportunities  Through PROPEL, a business initiative that has its foundation steeped in transforming and repositioning African businesses to navigate them to a fuller realization of these emerging economic opportunities, we provide mentorship opportunities to budding entrepreneurs in the Next Big Thing Competition. The Next Big Thing is an initiative aimed at mainstreaming the disadvantaged through 11 innovative business strategies that promote entrepreneurship as well as economic empowerment of the communities around us.  Microsoft Biz4Africa, an online hub launched for Kenyan small and medium enterprises (SMEs) to access locally relevant information and resources to promote SMEs and improve trade. Biz4Afrika is an Africa-wide network of SMEs designed to enable a sustainable and connected community of entrepreneurs that will have a meaningful impact on job creation, global competitiveness and wealth creation in the long run. The online portal provides one-stop shop for information resources and business services for small and medium enterprises, with PKF as one of the solutions provider, via PROPEL. 3. Community and environment activities This is implemented through support of community initiatives and institutions involved in community and charity concerns. This support is both financial and non-financial. Some of the initiatives we engaged in include:  Community day and other market place initiative The firm has set aside a day off its calendar each year to give back to the community. In 2017, through the support of PKF foundation, various offices marked our CSR day in diverse ways. Also there were a number of other market initiatives. 12 NAIROBI On 17 Nov 2017 PKF Nairobi Staff put their pen and papers away to support pupils of Bhora primary school in their beginning steps to realizing their dreams. Both staff and pupils participated in activities which include general cleaning of the school, grass cutting and planting vegetable. Vegetable seedlings planted by staff which was to serve the school from the beginning of the year 2018. Through the PKF Foundation, text books were donated for every class in a bid to ensure that pupils have learning resources for years to come. Staff led by our CEO offered wise words that would help nature young minds Picture 6: Text books donated to Bohra Primary Picture 5: PKF staff clearing grass at the school compound School  Mater Heart Run 2017 Picture 7: Matter heart run participants In support of the Mater Heart Run, PKF Foundation has over the years sponsored the initiative by providing financial support and also participating in the run. The Mater Heart Run is held annually in a bid to raise funds to enable disadvantaged children to get life-saving surgeries for congenital heart problems. The run was held on 20 of May 2017 in all major towns and PKF was represented by our Nairobi, Mombasa, Nakuru, Malindi and Kisumu offices 13  Kenya Ladies Golf Union Ladies golf in Kenya has registered an impressive growth with more than 200 registered members. Golf was a male dominated sport but the Kenya Ladies Golf Union (KLGU) gave ladies a platform to change this notion. KLGU aims to develop and promote to the highest possible standards, the collective interests of ladies’ golf at all levels. PKF is very proud to be associated with KLGU and the firm was proud to be the main sponsor for the 2017 KLGU tournament at the Sigona Golf Club. Picture 8: KLGU receiving a cheque at PKF offices, Nairobi  Jim McFie Education Fund The Jim McFie Education Fund was inaugurated in January 2014 with a mission to finance accounting and business education for qualifying beneficiaries and mentor them to catalyse wealth creation and inspire social transformation. PKF believed in the goodwill of the foundation and committed to make an annual contribution since August 2014 for five years. For the five years, the firm is delighted to see the students progressing very well and Picture 9: PKF partners issuing a cheque to Jim Mcfie in 2017 renewed their support by offering to Education fund maintain the annual contribution for five more years.  Motherly Care Children’s Home PKF Nairobi fully embrace the Christmas season as the giving season. During such a period in 2017, employees donated items that were later donated to Mother Care Children’s home and the money collected was used to fund the construction of a staircase and purchase of food stuff. Picture 10: Stairs built by PKF Foundation at the Motherly care children’s home 14  Lions Sight First eye hospital The Lions SightFirst Eye Hospital provides compassionate eye care. To date, the Lions Eye Hospital has conducted over 4,000 outreach camps, 2.0 million patients have been examined and 86,325 free sight restoration cataract surgeries performed. PKF endeavoured to support the Lions Eye Hospital in its mission to end needless blindness. Picture 11: PKF Kenya CEO Mr. Atul Shah issuing a cheque to the Lions Sightfirst Eye Hospital management  Laibon vs Cambridge Golf Derby The Laibon Society and Cambridge are Lenana School and the Nairobi School alumni respectively. On November 2017, the two came together to raise funds for the completion of a swimming pool at the Lenana school. As PKF, we recognised the noble efforts made by Laibon and Cambrians to give back to their respective institutions, having actively fundraised for these institution even prior to this derby. PKF admired their desire to make a lasting Picture 12: Golf Players at Sigona Golf club impact amongst our youth and as a firm, we were excited to contribute towards the noble gesture. The firm, recognises that maintaining a growth trend and accomplish our vision, we will need these well natured young men and women in future 15  Getrude’s Hospital sponsorship The annual Getrude’s Golf Tournament has over the years provided medical support to financially needy children. The funds raised during the 2017 tournaments held on June 17 at Nyali golf club were channelled towards screening and treatment of children with hearing impairment. PKF is glad to be part of the fundraising event.  Faraja Cancer Trust PKF Foundation has over the years partnered with Faraja Cancer Support Centre through their contributions. The Funds go towards providing complementary support services to cancer patients and their families. The year 2017 was not exceptional, PKF contributed towards the noble course thus ensuring the support services reach children and their families as they go Picture 13: Faraja Trust management receiving a cheque through cancer treatment through practical donated by PKF Foundation and emotional support from the centre. 16 MOMBASA  Mombasa and Malindi Offices Jomo Kenyatta Public Beach Clean up Our Mombasa and Malindi offices undertook a beach clean-up exercise at the Jomo Kenyatta Public Beach, commonly known as Pirates, in line with our policy on environmental conservation. This was done in partnership with the Kenya Wildlife Service, Mombasa.The Managing partner of PKF Kenya Mombasa Office Larian Abreu led in the donation of the cleaning equipment that included 30 rakes, 5 spades, 100 reusable litter collection sacks, 200 reusable gloves and consumables for the function and future beach clean-ups. Picture 14: Mombasa and Malindi PKF Office Staff cleaning the Kenyatta public Beach 17 Rwanda  PKF Rwanda Nyamata sector PKF Rwanda office categorised their activities based on the level of need within the community. With the help of a Social Welfare Officer, our team identified 25 families in Category 2 according to the classification of people in Rwanda on a most vulnerable case basis to whom they would provide foodstuff. The team purchased and distributed rice, maize flour, beans, cooking oil and soap.  Health Insurance Based on the firm’s discussions with the Sector Executive Secretary we saw it best to provide a health cover to 150 people for a period of one year on a most vulnerable case basis.  Tree planting PKF Rwanda Employees planted 400 trees of different types and species. There were 100 fruit trees (50 mango trees and 50 avocado trees) planted in 50 homesteads in one of the villages in Nyamata Sector. The remaining trees were of different species and were planted at EPR Nyamata School. 18 2. Labour The Global Compact's labour principles are derived from the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work:  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Implementation PKF Eastern Africa applies the labour principles at the firm level through the code of conduct and our Human Resource Policies. These imply equal employment practices which promote a diverse workforce. 1. Our code of conduct Our code of conduct is rooted in our culture. It guides how we relate with our employees and our clients. For our employees, our code of conduct correlates with the labour principles in the following ways:  Providing interesting and challenging work and develop great experience  Investing in employees to add onto their skills, for their benefit, the firm’s and our clients  Being strong at quality relationships, building them and developing them  We get to know our people and our clients and understand their needs  We embrace diversity, maintaining a working environment which is free from prejudice and harassment we do not tolerate behaviour that contravenes these principles For our clients, other than providing excellent service, value for money and expert solutions, our people uphold ethical and professional standards and ensure confidential information is protected, our fees are appropriate and in line with our terms of engagement. Most importantly, we act with integrity, independence and objectivity, not allowing bias or undue influence to affect our professional judgement. Our code of conduct can be found at: http://www.pkfea.com/index.php/pkf-code-ofconduct. 2. Our employment contract 19  Each employee of PKF Eastern Africa receives an employment contract, upon joining the firm, which meets all the requirements as set out by the Laws of Kenya. Additionally, all employees are provided with an enabling and conducive environment in which they can perform their duties as expected. The firm provides additional benefits to the employees such as medical cover, membership to a pension scheme, trainee contracts where PKF sponsors staff to attain one professional accounting qualification.  The employment contract between the firm and the employees ensures that there is no forced labour, with the employee provided with the opportunity to terminate the contract.  PKF Eastern Africa does not employ minors and proof of age is a requirement before employment.  Our code of conduct clearly sets out the firm’s intent to promote a diverse workforce.  As part of these standards we work to value different views and opinions, to respect each employee’s personal needs, and promote a workplace free from harassment and discrimination by upholding the equal opportunity principle.  PKF Eastern Africa also advocates and supports the Fundamental International Labour Organization Conventions. These are the most widely-accepted standards for minimum labour rights and cover the use of under-age or forced labour. This is indicated in our Ethical Policy available at: http://www.pkfea.com/index.php/our-ethical-policy 20 3. Environment The UN Global Compact’s environment principles are derived from the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. The three principles are:  Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and;  Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Implementation 1. Our environmental policy We take seriously the impact of our business activities on the environment. We believe care for the environment is an important part of the way in which we do business. It is our policy to ensure that both our people and our suppliers operate in an environmentally conscious manner. To read more about our environmental policy, please visit our website at: http://www.pkfea.com/index.php/our-environmental-policy  Environmental awareness This involves display of our environmental policy on our website and all our electronic communication.  Compliance with the law All the building we have constructed to be our offices are in full compliance with the environmental regulations. 21 2. Environmental consultancy We assist other companies to meet the regulatory requirements by providing services that enable them to comply with the environmental law. 3. Sponsoring environment conservancy initiatives  Kenya Forest Services We have partnered with the Kenya Forest Services in a tree planting exercise and maintenance of the trees, now in the third year. Additionally, tree planting is one of the activities carried out during community day.  Energy management awards The energy management award is an award for all energy consumers geared at encouraging a culture of energy efficiency and conservation. It seeks to recognise enterprises that have made major and sustainable gains in energy efficiency through the application of modern energy management principles and practices, and in the process made significant energy and cost reductions. 22 NAIROBI  Tree planting at Kereita Forest Set in the west end slopes bounder and near the edge to descend into the escarpment of the great rift valley, Kereita forest makes for a lovely hiking trail with lovely fresh air and a waterfall to see. Our CEO, Mr. Atul Shah, together with the Hindu Religious Service Centre members and PKF staff, Picture 15: Tree planting day At Kereita Forest engaged in environmental conservation by planting trees at Kereita Forest which is situated in the heart of the Aberdare Ranges, on 9 April 2017. 23  East Africa Wildlife Service Forest Challenge Sponsorship Picture 16: PKF family at Kereita Forest during and after the forest challenge The Forest Challenge seek to increase awareness among the public on the importance of trees and forest, while cultivating a culture of tree planting especially among the youth, who are the future of conservation in Kenya. It connects people with nature and innovatively interest them in forest stewardship in line with the aspirations of our Constitution and Forest policy as a way of achieving 10% tree cover. The fundraising event was held on 9 December 2017 at Kereita Forest which is part of Aberdare Ecosystem and a critical water catchment, and the proceeds will go towards rehabilitating and restoring the degraded parts of Kereita Forest and also support the rural forest communities and schools. At PKF, we understand that our environment is our future which is why environmental conservation is one of our core CSR pillars. We were delighted to be part of this initiative and we showed our support by offering financial support and a team of 20 staff members represented us during the forest challenge. Picture 17: PKF Team during the Forest Challenge 24  Kampala PKF Uganda visited the Luzira inmate children’s centre. The centre takes care of young children whose mothers are servicing a sentence at the prison accused of one crime or the other. The firm donated food staff including soya beans, posho, soya porridge and sugar and also a portable swimming pool. PKF Uganda, on the 17 November 2017 also partnered with the Rotary club of Kampala south and 1,000 trees were planted over 7 acres of land at Kisubu seminar school. The Rotary issued the Ugandan office with a certificate of appreciation. Picture 18: PKF Uganda planting trees at Kisubu Seminar School 25 4. Anti-Corruption The Global compact Anti-Corruption principle is derived from the United Nations Convention against Corruption.  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery PKF Eastern Africa prides itself in having a deep heritage of operating at the highest level of integrity. Our company’s longstanding commitment to doing business with integrity means avoiding corruption in any form. We engage in fair, ethical and responsible business practices in the marketplace. We do this by refraining from corruption, accuracy of client reporting, observing laws and statutory requirements and encouraging sustainable business practice. Implementation 1. Our ethical policy We are able to implement this principle by applying our Ethical Policy. Our ethical policy is at the core of our approach to our business. We aim to ensure that we maintain the highest level of professional integrity with our clients, our staff, professional regulators and others with whom we interact. This means that in all our dealings we aim to exceed the regulatory standards by which we are required to operate. We take great care to ensure that client confidentiality, our objectivity and our independence are hallmarks of everything we do. PKF Eastern Africa eliminates corruption by engaging in fair, ethical and responsible business practices which includes refraining from corruption, observing laws and statutory requirements and encouraging sustainable business practices. Our human resource policy describes corruption as a ‘breach of respectability’ which states: “corruption, that is to say, soliciting for or accepting payment or other valuable consideration of services rendered within the normal course or scope of official firm duties.” 2. Our core values We expect that all employees will execute our core values, particularly Integrity, “We execute with integrity, holding ourselves to the highest standards of performance, accountability and personal conduct. If something doesn't work, don't ship it. If a deal isn't right, don't take it. If the numbers don't add up, find out why.” 3. Our code of conduct (Described on page 19 of this document) 26 4. Our services As a leading professional services firm, we continue to proactively support the adoption of the International Public Accounting Standards (IPSASs), to enhance public accountability. In our daily operations especially as auditors, we are obligated to maintain the highest levels of integrity. All our relationships with our clients, suppliers and employees are hinged on our philosophy, commitment to promoting high standards of discipline, excellence and ethics through adherence to the firm’s quality standards and value charter, the laws of the country and the profession. 5. Membership to the local Global Compact Network We joined the Global Compact Network in Kenya in April 2012. We signed up to the Code of Ethics as we are keen to promote and enhance the ethics of business conduct in Kenya in line with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. 27 KENYA Nairobi I Mombasa I Malindi I Kisumu I Nakuru UGANDA Kampala TANZANIA Dar es Salaam RWANDA Kigali www.pkfea.com 28
