CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Statement of continued support and business challenges It is my pleasure to present to you our sixth Corporate Social Responsibility Report, as a demonstration of application and commitment to the United Nations Global Compact principles, covering the activities of Dukat Inc. in the area of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption in 2017. Responsible business operation has always been the strategic focus of our company, whether it concerns the relationship with employees, consumers, business partners, cooperators, social community or attitude towards the environment. Assuming the responsibility for the role and influence of our company on the local community, and wider, is an integral part of our business strategy and commitment to sustainable business operation. We systematically apply and promote the United Nations Global Compact principles in the area of human rights protection, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We also seek to incorporate the Sustainable Development Goals into our business strategy, to ensure the long-term sustainable growth of Dukat Inc. and all our stakeholders. Nevertheless, we emphasize that the context of Dukat Inc. socially responsible operations is significantly wider. Incentives to primary and sustainable agricultural production, especially milk production, are of great significance for the company and for the community in which we operate. Furthermore, we invest our knowledge and experience in promotion of proper and balanced nutrition and healthy habits. Despite positive economic and sectoral trends, the key issue the domestic dairy sector faces remains the pressure on retail prices, especially retail prices of UHT milk and semi-hard cheese, due to increased entry of market surpluses at extremely low prices from EU and other countries. Despite difficult conditions in which it operates, in 2017 Dukat Inc. continued to base its operations on the principles of sustainability, adjustment to the needs and possibilities of Croatian consumers, renovation and development of new products and investment in quality. At the same time, it continued to optimize business processes and costs, and to increase the efficiency on all levels of business operations. However, we are aware there is still room for further progress in responsible operations, and reporting to our stakeholders on implemented activities is an important part of acknowledging our contribution and motivation to continue improving our practice in this field. This report, therefore, together with the overview of activities related to the application of UNGC principles, also follows the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and European Commission Guidelines on non-financial reporting. This provides our stakeholders with a clear and relevant framework for comparing our activities with the previous and the future ones, that we will continue to report on. Despite numerous challenges we face, we remain committed to the improvement of our responsible business practices, presented to you in the text that follows. Alen Fontana Director Zagreb, February 2018 2 Dukat Inc. leading dairy industry in Croatia with a century-old tradition Dukat Inc. (hereinafter: Dukat), with expansion of dairy industry in Croatia companies operating within the Lactalis registered office in Zagreb, is the leading and South-East Europe. Group, such as Alpsko mleko, MU, Lactel, dairy industry in Croatia with a centuryParmalat, Societe, Galbani Salumi etc., old tradition in production of milk and As the flagship brand for milk and dairy and its total sales range comprises more dairy products, which has grown into products, Dukat successfully responds than 400 products. a regional company as the result of to demands and needs of consumers. organic growth and acquisitions. With Innovativeness, insistence on quality and It is exactly the local milk of the highest 8 production plants in Croatia, Slovenia, implementation of the latest advancements EU quality and investments into the Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, and in food and dairy industry have ensured development of new technologies Macedonia, Dukat Group is currently Dukat would hold the position of market that contributed to Dukat’s entering the leading regional dairy industry. In leader and the pioneer of trends in the approximately 80 markets in Africa, Asia, addition to Dukat, Dukat Group comprises dairy industry. Middle East, French Overseas Territories, 14 associated companies with registered Central America and Europe, where it offices in Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Dukat bases its operations on the has been exporting its thermized dairy Herzegovina, Serbia, Macedonia, Kosovo processing of top quality raw milk desserts produced at the Zagreb Plant and Bulgaria. produced by Croatian dairy farms. In since 2013. Dukat exports its products 2017, Dukat cooperated with more and innovations that were developed and In Croatia, Dukat Group currently employs than three thousand milk producers, commercialized on domestic market in 86 1,531 people in three production plants: purchasing 202.3 million kilograms of world countries. Exports to Italy, Serbia, in Zagreb, Bjelovar and KIM Mljekara fresh raw milk. With 29.7 percent share Switzerland and Romania increased Karlovac, which is also its associated in the purchase of total processed milk in 2017, resulting in export growth of 9 company, and in two associated in Croatia, Dukat holds the position of percent, compared to the year before. companies LA LOG for transport and one of the largest purchaser of fresh distribution and B.P.A.C. Auto for car raw milk in the country. Dukat has implemented international rental and leasing. In 2017, Dukat has standards that ensure top quality, achieved revenue from sales in the Its production range consists of milk, safety and food safety: ISO 9001 Quality amount of HRK 1.76 billion, 85.1 percent fermented products, cream, dairy spreads, Management Systems, ISO 22000 Food of which on the domestic market. deserts, butter and cheese. In 2017, Safety Management, IFS, HACCP, as Dukat produced 192 million kilograms well as Kosher and Halal certificates for Since 2007, Dukat has been operating of products in its range, comprising 292 specific product groups. Dukat also has as part of Lactalis Group, the leading Dukat, Sirela, President and Galbani the ISO 14001 Environmental Management global dairy group and the leading brand products. In 2017, 45 new products System certificate, as well as ISO 50001 global cheese manufacturer, which were introduced to Croatian consumers. Energy Management System since the makes it the center for development and Dukat also markets brand products of end of 2017. This report provides an overview of activities implemented in 2017 (01/01 31/12/2017) in Dukat Inc. and does not cover the activities of associated companies operating within Dukat Group. 3 Dukat Group in Croatia in numbers (2017) No. 1 dairy industry 3 1,531 production plants employees 254.8 45 million kilograms of new products total processed on the Croatian milk market EUR 3 associated 294.5 million companies: KIM Mljekara Karlovac, in revenue 3,325 La Log, B.P.A.C. Auto cooperators 292 products 4 umbrella brands 4 Revenue butter 1% other 1% dry products 2% by Product cream 5% Categories cheeses 6% chilled dairy 16% milk 69% Plants, warehouses and platforms ZAGREB BJELOVAR KARLOVAC ĐAKOVO RIJEKA PULA ZADAR SPLIT Plants Central warehouses Platforms (logistic centers) DUBROVNIK 5 1 HUMAN RIGHTS Dukat fully respects human and labor rights based on the Constitution, international laws and conventions, and internal documents PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Make sure that they are not complicit in internationally proclaimed human rights within its area of human rights abuses. influence and Dukat fully respects human and labor rights based on the Constitution, laws and other regulations of the Republic of Croatia, as well as international conventions. Dukat guarantees and promotes human rights protection through good business practice and a number of internal documents Work Regulations, Ordinance on the protection of confidentiality of data, Collective Agreement and Code of Conduct. These documents are available to employees on the Intranet. Right to diversity and equal opportunities At Dukat, differences among people are entirely on performance and success regulations that prohibit child labor, forced accepted in an open and tolerant manner, of each individual. or compulsory labor, and protect dignity regardless of their age, nationality, ethnic of employees by guaranteeing equality origin, religion and gender, language In human resources management, and protection from sexual harassment and socioeconomic status. All employees we pay special attention to adherence of employees and persons undergoing have equal opportunity for success, and to the principle of diversity and equal the recruitment process. the position in the company depends opportunities. We respect all rights and Protection of employees’ dignity Dukat consistently implements regulations complaint and a request for protection Identical protocol is also planned for and directives of the European Union of dignity, the Management Board all forms of discrimination and sexual and Croatia, related to suppression appoints a Commission consisting of three harassment. of discrimination and protection of independent members: a trade union employees’ dignity, and procedure representative, an administrative service There were no reported cases of violation protocol in case of violation of dignity representative and a person appointed of employees’ dignity in 2017, just like is embedded in Work Regulations and to receive and address employees’ there were none during the two previous Code of Conduct. In the event of a complaints related to protection of dignity. years. Code of Conduct Dukat has had the Code of Conduct standards and generally accepted civil activities and conduct in the workplace, since 1998, integrating the principles values. The code was amended in 2003 including the attitude towards other of employees’ conduct in accordance and it serves as a framework for daily stakeholders. with ethical, moral and professional Dukat signs Diversity Charter At the end of 2017, Dukat signed the Diversity Charter Croatia, an initiative launched in 20 European Union countries. Thirty-eight companies and organizations signed the Charter in Croatia. The aim of the initiative is to promote diversity as one of fundamental values of modern society, enabling each person to realize their full potential. It is one of the prerequisites for development of creativity, innovation and individual talents in the workplace. By signing the Charter, Dukat committed to adopting the policy of respecting diversity and non-discrimination, implementing and promoting diversity principles, and reporting on activities undertaken in this area. In 2018, Dukat will produce an internal diversity policy and an action plan for its implementation. 7 2 LABOR Dukat respects and guarantees all labor rights and systematically works on improving the quality of work environment, education and development of employees, and contributes to the community in which it operates PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory and the effective recognition of the right to collective labor, bargaining, ; PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of PRINCIPLE 5 employment and occupation. the effective abolition of child labor and Dukat respects and guarantees all labor rights prescribed by law and the Constitution, and systematically works on improving the quality of work environment, education and development of employees, care for health and safety at work, and contribution to the community in which it operates. Freedom of association and collective bargaining Dukat has a 20-year-long tradition of Number of Union members and 2019, additionally expanding the association and collective bargaining, 464 material rights of employees. 457 and 35 percent of its employees are 432 members of the Trade Union of the A number of material rights is available Employed in Agriculture, Food, Tobacco to employees based on the Collective and Water Industries of Croatia (PPDIV). Agreement: Partnership with the representatives of • Allowance for sick leave exceeding workers is continuously improved through 120 days cooperation and communication with • Allowance for annual vacation the Works Council. 2015 2016 2017 • Christmas bonus • Reimbursement of transportation costs In 2017, 432 employees, or 40 percent, Compared to similar companies in the • Jubilee award belonged to the Trade Union of the region, Collective Agreement ensures • Assistance for days spent in the hospital Employed in Agriculture, Food, Tobacco a higher level of rights arising from • Assistance in the event of an Act of God and Water Industries of Croatia. While employment. The Agreement applies • Assistance to families in the event of the previous two years have an almost to all employees, regardless of them employee’s death equal number of employees who were being trade union members, having • Gift in-kind for Easter members of the Union (457 in 2015 and permanent or temporary employment, 464 in 2016), decrease of 7 percent in working full-time or part-time. Collective Furthermore, employees are entitled to 2017 is the result of hiring new employees Agreement signed for 2016 and 2017 the following bonuses on salary: bonus and retirement of some employees who was printed as pocket edition and for years of service, bonus for work in were Union members. handed to each employee of Dukat at shifts, bonus for work on Sundays and the beginning of 2016. New Collective holidays, and meal allowance. All Dukat Agreement was signed in 2017, for 2018 employees are also insured against accidents, regardless of them being permanent or temporary, full-time or Corporate values part-time employees. Ambition, engagement and simplicity are the key values of Dukat that are strongly woven into the corporate culture of the company and into everyday Dukat fosters regular and open work of our employees. By applying these values in their work, our employees communication with the trade union and contribute to the vision that we share with other employees of the Lactalis the Central Works Council, and provides Group: to provide the best of milk to as many people as possible. them with information about decisions of Our employees are the backbone of our business, corporate culture and importance to the economic and social success. We inspire them to constantly learn and develop by investing in status of employees. Management education and development of specialized skills. In the desire to reach their Board informs the Works Council on the full potential and ambitions, we enable them to develop their career within business results, plans, organizational Dukat and other associated companies, as well as international surroundings changes and other important issues of the Lactalis Group. annually and when necessary. 9 Health protection and safety at work Dukat supports employee initiatives in food safety and for checking the health employee groups (warehouse employees, all forms of humanitarian work, provides status of employees participating in drivers), as well as all newcomers who incentives and additionally rewards production process, storage and food started working in the warehouse of employees who are voluntary blood transport. In 2017, 750 employees were finished goods and production. The donors by granting them a day off work tested and none of those examined training included 188 employees. and by organizing a joint excursion. tested positive as carriers. Preliminary and periodic medical Preventive seasonal influenza vaccination is In April, May and November 2017, 176 examinations are regularly carried out organized at the company premises each employees attended training and have for all employees at workplaces with year. In November 2017, 64 employees passed the hygiene minimum exam. Inspecial working conditions. In 2017, this were vaccinated on three locations house training on personal hygiene of included 473 employees (39 percent of (Zagreb, Bjelovar and Karlovac) and in employees, occupational hygiene and employees compared to 22.5 percent logistics centers. Dukat also regularly the environment, and requirements for the year before). performs carrier tests, for protection of HACCP for food transport included target New air-conditioning for the Store for Ripening of Education on prevention of stress in Cheese at the Bjelovar Plant the workplace During 2017, a new air-conditioning system regulating humidity and In 2017, in-house education “Stress at work and air temperature was installed at the store for ripening of cheese, related to work” was initiated and implemented. to protect the health of employees at Bjelovar Plant. Installation of Education included 287 employees from Bjelovar the modern air-conditioning system, with associated filters, also Plant and logistic centers in Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, increased air quality in packaging and cheese salting areas, thus Split, Dubrovnik and Đakovo, and 70 employees improving the working conditions for employees. The existing locker from KIM Karlovac plant. In 2018, this education rooms were also expanded, with the aim of improving conditions will include Dukat employees in Zagreb. for employees rest, and additional room was added and equipped for that purpose as well. Every three months, Health and Safety Fourteen injuries were registered in Minute” program, in 2016, and especially at Work Committee holds meetings on 2017 (10 minor and 4 major), which is in 2017, the number of workplace injuries the topic of safety and health protection 55.6 percent more than the year before increased. Injured employees were mostly to discuss the proposals of employees when there were nine injuries at work. those with less work experience and on improvement of work conditions and Nine men and five women were injured, seasonal warehouse workers. health protection at work. Two committees and majority of injuries (12) happened (Zagreb and Bjelovar Plant) have 7 in the workplace, while two employees To reduce workplace injuries and members, accounting for 0.6 percent were injured coming to work or leaving increase safety and health protection of the total number of employees. work. The highest increase in number of of employees, in 2017, Occupational injuries occurred at the Bjelovar plant, Safety and Protection Policy and 12 Number of Injuries at Work where seven workplace injuries were Golden Rules of Safety at Work were 17 registered in 2017 and none the year introduced, and both documents are 14 before. handed to new employees. 13 9 Although a significant decrease in work Despite an increase in the number of related injuries was recorded from 2013 injuries, in 2017 there was a decrease 5 to 2015, due, among other things, to in the number of lost work days due to systematic education of employees in injuries from 489 work days in 2016 production, warehouses and logistic to 402 days in 2017. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 centers, and “Safety and Health Protection 10 Number of Sick Days leave expired, 11 employees returned used 485 days of paid leave and in 33,382 to work, one continued using parental 2015 they used 452 days. Employees leave in 2018 and two employees are entitled to paid leave based on 29,048 changed companies. Number of fathers their right to be absent from work in the 24,015 employees who are using parental event of marriage, birth of a child, death leave has increased in the past several of a family member, serious illness or years: in 2015, parental leave was used emergency treatment of close family by one man and 17 women, in 2014 it members, moving and natural disasters. was used exclusively by women 15 women and no men. Employee Aid Number of Paid Leave Days 2015 2016 2017 Dukat helps its employees and their families overcome difficulties by 485 In 2017, the number of sick days increased 452 providing them with financial aid in 401 by 15 percent compared to the year various situations, it acknowledges their before, while in 2016 it was 21 percent requests related to the improvement higher than in 2015. Unfortunately, the of social status, medication payments, trend of increase in the number of sick therapies, medical aides and the like. In days since 2015 is the reflection of severe 2017, Dukat allocated HRK 476,757 for illness or surgical procedures. this purpose, an increase of 14 percent compared to 2016, while HRK 400,453 In 2017, parental leave was used by 15 2015 2016 2017 were paid in 2015, signifying constant employees 13 women and 2 men (five growth of financial aid to employees. women less and one man more than In 2017, employees used 401 days of paid in 2016), which is 27 percent less than leave, which was 17 percent less than Amount of financial aid to the year before. After their parental the previous year. In 2016, employees employees (HRK) 476,757 Tradition of blood donations by Dukat employees 420,012 Sixty employees donated blood in 2017, in two organized volunteer blood 400,453 drives in the work place, which is 20 percent more than the year before. In October, a volunteer blood donor month, 30 employees of Dukat and associated companies (KIM, La Log and B.P.A.C. Auto) who are also longtime blood donors, socialized during a one-day trip to Slovenia, visiting Ljubljana, Bled and Bohinj. The excursion organized by Dukat is an almost 2015 2016 2017 40-year-old tradition and sort of a reward for employees who selflessly help others by donating blood. Supporting the care for the health of its employees, Dukat encourages them to participate in recreational and sports activities, including coming to work by bicycle, co-financing such employee initiatives, especially those in which employees account for the majority of members: • Sports Club Sirela • Sirela Volunteer Fire-fighting Society • Dukat Leisure Cycling Club 11 Dukat Leisure Cycling Club During its sixth year, Dukat Leisure Cycling Club continued on two wheels. Other than their common recreational to actively work on encouraging everyday use of bicycles rides, members of RBK Dukat also participated in four and promoting environmental, health and social benefits of challenging mountain-bike races from the Adria Bike Series: recreational cycling, simultaneously inspiring cooperation Plitvice, Fužine, Baška, and “Catch the Wind” race on the and team spirit among employees. The club has 146 island of Brač. While participating in cycling events and members employees of Dukat and its associated races, passing 10,000 kilometers and promoting healthy companies in Croatia. habits and active way of life, in 2017, club members have continued to proudly wear Dukat Fit colors, the line of The year 2017 was marked by numerous cycling events products enriched with protein. and races. Club members participated in six cycling events, five of which they organized themselves. They As in previous years, in September 2017, members of explored the beautiful scenery of Samobor, Dugo Selo, the Club participated in the organization of Dukat’s sixth Duga Reda and its rivers, Otočac, the springs of Gacka cycling race Dukat Fit on Lake Jarun. They also competed river, Hrvatsko zagorje and the area of Brežice in Slovenia in the race. 12 Education and development of employees In human resources management, Dukat remains true to its mission to recruit and retain capable, professional and motivated employees, who act proactively in constantly changing conditions, create new values and achieve personal and professional fulfillment. That is why significant means and efforts are invested into education and training of employees. In 2017, specialized and development Internal education employees of Dukat underwent induction education accounted for 82 percent As part of internal knowledge transfer training. During group and individual of the total number of educations at practice, total of 34 internal educations induction program, employees visited Dukat, which is four percent less than were held for 557 employees of Dukat key departments and were introduced in 2016 and 2015. Legally required in 2017, compared to 27 in-house to milk and dairy goods processing and training accounts for 18 percent of total educations for 674 employees in 2016 production in all three of the Croatian education, four percent more than in and 30 educations for 923 employees plants. the previous two years. in 2015. The topics covered food safety, product safety protection and hygiene, Employee development In 2017, the average annual expenditure self-control on manufacturing lines, good projects for education was HRK 1,519 per employee manufacturing and hygiene practice, education recipient (compared to HRK safe machinery operating, and handling Dukat is systematically investing in 1,490 the year before and HRK 1,700 in electrical-manual forklifter, training for development and professional training 2015), while 915 employees were included employer’s occupational safety Authorized of employees. We list the following in some form of education (compared Person, dairy basics and basics of educational and development projects to 460 the year before and 930 in 2015). maintenance in production, measurement that took place in 2017: and meaning of temperature in the cold Total number of education hours increased chain process. All educations were held Education and development by 25 percent in 2017, employees by Dukat’s in-house trainers. program “The path of participated in 15,100 hours of education, leadership” compared to 12,041 hours of education in Training related to hygiene and food and 2016 and 10,100 hours in 2015. Average employee safety is also continuously “Path of leadership” development program, number of education hours per employee carried out for new employees in initiated in 2015, was concluded in also increased in the past three years Production and Logistics (focusing on 2017. It was intended for managers from 8.8 to 12.4 hours. operators, auxiliary workers, warehouse and managerial resources of various workers and drivers). In 2017, in-house organizational Dukat units in Croatia. training included 176 employees, while As part of the program, which is divided Education hours in 2016 it included 117 employees and 82 into three modules, participants discover 15,100 employees in 2015, which is an increase and build their leadership potential, learn of 114 percent compared to 2015. about leadership styles, goal setting and leadership roles as motivator, and they 12,041 Induction of new employees to master important communication tools 10,100 the company and its activities for successful management. Topics of the modules were the power of persuasion Following the already common practice, in leadership and management, 23 new employees of Dukat underwent communication skills, leadership and induction training in 2017, to get acquainted teamwork. By the end of 2017, about 2015 2016 2017 with the strategy, organization, main 3,000 hours of modular training were business processes and activities. In held for 60 employees from Croatia, from 2016, 12 employees and in 2015 13 high management to junior positions. 13 Education for Call Center and the program, each participant was given Development program for Customer Relations “Radilica” an individualized report and feedback managers of all three plants from Human Potentials superior, and At the beginning of 2017, “Radilica” future individual and group development Following the Development centers, held education was held for 12 employees of steps were defined. in 2016 for employees of Zagreb and the Call Center and Customer Relations. Controlling team of 8 employees Bjelovar Plant, in 2017, 31 managers of Education comprised two modular underwent the 360° assessment and Production and Maintenance at the plants trainings that included the following is continuing the program in 2018. participated in a large education project topics: understanding of business that includes a series of development communication, customer relations Development Program “Drive” workshops and professional lectures. and quality of service and sales skills. The objective of this project is to further Parallel with the trainings, eight half-day In 2017, “Megatrends”, the third, closing strengthen and develop professional skills, workshops on the topic of systematic call module of the large development project as well as human resources management supervision were held for five employees “Drive”, launched in 2016, was held for 12 skills. In 2017, four workshops were of the same department with potential senior management members of Dukat. held for plant managers on the topic for position of call center supervisor. Participants were given insight into the of “Delegating, tracking performance main demographic, social, ecologic, and giving feedback”. Potential evaluation for Sales economic, scientific and professional and Controlling „Insight“ trends, changes and opportunities that At the same time, lectures on professional they bring in today’s business world. know-how were held by Dukat inAssessment center, a development house trainers, production directors program, was implemented in 2017 for “Change Management” and maintenance managers from 34 Sales employees and 8 Controlling training Zagreb and Bjelovar plants. Emphasis employees, called “Insight”. Sales program was placed on the topic from the area included 34 directors, managers and Thirteen directors and managers of of milk technology, proper operation of heads of all Sales departments, and Shared services of Accounting, Treasury, technological lines, basics of maintenance, those included in the program underwent IT, Legal Affairs, Customer Support hygiene and safety at work. the 360° assessment of key social Service and Purchasing, participated and technical competencies and selfin an interactive workshop on change assessment using the “Hogan” tool. In management. Training focused on addition, Sales employees participated in training the participants to better manage one-day workshops guided and evaluated themselves and others in times of frequent by a team of experts. Upon completion of changes and professional challenges. Performance appraisal Performance is evaluated each year of employees were included in the Maintenance and Quality was also within the Management review project performance appraisal system, the carried out, making the total percentage and individual development plan is same as in previous two years. of evaluated Dukat employees reach created for employees with recognized 50 percent. high potential. Readiness for international However, in 2017, along with the standard mobility is also assessed and defined Management review project, performance with the employees. In 2017, 12 percent evaluation for employees in Production, 14 Professional practices and visits As in previous years, we continued and Technology, University of Zagreb, Sciences in Zagreb and University of cooperation with vocational secondary one from Faculty of Agronomy, University Applied Sciences Vern. Dukat was also schools in Zagreb and Bjelovar, and in of Zagreb, one from Technical College visited by students of Food Technology 2017 five students completed professional in Zagreb, Velika Gorica College and Study Program of the University of practice at the Bjelovar and Zagreb one from Communication Management Karlovac, Chemistry and Technology plants (there were two in 2016 and College Edward Bernays. Faculty of the University of Split. During three in 2015). the visit, students take a tour of Zagreb In addition to the above, Dukat also hosts Plant and are introduced to the entire University students also do their internships professional visits of students from the production process, from reception of at Dukat. In 2017, six students completed Food Technology and Biotechnology milk to production and storage. In 2016, their internships at Dukat, which was four Faculty, Veterinary Faculty, Chemical Dukat hosted nine such visits and 223 more than in 2016. Two students came Engineering and Technology Faculty, students visited Dukat and its Zagreb from the Faculty of Chemical Engineering as well as University of Applied Health Plant. Employee data Type of employment In 2017, Dukat had 1,213 employees, Total number of Permanent Temporary which is 38 employees more than the year Year employees Employment Employment before. Of the total number of employees, 2015 1,152 978 174 81 percent are permanently employed. Work rights, as well as rights under the 2016 1,175 974 201 Collective Agreement and benefits, 2017 1,213 980 233 are applied equally to all employees, regardless of them being permanent or temporary, full or half-time employees, members of the union or not. 19% Temporary Employee fluctuation rate was 15 percent, employment which is 4 percent lower than the year before. Permanent employment Employment of young people 81% In 2017, Dukat actively participated in professional training program without employment (SOR), enabling acquisition of new knowledge and skills by young people who are just entering the labor market. At the beginning of professional training, each participant was given a one-year education and trial work framework plan, and was Participating in assigned a mentor who guided the Year Employed Active participants SOR student through the program. In 2017, 25 young SOR participants acquired 2016 18 11 4 their first work experience at Dukat, 2017 25 10 11 10 of which have been ultimately employed, while 11 of them are still participating in the program. 15 Age structure 2% Number of Number of Number of Age employees employees employees < 30 2015 2016 2017 15% < 30 155 165 183 31 40 27% 31 40 271 281 298 25% 41 50 41 50 380 375 380 51 60 326 332 333 51 60 > 61 20 22 19 Total 1,152 1,175 1,213 31% > 61 At the end of 2017, the average employee age was 43, same as in 2016. Gender Number of Number of Number of Gender employees employees employees 2015 2016 2017 Male 751 772 791 35% Male Female 401 403 422 Female Total 1,152 1,175 1,213 65% Majority of Dukat employees are men (65 percent), while women account for 35 percent, which is identical to the ratio of the year before. Education Education 2015 2016 2017 Primary 23% 10% school 133 160 122 Primary school Secondary 757 762 807 Secondary school school College and College and 262 239 284 University University Total 1,152 1,161 1,213 67% Majority of employees (67 percent) has secondary school qualifications, while 23 percent of employees have college and university degrees. Ratio is very similar to that of the years before. 16 Composition of governance and management Average Year Gender Number age Male 2015 Male 44 45 54% Female 44 46 46% Female Male 43 39 2016 Female 43 49 Male 45 41 2017 Female 44 49 In 2017, share of women in governance We pay special attention to hiring of management (executive and regional and management positions at Dukat domestic labor and local experts, for directors) 75 percent. was 54 percent. The past several years management positions as well. Share show an increase trend in the share of of Croatian citizens in top management women in governance and management (Supervisory Board and Dukat Inc. positions (from 35 percent in 2012 to 54 directors) is 29 percent, and in senior percent in 2017). Ratio of salaries and benefits Annual awards At the end of each year, prizes are awarded to the most successful employees, Salary and benefits policy is based managers and teams who excelled in their work, in achieved results and in solely on the type and complexity of application of corporate values throughout the year. Rewarding exceptional the job, responsibility, knowledge and individuals and teams is a 20-year-old tradition of Dukat and all employees skills necessary for carrying out tasks are invited to nominate their colleagues and project teams. In addition to the and achieving results, excluding any three already traditional prize categories, a new category was introduced form of discrimination based on gender, in 2017 young hope, for employees under 30 years of age who expressed nationality, religion or any other personal desire to learn and achieve success. Total of 11 were awarded to individuals features. (six for best employees, three for young hopes and one for manager of the year and one life achievement award), one to a team with 15 employees. In 2017, average gross salary per employee was equal to the average gross salary in 2016 and 2015, while the average net salary was 2.4 percent higher compared to 2016. During 2017, 289 employees, or 23.8 percent were promoted to new jobs, based on their acquisition of new knowledge and skills within the framework of their job, and their taking over new responsibilities within and between departments (horizontal and vertical promotion). In 2016, total of 436 employees were promoted, majority of whom in production (262) and 174 from other departments. 17 Internal communication Various channels are used for internal with the content and the appearance of with department management. Except communication: Intranet (internal the in-house magazine. The survey was directly, employees can contribute web), e-mail, VPN mobile system, filled out by 254 employees, who provided their remarks, comments and ideas in-house newsletter Contact, notice a number of useful suggestions on how anonymously, using boxes for comments boards, meetings and “face-to-face” to improve future editions of Contact and and ideas placed at all production sites. communication. increase magazine readership. To improve internal communication, Local version of the in-house magazine Notice boards are particularly important in 2017 Human Resources started Contact, published quarterly, is intended for employees in production and logistics, the practice of informing employees for employees of Dukat and associated as they have no access to the Intranet. about key human resources activities, companies in Croatia. Representatives Information about company events, promotions, new employment and of various departments and associated launch of new products, employee organizational changes by way of an companies participate in creating it, and benefits, etc. are regularly posted on electronic newsletter. Newsletter is other employees may also participate notice boards. Space for trade unions and distributed quarterly. with their stories and photographs. works council’s notices is also provided. In May 2017, a survey was carried out Moreover, Dukat fosters an open-door among employees, on their satisfaction policy, which implies direct communication 18 Contribution to the community Dukat launches and supports projects that contribute to the improvement of quality of life and wellbeing of the local community, families and individuals. These projects include health care, caring for healthy habits (moving, recreation and sports), child care, encouraging education related to proper and balanced diet. In 2017, same as the year before, Dukat’s Varteks Tennis Club Varaždin, Donor Cup 2017, Softball Summer Camp donations program focused on providing Evening for humanitarian association 2017, Zagreb Dance Grand Prix 2017 dairy products to especially vulnerable “Marijini obroci”, humanitarian action • Other: City of Vukovar “Free Ice groups of adults and children throughout “Noina staza”, Christmas Fair of the Skating for Children of Vukovar” project, Croatia. International Women’s Club Zagreb International Youth Week Daruvar, • Soup kitchens at: Osijek Caritas, Oratorium Dominik Savio of the Holy In 2017, through donations of funds and Đakovo-Osijek Archdiocese Caritas, Ghost Diocese Jarun Oratorium own products, Dukat invested in: Sisak Diocese Caritas, Požega Summer Archdiocese Caritas, Parish of St. John Nepomuk Vrbovsko, Zagreb Sponsorships Financial donations Archdiocese Caritas, Split Archdiocese Caritas, Šibenik Diocese Caritas, Zadar In 2017, through sponsorships, Dukat • Sports: Sirela sports club Archdiocese Caritas, St. Ante Parish helped organize a series of cultural, Caritas in Knin, Dubrovnik Archdiocese educational, professional, athletic and Donations in own products Caritas gastronomic events:: • Social supermarkets: SS Beli Manastir, • Culture: 57th International Children’s • Homes for children: Zagreb Home for SS Belišće, SS Donji Miholjac, SS “Kruh Festival Šibenik, Motovun Film Festival, Children, Home for Children “Maestral” sv. Elizabete” in Rijeka, SS Siget Zagreb 55th Review of Croatian Children Split, St. Frances Vugrovec House, St. • Red Cross: City Red Cross Buje, Ivanić Filmmaking Sisak, Film Workshops Joseph Home for Children Hrvatski Grad, Karlovac, Koprivnica, Krapina, for children and youth Kraljevica, Leskovac Sisak, Solin, Županja Children’s Festival at Cinestar Zagreb, • Humanitarian organizations and • Healthcare: Rehabilitation Center HNK Osijek Trubadour Opera premiere campaigns: humanitarian association Varaždin, Rehabilitation Center Zagreb, • Education: Faculty of Agronomy, Faculty “Rijeka ljubavi” Osijek, humanitarian Children’s Hospital Srebrnjak, Suvag of Food Technology and Biotechnology association “Putevi milosti” Osijek, Policlinic, Psychiatric Hospital Sveti sensory exercises, Ministry of Interior humanitarian association “Put mira” Ivan Zagreb “Respect our Signs”, “Čakulaonica” Mirkovci, humanitarian association • Nursing homes: Nursing homes in Beli Workshop for Single Parents “Duga Vukovar”, Association of Parents Manastir, Čakovec, Oklaj, Brezovica • Sports: Sport Educa; Adria Bike Series; with Children Suffering from Malignant and Pula Athletic Club Sljeme; Athletic Club Illnesses “Hrabro dijete” Nova Gradiška, • Education: marking the Dairy Day at Sljeme; Athletic Club dynamo Zrinjevac; Association for Aiding Children with primary school Nad lipom organized European Sports Week; Festival of Disabilities “ADHD and I” Dugo Selo, by the Croatian Milk Association, Rijeka Sports and Recreation “Homo si teć”, humanitarian association “Remar kindergarten, Elementary School Čučerje MNK Futsal Dinamo; Run Croatia; Croatia”, humanitarian association “fra Zagreb, Elementary School Pakoštane, Terry Fox Run; Triathlon Club Split; Mladen Hrkać” Zagreb, Reto center Center for Education Velika Gorica, urban Training Camp; Večernjak Friends of Hope Split, Homeless center Workshop by Croatian Healthy Meal Bike Event; Zadar Outdoor Festival; “Milosrđe” Karlovac, Center for missing Association, Pediatric Student Section Zagreb Athletic Association; Zagreb and abused children Osijek, Association from the Faculty of Medicine Ski Association; Sports Association of Deaf and Blind People of the City of • Sports: cycling event Elementary School “Piramida” -Makarska; BFF Fitness Zagreb, Association of Disabled Križevci, Novi Marof, “FERgometrijada”, Leda factory Iron Friday; Cycling Club Biker Humanitarian Tennis Tournament of 19 duathlon races; Cross Hill Run Križ Donations of Dukat Humanitarian action of 2017; rower Dominik Šutalo; Society products to humanitarian Dukat employees for socially for Recreational Sports and Exercise institutions vulnerable children in Viking; European Week of Sport in Slavonia Vukovaru; Summer Sport Camp “Žabac” (HAPK Mladost); Zadar Open 2017; As the biggest donor of dairy products “Kopačka solidarnosti” (humanitarian to vulnerable social groups, in In 2017, Dukat organized a mini-soccer tournament); soccer 2017 Dukat continued regular humanitarian action involving Dukat tournaments NK Picolo, NK Polet, donations of its products to soup employees and employees of its NK Rugvica, NK Sutla, Sports and kitchens, social supermarkets and associated companies (KIM, La Log Recreation Center Zamet and Sports humanitarian associations who and B.P.A.C. Auto) in its desire to help Association Maxima; Omega School care for disadvantaged citizens and and cheer up socially vulnerable of Running, Ražanac Summer Games, children across Croatia. In 2017, children in Slavonia, after organizing Terry Fox Run 2017, 1st International Dukat donated 247 tons of dairy two successful humanitarian actions Handball Tournament Rijeka products, or 3 percent more than the year before. At the beginning of • Symposia and conferences: Days the year before. Dukat provided September, employees collected more of Croatian Tourism, DIABLOG 2, dairy products for approximately than 20 large boxes of clothes and CEO Conference Zagreb 2017, Ruđer 33,000 children and citizens who shoes for babies and children, such Bošković Institute 15th International live in poverty and are unable to as school supplies, toys, books and Symposium on Aquatic Microbial afford these products themselves, hygiene supplies. Collected items Ecology, “Business in Sports” conference from Vukovar to Dubrovnik. were delivered to humanitarian of the Croatian Student Association, association “Put mira” in Mirkovci TEDx Zagreb 2017 In the past three years, Dukat donated and Social Supermarket in Belišće • Fairs and gastro events: Breakfast 706 tons of dairy products, worth that provide aid to over 2000 persons from Croatian Farms, 21st Health Fair almost HRK 7 million. Apart from living in poverty, almost 500 of them Vinkovci, 12th Counseling of Cattle influencing better quality nutrition of being children. Breeders, Croatian Culinary Association, socially endangered population and 6th International Bakery Congress raising the quality of life in general, INTERSLAST 2016, 10th International with these donations Dukat is also Congress of Pasta Experts CONPASTA contributing to the fight against Opening discount stores 2017, ŠKMER “Split with love”, Bartender hunger and poverty, whereby it Cup 2017 Rijeka, Club Gastronauts, is contributing to the realization Adriatic Gastro Show, International of the 1st and 2nd Sustainable Dukat is trying to meet the needs of Enology and Gastronomy Festival Development Goals. its fellow citizens of lower material WineRi 2017, Large Party in Rogoznica, status by opening discount stores Wine & Music, Zagreb Burger Festival, that sell Dukat, Sirela, President and CCC Buy Croatian Galbani brands of milk, dairy products • Entertainment: Zagreb Zoo and cheese at considerably lower prices compared to regular retail prices. In 2017, Dukat opened its third discount store in Split, in addition to the discount store at Zagreb Dolac, and one opened in Bjelovar in 2016. As the first two, the new store sells products that are about to expire, with prices 50 to 70 percent lower than regular prices. One of Dukat’s regular donations of Dukat products to the Humanitarian Association “The River of Love” in Osijek 20 DONATIONS to humanitarian associations HRK 4.5 million 247 tons sales value 241 t / 2016 219 t / 2015 34,323 BENEFICIARIES DONATED PRODUCTS BY including 9,926 children CATEGORY 39 ASSOCIATIONS / OTHER 2% ESTABLISHMENTS CREAM AND BUTTER 7% CHEESES 9% MILK 14% CHILLED Caritas Hum. asociations Social shops Orphanages Red Cross DAIRY 68% 95,452 kg 79,039 kg 52,914 kg 11,184 kg 8,503 kg DONATIONS BY COUNTY ZAGREB 82,387 kg OSIJEK-BARANJA 47,364 kg VUKOVAR-SRIJEM 19,924 kg SPLIT-DALMATIA 18,399 kg PRIMORJE-GORSKI KOTAR 17,251 kg BROD-POSAVLJE 14,011 kg SISAK-MOSLAVINA 11,231 kg KARLOVAC 9,449 kg KOPRIVNICA-KRIŽEVCI 7,247 kg BJELOVAR-BILOGORA 6,577 kg ŠIBENIK-KNIN 4,483 kg ZADAR 4,360 kg ISTRIA 3,401 kg KRAPINA-ZAGORJE 522 kg DUBROVNIK-NERETVA 487 kg Total sum 247,092 kg 804 donations out of which 592 deliveries HRK 312,000 logistics expense Milk producers Encouraging development of primary milk production in Croatia Dukat, one of the leading milk is one of strategic determinants of Dukat’s socially responsible purchasers in Croatia, is an important business. factor for stability and sustainability In 2017, Dukat, one of the leading milk purchase of production materials for of the domestic dairy sector. purchasers in Croatia, acquired 202.26 production of milk with HRK 44 million, million kg of fresh raw milk, which is and it subsidized adaptation of farm 1.6 percent more than the year before. buildings and purchase of farmland payment of financial obligations towards Compared to that, all other milk purchasers and milking equipment with HRK 5.66 milk producers, professional education in Croatia collectively purchased 2.6 million cash funds. and counseling, improvement of milk percent less milk than the year before. production through higher quantities Thanks to Dukat’s continuous investment and better quality of produced milk, as Such positive results of Dukat in the in the domestic primary sector, in terms well as fair market competition, are the segment of fresh raw milk purchase is of investing its own financial resources foundation for long-term cooperation not surprising if we take into account and in terms of counseling and support of Dukat and milk producers and for 106 years of tradition and know-how by Dukat’s team of veterinaries and sustainability of domestic dairy sector. in collection and processing of fresh agronomists, Dukat has been recording raw milk and 3,325 large, medium and increase in quality of milk produced Dukat milk purchase share in small milk producers from which Dukat within its collection area. total quantity of milk produced purchased milk in 2017. in Croatia* As Dukat’s business is based on processing Furthermore, Dukat continuously invests of fresh raw milk of the highest quality, 29.2% 29.7% significant amounts of its own funds in produced on domestic dairy farms, 27.2% stimulation and development of business Dukat milk carries the label “Milk from of the milk producers it works with, as Croatian farms”, awarded by the Croatian well as stimulation of milk production Agriculture Agency. in Croatia in general. In 2017, Dukat subsidized the purchase of 500 heifers Building and nurturing long-term 2014 2015 2016 for its cooperators, with HRK 1.25 million partnerships with milk producers, secured *Source: DG Agriculture and Rural Development of nun-refundable funds, credited the placement of produced milk, timely based on Eurostat annual milk collection (all milk) and dairy products obtained statistics. There are no official data available for 2017 at this time. Zoran Pleško, one of Dukat’s long-term cooperators on the farm in Čepelovac near Đurđevac, where he takes care of 60 dairy cows 22 Memberships in associations that promote sustainable development In 1998, Dukat was one of the founders, Community for CSR and Community for In 1998, Dukat was one of the and since then a member of the Croatian environmental protection in economy of founders, and since then a member Business Council for Sustainable the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, of the Croatian Business Council Development (HR BCSD), a non-profit EKO-Ozra and GIUPAK (Economic interest for Sustainable Development (HR institution of the private sector encouraging grouping for packaging and environmental BCSD), and since 2012 a member of sustainable development in economy. protection). Since 2012, Dukat has been the United Nations Global Compact Along with its long-standing membership a member of the United Nations Global and Croatian Network of Global in HR BCSD, Dukat is also an active Compact, the world’s largest corporate Compact. member of other associations that social responsibility initiative, as well as promote sustainable development Croatian Network of Global Compact. and environmental protection, such as Focusing on product quality In 2017, 36.6 percent of the total number Dukat is the first dairy industry and one of the first in the Croatian food industry of complaints, comments and praises to introduce a free hotline for consumers. were complaints, which is 7.9 percent higher than in 2016. If we break down complaints by plants, Bjelovar Plant NThe greatest attention is paid to the Dukat has had a free Consumer Phone recorded a decrease in number of quality and safety of products to fulfill the since 1998, and was the first dairy complaints by 36.8 percent and Karlovac demands and expectations of consumers. industry and one of the first in Croatian Plant recorded a 20 percent decrease, Therefore, our products not only have food industry to introduce a free hotline which is the result of investments in those to meet certain quality standards, such for consumers. This communication factories throughout 2015 and 2016. At as ISO 9001, ISO 22000, IFS, HACCP, channel (current Customer Service), the Zagreb Plant, however, the number and Kosher and Halal certificates for which in addition to phone and e-mail of complaints grew by 31.1 percent. The specific product groups, but they strive also includes communication via Dukat’s same trend was recorded if we observe to exceed them in accordance with Facebook page, is open to opinions, the number of product complaints on a internal quality standards. comments and inquiries by consumers million sold items. Plan of investments about products, and as such present and educations was therefore made, Quality policy of the Lactalis Group specifies valuable source of information and to ensure a change in this trend at the guidelines for continuous improvement incentive for continued improvement. It Zagreb Plant. of product quality and strengthening of also represents one of important internal customer and consumer satisfaction. tools for tracking consumer satisfaction Of the total complaints received, visit of Dukat’s quality, environmental and and product quality. the sales representative and replacement food safety management policy relies of the product was accepted by 47.9 on Lactalis’ quality policy and confirms Customer Complaints on percent of consumers (compared to 49.5 the focus on continuous improvement of Million Sold Items percent the year before), while others quality on all business levels, as well as were satisfied with just an apology use of appropriate energy sources and raw materials, to achieve the satisfaction 2.45 Encouraged by consumer objections of consumers, all employees, suppliers, 2.17 2.29 to difficulties in opening fresh milk business partners, generate positive in Elopak packaging, in mid-2017, effects on the community and financial a new model of fresh milk filler was results of the company. installed at the Zagreb Plant, with a much easier way of opening. Having recognized the importance of Following the upgrade, consumers two-way communication with consumers, 2015 2016 2017 contacted us satisfied that their ensuring timely and complete response, objections were acknowledged and their opinion heard. 23 Investing in expert panels for sensory evaluation of products Awareness of the importance of Quality, Product Development, Marketing Dukat also has so-called factory panels, sensory product quality and continuous and Regulatory Affairs on the basics of whose members are Dukat employees improvement of sensory skills were organoleptic evaluation. (17 of them). They have been regularly continued in 2017 and additional evaluating the quality of products, on educations related to sensory area Expert panels, made of educated external voluntary basis, since 2010. Following were held for employees. The first associates, were joined by five new the trends in sensory properties, in education included employees from judges in 2017, to have 34 members, 2017, members of factory panels were various departments of the Bjelovar divided in two panels. Once a week, they fully educated and trained for sensory Plant, restoring and upgrading existing evaluate 4 to 6 key products (so-called evaluation of all six key products of the knowledge of employees who have “pillars”) of the Zagreb Plant. The aim is Zagreb Plant and two key products of already had an opportunity to participate to make both panels functional by the the Bjelovar Plant. in organoleptic evaluations. It also end of 2018, to evaluate all 6 of Zagreb included new employees who were and 2 of Bjelovar key products. Members Dukat was the first food and dairy educated on the basics of sensory of expert panels are also continuously company in Croatia to start expert evaluation of products. educated and trained, and they started panels for sensory evaluation of evaluating some of the key products of products comprised of “laymen” in The second education additionally Somboled and Ljubljanske mlekarne 2016, once again proving to be the educated Croatian employees and regional plants, associated companies of Dukat sector leader. representatives from departments of in Serbia and Slovenia. Open Door Days for primary school pupils As part of “Dukat’s Open Door about the milk’s route “from the field to Since the project was launched, 2622 Days”, educational and fun project, the table” and about the significance pupils visited the Zagreb Plant (October implemented under the patronage of of everyday consumption of milk and 2012 December 2017), and great the Ministry of Science, Education and dairy products for proper growth and interest in this program is witnessed Sports since late 2012, Dukat has been development of children. In 2017, Dukat’s by the fact that all the terms have been the host to third and fourth graders Zagreb plant was visited by 449 pupils fully booked for two school years in from Croatian primary schools. During from 10 primary schools from Zagreb advance. their visit to Dukat’s production plant, and its surrounding areas. pupils have the opportunity to learn 24 Award for affirmation of corporate social responsibility in digital channels At the end of October, Dukat received 20 observed that were included in the Affirming Corporate Social Responsibility “SJAJ” award for visibility and affirmation national survey. They were selected as and Sustainable Development at M.E.P., of socially responsible business and examples of good practices in presenting in cooperation with Croatian Employers’ sustainability in its digital channels. socially responsible practices on their Association as the seat of Global Compact Expert panel of judges selected Dukat, web pages. The award was presented by Network Croatia. together with 9 other companies, among “GOOD CROATIA” Business Initiative for Sixth creative drawing contest “I love milk!” Since 2012, Dukat has been holding literary works on the topic of common yoghurt packaging for the first time. the creative drawing contest “I love breakfast. As part of the contest, held Announcement of the winners and milk!”, to encourage the public to under the patronage of Ministry of creative workshops for the grades create proper dietary habits and draw Science, Education and Sports and of awarded students were held at attention to the importance of daily Ministry of Health, quantitative research the Museum of Contemporary Art, milk consumption, especially among was conducted among participants on partner in the project who has been children of school age. In the past their morning eating habits and behavior, part of this project since its inception. six years, 14,000 elementary school the results of which further accented All participants were sent personalized students and their teachers from all that it is necessary to steer parents’ thank-you-letters, parents and teachers parts of Croatia participated in the attention towards the importance of were sent a manual “Breakfast is competition. common breakfast for emotional and more than a meal” with advice of a physical health of children. nutritionist and psychologist on how We had a record response to the 2017 to turn breakfast into important and competition almost 4,500 students The four winning drawings were applied precious family moments. from 266 elementary schools sent their to the UHT milk packaging, as well as Cycling races Dukat Fit and Dukatino race for children With the aim of promoting urban cycling in September, 600 cyclists of all ages as an ecologically acceptable manner of competed in five categories in both transport and an activity that positively races, with half of them being children. influences health of individuals and 6th Dukat’s cycling race was held within families, along with the traditional the European Mobility Week and under cycling race on Jarun Lake, “Dukat Fit the patronage of the Mayor of the City race and Dukatino race for children”, in of Zagreb. Since 2012, almost 2500 2017, Dukat organized a cycling race in cyclists, young and old, participated in Zadar for the first time. In Zadar, at the seven races organized by Dukat. beginning of June 2017 and in Zagreb, 25 3 ENVIRONMENT Dukat has been building its own environmental management system, continuously reducing negative impact on the environment PRINCIPLE 8 PRINCIPLE 7 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Strategically focused on responsible attitude towards environment and operations in accordance with sustainable development policy, over time, Dukat has been building its own environmental management system, continuously reducing negative impact on the environment. ISO 14001 and 50001 certificates are evidence of Dukat’s efforts and continuous improvements in the area of environmental protection and efficient energy management. Materials Packaging As a large-scale producer, we take with the Ordinance on packaging and reports. We bear the cost of packaging care of the environmental acceptability packaging waste, Dukat prepares quarterly waste disposal and management in of our products and strive to introduce and annual reports on the types and accordance with the reports. economical and environmentally friendly volumes of packaging put in circulation, packaging materials. In compliance and it prepares additional monthly Data on packaging put in circulation (t) Dukat Inc. In 2017, 3.2 percent less packaging was Type of packaging material (t) 2015 2016 2017 put into circulation compared to 2016, Metal (Al bottle for whipped cream 250 34 35 35 while 2.6 percent less packaging was ml) put into circulation in 2016 than in 2015. Paper/glue (carboard) 2,113 2,168 2,091 The percentage of material used as the recycled input material was less than Multi-layer packaging with predominant 1,801 1,549 1,287 3 percent. paper component PET 615 613 595 Polymers 2,610 2,621 2,754 Total 7,174 6,986 6,762 Total weight of packaging put in circulation (t) Dukat Inc.: Type of packaging (t) 2015 2016 2017 Multi-layer paper packaging 1,800 1,550 t 1,280 Paper/carton 2,000 2,100 2,100 PET 600 600 600 HDPE 1,300 2,000 2,000 Other polymers (PS, PE) 1,300 560 750 Metals 33 35 35 27 Energy In 2017, a system of energy management general and individual energy efficiency documented. Locations make annual was implemented at Zagreb and targets with programs for their realization, energy consumption reports for each Bjelovar Plants, in logistic centers in and their consistent application implements year that has passed, which make it Dubrovnik, Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Pula and the system of energy management. Criteria possible to compare energy efficiency Đakovo, and at locations of associated for the efficiency of its implementation, or performance with energy base and in companies (KIM Mljekara, LA LOG i the possibility of checking the efficiency such way establish energy performance B.P.A.C. Auto) in accordance with ISO of the energy management system, is trends, control and point to certain 50001 for processes of development, an integral part of the program. deviations in the energy management production and distribution of dairy system. products. In order for the energy management system to fully function, it is necessary to For full application of the ISO 50001 designate areas and actions by locations standard, locations determine the that are systematically monitored and Power Energy consumption is approached with Power 2015 2016 2017 great care and efforts are made towards Zagreb Plant 22,330,586 kWh 23,786,828 kWh 23,495,872 kWh savings in all stages of operations: in designing power plants and technological Bjelovar Plant 10,559,256 kWh 11,552,273 kWh 11,520,534 kWh processes, rational and efficient process management and regular and quality maintenance. Power consumption is increased from June to September Total Power Consumption (kWh) due to increase in production during 23,786,828 23,459,872 seasonal demand and intense usage 23,330,586 of the cooling system. In 2016, total power consumption at the Zagreb Plant was 23,495,872 kWh, which 11,552,273 11,520,534 is 1.2 percent less than in 2016. Power 10,559,256 consumption in 2016 was 6.5 percent higher than power consumption in 2015. Ratio of consumed power per ton of processed milk was 251 kWh/t in 2017, and in 2016 it was 229 kWh/t, meaning that nine percent more power per ton 2015 2016 2017 of product was consumed in 2017 than Zagreb Plant Bjelovar Plant in 2016. In 2017, total power consumption at compared to 2016 when it was 11,552,273 consumption was 9.4 percent higher the Bjelovar Plant was 11.520.534 kWh, kWh, or 0.3 percent lower. In 2016, power than in 2015. 28 Steam In 2017, total steam consumption was Steam 2015 2016 2017 36,324 tons, which is 8 percent lower compared to steam consumption in Zagreb Plant 43,929 t 39,476 t 36,324 t 2016. In 2016, steam consumption was 10.1 percent lower compared to the year before. Gas Two combustion plants, each of 4.4 MW, Gas 2015 2016 2017 are installed at the site of the Zagreb Zagreb Plant 3,489,667 m3 2,939,526 m3 2,926,969 m3 Plant, which are categorized as medium combustion plants according to the Bjelovar Plant 2,660,663 m3 2,840,687 m3 2,950,542 m3 Ordinance on limit values for pollutants emissions into the air. The plants are fueled by natural gas. Total Gas Consumption In 2017, 2,926,969 m 3 of gas were consumed, which is 0.4 percent lower 3,489,667 compared to gas consumption in 2016. In 2016, 15.8 percent less gas was 2,939,526 2,840,687 2,926,969 2,950,542 consumed than in 2015. 2,660,663 Emissions of pollutants into the air from both plants were measured in December 2017, and the values met the prescribed emission limit values according to the Ordinance on limit values of pollutants in the air. 2015 2016 2017 Bjelovar Plant has its own production of Zagreb Plant Bjelovar Plant heat energy steam in two boilers of total power 14.3 MW and one 1.16 MW thermogen for producing hot air. In 2017, 2,950,542 m3 of gas was used, which is 3.7 percent more than consumption in Award for heat pump project at the Zagreb Plant 2016. 6.8 percent more gas was used At the 8th conference of European Energy Managers in Ljubljana, Željko Celić, in 2016 than in 2015. Dukat’s Investment Coordinator, was presented the award for best European Manager for heat pump project at the Zagreb Plan. The project won first place Ratio of gas consumption to production in the category of medium size enterprises, among nearly 30 nominated was 32.62, while the average amount in projects. The project is a heat pump that uses part of energy waste from the 2016 was 31.25 m3 gas/t of processed cooling system and returns it to the water heating process. The particularity milk and in 2015 it was 32.92 m3 gas/t of this project is that it uses ammonia as a working substance and works in of processed milk. limit operating mode. Using the ammonia as an ecological working substance instead of freon excludes the negative impact on environmental warming, which was one of the preconditions for the co-financing of the project by the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund. 29 Water Dukat assigns great importance to reducing its consumption. Both plants water from their artesian wells, while the the economic water consumption and (Zagreb and Bjelovar) draw majority of rest is used from the public water supply. constantly seeks to find new ways for 2015 2016 2015 Volume (m3) Water Public Public Public Water Own well Total Water Own well Total Water Own well Total Supply Supply Supply Zagreb Plant 5,689 411,805 417,494 4,511 372,311 376,822 7,408 367,129 374,537 Bjelovar Plant 39,440 218,176 257,616 2,910 268,640 271,550 3,520 263,261 266,781 Zagreb Plant Total Water Consumption (m3) U In 2017, total water consumption at the 417,494 Zagreb Plant was 374.537 m3, which is 376,822 374,537 0.6 percent lower than the total water consumption in 2016. Water consumption 271,550 266,781 from the public water supply was 7,408 257,616 m3, which is 64 percent higher than in 2016 (4,511 m3). Water consumption from own well was 367,129 m3 or 1.4 percent lower than in 2016 (372,311 m3). Total water consumption in 2016 was 9.75 percent lower than total water consumption in 2015. 2015 2016 2017 The index of production (IP per one Zagreb Plant Bjelovar Plant kilogram of a produced product) was higher in 2017 than in 2016, or 4 compared to 3.8. In 2016, the index of production Production Index (l water/kg of processed milk) was the same as the index of production the year before (3.8). 3.83 3.83 4 3.2 2.98 2.96 Bjelovar Plant In 2017, total water consumption at the Bjelovar Plant (266,781 m3) was 1.75 lower than consumption in 2016 (271,550 m3). Water consumption from the public water supply was 3,520 m3, 2015 2016 2017 which is higher than in 2016 (2,910 m3), Zagreb Plant Bjelovar Plant while water consumption from own well was 266,781 m3, which is lower than consumption in 2016 (268,640 m3). A In 2017, the average ratio of water was 2.98 l of water/kg of processed new well has been used since 2015. consumption over processed milk was milk. In 2015, production index was Total water consumption in 2016 was 2.96 l of water/kg of processed milk, 3.2, which is due to higher quantity of 5.4 percent higher than consumption which is lower than in 2016, when it processed milk. in 2015. 30 Air emissions Zagreb Plant As mentioned above in the section on The emissions of pollutants into the air under the Ordinance on limit values for Gas, there are two combustion plants from both plants were measured in pollutants emissions into the air running on natural gas at the site of the December 2017, and the values meet Zagreb Plant. the prescribed emission limit values Emissions into the air from fuel combustion process to obtain thermal energy in 2017 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlet 1 Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) HR EN 14792:2007 2,150 Carbon dioxide (CO2) 2,723,414 Carbon monoxide (CO) HR EN 15058:2008 146 Data on fuel type and consumption Fuel Fuel consumption Lower heating value Natural gas 1,463,485 m3/god. 33,338 Data on emission measurement results Gas fuel: Natural gas Substance Measurement result (mg/m3) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) 147 Carbon monoxide (CO) 10 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlet 2 Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) HR EN 14792:2007 1,568 Carbon dioxide (CO2) 2,723,414 Carbon monoxide (CO) HR EN 15058:2008 146 Data on fuel type and consumption Fuel Fuel consumption Lower heating value Natural gas 1,463,485 m3/god 33,338 Data on emission measurement results Gas fuel: Natural gas Substance Measurement result (mg/m3) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) 107 Carbon monoxide (CO) 10 31 Bjelovar Plant Investment into new cyclones for the drying space at the There are four sources of emissions of Bjelovar Plant pollutants into the air at the site of the Bjelovar Plant: In December 2017, two additional cyclones were installed in the dehydrated product part of the Bjelovar Plant in order to efficiently purify the extract air • two outlets from boiler chimneys from the drying space and capture the finest powder particles. After being emissions of combustion products commissioned, emissions of air pollutants into the air from the device were • one outlet from the thermoelectric measured, and the values complied with the prescribed emission limit values generator for production of hot air according to the Regulation on the Limit Values of Pollutants in the Air. Decision (dried milk drying plant) emissions on amendments to the Environmental Permit was also obtained, thereby of combustion products, correcting the value of permissible emissions of total powder substances • one outlet of the dried milk drying plant from the drying space. de-duster (non-energy) organic dust. Type of outlet: Thermoelectric generator chimney Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlets Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Carbon monoxide (CO) HRN EN 15058 187.06 Carbon dioxide (CO2) / 1,098,139.91 Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide HRN EN 14792 370.00 (NO2) Particles (PM 10) / 8.85 Type of outlet: Boiler chimney 1 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlets Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide HRN EN 14792 1,616.90 (NO2) Carbon monoxide (CO) HRN EN 15058 118 Carbon dioxide (CO2) / 2,196,277.82 Particles (PM 10) / 17.71 Type of outlet: Boiler chimney 2 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlets Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide HRN EN 14792 796.65 (NO2) Carbon monoxide (CO) HRN EN 15058 118.02 Carbon dioxide (CO2) / 2,196,277.82 Particles (PM 10) / 17.71 32 Waste water Zagreb Plant Bjelovar Plant There were no deviations of individual Bjelovar Plant has its own waste water In 2017, average Fx (wastewater treatment parameters (oxygen chemical treatment plant with the capacity of factor) was 1.15 and in 2016 it was 1.04. consumption, BPK5, pH, total oils and 1100 m 3/day, and processed waste Increase in the wastewater treatment factor fats value) in 2017 from the set values water outflows meet the limit values is the result of increased milk processing of the water management license for under the water management license. and increased total production in 2017. the discharge into the public sewerage Outflowing waste water is discharged system of the city of Zagreb recorded into the public sewage of the City of Sludge on the wastewater treatment at the site of the Zagreb Plant. Bjelovar after the treatment procedure. device is not centrifuged and is discharged with approximately 2.5 percent dry In 2017, total of 214,332 m3 of technological matter, and total quantity in 2017 was Technologies for reducing waste water was processed by the 10,128 m3. All the sludge is transported emissions into water waste water treatment plant, which is to the contractually agreed biogas plant 19.7 percent lower than in 2016 (256,948 in Gudovec. • Filters have been installed in production m3). In 2016, 16.4 percent less water was plants sewers that separate labels, purified than the year before (307,344 m3). caps and other materials. • Chlorine-based chemicals have been Average COD value (chemical oxygen replaced by peroxideand acetic demand) in water, after the purification acid-based formulas. process, was 173.3 mg/l, which is higher • Technological processes in the plant than 2016 when COD was 112.1 mg/l. have been optimized; milk processing Increase in output COD is the result of plants are regularly maintained to increased quantity of processed milk by prevent the discharge of organic matter 1.7 percent and increased total production into the sewerage system. by 2.24 percent. 33 Waste Waste generating and processing SSystematic waste management is types of waste and waste management the total balance, mixed packaging was one of the fundamental components in accordance with economic principles. the most collected, followed by waste of the environmental management It is also the objective of the company to paper and cardboard and multilayer system. Re-usable waste, with valuable reduce communal waste generating by packaging waste. In 2017, total volume characteristics that can be used, is increasing selection of generated waste of separated and received hazardous collected and stored separately. Dukat’s and to reduce the volume of returns waste was 32 tons, or 44 percent less constant objective is to manage waste from the market. than in 2016 (57 tons), when 400 cooling in an environmentally efficient manner. display cases were written-off. Precisely for this reason, continuous In 2017, total volume of separated waste efforts are directed at the prevention received at the Zagreb plant was 882 tons, and constant reduction of generating all which is 30 percent less than in 2016. In Waste at the Zagreb Plant by Category (kg) paper 264,660 At the Bjelovar Plant, plastic packaging is the type of non-hazardous waste foil 44,688 that was collected the most. In 2017, total of 7,822 kg of hazardous waste wood 3,780 was collected, most of all packaging multilayer packaging 73,590 that contains hazardous substances or has been contaminated by hazardous mixed packaging 360,856 substances (4,537 kg). In 2016, total iron and steel 20,500 of 8,366 kg of hazardous waste were collected, which is 13.6 percent more material not suitable for than the year before. further consumption 6,294 Consumption of chemicals Zagreb Plant consumption of washing and disinfecting agents In 2017, 3.7 percent more washing and disinfecting agents were consumed at Total volume of 2015 2016 2017 the Zagreb Plant than the year before, washing and disinfecting agents 980,549 kg 944,975 kg 980,372 kg and in 2016, Zagreb Plant consumed 3.6 percent more washing and disinfecting agents than the year before. Bjelovar Plant consumption of chemicals in waste water treatment plant In 2017, the total volume of chemicals Total volume of 2015 2016 2017 utilized in the waste water treatment chemicals utilized in waste water treatment 139,695 kg 223,880 kg 179,500 kg plant at the Bjelovar Plant was 19.8 plant percent lower than in 2016, while in 2016 it was 60 percent higher than in 2015. In 2017, consumption of chemicals in production was 3.1 percent lower than the year before. 34 Noise Noise for the day and night work conditions level does not exceed the permissible noise levels in night conditions do not at the Zagreb Plant site ranges within values for “day-night” time period. Also, exceed the permissible values. the legally permissible limits. thanks to the noise protection measures taken, by repairing the compressor holes Based on the measured noise levels and by turning off noisy devices during within the Bjelovar Plant and based on night work (ice water compressor and the acoustic requirements, the noise ventilation on the street-facing façade), Compliance In accordance with legal provisions, No deviation from the legal and other there was no need to undertake any of Dukat makes an annual assessment of regulations and requirements was the prescribed measures in the event adherence to (compliance with) the legal recorded in 2017. There were also no of incidents. and other environmental regulations. extraordinary situations recorded, and Supplier evaluation regarding the impact on environment As part of the annual supplier evaluation, adheres to prevention plans, security • Environmental awareness (supplier regarding the impact on the environment, protocols, rules for unloading the contacted us offering solutions related the following activities are assessed: remains of liquid cargo on the bottom to environmental protection waste • Frequency of environmental disasters of the tank (stripping), waste separation recycling, reduction of waste at the at the point of delivery (activities of rules, etc.) source, etc.) suppliers or carriers did not cause any • The offer to reimburse the costs pollution at the plant in the course of incurred by damage (in cases when In 2017, all suppliers received the last year: accidental gas dispersion the delivered product generates waste highest grade regarding impact on or emission, spilling of liquids, fire) or by-products, the supplier can offer the environment. • Adherence to environmental a recycling path for such waste, e.g. requirements (supplier or carrier packaging) Objectives for 2018 • Education and information of employees Zagreb Plant Bjelovar Plant on obligations of Dukat according to the new environmental legislation • Reduce water consumption to • Decrease the impact of the plant on • Commitment to lasting improvement of 3.20 m3/t of product the environment energy efficiency through monitoring • Reduce steam consumption by 3,000 t • Decrease the amount of waste the realization of established EPIs • Reduce gas consumption by generated (energy performance indicators) 400,000 m3, reduce CO2 emissions • Decrease wastewater treatment • Design that improves energy efficiency by 10 percent chemicals 35 Dukat employees volunteer in clean-up campaign for the sixth time In 2017, Dukat employees once again joined the largest volunteer cleaning campaign “Green Clean-up one day for clean environment”, part of the global “Let’s do it!” movement. Sixty-nine employees from all three of Dukat plants in Croatia participated in the action and cleaned up three illegal dumping sites in Zagreb, Bjelovar and Karlovac. Along with collected waste, employees donated the total of 115 working hours voluntarily joining the clean-up. In the past six years, 412 Dukat and KIM employees participated in the action, freeing the environment from more than 160 cubic meters of waste. 36 4 ANTI-CORRUPTION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Dukat applies strict anti-corruption standards in accordance with relevant internal documents and corporate policies PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Dukat applies strict anti-corruption standards in its daily operations, in accordance with relevant internal documents and corporate policies of the Lactalis Group, and operates in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. Aware of the importance of responsible and ethically-based conduct, Dukat implemented and it applies the Zagreb Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Code. Fight against corruption Dukat’s anti-corruption activities can be for his/her work at the company. Any There were no recorded reports on divided into several main areas: other receiving or giving of money, suspicion of corruption or incidences inappropriate gifts or services is not of corruption in 2017 or the previous • Systematic improvement of adherence in compliance with the company’s years. to laws, rules of operation, good by-laws and is therefore forbidden.” business practices and ethical business It is Dukat’s strategic commitment practice System of internal controls and prescribed not to provide any material or nonThis objective is achieved through procedures provides for impartiality and material support to any political party constant improvement of business objectivity of employees and management, or candidate, on national or local level. processes and education of Dukat so the risk of corruption and bribery is Dukat’s employees, as individuals, employees responsible for the legality minimized by: are free to provide material support of operations and management • clearly defined and prescribed ethical to any political party or candidate of of business processes related to standards of business conduct their choice, from their own funds business practice issues and constant demanded from employees and and in their free time, which is the legislative and business changes. management, responsibility and decision of each Business processes are also set and • regular evaluations of terms of individual. monitored so that they are always cooperation with potential suppliers in compliance with the principles and buyers, In 2017, Dukat was not a party in any mentioned in the introduction, by • separated competencies and processes of the procedures initiated for conduct adopting and enforcing internal byin procurement of goods and services, that is contrary to the free market laws, procedures and work instructions • separate decision-making levels for competition principle, anti-trust or that are regularly communicated by donations and sponsorships, monopoly practices. e-mail and the Intranet. • procedure of preliminary legal and financial control of every contract the • Internally regulated procedures and company enters into with suppliers work instructions and buyers. Code of Conduct, available to employees on the Intranet, expressly states that “the employee shall receive salary 38 Corporate Governance Dukat’s activities in the area of corporate application of market competition making, and ensured the prevention management include: rules and regulations in business of conflicts of interest, efficient internal operations. supervision, and an efficient system of • Operations in accordance with the responsibility. There is clearly established Companies Act, Capital Market Act, In accordance with practices promoting responsibility system on the Group level regular adoption and implementation compliance with market competition for every subsidiary, and parent company of the Zagreb Stock Exchange rules and regulations, Dukat continuously actively participates in all major decisions Corporate Governance Code cooperates with the Agency for Protection made individually by the management In this way, the legality, transparency of Market Competition. It provides it of the subsidiaries. and publicity of operations is protected, with all the information it request and and corporate governance of the regularly participates in Agency research This same Code regulates the mandatory highest rank is ensured, posing on milk and dairy market, as well as publication of financial statements and systematic obstacle to corruption distribution market. price sensitive information, all in an and abuses. Dukat is quoted on the attempt to improve transparency of Zagreb Stock Exchange, where it In December 2017, Dukat also participated information for current and potential regularly publishes relevant business in the market research of milk and investors and secure the equality of information for shareholders, investors dairy market in Croatia, carried out by conduct towards all interest holders. and the business community. In addition the Agency for Protection of Market to the Zagreb Stock Exchange, all Competition. It submitted all the requested Bodies of government in DUKAT Inc. apply important information is submitted information, documentation and responses provisions of Corporate Governance to the Croatian Financial Services within the set deadline to the Agency. Code completely in operating business Supervisory Agency (HANFA), the of the Company. Croatian News Agency (HINA), and is Implementation of Corporate published on the company’s website, in Governance Code Overall internal control systems of the accordance with relevant regulations. Company and of the Group include: Dukat Inc. voluntarily applies Corporate • Appropriate organization structure on • Implementation of practice concerning Governance Code of Zagreb Stock all levels with segregation of duties competition Exchange (ZSE), whose content is available and defined reporting mechanisms Dukat approaches competition as on Dukat Inc. web page, Zagreb Stock towards upper management, one of its top priorities in operations, Exchange web page and in Company’s • Internal controls integrated into business and invests great effort in everyday premises. Application of the Code has processes and activities, business practices to asses each contributed to improvement of high • Accounting and administrative policies economic activity from this aspect as corporate governance standards in the and procedures within control functions well. Accordingly, in 2017 we also actively Company as well as business transparency which are related to key risks, worked on continued education of all which is completely aligned with the • Double model of corporate management key employees at Dukat and Dukat positive legislation. comprised of Management and Group in Dukat and all its associated Supervisory Board. companies in the region (Slovenia, With the aforementioned Code, the Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Company has defined procedures for the Macedonia), to provide for continuous actions of organs in charge of decision 39 The basis of the internal controls system The Company holds 197 treasury shares relevant to adopt investment decisions of the Company and the Group is internal which makes 0.00657% of share capital because Company publicly announces policy which defines basic principles, of the Company. price sensitive information and annual, structure and functions of the internal semi annual and quarterly financial controls activities, which contributes Supervisory Board member workers statements at Croatian Financial Services corporate governance and promotion representative holds 800 shares which Supervisory Agency (HANFA), Zagreb of the transparent business activities. makes 0.02667% of share capital of the Stock Exchange (ZSE), Croatian Reporting The main features are as follows: Company. Journalist Agency (HINA) and internet Set of accounting policies related to website of the Company (www. dukat.hr). the preparation of the Annual report Managing directors and Supervisory in accordance with the International Board members are appointed pursuant In addition to afore mentioned, Financial Reporting Standards adopted to positive legislation and Corporate shareholders receive all additional in EU and Accounting Law Governance Code. information from Stockholders Record Internal audit of the Company which Office in the Company. supervises overall activities of the Company Each amendment of Incorporation and the Group with the aim of estimating Act is adopted by General Assembly On December 31st 2017 Company has; the adequacy of established internal pursuant positive legislation and full • three Managing directors which run controls system text of Incorporation Act is available business and represent Company on internet website of the Company, solely and independently, Following Corporate Governance Code, business headquarters of the Company • Supervisory Board which consists of the Company has established Internal and Commercial Court. four members, i.e. Supervisory Board Audit for company’s business, and president and three Supervisory Board Internal Audit reports are adopted by General Assembly acts in accordance members of which one is workers Management Board of the Company with positive legislation, Incorporation representative, and by Audit committee of the company. Act of the Company and Corporate • Audit Committee which consists of Internal Audit department of the parent Governance Code. three members, i.e. Audit Committee company Dukat Inc. is responsible for president and two Audit Committee internal audit of the activities of the Shareholders perform their lawful rights members of which one is Supervisory subsidiaries within the Group. and have access to all business information Board member. 40 List of Tables and Charts Revenue by Product Categories 5 Number of Union Members 9 Number of Injuries at Work 10 Number of Sick Days 11 Number of Paid Leave Days 11 Amount of Financial Aid to Employees (HRK) 11 Education Hours 13 Employees by Type of Employment 15 Number of Participants in Professional Training Program Without Employment (SOR) by Status 15 Employees by Age 16 Employees by Gender 16 Employees by Education 16 Composition of Governance and Management by Gender 17 Dukat Milk Purchase Share in Total Quantity of Milk Produced in Croatia 22 Customer Complaints on Million Sold Items 23 Data on Packaging Put in Circulation (t) 27 Total Weight of Packaging in Circulation (t) 27 Total Power Consumption (kWh) 28 Total Steam Consumption (t) 29 Total Gas Consumption (m3) 29 Total Water Consumption (m3) 30 Production Index (l water/kg of processed milk) 30 Emissions Into the Air From Fuel Combustion Process to Obtain Thermal Energy 31-32 Waste at the Zagreb Plant by Category (kg) (kg) 34 Zagreb Plant Total Volume of Washing and Disinfecting Agents (kg) 34 Bjelovar Plant Total Volume of Chemicals in Waste Water Treatment Plant (kg) 34 41 This report is available on the UN Global Compact and Dukat websites and on Dukat’s Intranet. Report Profile Reporting period: 2017 Date of last report: May 2017 Reporting cycle: annual Date of publishing: March 2018 Publisher: Dukat Inc., Marijana Čavića 9, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia Design: Hand Studio d.o.o. Contact for Corporate Social Responsibility: Elena Wolsperger Dolezil, elena.wolsperger-dolezil@hr.lactalis.com Kristina Klarić Rubčić, kristina.klaric-rubcic@hr.lactalis.com www.dukat.hr 42 43
