CORPORA ATTE S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y REPORT 2017 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Contents This PDF-report's content is included in KPMG’s assurance scope. The PDF version of the 2017 Corporate Sustainability Report is automatically generated based on the website content. C O NTE NTENT TS S Corporate Sustainability Report 2017 ........................................................................................................ 3 Our group in a nutshell ........................................................................................................................ 6 Greetings from the President & CEO ................................................................................................ 10 Hakkapeliitta Way guides our operations ........................................................................................ 13 Sustainability management ....................................................................................................... 15 Materiality assessment ............................................................................................................... 24 Value chain ................................................................................................................................... 33 Stakeholder engagement ........................................................................................................... 38 Sustainability in procurement ................................................................................................... 42 COP report and SDG work .......................................................................................................... 44 World on wheels ................................................................................................................................. 47 Management of product advancements, product safety and product liability ................... 48 Innovation improves safety and eco-friendliness ................................................................... 54 Your tyre choice matters ............................................................................................................ 60 People .................................................................................................................................................. 65 HR management .......................................................................................................................... 66 Getting to go home healthy ....................................................................................................... 71 Satisfied and motivated personnel ........................................................................................... 74 Economy .............................................................................................................................................. 84 Financial management ............................................................................................................... 85 Profitable growth benefits everyone ........................................................................................ 90 Customer relations and delivery reliability are essential ....................................................... 94 Planet ................................................................................................................................................... 96 Management of environmental responsibility ........................................................................ 97 Environmental impacts of production .................................................................................... 104 A tyre's life cycle and recycling ................................................................................................ 115 Independent assurance report ....................................................................................................... 120 GRI content index ............................................................................................................................. 122 2 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Corporate Sustainability Report 2017 C O RP R PO O RA R AT TE S SUSU S TA INA BILITY RE REPO ORT R T 2 01 7 O OU URR GR RO O UP U P IN A NU T TSH SH ELL HAK K APEL IITT IITTA A WWA AY GUIDES OUR OPER A ATI TI ONS We work for safer and eco-friendlier transportation. We care deeply about safety and Sustainability is an essential part of our daily well-being on the road as well as at work. work and leadership. Learn more about our sustainability management, materiality assessment, stakeholder engagement and value chain. GREETING GSS FR FROMOM TH E W OR L D ON W HEEL S PR P R E SI D E NT & C E EOO Our mission is to develop and manufacture safe, “We received recognition for our determined high-quality, and eco-friendly tyres. Read more work to improve sustainability when Nokian about sustainability in terms of our products and Tyres was selected for Dow Jones’ DJSI World our management of product liability. sustainability index in 2017.” 3 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Corporate Sustainability Report 2017 PE P EOO PLE PL ANET Good management and supervisor work support We minimise the harmful impacts of everything the development of the competence, well-being we do. We do not harm the environment or and equal treatment of our motivated and people but rather promote well-being. professional staff. E C O NO NOMY INDEPENDENT A ASS SUR ANCE R EPOR EPORT T Sustainability improves our competitiveness and supports our goal of profitable growth. Business The online and PDF versions of our Corporate success, in turn, benefits our surroundings and Sustainability Report for 2017 are assured by stakeholders. KPMG. Learn more about the assurance statement. 4 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Corporate Sustainability Report 2017 GRI C COON NT T ENT IND INDEXEX Our sustainability report complies with the CORE requirements of the GRI G4 guidelines. Learn more about the comparison table. 5 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Our group in a nutshell NO NOK KIA I AN N T Y RE S IN A NU T TSHSH ELL In 2017, the company’s turnover was nearly € NOKI A N TYRE S BRING BRINGS S 1.6 billion and it employed more than 4,600 PEA PEACE CE OF MIND AND people. Nokian Tyres is listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. Read more about the company’s R OA D S SAFE AFE TY ownership structure here. Nokian Tyres is the world’s northernmost tyre EX EXCELCEL L ENT PR PRODUCTION ODUCTION AN D manufacturer that promotes and facilitates safe EFFI CI ENT DIS DISTRTR IBUTI ON transport under demanding conditions, while respecting environmental values. In freezing Between 2007 and 2017, we invested blizzards or heavy summer rain, our tyres offer approximately one billion euros in our own reliability, performance and peace of mind. factories in Finland and Russia, which deliver first-class productivity and quality. Our new We design and produce our tyres for a range of factory is under construction in the United States different conditions, which is a unique approach and will be completed in 2020. We have our own in the tyre industry. The rough roads and sales companies in Finland, Sweden, Norway, extreme weather conditions of the north require Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Germany, different tyre structures and rubber compounds Switzerland, the Czech Republic, Belarus, than the warmer climate in Southern Europe, for Canada, the United States and China. We have example. Our innovative high-quality tyres for obtained quality and environmental passenger cars, trucks and heavy machinery are certifications for our production facilities in developed with the aim of sustainable safety and Nokia and Vsevolozhsk as well as for the eco-friendliness throughout the product life Swedish sales company. cycle. We mainly sell passenger car tyres in the For more than 80 years, Nokian Hakkapeliitta replacement market. Our key markets are the has been the leading winter tyre brand in the Nordic countries and Russia, where Nokian Tyres Nordic countries and Russia. In these regions is the market leader in premium tyres. Central our position as the market and price leader is Europe and North America are other important established by our key competitive advantages: a markets for the company in terms of profitable quality image that is based on innovations, stategrowth. of-the-art technology and decades of user experience as well as our strong distribution We sell heavy special tyres whose unique network and competence in logistics. solutions support the business of our end users on both the replacement and original equipment The group also includes Nokian Heavy Tyres, markets. which focuses on special tyres for the heavy industry, and the Vianor tyre chain, which conducts wholesale and retail sales in Nokian Tyres’ key markets. 6 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Our group in a nutshell • Nokian Tyres’ products were sold in 59 customers’ sales and to provide deeper insight countries about our customers’ business and consumer • Nokian Tyres’ dealer network (Vianor, NAD needs. By the end of 2017, the Vianor network and N-Tyre) comprised 3,448 stores by the included a total of 1,466 service centers in 26 end of 2017 countries. The NAD network operated in 22 countries with 1,855 stores, while the N-Tyre Nokian Tyres’ growth is supported by the network covered 127 stores in Russia and the branded distribution network, which includes CIS countries. the Vianor and Vianor Partner chains, Nokian Tyres Authorized Dealers (NAD) network and the Head office: N-Tyre network. Vianor’s mission is to maintain Nokian Tyres plc Nokian Tyres’ market share and to support its Pirkkalaistie 7 brand in the Nordic countries. The purpose of 37100 Nokia our own Vianor chain is to help in the Finland development of concepts for driving our 7 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Our group in a nutshell VIA NOR: R E S P O N S I B L E TY RE S SALES ALES A ND C CO OMPREH HE E N S I V E S ER ERVICE VICE CL CLO O SE TO T H E C U USSTO M E R S Safety is part of the everyday work Vianor’s operation is guided by the company’s management system, Vianor Way, which is built around understanding the customers and helping them drive as safely as possible. The sustainability management system complies with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. In addition, Vianor’s processes have become even safer over the Vianor is a chain specialising in car years, and the company’s trained personnel maintenance and tyre services that comprises always conduct their work with the a network of 1,466 service centers in 26 appropriate equipment. countries. Vianor’s strength is its expertise in challenging driving conditions, which stems Responsibility is visible in the everyday work at from our Nordic roots. Most of our service Vianor: it is important to properly guide the centers are located in the Nordic countries, customer to choose the safest tyres in the Russia and Eastern Continental Europe. We price category that the customer has selected. also have service centers in Central Europe Enabling customers to drive safely is becoming and the East Coast of the United States. an even more comprehensive process than before because Vianor’s car maintenance The retail store chain and online stores serve services offer customers an easier and better both consumers and corporate customers. For way to take care of the entire car in just one corporate customers, Vianor has also location. The extensive network provides developed digital services for fleet and tyre service everywhere. management which allow customers to boost their business. Our tyre storage service is part of improving safety: we clean and inspect the tyres that we The tyre selection covers all sorts of tyres for store and, if they are at the end of their service passenger cars, vans and trucks as well as life, we notify the customer and help them heavy specialist machinery. Vianor represents purchase a set of new, safe tyres. and sells many other tyre brands as well as Nokian Tyres’ products. In addition to tyres An important element of responsible service is and tyre-related services, Vianor offers car the inspection card that each customer maintenance services to all of its customer receives after a tyre change or car groups; these form an increasingly important maintenance. The card contains safety part of Vianor’s services. All of the services observations made during the work, from tyre related to driving are conveniently available inflation pressure to technical defects. under the same roof. 8 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Our group in a nutshell Vianor is a service company that differentiates innovative digital services and an extensive itself by offering a wide range of products and service network. Vianor aims to be a partner services for consumers and corporate that enables all of its customers to drive safely customers and by continuously developing and effortlessly – and enjoy the most comfortable service. 9 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Greetings from the President & CEO FU F UL L L SPE E D AH A H EA D IN V VA A RIOU RIOUS S S SUS U S TA AII NAN A B I LI TY A REA REAS S The past year was a success in terms of INTER NA NATITI ONAL C COMMITMEN OMMITMEN T TSS corporate sustainability and our business. In GUIDE OUR C COR OR POR A ATE TE 2017, we made good progress in many areas of SU SUS S TAINABIL I TY EFF EFFOR ORT TS sustainability and remained on schedule with our corporate sustainability goals. Sustainability is a natural part of our everyday work and leadership and an essential part of our We received recognition for our determined business and strategy. Committing to work to improve sustainability when Nokian international sustainable development goals Tyres was selected for Dow Jones’ DJSI World guides our corporate sustainability work and sustainability index in 2017. With a total supports sustainable development globally. sustainability score nearly twice as high as the industry average, we significantly improved our The past fiscal period was our company’s second results. We were the highest-ranking company in full year as a member in the United Nations the tyre industry and were only one point behind Global Compact (UNGC) initiative. In 2017, we the world’s highest score in the Auto continued integrating the UNGC principles in our Components sector. business: we focused on the identified development needs and started a human rights 10 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Greetings from the President & CEO impact assessment across the group, which million kg in CO2 emissions from traffic. continues in 2018. Furthermore, in spring 2017, Reaching this target early demonstrates our we updated our group’s Ethics Guidelines and determined work for improving the ecothe procedure guiding sustainability in friendliness of our products without procurement. compromising on safety. The use of international indicators also supports As part of our efforts for improving supply chain our goal of improving sustainability in the entire sustainability, we have set a goal to audit all of tyre industry. We are committed to improving Nokian Tyres’ major rubber processor partners sustainability in the industry based on the Global by 2020, comprising at least 80% of our natural Compact initiative’s principles and hope that rubber purchasing volume. In 2017, we audited increasingly more tyre companies would adopt four natural rubber processors together with an the principles. This way, we can drive external auditor. For our company, the audits transparency in the industry and ensure even guarantee that our requirements are followed in better that our stakeholders have access to the best possible way, and they provide an information that helps them evaluate our opportunity for the audited companies to activities. improve their activities and occupational safety. We are also committed to the UN’s Sustainable A higher rate of waste is utilised in our Development Goals (SDGs). In 2017, we started a production facilities: In Nokia, we reached 100% process for determining the SDGs important for utilisation and, in Russia, the number was nearly our company. Our work for implementing the 90%. Moreover, we developed our company’s goals in our business continues in 2018. The safety culture further and managed to improve purpose is to create a framework for our the injury frequency rate by 33% year over year. company that would help us support sustainable We aimed for 1% improvement in customer development even better with our activities. satisfaction, which was already on a good level, and reached an improvement of 2.6%. You can R E SU L RE LT RIENTED TO R IENTED W WORK ORK ON see our targets and progress on sustainability in SU S US S TAAII NA N A BILITY ON S SCC H EDUL E more detail under Sustainability management. Our everyday improvement of sustainability is BOL DL DLY Y TTOO W AR D DS S THE FUTU R E guided by the group’s sustainability goals and W I TH SU SUS S TAINABIL I TY I N THE the road map plan that we updated in 2017. The C OR E projects included in the road map cover seven aspects related to the climate, environment, In 2018, we will be working towards people, supply chain, economy, stakeholder improvements in terms of our company culture, engagement and products & services. The target way of working and various aspects of corporate time for the road map projects and the group’s sustainability. In many ways, we are facing an sustainability goals is 2020. In 2018, we will, interesting year of progress. One important site however, update the sustainability goals that we for our sustainability work will be our upcoming reached already in 2017. factory in Dayton, Tennessee. We want the factory to also be a pioneer in corporate One goal for 2020 that we reached ahead of sustainability. Our brand stands for target was reducing the rolling resistance of our Scandinavian values and Nordic expertise. product range by 7% compared to the 2013 Sustainability can be easily connected with our baseline, thereby creating a decrease of 500 renewed brand values. 11 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Greetings from the President & CEO The importance of sustainability will continue to regarding our own products and operations as grow, based on both the needs of stakeholders well as the entire tyre industry. We want to set as well as companies’ own desire to improve an example for the tyre industry and create their activities and products. We have long term added value for people, the economy and commitment for corporate sustainability environment. Hille Korhonen 12 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Hakkapeliitta Way guides our operations H HA A KK A APE PE LI I T T TA A W WA AY G U IDES OUR O OP PERA AT TION NS S SU S USS TAAII NA N A BILITY M A NA NAG G EMENT V AL ALUEUE CHAIN Systematic management of sustainability A tyre is a truly global product whose value chain improves our operations and company culture, extends worldwide. We present our value chain and our sustainability goals provide clear diagram aligned with the ten UN Global Compact guidance. (UNGC) principles. MA ATT E RI R I ALITY A ASS SES SESSM SM ENT S TAK EHOL DER ENG ENGA A GEMENT The prioritisation of special topics enables us to Stakeholder engagement is part of our business. further develop our business, improve We aim to address the expectations of all stakeholder communication and define the stakeholders, in particular concerning focus areas for sustainability reporting. sustainability. 13 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Hakkapeliitta Way guides our operations SU S USS TA AII NA N A BILITY IN C OP R EPOR EPORT T AND SDG W WOR OR K PR P ROO C URE U RE MENT The Communication on Progress report Responsible purchasing supports sustainable communicates how the Global Compact development and has no negative principles have been joined with our group’s environmental or human rights impacts. business. We have also started the work on determining which SDGs are important for Nokian Tyres. 14 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sustainability management S SUS U S TA AII NA N A B I LI TY M A NA NAG G EM ENT Sustainability management covers the following WE D I VIDE material topics: SU SUS S TA I NABILITY • Transparent and comprehensive MA M A NANAGE GE ME NT INT INTO O reporting • Business ethics and compliance with the F I VE C FI OMPONE NT COMPONE NTS S laws and regulations • Responsible purchasing of raw materials, Sustainability is a natural part of our business: it goods and services means sustainable product development, safe • Good corporate citizenship and eco-friendly products as well as high • Active stakeholder engagement standards of quality in everything we do. We ensure that our activities do not harm the For more information about the content of the environment or people. Our tyres are easy on material topics, click here. the environment and, even under difficult conditions, they will help you reach your The figure below presents our areas of destination. Our business must be profitable so sustainability as well as the essential principles, that we are able to offer security, work and wellcommitments and guidelines that guide our being for our personnel, while also considering business. investors, customers and other stakeholders. Sustainability is an essential part of our daily work and leadership, which is mainly guided by the group strategy. 15 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sustainability management OU R GR GROUP OUP S TRATE STRA TEG GY OUR V VAL UES GUI DE U ALUES US S TTO O SUC SUCCEEDCEED IIN N A NUT NUTSHE SHE LL Our company culture, the Hakkapeliitta Spirit, Our values, strategy and goals provide us with a lays a solid foundation for improving our clear framework for building sustainable success company and for building success. In 2018, we and continuously improving our operations will be starting value discussions with our together. personnel with the aim of creating an even more harmonised company culture and establishing closer international cooperation. 16 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sustainability management The basic elements of the Hakkapeliitta Spirit are corporate customers. Our own retail chain helps our values, which guide and support the in the development of concepts for driving our implementation of our strategy. customers’ sales and provides deeper insight into our customers’ business and consumer • Inventiveness: We develop and create needs. things and boldly question the existing practices! The strategy lays the foundation for our • Entrepreneurship: We want to be the best business goals that will keep us on track to and most sustainable tyre company! profitable growth: • Team spirit: We respect and support each other! • Market leadership in select segments in the Nordic countries and Russia. O OU URR SST R ATE T RA TEG G Y A ND G O OAA LS • Growing our sales by 50% in Central Europe over five years. PR P RO O V I D E TH E G U ID ELINES F FOR OR • Doubling our sales in North America over O OU URR BU USISI N NESS ES S five years. • Raising the fully owned subsidiary Vianor’s Our strategy helps us differentiate, supports results (EBITDA) to a level of +3%. profitable growth, guides us in the changing • Growing the sales of heavy tyres by 50% business environment and directs our future over four years. development. Our mission statement – “Nokian • Operating in all major winter tyre markets in Tyres is a life driven company. Our mission is to the long term. give you peace of mind in all conditions.” – guides the choices that we make. We have a desire to be a technology and sustainability pioneer and to maintain our We develop and manufacture safe, high-quality profitability. We intend to offer a stable dividend and eco-friendly tyres for the premium segment. policy for shareholders and an excellent and We are a market leader in the winter tyre market inspiring work community for our personnel. We and focus on the replacement tyre market. Our want to be the top consumer choice and our pioneering position and strong expertise on customers’ number one partner. challenging conditions also enable us to produce very safe summer tyres and all season tyres. See also our Environmental, Safety and Quality Policy for our valued quality and sustainability In the development and manufacture of heavy promises as well as the measures for meeting special tyres, we focus on carefully selected them. segments, such as tyres designed for forestry, agriculture and material handling. Our premium tyres feature innovative solutions that support the business of our end users. One of our group companies is Vianor, a chain specialising in car maintenance and tyre services that offers first-class service for consumers and 17 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sustainability management SU SUS S TA I NABILITY GO GOALS ALS OUP’S SU GROUP’S GR SUS S TAINABIL I TY GO GOAL AL S GU G U I D E OUR The following table shows Nokian Tyres’ OPER A ATIONS TIONS sustainability goals for 2020 and their progress. Our everyday improvement of sustainability is guided by the group’s sustainability goals and the road map plan that we updated in 2017. The target time for the road map projects and the group’s sustainability goals is 2020. Area of Goal Progress in 2017 sustainability Hakkapeliitta Way • We will improve our Dow Jones • We were selected for Dow Jones’ General Sustainability Index assessment DJSI World sustainability index and sustainability of our by two points each year from improved our score by 6 points business 2015 to 2020. compared to 2016. • All of our raw material • We sent out a self-assessment suppliers will have conducted a survey to all material suppliers in sustainability self-assessment 2017. 85% of the suppliers in 2017. responded, and this work will • We will have audited all of our continue in 2018. major rubber processor • The audits have progressed partners (at least 80% of our according to plan, and we audited natural rubber purchasing four processors in 2017. volume) by 2020. • In 2017, 71% of our raw material • At least two thirds of our raw suppliers had the ISO 14001 material suppliers will have ISO certification, which means that we 14001 certification in 2020. are heading in the right direction. 18 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sustainability management World on wheels • Reducing the rolling resistance • We reached the goal already in Safe and ecoof the product range by 7% 2017. We will set a new goal in 2018. friendly products from 2013 to 2020, thereby • We have launched new products creating a decrease of 500 with a lower rolling resistance than million kg in CO2 emissions the previous products. from traffic. • Each new product generation will have a lower rolling resistance compared to the previous one. Economy • We will continuously improve • Customer satisfaction was already High customer customer satisfaction – by one on a good level and improved by satisfaction and percentage point, at a 2.6% in 2017. profitable growth minimum, in the annual customer satisfaction index. People • Occupational health and safety: • We made good progress with Safe working A 70% improvement in the LT1F occupational safety and improved environment and injury frequency rate tracking the injury frequency rate by 33% sustainable from 2015 to 2020. year over year. company culture • Everyone gets to go home • No severe accidents occurred in the healthy every day. group during the year. • Everyone in our group will have • 55% of all personnel completed the completed the online course on online course on sustainability. sustainability in 2017. 19 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sustainability management Planet • Energy efficient production: • The reduction of energy Being a pioneer in decreasing energy consumption in production was sustainability consumption annually by 1% approximately 8% from the from 2016 to 2020. previous year, which means that the • A 20% reduction in CO2 target was met and exceeded. emissions from production (kg • The actual reduction of CO2 CO2/kg product) from 2013 to emissions from production was 36% 2020 (scope 1 and scope 2). in 2017, which means that we are • Reducing the use of municipal heading in the right direction. water by 25% compared to the • In 2017, the consumption of 2013 baseline. municipal water was approximately • Utilising 100% of production 40% lower than in 2013, which waste and taking no production means that the target was met and waste to landfills; Nokia 2016, exceeded. Vsevolozhsk 2020. • In Nokia, 100% of production waste • Zero environmental accidents. was recycled and the recycling rate was 88.7% in Vsevolozhsk, which means we are heading in the right direction. • No environmental accidents occurred in 2017. 20 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sustainability management SU S USS TAAII NA N A BILITY R ROOA D M A P working group, which is headed by the Environmental and Responsibility Manager. The In 2017, we made the Nokian Tyres Sustainability progress with the road map processes is tracked Road Map to guide our work on sustainability. on a monthly basis. The following graph The road map defines seven areas of presents the areas of the road map and the sustainability and their related projects. The related special projects. projects are led by the Corporate Sustainability 21 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sustainability management communication, environment, quality, S Y S TEM A ATIC TIC consumer, customer service and HR experts. The LEA D ERSHIP OF working group’s main task is to design and promote measures for improving sustainability. SU SUS S TA I NABILITY Then, each unit’s management team is IIMPRO MPR O VE S THE responsible for implementing the measures according to their unit strategy. OPER A ATIONS TIONS AND The Safety Management group, which comprises C OMP OMPA A NY CUL CULTURE TURE safety experts and management representatives, works on and tracks the safety aspects. Supply Our strategy also guides our choices in terms of chain sustainability is being developed and sustainability. We work hard together for guided by the Sustainable Purchasing working improving the sustainability of our company, group. The Energy Efficiency working group functions and products. promotes the means for improving energy efficiency throughout the group. Product We take into account the entire product life cycle Development creates safer and eco-friendlier and all of our business functions and we strive to products by reducing rolling resistance, for go beyond the minimums required by the law example. and applicable standards. We emphasise the management of sustainability in all of our Department-specific occupational health and functions and our supply chains. We want to be safety groups, environmental representatives the most responsible and ethical tyre company and other local working groups focus on and an industry pioneer. improving the practical work in terms of ecofriendliness, safety and well-being. Each Nokian The company’s sustainability functions are led by Tyres’ employee is responsible for working and a member of the group’s management team acting ethically. who is ultimately responsible for meeting the goals of corporate sustainability. All supervisors’ Furthermore, HR, Communication and the Risk duties include day-to-day leadership of Management working group support the work sustainability. Larger topics and guidelines are for improving the safety culture and discussed by the management team and, if implementing changes in the group. necessary, by the Board of Directors. The following graph describes the leadership of Nokian Tyres’ dedicated Corporate Sustainability sustainability at Nokian Tyres. working group comprises finance, purchasing, 22 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sustainability management 23 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Materiality assessment MA AT TE ER RII ALI T Y A AS S SES SESSM SM ENT A AT T NO NOK KIA I AN N T Y RE S process in 2018. In this report, the impacts of MA M AT T ER I AL each material topic are described briefly when SU SUS S TA I NABILITY discussing the topic. For more information on how Nokian Tyres’ impacts are positioned in our T O P I CS value chain, see here. In order to specify our company’s material The prioritisation of material topics enables us to sustainability topics, we used a materiality further develop our business, define the focus analysis in the reporting period. The analysis is areas for sustainability reporting and improve based on the 2015 sustainability survey and our communication on sustainability to comments by business unit leaders. We did not stakeholders. The identified material topics are modify the 22 special sustainability topics that presented in the table below. The horizontal axis were determined by the analysis or their indicates the significance of a topic to Nokian priorities. Tyres and the vertical axis indicates its significance to stakeholders. Different As the materiality analysis is based on the GRI stakeholder groups may have diverse and G4 reporting framework, we kept its tabular conflicting requests and demands and, likewise, presentation and descriptions intact. In the their expectations for the company operations current Standard reporting model, the concept may vary. Instead of looking for synergies, the of “impact” changes the way the material topics table separates stakeholders’ expectations from are presented. Based on this concept, a material those of the company. This avoids prioritising topic is assessed such that one axis in the table topics that are only important for both parties. indicates the company’s impact on the surrounding community. We will go through this 24 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Materiality assessment SI S I G NI F I CCA ANCNC E OF E ECC ONOMIC, ENVI R RONMENT ONMENTAL AL AND S SOCIAL OCIAL IM MPAP AC T TS S OF NOKIA N TYRES TY RES Very important 12 22 89 2117 13 10 Influence on 11 5 7 6 stakeholder 4 19 1420 16 2 assessments and 3 15 18 decisions 1 Important Very important Significance on Nokian Tyres' business PLANET PEOPLE HAKKAPELIITTA ECONOMY WORLD ON WAY WHEELS 1. Reducing the use of 6. Human rights in 11. Transparent and 16. Ensuring profitable 20. Rolling resistance water in tyre Nokian Tyres’ comprehensive growth and of tyres production business reporting maintaining a good 21. Developing operations profit level 2. Preserving and 12. Business ethics and innovative and ecoimproving 7. Promoting equal compliance with 17. Customer friendlier products biodiversity at the treatment of the laws and satisfaction 22. Giving the highest production sites people regulations 18. Sustainability as a priority to product 3. Eco-friendliness, 8. High level of 13. Responsible competitive factor safety energy efficiency occupational health purchasing of raw 19. Systematic and emissions in and safety in all materials, goods business risk production operations and services management, 4. Reducing 9. Ensuring employee 14. Good corporate including greenhouse gas satisfaction and citizenship (social sustainability emissions in motivation support and work with transport and organisations and 10. Professional production communities) development of 5. Reducing waste employees 15. Active stakeholder volumes in tyre engagement in production corporate sustainability 25 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Materiality assessment The senior management of the company has emphasised early on in the rubber purchasing approved the list of the special sustainability chain. We do not currently employ any methods topics as well as the GRI-compliant management for forming clear indicators in order to track our system descriptions, topics and indicators that progress with these special topics. However, are based on the special topics. through international organisations as well as our voluntary commitments and conduct, we S C O PE A ANDN D M EAEASUSU REM ENT aim to promote sustainability across the M E T HO D DS S OF TH E REP OR ORT T functions in our company’s value chain. We publish our Corporate Sustainability Report R EPOR EPORTI TI NG PER IOD IOD,, annually on our website, and it is also available PUBL I C CAATI ON FR E EQUENCY QUENCY AN D as an automatically generated PDF copy. This EXTER NAL A ASS SUR ANCE report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The easiest way to The contents of the Corporate Sustainability review the online report is to use the GRI Report for the 2017 reporting period have been comparison table. verified by the independent third party KPMG Oy Ab. Furthermore, the assurance confirms that As the indicators for our group’s environmental the English sustainability report matches the responsibility are compiled and calculated by the Finnish original. KPMG’s conclusions, findings same methods as in our earlier reports, this and recommendations are presented here. The year’s results are comparable to previous years. assurance was commissioned by the executive In the social responsibility indicators, the figures management of Nokian Tyres plc. for the Nokian Tyres' equity-owned Vianor chain are combined to cover all the companies in the MA AT T ERI AL T TO O PI C S S:: F I V VE E chain, but the indicators are calculated by the same principles as in the previous reports. The M AI N AREA AREAS S reporting covers all the functions of Nokian Tyres plc, excluding the environmental HAK K APEL IITT IITTA A WWA AY – OUR responsibility indicators of Vianor service W AY OF DOI NG B U USI SI NES NESS S centers. The indicators for economic responsibility are based on our company’s The Hakkapeliitta Way category comprises five financial statement, which is prepared and sustainability principles that are seen presented in accordance with the IFRS throughout our operations and connected to our standards. The indicators for environmental company’s strategic goals and vision. responsibility are divided between our locations in Nokia and Vsevolozhsk. The EMAS reporting TRANSP TRANSPARENTARENT AND C COMPREHENSIVE OMPREHENSIVE that was previously employed in Nokia has REPOR REPORTINGTING generated the current systems for calculation and data collection. Impact: more open interaction with stakeholders Some of the special sustainability topics that we identified go beyond our company’s calculation As a public company, Nokian Tyres is bound by limits. Such topics include “Business ethics and the statutory requirements and the rules of the compliance with the laws and regulations” and stock exchange on the publicity of information human rights questions, whose significance is which is relevant to the company’s business. In 26 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Materiality assessment order to meet our stakeholders’ expectations, we As a participant in the UN Global Compact follow the requirements of the Global Reporting initiative, we follow the UNGC’s ethical principles Initiative framework. Based on these as well as our own, which also address the issues requirements, we aim at meeting all of the of responsibility in the supply chain. reasonable requirements that our stakeholders have on corporate sustainability. In this respect, Furthermore, we require all of our raw material Nokian Tyres’ communication on sustainability suppliers to adhere to our Supplier Code of exceeds the minimum communication Conduct. All raw material suppliers must, at a requirements for public companies. minimum, have an ISO 9001-certified quality management system in place. We also prefer BU BUSINES SINESS S ETHICS AND C COMPLIANCE OMPLIANCE suppliers with an ISO 14001-certified WITH THE LA LAWW S AND RE REGULA GULATIONS TIONS environmental management system. Impact: ethically sustainable business One of the basic raw materials of tyres is natural rubber. As an agricultural product, it is the Nokian Tyres’ business across the group is livelihood of many families living in countries guided by the ethical principles presented in the where the local legislation and working board-approved Ethics Guidelines for Nokian conditions have not been fully developed. We Tyres Group. The document has been published only purchase natural rubber from processors in several languages, and it specifies the ethical that we have approved. We supervise their principles for Nokian Tyres’ business, activities through audits, among other things. instructions for various ethical issues and a procedure for all group personnel. Furthermore, In recent years, Nokian Tyres has participated in the document discusses the enforcement and the Sustainable Natural Rubber Initiative (SNR-i, supervision of the rules. While local and IRSG), which promotes sustainable development international documents provide additional throughout the supply chain of natural rubber instructions, the Ethics Guidelines establish a and commits everyone in the supply chain to strong foundation and we expect all employees mutual goals. Despite the good principles behind to follow them. This ensures conducting ethical the initiative, the development has not fully met business at all levels of our operations. our company’s expectations. We will, however, continue to support the initiative in the coming We follow the law in letter and spirit in every fiscal period. country of operation. Our Ethics Guidelines provide every employee with instructions on Read more about sustainability in our what to do in case they see something in our procurement here operation that may conflict with the applicable legislation. GOOD C CORPORA ORPORATE TE CITIZENSHIP R RESPONSIBLE ESPONSIBLE PUR PURCHACHASING SING OF RA RAWW Impact: interaction and better MA MATERIALS TERIALS,, GOOD GOODS S AND SER VICES SERVICES communication with society and the local community Impact: products that support sustainable development, fair conduct in developing We are a member of various industrial and economies employer organisations. Our participation in such organisations depends on the current topics and our opportunities to offer our expertise. We are also a member of various 27 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Materiality assessment communities and organisations that participate Product safety is the most important special in the development of the legislation and area of sustainability with regard to our political decision-making. Nokian Tyres is not company as well as our customers and end involved in political activities, fundraising or users. The development and functional testing of political contributions as per our Ethics tyres’ safety characteristics requires constant Guidelines. effort. Extreme weather phenomena that are caused by climate change and varying road In addition to trade associations, Nokian Tyres conditions increase the importance of safe tyres participates in the activities of various nonand drive the demand for All-Season and Allprofits and charities. We also offer expert Weather tyres. As a leading manufacturer of services for communities free of charge. In studded and non-studded winter tyres, we have Finland, for example, we provide the police with a special responsibility for making transportation technical assistance in investigations of better and safer. We are responding to the accidents that may have been caused due to the changing needs by developing a more poor condition of tyres and we produce various comprehensive range of non-studded winter training materials on occupational safety for the tyres and All-Season tyres. rubber and tyre industry together with the Centre for Occupational Safety. R OLLING RESISRESIST TANCE OF TYRES As an internationally expanding company, our Impact: reduced environmental impact from impact on our surroundings is increasing and we traffic continue to be a significant job creator and developer of local infrastructure. We support the The most significant environmental impacts development of local communities and the during the use of a tyre are caused by the improvement of working conditions early on in vehicle’s fuel consumption. Lower fuel our value chain, when possible. consumption reduces the quantities of greenhouse gases released into the air. Tyres A CTIVE S ST TAKEHOLDER ENG ENGA A GEMENT with low rolling resistance can save fuel, thereby IN CCORPORA ORPORATE TE SU SUS S TAINABILITY reducing CO2 emissions. Through determined product development efforts, we have managed Impact: insight on the impact of our business to reduce the rolling resistance of our tyres, and and interacting with stakeholders our current product line includes several products with the EU tyre label’s best class A Active stakeholder engagement helps us to rolling resistance rating. We are continuing our better understand our stakeholders’ work on further reducing our tyres’ rolling expectations. Different stakeholders may have resistance. conflicting expectations towards sustainability in our operations. This poses a communication DEVEL DEVELOPING OPING INNOINNOV VATIVE AND E ECC Ochallenge in stakeholder engagement. FRIENDLIER PR PRODUCT ODUCTS S W O RLD R LD O N WH EELS Impact: reduced environmental impact from traffic PR PRODUCT ODUCT S SAFETY AFETY In line with the product life cycle approach, our Impact: safer transport company pays attention to the environmental aspects in addition to safety already when buying raw materials and designing our 28 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Materiality assessment products. We work continuously towards improvement of customer satisfaction through reducing tyre noise as well as rolling resistance. innovative new products, flexible and smooth Natural materials and safe, eco-friendly products logistics, regular product testing, safe and highthat reduce fuel consumption, harmful quality products and excellent service. Among emissions and rolling noise will also pave the other things, we measure our success with way for us in the future. customer satisfaction surveys and use their results for developing our operations further. E C O NO NOMY SU SUS S TAINABILITY IMPR IMPRO O VING OUR PR OFITABLE PROFIT ABLE GR GRO O WTH AND A GOOD OMPETITIVENESS C OMPETITIVENES S PR PROFIT OFIT LEVEL Impact: driving sustainable business Impact: investment opportunities, employee thinking, reaching consumers who value well-being and providing added financial sustainable business and products values for shareholders As a manufacturer of high-quality, innovative In industrial operations, the positive premium tyres, we also want to be an industry development of productivity is a prerequisite for pioneer in terms of sustainability. We invest in a company’s success. In tyre manufacture, eco-friendly products and processes. We have capacity utilisation is crucial in terms of developed tyres with the EU tyre label’s best productivity: the higher the capacity utilisation is, class A rolling resistance and use eco-friendly the better the productivity becomes. Automation raw materials in their production. The more of machinery and process improvements also often our brand is associated with sustainability contribute to better productivity. Our indicator in addition to safety and high quality, the more for measuring production efficiency is kg/effortwe can reach sustainability-conscious customers hour. and consumers. Improved competitiveness, including in terms of sustainability, supports our Furthermore, we focus our production on core goal of profitable growth. products with a good margin and invest in measures for continuously improving quality, BUSINES BU SINESS S RISK MANA MANAGEMENT GEMENT,, productivity and logistics. Profitable growth INCL INCLUDING UDING SU SUS S TAINABILITY requires that we continuously expand our capacity, and we invest in new production Impact: driving profitable business capacity according to our growth targets and the The basic functions of every sustainable development of the market. Better productivity company include risk management, which supports profitability which, in turn, enables involves identifying and prioritising the higher salaries or dividends for our stakeholders, applicable risk factors and preparing for the for example. main risks. At Nokian Tyres, Corporate Risk C CUS U S T OMER S SA TISFA ATISF A CTION Management (CRM) also includes sustainability aspects. Impact: developing our own operations, improving business and service quality Customer satisfaction covers Nokian Tyres’ direct customers as well as the end users of our products. We aim for the continuous 29 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Materiality assessment PE P EOO PLE arranging a safe working environment for our employees and partners and ensuring that they HUMAN RIGHT RIGHTS S IN NOKIAN TYRES’ get to go home healthy every day. Every accident BU BUSINES SINESS S OPERA OPERATIONS TIONS can be prevented and we are working towards a workplace with zero accidents. Through better Impact: developing an open and ethically working conditions and providing training for sustainable working environment our personnel and partners, we are continuously improving workplace safety. Wherever we conduct business, we follow the local laws and regulations as well as good EMPL EMPLO OYEE S SAATISF TISFA A CTION AND Western business practices and the local MO MOTIV TIVAATION customs. In addition to the law, our operations must follow the group’s internal rules and Impact: motivating and inspiring working guidelines. We respect the privacy of our environment, joy from work and colleagues personnel, and we handle personal data in line with this principle. Employment in our group is Our company develops and maintains a based on employment contracts in accordance company culture that promotes fair and equal with the local legislation and any collective treatment and respect. Everyone contributes to agreements. Nokian Tyres’ wages are always our profitable growth and success regardless of equal to or above the local statutory minimum his or her position. All of our employees have wage. We respect our employees’ right to the opportunity and means to influence their organise and we cooperate with the appointed own work and the working environment. Our representatives of trade unions. inventiveness programme is one way to support leadership and the active participation of our PR PROMO OMOTINGTING E EQU QUALAL TREA TMENT OF TREATMENT personnel in line with our company culture. PE PEOPLE OPLE PR PROFES OFESSIONAL SIONAL DEVEL DEVELOPMENT OPMENT OF Impact: developing an open and ethically EMPL EMPLO OYEES sustainable working environment, promoting equal treatment Impact: higher product quality, motivating working environment Through our commitment to our Ethics Guidelines, local legislation and external social Producing safe and high-quality products responsibilities, we ensure equal opportunities requires a high level of professional for all of our employees and promote fair and competence. With the automation of the equal treatment at each of our locations. industrial environment, the work is becoming even more demanding. This emphasises the HIGH LEVEL OF OC OCCUP CUPA ATIONAL need for professional development of HEAL HEALTH TH AND S SAFETY AFETY IN ALL employees. In addition, development FUNCTIONS opportunities improve job satisfaction. We develop competence in a strategic and proactive Impact: arranging a safe working manner that anticipates future needs. environment The health, safety and well-being of our employees and partners are important for everyone at Nokian Tyres. We are committed to 30 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Materiality assessment PLANE P LANE T change. Furthermore, an EC directive requires corporations to carry out energy audits and R REDUCING EDUCING W WAATER C ONSUMPTION CONSUMP TION IN other energy-efficiency measures. By increasing TYRE PR PRODUCTION ODUCTION the proportion of renewable energy sources, we can cut down our GHG emissions from energy Impact: conserving natural resources consumption. Improved energy efficiency will also result in cost savings. With the global water shortage, we also want to reduce water consumption in our production. REDUCING GREENHOUGREENHOUSE SE GGAAS Tyre production uses large quantities of cooling EMIS EMISSIONS SIONS IN TRANSPOR TRANSPORT T AND water: Our factory in Nokia takes the cooling PR PRODUCTION ODUCTION water from the nearby river and our factories in Vsevolozhsk use a closed recirculating cooling Impact: participating in climate change water system that minimises water mitigation consumption. Climate change is accelerated by greenhouse gas PRESERVING PRESER VING AND PR PROMO OMOTING TING emissions, which are an essential issue for BIODIVERSITY A AT T THE PR PRODUCTION ODUCTION companies around the world. We are committed SITES to reducing GHG emissions from our operations. We annually calculate the GHG emissions from Impact: natural diversity our operations, including emissions from the transport of raw materials to us, and aim to Like many other manufacturing industries, we reduce them systematically as planned. The also greatly care about biodiversity, as all the biomass boiler plant commissioned in 2016 will raw materials for our products come from significantly reduce our GHG emissions in Nokia. nature. Harm to biodiversity can result in the shortage of some raw materials. We also care REDUCING PR PRODUCTION ODUCTION W WAA S TE about maintaining the biodiversity of our local V OL OLUMES UMES environments and preserving endangered species, including the asp, freshwater pearl Impact: promoting circular economy, mussel and red-throated loon. reducing our ecological footprint E C O-FRIENDLINES O-FRIENDLINESS S , ENER ENERG GY Quantitatively, waste accounts for our highest EFFICIENCY AND EMIS EMISSIONS SIONS IN environmental impact. Our factory in Nokia PR PRODUCTION ODUCTION utilises all of the generated waste. The local infrastructure in Russia is not yet on par with our Impact: improving air quality in local facilities in Nokia. We are, therefore, working environments, improving energy-efficiency towards improving the safety of waste management in our Russian factory. Our goal is We see the regulations established by the that all waste is utilised also in our Russian authorities as minimum requirements. factory by 2020. Therefore, we actively follow the development of environmental and safety regulations in Finland, the EU and Russia for anticipating the effects of pending legislation. We are committed to reducing GHG emissions from our operations in order to combat climate 31 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Materiality assessment the UN Global Compact (UNGC) requirements. C OMMI TME NT T TO O The principles are combined with the materiality EXTER E XT ER NAL C CORPORA ORPORATE TE analysis and the company’s value chain. For more information about the COP report, click S O CI A L here. RRESPONSIBILITY ESPONSIBILITY We also participate in various industrial and IINI NI TI A ATIVE TIVE S AND personnel organisations whose purpose is improving work throughout the industry. Our OR ORG G A NISNISA ATIONS activity in the organisations depends on the topics that they address and our opportunities In September 2017, Nokian Tyre was selected for to offer our expertise. Dow Jones’ DJSI World sustainability index. With a total sustainability score nearly twice as high as For us, the most important organisations the industry average, we significantly improved are: our results in the 2017 assessment. Our score of • Chemical Industry Federation of Finland 78 points was only one point behind the world’s • Rubber Manufacturers’ Association of highest score in the Auto Components sector. Finland Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) is an annual • National automotive and tyre industry sustainability assessment for large publicly associations in various countries traded companies, performed by the Swiss • ETRMA/European Tyre and Rubber RobecoSAM. Manufacturers’ Association Nokian Tyres has been included in the OMX GES • ETRTO/European Tyre and Rim Technical Sustainability Finland Index since 2012. The Organisation index offers objective and reliable information • STRO/Scandinavian Tire and Rim for making responsible investments. The index Organization comprises the 40 leading companies listed on • Finnish-Russian Chamber of Commerce Nasdaq Helsinki in terms of sustainability, and • International Chamber of Commerce the index criteria are based on the international • Russian Tyre Manufacturers Association guidelines for environmental, social and • AEB (Association of European Businesses) governance (ESG) aspects. • AmCham (American Chamber of Commerce in Russia) This report is also Nokian Tyres’ Communication • Tampere Business Campus On Progress (COP) report, which complies with • Corporate Responsibility Network FIBS. 32 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Value chain NO NOK KIA I AN N T Y RE S' V VA AL LU U E C H A IN components in our factories, and finished tyres FR F ROMOM RA RAW W MA MATE TE RIALS are then shipped internationally. Extending a T O TYR ES AND ALL THE tyre’s service life by retreading is one example of the circular economy and how the product life W AY T TO O RE RECY CYCLING CLING:: cycle does not end with the first user. THE LI FE CY CYCLECLE In the following diagram, we have combined our IIMPA MP A CT CTS S material sustainability topics with our value chain. The diagram also shows how the ten UN A tyre is a truly global product whose value chain Global Compact (UNGC) principles align with our extends throughout the world: the rubber value chain. The principles are numbered in the sourced from Indonesian and Malaysian diagram. The items marked with * are the topics rainforests is merged with industrial of special significance in the Nokian Tyres’ materiality analysis. The impacts from the activities of Nokian Tyres and its value chain members are presented under the diagram. 33 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Value chain 34 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Value chain 11.. R A AWW MA ATERIA TERIA LS (U NG C The cultivation of natural rubber, which mostly takes place on small farms, and its complex path PR P R I N C I PLES 1, 2, 3 5,, 7 4,, 5 3,, 4 7,, 10 10)) to becoming a raw material for tyres have a The main raw material groups in tyre significant role in terms of the producing manufacturing are synthetic rubber, fillers, countries’ social structure. Here is an example of chemicals, reinforcing materials and natural the natural rubber value chain. rubber, which makes up for approximately one 1. 1.1. 1. RUBBER PR PRODUCTION ODUCTION fourth of a tyre’s raw materials. We use more than a hundred different raw material suppliers Natural rubber forms one fourth of a tyre’s raw that all follow the same rules. The raw materials materials. As an agricultural product, its for tyres come from all over the world, and all of production differs from the other raw materials. our suppliers are committed to our Supplier Most of the natural rubber that we use comes Code of Conduct, which requires compliance from Malaysia and Indonesia. Natural rubber is with international human rights, labour rights cultivated in forests, often on small farms. More and anti-corruption measures. All raw material than 85% of the world’s natural rubber is suppliers must, at a minimum, have an ISO produced on farms smaller than two hectares in 9001-certified quality management system in size whose daily output may be just a couple of place. We also prefer suppliers with an ISO kilogrammes of crude rubber. The crude rubber 14001-certified environmental management that Nokian Tyres purchases from traders comes system. from family farms and some larger plantations. In order to improve supply chain sustainability, 1.2. WHOLES WHOLESALERSALERS we started a partnership with an external auditor in 2016. Our separate sustainability Family farms sell crude rubber to local auditing process has been developed together wholesalers. Rubber is produced on a day-to-day with an expert company and it is based, among basis: wholesalers go around small farms to buy other things, on Nokian Tyres’ Supplier Code of their daily production. To get an idea of the Conduct and principles that comply with the UN number of these small streams, consider that Global Compact goals. natural rubber production in Indonesia exceeded 3 million tonnes in 2016*. We have set a goal to audit all of our major Wholesalers, in turn, sell the crude rubber to natural rubber processor partners by 2020, processors. (* Source: Association of Natural comprising at least 80% of our natural rubber Rubber Producing Countries purchasing volume. Audits support and facilitate http://www.anrpc.org) the improvement of occupational safety and the development of activities. In addition to the 1.3 1.3.. PR PROCES OCESS S ORS audits by external parties, we track the sustainability of our raw material suppliers in Processing plants purify the natural rubber, connection with quality audits by our in-house process it as specified and pack it for further personnel and raw material suppliers’ selfuse. assessments. 1. 1.44 . TRADERS From the processors, the rubber is taken to the international market via traders from who companies, including Nokian Tyres, purchase the 35 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Value chain rubber. The price of rubber is determined, 4 . GR GROUPOUP FUNCTI ONS (UNGC 1 , among others, by the Singapore Commodity 3, 66,, 7 7,, 8, 9 9)) Exchange. Nowadays, even family farms are using their mobile phones to check the daily We produce tyres in two locations: Nokia, market rate. Finland and Vsevolozhsk, Russia. In addition, we have sales companies in our key markets, such Read more about sustainability in procurement as the Nordic countries, Central Europe and here. North America. Every day, our more than 4,600 employees contribute to our continuous 2 . T R A N SP OR ORT TATION (U NG C 1 0 0)) development efforts with their competence and ideas according to the Hakkapeliitta Way, our Most of the raw materials for tyres are way of doing business. transported by sea to large ports in Europe – Hamburg and Rotterdam – from where they are shipped to Finland and Russia. Both of our 5. SSOCI OCI ETY factories use similar raw materials that come Our impact is directly seen in our factory from the same sources. This allows us to ensure locations of Nokia and Vsevolozhsk. There, we the quality of our tyres regardless of the site of are locally a significant job creator and a manufacture: we market our tyres everywhere in permanent part of the surrounding community: the world, and we can only guarantee the same in Nokia, we offer work practice and thesis high level of quality to consumers anywhere in opportunities, and the Hakkapeliitta Village is a the world through consistency in terms of the concrete example of our impact in Vsevolozhsk. raw materials and manufacturing methods. The financial stream in the report illustrates Nokian Tyres’ economic impact. Our purchases, 3 . SUB C COONNTRAC TRA C T TORS ORS (U NG C 1 , salaries and taxes as well as the dividends to 3, 8, 10 0)) shareholders contribute to well-being throughout the world. We work globally with several subcontractors in various fields, such as construction, security, 6 . TR ANSPOR ANSPORT TATION cleaning, data administration, maintenance and logistics. Especially our factories in Nokia and The requirements of the car market and Vsevolozhsk are frequented by dozens of expansion of the Vianor chain have led us to subcontractors. All of our subcontractors agree change our tyre logistics and consumer insight. to comply with our sustainability policy and We used to deliver tyres to large wholesalers ethical principles. Furthermore, before but, nowadays, distribution is divided more so subcontractors’ employees are allowed to start into smaller product lots and smaller working in our factories, they must pass warehouses. As the number of individual induction training on safe working practices. We transport operations grows, logistics planning compare and select our subcontractors carefully. becomes increasingly important. Close partnership with our subcontractors ensures strong relationships that benefit 7. DEAL ER S (UNGC 1 0 0)) everyone. Nokian Tyres’ products are sold globally via our branded distribution network as well as through car dealerships and tyre stores. Our branded distribution network covers the Vianor and 36 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Value chain Vianor Partner chains, Nokian Tyres Authorized 9. R E ECY CYCL CL I NG Dealers (NAD) network and the N-Tyre network. By the end of 2017, the Vianor network included A part of recycled tyres is utilised for their a total of 1,466 service centers, with 194 of them material; they are shredded or granulated to owned by Nokian Tyres and 1,272 operated by replace rock materials in various road Partners. The Vianor chains operate in 26 construction and civil engineering applications. countries. Vianor is building a foundation for the Rubber chips are light, insulate moisture and permanent market share of the group’s products maintain their form. They support the road and it spearheads the group’s growth along with surface and make asphalt quieter. The flexible our Nokian Tyres Authorized Dealers (NAD) properties of rubber are put to use once more partner network. The business model drives when it is reused as a base material for sports entrepreneurship and affects society in all areas. venues, including horse riding arenas. 8 8.. C CO ONNSUSU M ERS MERS Retreading is one of the best recycling methods. If the carcass of a tyre is undamaged, it can be Consumers – the users of our tyres – are the retreaded – bus and truck tyres can be retreaded most important link in our value chain. The up to two or even four times. purpose of the safety, premium quality and unique innovations of our tyres is to ensure Another way to utilise recycled tyres is to consumers trouble-free and safe trips under all combust them for energy, as the heating value conditions. More than 85% of a tyre’s carbon of tyres is close to that of oil. The use of recycled footprint is generated during its use, which tyres as an energy source has been growing for means that our product development efforts for years and, today, approximately half of the tyres improving the tyres’ safety and reducing their recycled in Europe are used in waste-to-energy environmental impacts are measured during applications. We are constantly looking for new their use by consumers. ways to recycle and utilise tyres. 37 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Stakeholder engagement GO G O O D I NT E RA RAC C TION WITH S TA AKE K E HO LD E R S Today, with sustainability still developing in civil During the reporting period, we used the society and social media enabling immediate stakeholder study carried out by key persons in feedback and public discussion, stakeholder 2015 and the stakeholder survey about the engagement is more important than ever. material aspects. The table below shows the Stakeholder engagement is part of our business, survey results with the topics prioritised by and it is guided by our internal instructions on stakeholder group. We have used the results for stakeholder engagement as well as our ethical improving our sustainability efforts and defining guidelines. Business unit managers, our material sustainability topics. Read more Communication department and, ultimately, the about the materiality analysis here. President and CEO are responsible for managing stakeholder engagement. Better reporting on the results of stakeholder engagement is part of our sustainability topic Our stakeholder engagement follows the “Transparent and comprehensive reporting”, principle of openness and the special with the objective of even more open and requirements for public companies. We aim to comprehensive interaction with our address the expectations of all stakeholders, in stakeholders. particular concerning sustainability. We do understand, however, that different stakeholder groups may have conflicting requests, especially for corporate social responsibility. Stakeholder group Stakeholder expectations in Company measures the order of importance Customers • Customer satisfaction • We constantly develop new, safe, • Product safety state-of-the-art products • Developing innovative and • We provide personal service and eco-friendlier products communicate openly • Professional development of • Our products offer good value for employees, employee money satisfaction and motivation • Our experienced points of contact provide excellent service 38 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Stakeholder engagement Consumers • Customer satisfaction • We constantly develop new, safe, • Product safety state-of-the-art products • Business ethics and • We provide excellent service and compliance with the laws and communicate openly regulations • Our products offer good value for • Developing innovative and money eco-friendlier products • We continuously offer new services • High level of occupational and programmes, such as the Hakka health and safety in all Guarantee and Aramid Guarantee operations Shareholders, • Profitable growth and a good • We pay out a minimum of 35% of our investors and profit level net profit as dividends financing • Transparent and • We serve investors according to our comprehensive reporting promises • Business ethics and • We manage our risks and follow our compliance with the laws and procedures regulations • We conduct business in a reliable and • Systematic business risk sustainable way management, including sustainability • Product safety Personnel • Customer satisfaction • We promote the well-being of our • Employee satisfaction and personnel by providing a safe motivation working environment that motivates • High level of occupational them health and safety in all • We commit our personnel to operations operational planning • Product safety • We develop the personal competence • Business ethics and of our personnel compliance with the laws and • We respect the cultures and values of regulations individuals and groups and promote equal treatment • We regularly develop our leadership and supervisor work 39 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Stakeholder engagement Subcontractors and • Business ethics and • We offer strong, long-term suppliers compliance with the laws and partnerships regulations • We conduct business in a reliable and • Customer satisfaction sustainable way • High level of occupational • We contribute to ensuring a safe health and safety in all working environment for operations subcontractors in our units • Employee satisfaction and motivation • Responsible purchasing of raw materials, goods and services Authorities • Business ethics and • We comply with the laws and compliance with the laws and regulations regulations • We maintain active, regular and open • High level of occupational communication and reporting health and safety in all • We support decision making operations • Product safety • Responsible purchasing of raw materials, goods and services • Reducing greenhouse gas emissions in transport and production Non-governmental • Business ethics and • We communicate openly and actively organisations compliance with the laws and • We provide up-to-date information regulations on corporate social responsibility on • High level of occupational our website health and safety in all operations • Responsible purchasing of raw materials, goods and services • Reducing greenhouse gas emissions in transport and production • Product safety 40 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Stakeholder engagement Universities and • High level of occupational • We offer strong, long-term research institutes health and safety in all partnerships operations • We offer students trainee positions, • Business ethics and thesis collaboration and expert compliance with the laws and knowledge regulations • Product safety • Preserving and promoting biodiversity at the production sites • Reducing waste volumes in tyre production Media • Product safety • We communicate openly and actively • Developing innovative and • Our experts are available for eco-friendlier products comments on road safety and our • Business ethics and products compliance with the laws and regulations • Customer satisfaction • Employee satisfaction and motivation Neighbours • Business ethics and • We are a good employer and compliance with the laws and neighbour regulations • We communicate openly and actively • Transparent and • We support local communities comprehensive reporting • We follow our procedures and ensure • Reducing waste volumes in good risk management tyre production • Human rights in Nokian Tyres’ business operations • Responsible purchasing of raw materials, goods and services 41 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sustainability in procurement S SUS U S TA AII NA N A B I LI TY IN P PRO R O C URE U RE M E NT FR F ROM OM RA RAW W MA MATE TE RIALS EXTER NAL A UDITS AUDIT S HEL P P AR ARTNER TNER S I MPR MPRO O VE THEIR T O PR EMIUM TYRE S SU SUS S TAINABIL I TY The long and complex journey from raw One of the basic raw materials of tyres is natural materials to finished premium tyres involves the rubber. As an agricultural product, it is the effort and quality assurance of thousands of livelihood of many families living in countries professionals. It is, therefore, justified to say that where the local legislation and working all of our personnel are linked to product conditions have not been fully developed. We responsibility. only purchase natural rubber from processors approved by Nokian Tyres. We supervise their The work of Nokian Tyres’ own procurement unit activities through audits, among other things. is guided by the internal purchasing policy, which establishes the general principles of In recent years, Nokian Tyres has participated in sustainable procurement. As a participant in the the Sustainable Natural Rubber Initiative (SNR-i, UN Global Compact initiative, we follow the IRSG), which promotes sustainable development UNGC’s ethical principles as well as our own, throughout the supply chain of natural rubber which also address the issues of responsibility in and commits everyone in the supply chain to the supply chain. mutual goals. Despite the good principles behind the initiative, the development has not fully met Furthermore, we require all of our raw material our company’s expectations. We will, however, suppliers to adhere to our Supplier Code of continue to support the initiative in the coming Conduct. In May 2017, we updated the Supplier fiscal period. Code of Conduct to include environmental aspects and revised the existing content. Our In order to improve supply chain sustainability, new Ethics Guidelines have been submitted to we started a partnership with an external our raw material suppliers for approval, and the auditor in 2016. Our separate sustainability process will continue in 2018. auditing process has been developed together with a consulting company and it is based, All raw material suppliers must, at a minimum, among other things, on Nokian Tyres’ Supplier have an ISO 9001-certified quality management Code of Conduct and principles that comply with system in place. We also prefer suppliers with an the UN Global Compact goals. ISO 14001-certified environmental management system. In 2017, 71% of our raw material We have set a goal to audit all of our major suppliers had the ISO 14001 certification. rubber processor partners by 2020, comprising at least 80% of our natural rubber purchasing volume. The audits enable the processor companies to improve their occupational safety and develop their operations further. In 2017, we audited four locations and initiated corrective 42 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Sustainability in procurement programmes to address the shortcomings audits, we review the supplier’s production and identified in the process. Among other things, evaluate the company’s quality management the programmes include providing first aid system. The audits specifically focus on the training and revising employment contracts as quality of the activities and raw materials. Our well as the repair and cleaning of goal is to have quality audits performed at 15 accommodation facilities. We will review the suppliers per year, at a minimum. Furthermore, implementation of the corrective actions in 2018. our purchasing personnel conduct smaller-scale supplier visits that include an assessment of the We intend to conduct at least four new audits in working conditions, among other things. 2018. We sent out a self-assessment survey to all S E LF A SE AS SESSM S SES SM ENT ENTS S A ND material suppliers in 2017. 85% of the suppliers Q QUAU ALI LI T Y A AU DITS U DIT S F OC U FOC USS TH E responded. The supplier self-assessments discuss sustainability topics important to Nokian AT T E NTN T I O N ON OC OCC CUP PAATION AL Tyres, including human rights and occupational S AF AFETY Y,, QU QUA A LITY A ND H U M AN safety. The assessments also seek to determine RI R I G HT HTS S whether the supplier has set targets for developing their operations, the progress of the In addition to the audits by external parties, we goals is tracked and they are supervising their track the sustainability of our raw material own suppliers’ activities. This work will continue suppliers in connection with quality audits by in 2018. our in-house personnel and raw material suppliers’ self-assessments. During the quality 43 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 COP report and SDG work T TH H E PR PRII N C I PLES A ND G O OA A LS OF S SUS U S TA AII NA N A B LE DEV EL ELOP OP MENT FA CI LI LIT TA AT E T HE HE W WORK ORK ON C O RP R PO O RA R AT TE S SUS U S TA INA BILITY In late 2015, we joined the United Nations Global In the message from the President & CEO, you Compact (UNGC) initiative as a supporting can read more about the importance of the member. The initiative’s principles on human UNGC principles and our commitment to their and labour rights, environmental protection and continuous development and integration with anti-corruption measures help us further our business. improve the sustainability of our business and evaluate our activities annually. Based on a materiality analysis, we have specified our company’s special sustainability In 2017, we also determined which of the UN’s aspects. These aspects determine the sustainable development goals (SDGs) are sustainability management descriptions that are important for our company. The SDGs enable us presented in the report. Two of them, to examine sustainable business in the long descriptions of the management systems for the term and on the international scale. personnel and environment, cover the Labour and Environment themes of the GC principles. Our company’s commitment to international Our company does not have management sustainable development goals helps us improve descriptions that specifically focus on human our corporate sustainability and support rights and anti-corruption activities. Rather, sustainable development globally. these topics are included in Nokian Tyres’ Ethics Guidelines, which state that our company does C OMMU NIC NICA ATION ON not approve of any type of corruption, such as giving or receiving bribes, blackmail or abuse of PR PROGR OGR ES ESS S RE POR PORT T FFO OR a public office. Here you can learn more about our Ethics Guidelines and the management 20 2 017 17 systems that guide them. With the Communication on Progress (COP) K EY CHANGES IN 201 7 T TO O THE report, we communicate how the Global MANA MANAGEMENTGEMENT S SYY S TEMS THA THAT T Compact principles have been joined with the group’s business. We have integrated the COP GUIDE THE GL GLOBOBAL AL C COMP OMPA AC T report in the annual Corporate Sustainability PR INCIPL ES Report in line with the GRI and UNGC instructions*. We estimate that this COP report As our most important management meets the requirements of the “GC Active” level. improvement in 2017, we started our work on a human rights impact assessment across our 44 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 COP report and SDG work group, which continues in 2018. We updated the indicators for tracking the completion of the GC Ethics Guidelines for Nokian Tyres Group in principles and highlighting the areas in our spring 2017. This year, we also revised our business where the principles have the largest environmental policy and renamed it the impact. The GRI Standards table presents the Environmental, Safety and Quality Policy. indicators that also track our progress with the GC principles. You can read more about the In order to improve supply chain sustainability, materiality analysis here and about our value we started a partnership with an external chain here. auditor in 2016. Our separate sustainability auditing process has been developed together * Making the Connection: Using the GRI G4 with an expert company and it is based, among Guidelines to Communicate Progress on the UN other things, on Nokian Tyres’ Supplier Code of Global Compact Principles. When preparing this Conduct and principles that comply with the UN report, no procedures combining the GRI Global Compact goals. Standards framework with COP reporting were available. Therefore, this report utilises the We have set a goal to audit all of our major previous year’s GRI G4/COP instructions. rubber processor partners by 2020, comprising at least 80% of our natural rubber purchasing volume. Audits support and facilitate the SU SUS S TAI N NABAB LE companies’ improvement of occupational safety D EV EL ELO O PM EN ENT T GO OALSALS and the development of activities. In 2017, we audited four areas and initiated corrective PRO PR OV I D E A L LO O NGN G -T ER M programmes to address the shortcomings identified in the process. This includes first aid PERSPE PERSPEC CTIVE training and the revision of employment contracts as well as the repair and cleaning of In 2016, the United Nations published 17 accommodation facilities. We will review the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for 2030. implementation of the corrective actions in 2018. The goals provide an opportunity to examine sustainable business in the long term. We intend to conduct at least four new audits in 2018. In 2017, we started a process for determining which SDGs are important for Nokian Tyres. The In Russia, we have actively participated in purpose of this work is to identify future discussions for improving tyre recycling. sustainable business opportunities and improve Together with some other major tyre the dialogue with stakeholders by offering a manufacturers, we established the Eco tyre common language based on which our association that manages tyre recycling for corporate sustainability can be evaluated on the actors in the tyre industry. The association international scale. started its activities in 2017. Our own process is just beginning, but we have C O P AND A N D NOKIA N TY RES’ G RI so far selected seven SDGs whose completion we believe we can facilitate through our own RE R E PO R RT TINNG G activities. We can influence the first five goals on In the report, the GC principles are combined the list the most and are still in the process of with our materiality analysis and value chain. evaluating our impact on the remaining two This enables using the GRI Standards reporting goals. 45 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 COP report and SDG work 3 Good health and well-being 9 Sustainable industry, innovation and infrastructure 5 Gender equality 11 Sustainable cities and communities 8 Decent work and economic growth We have not yet linked the goals to individual 12 Responsible consumption GRI Standards disclosures in this report. However, the main disclosures that the selected SDGs are related to are marked with the UN SDG logos and included in the GRI comparison table. The work for implementing the goals in Nokian Tyres’ business continues in 2018. For more information about the UN Sustainable 13 Climate action Development Goals and their implementation in business activities, please visit https://sdgcompass.org/. 46 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 World on wheels WOR RL LD D O N W HEELS MA ANAG N A G E MENT M ENT OF P R RODU ODU C T INNO INNOV VATI ON IMPR IMPRO O VES S SAFE AFE TY AD DVVA ANCNCEM MENTS ENT S , P R ROD OD U C T AND E EC C O-FR I ENDL INES INESS S S AF A F E T Y AND AND PR ROD OD U C T We design tyres for challenging conditions where LI L I AB I LI T Y drivers demand safety, durability and comfort at all times. As a tyre manufacturer, we are responsible for the safety of our products. Product safety and liability, therefore, comprises a significant part of our corporate social responsibility. Y OUR TYR E CHOICE MA MATTER TTER S We participate in improving road safety, ecofriendliness and other aspects related to tyres and educating people. 47 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Management of product advancements, product safety and product liability M ANA ANAG GEMEN NT T OF P R RODU ODU C T AD ADV VA N C E M E NT NTS S, P R RODU ODU C T SA AFETFET Y A AND ND PR ROD OD U C T LIA BILITY development to testing, production and procurement & purchasing as well as all the stages and functions of our supply chain. Our product responsibility also includes product marketing and communication to consumers. As a tyre manufacturer, we must ensure that the Management of product advancements, product tyres that we develop, produce and market are safety and product liability covers the following verifiably safe to use and that they meet the material topics: quality requirements as well as the expectations • Product safety of our customers and end users. Our product • Rolling resistance of tyres development is guided by the principle of • Developing innovative and eco-friendlier sustainable safety: the safe characteristics of a products tyre must remain virtually unchanged throughout the tyre’s life cycle. For more information about the effects of the topics on the Nokian Tyres value chain and their scope, We are committed to continuous improvement: see the materiality analysis. our goal is to develop and manufacture the safest, highest-quality and most eco-friendly Management of product advancements, product tyres in the world. In practice, this means that safety and product liability is guided by the the new products that we launch always have following principles, operating models and policies: better properties than the previous models, and we have developed advanced solutions for our • Our leadership and product development are products, for instance in terms of rolling guided by our ethical guidelines, the resistance (fuel consumption, CO2 emissions) or Environmental, Safety and Quality Policy and soil compaction in agriculture and forestry. testing policies. We also comply with several requirements concerning noise, studs, We ensure the technical quality of our products chemicals, testing and tyre markings, among by testing and studying each raw material used other things. Learn more about this topic in tyre manufacture and by continuously under Sustainability management. improving our rubber compounds. Moreover, we are actively looking for and testing renewable raw materials. Product responsibility is connected with everything that we do, including product safety, quality and compliance. Responsibility covers our processes from research and product 48 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Management of product advancements, product safety and product liability • The basic principles of quality in our supply Tyre labels chain are following best practices based on the UNECE and EU regulations, efficiency and • EC/1222/2009; European Tyre Labelling functionality of processes, safety and Regulation consistency of products as well as delivery • GSO Tyre Labelling Regulation reliability. Our research and development • SASO 2857-2015; Tyre Labelling functions comply with the legislation that Chemicals Decree guides our industry, regulations and instructions by the authorities and the • EC/1907/2006; REACH Directive principles described in our ethical guidelines. Our activities are supervised by the authorities Product testing in various countries. Everything that we do is guided by the legal and regulatory • ISO 17025 accreditation requirements whose primary purpose is to • Agreement on production consistency with EU ensure road safety. Directive 2007/46/EC and the UN/ECE 1958 • Our activities in various functions are directed Agreement by work instructions and operating models, which apply to processes and work stages as PR PRO O D UC T well as individual tasks. Individual employees, supervisors, unit managers and top D EV EL ELO O PM EN ENT T management are all responsible for our activities. We revise our instructions, as OR RGG ANANII S SAAT I O N necessary. As of the beginning of 2018, we moved the • Product responsibility is connected to unitproduct management and product development specific and personal performance targets. functions under the new Products and Unit-specific targets are tracked in real time, Technologies unit, whose aim is to drive growth whereas personal targets are discussed by offering competitive products in all of our key annually during People Reviews. markets. The unit facilitates closer collaboration Our product development is also guided by the between the functions and brings the following policies, procedures and regulations: innovations and product development closer to consumers. In the future, our tyre product Tyre/vehicle safety (e.g. Uniform, the Stud Decree development will be able to respond to specific and noise) local requirements even better. Our aim is to ensure our position as an innovation leader in • UN/ECE E regulations 30, 54, 106, 109 and 117 terms of both products and solutions. The head • EC/661/2009; General Safety Regulation of the unit is a member of the company’s • TP TC 018/2011; Technical regulation on the management team and reports directly to the safety of wheeled vehicles President & CEO. • Decree 408/2003 as amended by Decree 466/2009; Stud Decree The product development organisation • U.S. DOT NHTSA Standards 571.119, comprises three key functions and their 571.139, 575.104 support departments: • CCC Chinese Compulsory Certification • GSO Standards 50, 51, 52, 1783, 1784 49 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Management of product advancements, product safety and product liability • Materials development focuses on tyres and In 2017, we introduced the Nokian Hakkapeliitta retreading materials. New raw materials and 9 and Nokian Hakkapeliitta 9 SUV winter tyres innovations are developed through research with new double stud design. According to tests, projects, often in collaboration with raw the tyres’ all ice grip and winter grip properties material suppliers. have improved compared to our previous • Structural design focuses on the different products. For the summer season, we released tyre components that affect, among others, the Nokian Hakka Blue 2 and Hakka Black 2 SUV handling, tyre noise and rolling resistance. summer tyres, which complement the Reducing rolling resistance is one of our key comprehensive Hakka summer tyre range. The goals in product development. new tyres deliver a balanced and precise road • Tread model design creates the tread contact thanks to their new generation tread models for new tyres. The tread model pattern, multi-layered structure and rubber affects the tyre’s aquaplaning properties, compound that ensures grip under varying grip and handling, for example. conditions. These three functions are supported by the We also published our plans to support the local testing department and tyre technology university’s pilot project in connection with our department, among others. upcoming Spanish testing centre. The project is among the first in Europe to study growing • The testing department first tests the highguayule, which is intended as a replacement for speed durability, wear durability and rolling natural rubber. resistance of tyres in laboratory conditions. Only the best tyres pass through to track GO GOAL AL-OR-OR IENTED W WOR OR K testing under actual conditions. Our test drivers test the selected tyres several times We improve the safety of our products through over in order to gain as much information as continuous product development and testing. possible about their performance. We invest in our innovation process because we • The tyre technology department tests new not only want to improve road safety but also ideas for tyres, provides feedback to the maintain our position as a manufacturer of product development departments and premium tyres and technical pioneer under all takes new products to production. conditions. The work related to product responsibility is also We also work tirelessly for better ecocarried out by cross-organisational working friendliness through lowering our tyres’ rolling groups, which enable us to ensure extensive resistance. Our goal is that each new product competence at the development of a tyre as well generation will have a lower rolling resistance as during commercial production. compared to the previous one. KE KEY MEA ASU S U RES IN 2017 In 2015, we set a goal for 2020 to reduce the rolling resistance of our product range by 7% Our product range reflects renewed compared to the 2013 baseline, thereby creating characteristics and advancements. Every product a decrease of 500 million kg in CO2 emissions that we launched in 2017 has some innovation from traffic. We reached this goal clearly ahead that improves safety. We set the targets for safety features, such as wet and ice grip, already at the concept stage. 50 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Management of product advancements, product safety and product liability of schedule. The proportion of tyres that reduce instructions also cover country-specific fuel consumption through ultra-low rolling guidelines, such as the reporting required by the resistance was nearly 90% in 2017 (87% in 2016), NHTSA in the United States. All group personnel which translates to an annual decrease of are instructed to report any quality deviations approximately 100 million kg in CO2 emissions. that they become aware of. We have a continuous strategic goal that product We follow the EU product safety database, which models launched no earlier than two years ago records recall events in the industry. The data account for approximately 30% of our yearly tyre helps us anticipate the likelihood of similar risks sales. By refreshing our product ranges in our own processes. regularly, we ensure that we offer tyres that meet the individual needs of each market. T RARAC CKIN NGG PR P RO OCEDU URE RE IN C CAA SE OF A RESPO N NSISI B I LI T Y – FA UL U LT T FR RO O M RA RAW W MA AT T ERI AL ALS S We employ a quality management system for T O PREM I UM T Y RES tracking our products over their entire life cycle and ensuring that all tyre lots that are cleared for The long and complex journey from raw sale comply with the applicable decrees and materials to finished premium tyres involves the regulations. We systematically track product effort and quality assurance of thousands of quality and our quality assurance results and professionals. It is, therefore, justified to say that swiftly take the necessary measures for ensuring all of our personnel are linked to product safety. responsibility, which starts from raw material Our group has not had any major product recalls purchasing. in more than 17 years. Furthermore, Nokian The work of our procurement department is Tyres has not been involved in any legal guided by the internal purchasing policy, which proceedings regarding product liability. provides an overview of sustainable Our systems enable us to initiate a tyre recall procurement. Based on our ethical guidelines, process and communicate quickly and we have prepared the Supplier Code of Conduct. accurately. The procedure for taking tyres off the Among other things, the document addresses market is specified in our quality instructions working conditions, human rights and and internal instructions, which cover both environmental protection. Suppliers of natural customer complaints and dangers caused to rubber are a special target group of our customers. The essential instructions apply to procurement. Read more about our handling customer complaints, limitation of sale procurement. and recalling a sales batch. We have the All raw materials that we use in production go capability to recall the products from the through an approval process. We also use wholesale and retail level or, in addition, from process controls during production for ensuring end consumers and to immediately report all the quality of tyres. Each finished tyre passes such events to the authorities in all countries through the production quality control, which where the affected tyres are being sold. Our includes the tyre’s force variation, out-of-round and run-on measurement as well as visual 51 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Management of product advancements, product safety and product liability inspection. When we release a new product for A UDI T TS S ENSUR E THE QU QUAL AL ITY dispatch, we use our internal quality OF OPER A ATIONS TIONS requirements that are in some ways stricter than the authorities’ requirements, for ensuring Our company’s operations are annually audited compliance. by our customers, car manufacturers and the parties behind various standards. In connection Safety is connected to understanding and with the permit procedure, regulatory managing the risks related to tyres. We track the authorities have verified that we have the safety of our tyres throughout the product life necessary prerequisites for conducting business cycle. During product development, our tyres go and that the tyres we put on the market meet through wear and performance testing, for the applicable requirements. example. We wear tyres completely out in order to understand their wear and any changes in The national regulatory authorities on tyres and characteristics. authorities regulating methods and equipment carry out periodic inspections in order to The assessments and measures are carried out supervise and evaluate Nokian Tyres’ research by specialised and trained experts. Our activities and work on ensuring the quality and safety of are based on our procedures in line with our our tyres. Furthermore, we use internal controls quality management system and the for ensuring the high quality and compliance of requirements by the authorities. We agree with our operations. We systematically conduct the authorities on any measures that we take. internal audits and management reviews and Our product responsibility continues until the continuously improve our procedures. tyres are recycled for material. If tyres are not Our ability to comply with the regulations and appropriately recycled, they will end up in the take care of our contractual obligations is also environment or pile up in garages. evaluated each year by our customers and In Europe, tyre manufacturers have arranged for partners. Their own audits verify whether our tyre recycling as a joint effort. In Finland, nearly tyre manufacturing processes and R&D 100% of all tyres are recycled, whereas in Europe functions are appropriate. the figure is approximately 95%. In Russia, the In 2017, FINAS (Finnish Accreditation Service) recycling rate of tyres has been quite low. We conducted accreditation audits to Nokian Tyres’ have actively participated in the discussions for test laboratories. The annual audit ensures that driving recycling. The discussions led to the we can conduct part of the regulatory testing completion of relevant legislation in 2015: The based on which the relevant national authority target for 2016 was to recycle at least 15% of the issues type approvals. Part of regulatory testing sales volume in Russia and, in 2017, 20% of the is ordered from external, accredited sales volume. Together with other large laboratories. In the past year, we also carried out manufacturers, Nokian Tyres has established a audits at our factories, for instance in connection recycling association in Russia for tyre with our quality and environmental companies. In 2017, a tyre recycling system was management system and the Chinese export put to use for the collection and utilisation of permit. end-of-life tyres. One future challenge is the lack of tyre recycling stations in Russia. Our internal audits focused on product safety. This was done in preparation for the new version of the automotive industry’s IATF 16 949 quality 52 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Management of product advancements, product safety and product liability management system, which includes product of tyre components also meet the prerequisites safety. The internal audits reviewed the entire and the obligations set in partner agreements. manufacturing process and identified the risks We follow up on and supervise the and the required measures. The possibility of implementation of any necessary corrective materials mixing up was identified as the most actions. significant risk to product quality. To address this, we implemented a system that prevents the CUS CU S T OMER S SA ATI SF SFA A CTI ON possibility of human error in choices of DR I VES OUR DEVEL DEVELOPMENT OPMENT materials. We also created a new product safety procedure that covers manufacturing in both of We track customer satisfaction through our factories. In the future, our factories will customer surveys, market insight and sales have appointed people responsible for product statistics. Their trends provide us with safety. information on customer satisfaction in relation to the competitive situation. We also utilise In addition to our own activities, we supervise industry reports by independent research the quality of operations and compliance organisations. Our customer and market concerning our subcontractors, suppliers and segment surveys provide guidelines for setting partners. Besides to assessments based on strategic goals and developing our operations. written surveys, we also carry out our own audit Read more about the development of customer visits in order to ensure that the other parties satisfaction. involved in the production and the development 53 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Innovation improves safety and eco-friendliness E ENVINVI R RO O NM N M E NT NTA A L A ND S SA A FETY GO G OALS A LS G U I D E OU R INNO INNOV VATIONS Our tyres are designed for drivers who demand safety, durability and comfort under all RI G O R RO OU US S S ST AN DARD TAND ARDS S conditions. The principle of sustainable safety in G UI D E O UR our product development includes a promise of developing eco-friendly products and production D EV EL ELO O PM EN ENT T technologies. The development process of a new EF F FO OR RT TS tyre takes 2 to 4 years. Consumers’ tyre choice should be based on the Before tyres are delivered from our production tyre’s suitability for their use scenario and to customers, they undergo several tests driving style. For example, a contractor who depending on the market, which examine the operates heavy machinery requires a different tyre’s behaviour in a range of conditions as well type of tyre than someone who drives a as its durability and eco-friendliness. On passenger car. In line with our global product average, a winter tyre goes through 20 approval policy, we offer tailored products and precision tests conducted by the authorities or their innovations for various circumstances and appointed accredited research laboratories. markets. Communities, regions (such as the EU) and Key measures in 2017: organisations (such as the UN) have all specified standards that a tyre must meet before entering • In 2017, Nordic winter tyres that deliver high the market. Our large markets – the Nordic ice grip amounted to 53% of our entire countries, Central Europe, Russia and the United winter tyre range (73% in 2016). States – use a total of 28 tyre tests that examine • The proportion of tyres that reduce fuel the properties of finished products and their consumption through ultra-low rolling behaviour under various conditions. In addition resistance was 90% (compared to 87% in to this, some regions subject tyres to their own 2016). additional tests, mostly concerning safety. • Of our summer tyre products, 100% were in the very high wet grip category. (99.5% in Each testing organisation uses its own testing 2016). practices. Most tests must be carried out by an • Our premium tyres with low rolling accredited testing laboratory. The EU and UN resistance and high wet grip correspond to tests, for example, may only be performed by a categories A, B and C of the EU tyre label. research laboratory which is audited and The share of ABC tyres was 68%. appointed by the national approval authority • We reduced rolling resistance by 7% from and which has received international 2013 to 2017. accreditation in compliance with ISO 17025. The high quality and compliance of tyres are tracked and monitored through testing. There are up to 300 different laboratory and driving tests that can be performed on a tyre at the 54 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Innovation improves safety and eco-friendliness product development stage. Before a new In our production, we only use raw materials product can enter the market, it has to comply that have been approved by our laboratory. with several national and international Before raw material batches can be used in standards and pass tests by independent rubber compounds, they must wait until our parties. laboratory clears them for production. Read more about our raw material procurement. As has happened several times before, the requirements concerning the eco-friendliness NEW S STEP TEPS S TTO O W AR D DS S and safety of tyres were tightened in 2017. New R ENEW ENEWABL ABL E R A AWW MAMATER TER I AL S developments occur at a different pace in different regions and, as a result, we are AND MA MATERTER I AL EFFI CI ENCY constantly subject to new requirements and The principle of sustainable safety in our product changes. development includes a promise of developing In the past year, for example, we prepared for eco-friendly products and production the 2018 wet grip requirement in the European technologies. In line with our strategy, we market, which applies to all van and light truck actively look for and test renewable raw tyres on the market. We also anticipated the materials. Our aim is to find bio-based raw stricter rolling resistance limits for passenger materials for various raw material groups, create car, van and light truck tyres, which will become eco-friendlier tyres and replace fossil raw effective in 2018. The upcoming change applies materials. We will also reduce the use of harmful to all tyres on the market. substances, thereby improving occupational safety in production. Renewable raw materials In the Nordic countries, Norway harmonised its are also used for improving tyres’ properties and studded tyre legislation in 2017 to match the performance. Finnish and Swedish legislation. Therefore, the Nordic countries now have consistent We have carried out extensive work on requirements for studded tyres. renewable raw materials because the use of new raw materials requires a great deal of product development efforts and testing in order to find R RAWA W MA MATE TE RIALS E NTE R the best combination of properties for a tyre. In materials development, the outset is that the PR PROD OD U CTION THR THROUG OUG H introduction of renewable materials must not THE LA BORA BORAT T OR ORY Y alter a tyre’s product or safety characteristics. We have made the furthest progress in the use In addition to rubber compounds, we use steel, of renewable raw materials with bio-based oils. textiles and other reinforcing materials in tyre They are used in order to replace synthetic oils production. Rubber compounds contain natural that are based on crude oil. The new winter tyres rubber, synthetic rubber, oils and fillers, such as that we launched in 2017 use a rubber carbon black and silica as well as sulfur and compound with a bio-based softener that various chemicals. A tyre typically contains 50% improves the tyres’ safety characteristics. A polymers, 30% fillers and 20% reinforcing similar bio-based softener is also used in the materials, softeners and chemicals. new products for 2018. For 2018’s new products, we have also developed new kinds of grip particles, whose 55 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Innovation improves safety and eco-friendliness raw material comes from a secondary flow in The use of renewable raw materials has not bioindustry. In addition to delivering better required us to change our production processes safety characteristics for tyres, the grip particles or had any significant effects on the energy improve material circulation in society. We consumption in production. However, renewable conduct forward-looking research in order to raw materials often increase the raw material investigate the use of recycled rubber sourced costs of tyres. from used tyres as a replacement for fossil carbon black. GU UA AY UL E P R ROOJ E ECCT NEA AR R OUR TES ST T ING A N D T E EC HNOL C HN LOOG GYY C EN TRE T O EM P L LOOY F FAA R M E R S AN D F IN D A REPLA ACECEMENT F FO OR NA ATU TU RAL RU BBER Guayule is an opportunity not only for Nokian Tyres but also for the local agriculture and industry. 27 different species of guayule that can withstand drought, cold and heat are cultivated in a half-hectare area. For the local farmers, the new crop, which can survive in harsh conditions, is a suitable alternative for the unprofitable cereal farming. The We are constructing a new testing and cultivation of guayule will also develop local technology centre in Santa Cruz de la Zarza, seedling production and the use of biomass by Spain, which is located south of Madrid. In industry, improve logistics and create parallel particular, the centre will be used for testing industries. summer tyres with a high speed rating as well as winter tyres. The research and The technology centre is scheduled to be development initiatives in the area will explore complete by 2020. The centre employs 200 the use of the guayule plant as a replacement people at the construction stage and some 40 for natural rubber. employees after it is finished. Furthermore, it has a significant indirect employment impact The EU has included natural rubber on the list in the transportation, service and logistics of critical raw materials and encourages industries. The potential environmental member states to secure its production. We impacts at the construction stage are participate in this effort by sponsoring a minimised, among other things, by taking the project by local farmers in Santa Cruz de la nesting of birds into consideration, planting Zarza that tests growing guayule. Guayule can trees and landscaping the area. replace natural rubber in tyre manufacture. 56 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Innovation improves safety and eco-friendliness Improving the fuel economy of tyres is one of THE L LO O WE R THE our most significant product development R OLLI NG RE SIS SIST TANCE , targets in the near future. Through determined and long-term product development, we have THE L LO O WE R THE FUE L managed to reduce the rolling resistance of our C ONSU M P PTION TION new tyres even further. We have achieved this by improving the tread patterns and tread compounds, among other things. Rolling resistance means the energy consumed by the deformation during the road contact of Rolling resistance is expressed with a rolling the tyre. Rolling resistance may vary greatly resistance coefficient: the greater the coefficient, between different tyres: tyres with low rolling the heavier the tyre rolls. At the moment, class C resistance may save more than 0.6 litres of fuel is the most common fuel economy rating for per 100 kilometres and reduce CO2 emissions by Nokian Tyres’ passenger car tyres according to 14 g/km. the EU tyre label. Class B is the second most common class. The EU tyre label reports fuel The tyre’s deformation and the amount of efficiency on a scale from A to G. A difference of energy it requires can be influenced with approximately 40% in rolling resistance results, structural and material choices in tyre design. on average, in a difference of 5–6% in fuel Examples of factors that affect energy consumption. Such a difference may occur, for consumption include the temperature of the example, between tyres with a class A and class tyre, inflation pressure, wheel load and tyre wear F fuel efficiency rating, respectively. A wise as well as drag and turbulence due to the driving choice of tyres and a careful driving style speed. significantly reduce the CO2 emissions from driving. 57 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Innovation improves safety and eco-friendliness THE MO OS ST S I G N I F I C CAA N T PR PRO O DU CT INNO INNOV VAT I O N S I N 2 0 1 7 In product development, our goal is that the We also launched the Nokian Nordman 7 and new tyres that we bring to the market always Nokian Nordman 7 SUV winter tyres that have better properties than the previous supplemented our winter tyre range aimed at models. The tyres that we launched and different consumer groups. developed in 2017 deliver better safety, ecofriendliness and precise handling. Innovations The key markets for both product families are in material and tread pattern development the Nordic countries, Russia and North improve safety. For better eco-friendliness, we America. have lowered the rolling resistance, thereby Nokian Hakka Black 2 and Hakka Black 2 reducing fuel consumption. We also pay SUV completed the Hakka summer tyre constant attention to ensuring that our range studded winter tyres have minimal road wear. We introduced new stud technology on the market Our new summer tyres emphasise safety under varying Northern conditions. The tyres feature a new generation rubber In early 2017, we launched the Nokian compound that improves wet grip and Hakkapeliitta 9 and Nokian Hakkapeliitta 9 reduces the loss factor, thereby lowering the SUV winter tyres that feature a new kind of temperature. This reduces the rolling stud technology. As a result of extensive resistance and, in turn, fuel consumption. The product development, different types of studs tyres’ surface structure enhances traction and in different parts of the tyre provide additional braking grip. Product development also safety in various driving scenarios. This emphasised tyre durability and longer service patented functional studding solution is life: the fibre used in the sidewalls is more unique on the market and it ensures both resistant to impacts and cuts, and stone great longitudinal grip and unparalleled lateral ejectors prevent the tyre tread from picking up grip when cornering under winter conditions. sharp stones that could damage the carcass. It also provides stable and comfortable bareroad handling. The key markets for the Nokian Hakka summer tyres are the Nordic countries and Russia. 58 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Innovation improves safety and eco-friendliness Nokian Hakkapeliitta R3 and Nokian The Nokian Hakkapeliitta R3 tyres feature Hakkapeliitta R3 SUV innovations that significantly improve the safety characteristics compared to our previous products and similar competing tyres. For example, we have improved the properties by using a bio-based softener in the tread compound, which helps keep the compound elastic even in low temperatures. Bio-based grip particles work together with the rubber compound to improve the grip properties. We launched the Nokian Hakkapeliitta R3 and R3 SUV non-studded winter tyres for passenger cars and SUVs in spring 2018. The key goal of product development has been improving the summer and winter characteristics of non-studded winter tyres. 59 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Your tyre choice matters YO U UR R T Y RE R E C HOIC E M A ATTERS TTERS Being a pioneer requires having expertise and save money. We also educate consumers to sharing information. As a manufacturer of tyres check their inflation pressure, which also that provide excellent safety and high quality, we contributes to fuel consumption. This is also must also carry our responsibility for improving something where safety goes hand in hand with road safety and eco-friendliness and educating eco-friendliness. people. The use of fossil fuels, including gasoline and INNF FL LUENC UEN C I N G T HE diesel fuel, accounts for the most of human INND DU US ST R RY Y AND AN D RAI SI N G carbon emissions. Carbon dioxide is the most significant greenhouse gas that is generated by DIS SC CU US S SI O N traffic. When a tyre rolls against the road surface, the generated friction is called the Nokian Tyres has been involved in furthering the rolling resistance. The higher the rolling tyre industry by participating in the work of resistance is, the higher the fuel consumption relevant organisations and discussions in the will be. The tyre, therefore, has a direct effect on industry. fuel consumption and emissions from traffic. Fuel consumption during driving is the single For example, we have promoted the demand for most significant environmental impact over a an ice grip label in public discussion. In northern tyre’s service life. conditions, ice grip is the most important property for winter tyres. Currently, consumers A difference of approximately 40% in rolling in the market for new winter tyres do not have resistance results, on average, in a difference of any means for comparing tyres in terms of ice 5–6% in fuel consumption. Such a difference grip, as the current markings only include a wet may occur, for example, between tyres with a grip rating. Nokian Tyres has called for a class A and class F fuel efficiency rating, mandatory ice grip label for winter tyres. The respectively. With the current fuel prices, a tyre growth of online tyre sales, used car imports, with a more economical rolling resistance can increase in low-cost products and emergence of save approximately €300 over its service life, i.e. new tyre categories (All-Season and All-Weather a driving distance of 40,000 kilometres. tyres) make it more difficult for consumers to know what kind of ice grip their witner tyres Everyone can influence our surroundings and provide. International tyre manufacturers have the world by seemingly minor choices. Each year, developed a test together for measuring the ice we communicate about the appropriate driving grip of winter tyres. The test is currently being style to the media and consumers in the Nordic standardised by the International Organization countries and Central Europe. A wise choice of for Standardization (ISO). tyres and a careful driving style significantly reduce the CO2 emissions from driving – and In 2016, Nokian Tyres proposed consistent rules for magazine testing practices to ETRMA, the European Tyre & Rubber Manufacturers’ association. We hoped that consistent rules 60 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Your tyre choice matters would make magazine testing practices more transparent. In 2017, the industry decided not to establish consistent rules for reasons independent of Nokian Tyres. We published our own Test Tyre Policy on our website. 61 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Your tyre choice matters LINK ING T H HEE W I N T E R TY RE RE EQUIRE QUIRE M E N T T TO O R ROOA D C COO N DITIO N S CAN C COOMPR RO OMISE R ROO AD S SAF AF ETY conditions. Summer and winter tyres are designed to work in different temperature ranges, and they use different rubber compounds and tread patterns. Summer tyres perform the best in warm weather, whereas winter tyres perform the best in cold weather. According to various studies, the braking distance on ice with summer tyres may be more than double that of winter tyres. In 2017, the Technical Forum of the Finnish Summer tyres do not perform properly in tyre industry commented on the draft temperatures below approximately +5 °C. In Government proposal for the Road Traffic Act such cold temperatures, the rubber and some related acts. The Government compound of the summer tyre tread loses its proposal aims to change winter tyre elasticity, thereby degrading its grip properties regulations such that winter tyres are required on all surfaces. The colder the temperature is, depending on the road conditions rather than the poorer the summer tyres’ grip properties mandating their use in December, January and become. When the temperature gets close to February. The Technical Forum has a critical zero, the tyre could be considered dangerous. opinion of the draft Government proposal due to road safety concerns. Linking the requirement to use winter tyres in December, January and February to road In its statement, the Technical Forum found it conditions may compromise road safety and positive that the draft Government proposal traffic efficiency. The Forum found that, in this would make winter tyre requirements stricter respect, the draft proposal has room for in November and March if warranted by the interpretation and includes several risk road or weather conditions. However, the factors. There is a risk of an increasing number Forum suggested that the draft proposal be of people driving on summer tyres under reconsidered where the winter tyre winter conditions and taking irresponsible requirement is dependent on the road risks with summer tyres. While most drivers conditions in the winter period from would likely act responsibly under winter December to the end of February. conditions, the change may increase the number of risky drivers on summer tyres in Tyres are the major risk factor in terms of the the winter period. These risky drivers driving properties of passenger cars and vans, endanger the safety of others in addition to and their significance is emphasised by themselves. demanding and rapidly changing road 62 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Your tyre choice matters THE A AURURO ORA INTELLIGE ENNT R RO O AD PR ROOJ E EC CT P PAAV E S T HE HE W WA AY FFO O R F U TU RE R OA D S SAAFETY particular by utilising arctic conditions. The ultimate purpose of the Aurora project is to further the automation of road traffic and find new, intelligent solutions for the needs of future transportation. Nokian Tyres is an expert in arctic conditions as well as tyre technologies. By participating in the Aurora project, we want to ensure that the resulting products and services are safe and Since late 2017, Nokian Tyres has participated meet the changing needs of transport and in the Aurora programme, which is customers also in the future. administered by the Finnish Transport Safety Agency. The multinational research project One of Nokian Tyres’ research topics within focuses on intelligent traffic: The intelligent Aurora is connectivity – how the vehicle, tyres road – a section of Main Road 21 in Muonio, and future roads communicate with each Finland fitted with intelligent instrumentation other. While AI is, in many respects, – comprehensively serves the development of revolutionising transportation and driving, the autonomous driving and transport, in tyres remain a vehicle’s main point of contact with the road even in autonomous driving. 63 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Your tyre choice matters S NA P PSK SKA AN DRIVES R ROO AD S SAF AF ETY model of the tread surface and calculates the tread depth of each tyre. The results are linked to the car’s registration number. After the scan, the results can be sent to the driver by email or SMS. As a leading expert, we want to be a pioneer in all developments concerning tyres, including the digitalisation of the tyre industry. We, therefore, want to continue creating new The tread depth of a car’s tyres is a safety services relating to tyres and their safety – factor that affects other road users in addition often together with our partners. The to the car’s driver. The SnapSkan service, technology and software companies Futurice which we first launched in December 2016 and and Affecto as well as the British Sigmavision, piloted more broadly in Finland during 2017, is which specialises in 3D scanning, participated a quick, easy and efficient way to check the in the technical development of the SnapSkan tread depth. We also designed SnapSkan to service concept. notify the driver when it is time to replace the tyres. SnapSkan targets a global user group: its purpose is to educate millions of people on The free SnapSkan service is used by driving tyres, improve road safety and offer peace of the car over a 3D scanner, which can be mind for drivers everywhere in the world. located in a car park, for example. The system automatically creates a three-dimensional 64 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 People P PEO E O PLE P LE H R M ANA HR ANAG EM ENT GEMENT S ATISFIED AND MO MOTIV TIVA ATED PER S SONNEL ONNEL Leadership in our company aims at top results based on our strong Hakkapeliitta culture, which Good management supports the competence, is built around entrepreneurship, working well-being and equal treatment of our together and inventiveness. committed, motivated and professional staff. G E T T I NG T TOO G O H OM E H EA L LTHY THY Our systematic improvement of practices aims for an even safer working environment that addresses the well-being of our personnel comprehensively. 65 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 HR management H HR R MA MANAG N A G E M ENT A ND IMPR RO O V E M E NT N TS S Our goal is to be a globally attractive employer that is known for its sustainability and a truly multicultural working community with diverse teams around the world. We also want to set an example in occupational safety as a tyre industry pioneer. Leadership of people covers the following material topics: • human rights in the company’s functions • diversity management Goal-oriented leadership develops an • high level of occupational health and safety in effective work community where the all operations personnel feel good and are committed to • employee satisfaction and motivation their own work as well as building the • professional development of employees company’s success. At Nokian Tyres, we achieve this by treating our employees fairly, Leadership of people is guided by the following developing their competence further and principles and operating models: ensuring equality and occupational wellOur leadership is guided by the strategy, which is being at all levels of our operations. the President & CEO’s responsibility, as well as our Our principles in all operations are fairness and values and leadership principles. Leadership is also respecting human rights, whether we are dealing guided by the Group’s Ethical Guidelines, Human with our personnel or other stakeholders. The Rights Principles as well as international and local principle of equal treatment and inclusion is an legislation. For the leadership of people, we have essential part of our operations. Our diversity defined guidelines, e.g. for safety and well-being, management grows out of the idea of fair recruitment, onboarding, People Reviews and treatment and equal working conditions. People development. The guidelines apply across Diversity is important for the company’s the entire organisation, and they are reviewed and international success because people with revised as necessary. various backgrounds and skill sets play an essential role in developing the company and K EY M EA EASURES SURES I N 2 01 017 new innovative solutions. In our internationally growing company, In 2017, our key focus areas were supervisor leadership that aims at top results and strategy work and improving leadership, strengthening implementation are founded on a strong our safety culture and taking steps toward global company culture – the Hakkapeliitta Spirit – that leadership practices. is built around our values of entrepreneurship, inventiveness and team spirit. 66 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 HR management • We improved the injury frequency rate by • We will use new operating models for 33% year over year through training on ensuring harmonised practices, closer safety and occupational well-being. collaboration, equal treatment and • Several training events focused on better respecting human rights. supervisor work and leadership by With regard to our new operational model, discussing team development and the we are continuing our investments in the People Reviews, among other things. development of leadership and global Trainings influence the leadership culture, processes and practices in terms of occupational well-being and safety as well as recruitment, onboarding, performance engagement and harmonised leadership management and compensation, among practices. other things. • 91.3% of our global personnel responded to • We will reduce injuries by 30% compared our Drive! personnel survey (in 2016, the to 2017. response rate was 88.7%). We implemented We will focus our investments on developing supervisor training to ensure that the survey the competence of our personnel, results were reviewed in the entire supervisor work and various corrective organisation. In addition, we arranged • Our employees will make more than workshops on the Drive! results to engage 10,000 safety observations in 2018. teams in planning improvements. We encourage our personnel to make safety • We made sustainability a more integral part observations, with the goal that, on average, of our company culture. 55% of our each employee makes two safety personnel completed an online course on observations. Driving safety observations sustainability in 2017. helps everyone review their own work and • In 2017, we started our work on a human their colleagues’ performance every day. rights impact assessment across our group, • We will implement a global HR which continues in 2018. Moreover, we information system. updated the group’s ethical guidelines in The new HR information system – Workday – spring 2017. supports the development of harmonised, equal and transparent leadership practices and their implementation across our group. GO G OA A LS F FOROR 2 01 8 • We will create and implement global framework for defining and evaluating With internationalisation and our new jobs. operational model, we will continue investing We will develop our rewarding system based strongly in the leadership of people, supervisor on this framework work and developing global operating models. Our goals for 2018: 67 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 HR management the safe processing of the personal data of our HU MA N RIGHT RIGHTS S AND employees and customers. In 2018, we will D DII VER S ITY implement a global HR information system, which will strengthen our employees’ personal MA M A NA NAGE GE ME NT data protection even further. As a Nordic company, our principles in all From the perspective of supply chain and its operations are fair treatment and respecting management, we carried out an internal human rights when dealing with our personnel assessment together with Procurement. We or other stakeholders. Our diversity identified several key impacts, including the right management grows out of the idea of fair to a family life, occupational safety and personal treatment and equal working conditions. data protection. The assessments will continue in 2018. In 2017, we started our work on a human rights impact assessment and identified its focus areas. We will assess human rights impacts from the OR RG ANII S G AN SAAT I O N AND perspectives of the supply chain and its GO OV V ERN ERNAN AN C E management, our personnel and our customers. The first stage assessment was conducted by At Nokian Tyres, our need to develop leadership Nokian Tyres’ Corporate Sustainability working processes and practices always arises from a group. business perspective, and their implementation From an HR perspective, occupational safety and is based on our strategy and company culture. personal data protection were identified as the Our aim is establishing consistent and truly key impact areas in terms of human rights. Both international HR operations. This guarantees of these risks are something we can influence, equal, transparent and clear, need-based human and we have already initiated some related resource management and it also enables us to actions. ensure the well-being and commitment of our personnel and the success of our business. From a customer perspective, our key human rights impacts are related to the safety impact In addition to effective decision making, project for end users of tyres and our customers’ management and information sharing, HR personal data protection. management aims at ensuring that our leadership and activities are business oriented In 2017, we initiated a personal data protection and follow an international perspective. The project in order to create operating models for graph below briefly describes Nokian Tyres’ HR management organisation and governance. 68 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 HR management observations are handled as appropriate in HA ND L LII N NGG IS ISSUESUE S AN AND D accordance with the law and our company’s C OMPLAINT OMPLAINTS S guidelines. All reports are investigated and each case is handled based on the results of the We handle any issues and complaints locally investigation. within our company. Our aim is to maintain a As part of our ethical guidelines, we have issued leadership culture that makes it very easy to a reporting procedure that instructs all of our raise concerns. employees to report any identified or suspected The primary channel for raising issues goes from internal or external misuse or violation. It also supervisors and experts up to the top describes the communication channels management, as necessary. Any questions and established for this purpose. The purpose of the instructions is to encourage our personnel to 69 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 HR management report any potential violations of ethical guidelines and laws that they encounter, so that T RARAC CKIN NG G S SOO C I AL we can investigate and handle each case. It is RESPO N NSISI B I LI T Y also possible to make an anonymous report e.g. through the Whistleblow channel. The same We use the following indicators for tracking channel is available to external stakeholders, e.g. leadership and HR development: at whistleblow@nokiantyres.com. • 102-8 Total number of employees by We also employ protocols, e.g. for bullying and employment type and employment contract, harassment. There are subject-specific with a breakdown by region and gender instructions that specify who to contact and how • 102-41 Percentage of total employees to deal with the situation with appropriate covered by collective bargaining agreements sensitivity. We also ask about potential issues, • 102-10 Significant changes to the including bullying and discrimination, in our organisation’s size, structure, supply chain annual Drive! personnel survey. or ownership • 401-1 Total number and rate of new We encourage everyone to make safety employee hires and employee turnover, observations that they can direct to whoever with a breakdown by age group, gender and they want inside the organisation. After the root region cause is identified, the matter is communicated • 403-2 Number of lost days, absentees, to the relevant responsible persons. The entire injuries and types of injury, occupational process is documented in order to ensure that it disease rate, lost days and work-related follows the protocol. fatalities, with a breakdown by region and All of our employees have the opportunity to gender raise issues or give feedback about important • 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee matters through our company intranet. We will skills and transition assistance programs respond in a transparent matter through the • 404-3 Performance reviews same channel, and everyone in the organisation • 405-1 Percentage of individuals within the can see the dialogue. organisation’s governance bodies and percentage of employees per employee category, with a breakdown by gender, age group, minority group and other diversity categories 70 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Getting to go home healthy A C CO OM MM MON S SA AFETY FETY C U L LTUTU RE Y YII E L D DS S R RE E SU L LTTS A safe and comfortable working environment is have set a target for 2015–2020 to reduce integral for our operations. We promote occupational injuries by 70%. Our positive occupational safety through risk management, development in reducing the number of injuries continuous improvement of processes and new continued in 2017. With the LT1F indicator investments. Nokian Tyres’ occupational safety is (injuries that result in one or more lost days) our on a good level in its field. We are making our injury frequency rate was 7.5. In 2016, we operations even safer and aim for zero injuries. tracked the injury frequency rate with the LT3F The goal is to ensure that everyone gets to go indicator (injuries that result in three or more home healthy at the end of their workday. lost days) and the figure was 7.4. Compared to 2015, we have managed to prevent every other Committed, competent personnel and a safe injury. working environment enable our business to grow internationally, including in the future. We A ABSENTE B SENTE E ISM B BY Y C COMOM P PANY AN Y Nokian Tyres Nokian Tyres Finland Vianor Nordic Russia Nokian Nokian NT Tyre OOO OOO Nordic Vianor Vianor Vianor Vianor Tyres Heavy Machinery* Nokian Nokian Wheels Holding Oy AB AS (FI) Tyres Shina Tyres Oy Sick absences 2.73% 4.77% 11.0% 1.42% 3.16% 0.38% 0.25% 4.30% 4.09% 7.30% % (total) Information of absenteeism by gender is not available *NT Tyre Machinery sick absences % available only for 10-12/2017 . 71 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Getting to go home healthy A C CI D EN T RA RATE TE (MORE T HAN 1 D DA AY AB ABSENC SEN C E / MI M I LLI L L I ON ON W WORKORK ING HOURS) 2015 2016 2017 Nokian Tyres Finland 22.3 20.2 8.6 Nokian Tyres Russia 3.0 3.0 3.2 Vianor 23.9 15.2 12.6 The ratio of all companies 13.9 11.2 7.5 *The information in the charts has been compiled immediate supervisors’ role in their teams’ from local HR systems. safety trainings. This is for supporting the implementation of safety practices in the everyday work of units and teams. Over the year, C OMPR EHE NSIVE we also created new rules and operating models SU P PPORT POR T F FOROR for occupational safety. For example, now it is mandatory to wear safety glasses throughout OC OCCU CU P PAATIONAL WE LL LL-the production area of the Nokia factory. In the B BEIEI NG future, reporting tools will provide us global benchmark figures on safety in real time. Close cooperation with occupational health care L EAR NING B BYY INSIGHT and coordinated improvement activities allow for preventive management of employees’ We have been improving our safety culture in working ability. The management of working the long term. We emphasise that ability is a part of everyday supervisor work. Our professionalism extends from smooth, fast and positive development in reducing sickness flawless results to the way they are achieved. absences continued in 2017. We support the The model applies equally to our own employees well-being of our employees through various as well as the subcontractors working in our sports and club activities and personnel events. areas. Our work with occupational health care focuses on prevention. For example, in our factories and Each employee must identify the risks involved at our test track, occupational well-being in their work and be able to act on their coordinators work every day in close observations. We encourage everyone in the collaboration with supervisors. company to make safety observations. This includes both negative and positive safety In 2017, we invested in the development of the personnel and technology in order to improve safety. Among other things, our trainings focused on leadership models and the 72 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Getting to go home healthy observations, safety walks that aim at improving teams in more than 200 sessions. Nearly 570 the level of safety and safety culture, near miss individual players took part in the game reporting and corrective actions. We have a sessions. All of the games included sections dedicated reporting system for tracking safety related to occupational well-being and safety. observations, which is open to all employees. The games emphasise the shared development of insights, discussions and the supervisor’s role In 2017, we introduced in the entire organisation as the game leader. The system provides the gamified Hakkapeliitta Go training platform, statistical data that helps us track the level of which strengthens interactive learning. In the competence and identify new areas for course of the year, we created 29 live games on improvement. the platform, which were played in Finland and Russia as well as at Vianor locations by various H EA EAV V Y T Y R E S M A D E S I GN IF IC ICANAN T IM P R ROOV E M E N T TSS I N T E RMS O F OCC OC UPA C UP AT I O N A L S SAAFETY Furthermore, supervisors received training on speaking up, which they then communicated to their teams. The unit directed everyone’s attention on good and poor safety practices by encouraging employees to make safety observations. As a result, a bit over 1,000 observations were reported by the end of the year. This is more than eight observations per production employee. From a safety perspective, the Nokian Heavy By the occupational safety numbers, the unit Tyres unit is one of our most challenging used to be among the worst performing ones, environments: it involves a considerable but when everyone understood the amount of manual labour and lifting heavy importance of safety and sought for safe ways objects. The unit identified safety and to work, it rose to the top of the company. reduction of injuries as a shared theme for Nokian Heavy Tyres managed to avoid eight everyone. injuries out of ten, and late in the year the component department reached 1,000 days The unit started the work on improving safety without accidents. by creating new practices that improve trust and transparency. For example, supervisors’ – It feels good to be able to trust that I and my morning and weekly meetings were moved colleagues will stay safe at work and get to go from the office to production, so that all the home healthy and wind down, says Tiina employees would have similar opportunities Tommila from the component department, to listen to their discussions. who has been with the company for ten years. 73 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Satisfied and motivated personnel S AT I S SF FIED A AND ND MO OTIV TIVA ATED P PE ERS SO ON NNE NE L AIM F FOROR T TOP OP RE R E S UL U LT TS High standards of People management ensure As necessary, we also tailored trainings based on the competence, well-being and equal treatment individual units’ development needs, the of our committed, motivated, and professional business strategy and business goals. In 2017, personnel. Supervisors implement our we developed our sales and sales management consistent company and leadership culture into with the global Sales Academy training our everyday work in a natural and consistent programme, which strengthened the skills of way. supervisors and salespersons. For sales supervisors, we organised international Sales We support our employees’ development with Coaching trainings with the aim to harmonise internal job rotation, on-the-job learning and the leadership culture in sales and help training solutions. People Reviews play a key role salespersons reach even better results. We in developing our personnel. The People Reviews arranged local Sales Skills Trainings for sales focus on performance management, targets and teams based on a sales process defined together competence development with the salespersons. In particular, the training focused on identifying customer needs and Further development of supervisor work and improving sales skills. In addition to improving leadership is essential. Among other things, we our sales and customer service performance, we use 360 degree assessments, coaching and used training to support our growth ambitions in various internal and external trainings for Central Europe and North America. improving supervisor work. We have linked our mutually agreed leadership principles to Overall, the development of competence mainly supervisors’ 360 degree assessments and the comes from on-the-job learning in various Hakkapeliitta Leader simulation game. projects, problem solving, job rotation and new tasks. We introduced the gamified HakkapeliittaGo training platform throughout the entire company in 2017, which is an innovative way to LEAD ERSHI P enable learning in teams. In 2017, we also renewed our Hakkapeliitta eAcademy training PRI NC N C I PLES G R RO OW O U T portal that is used for flexible e-learning across O F O UR V VAL ALUES UES the group. As we revised our organisational structure late in Our leadership principles are a practical tool for the year, we offered supervisors support with supervisors throughout the group and they change management and communication establish a basis for improving and tracking through global Skype training sessions, among leadership. This way, all supervisors know how others. we are assessing supervisor work, how they should improve as supervisors and how they should develop their own team. Creating a 74 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Satisfied and motivated personnel consistent company and leadership culture performance in all the indices in 2017: starts with ensuring consistent leadership and leadership, commitment, performance and supervisor work that meets our company’s engagement were all higher than the needs. Ultimately, however, it is everyone’s international norm, with engagement clearly business. exceeding the international norm. • Lead by example. Be a role model who Our personnel responded that the quality of our promotes the Hakkapeliitta culture! products and services is excellent and that our • Develop your team. Seek and offer your values are clear and worth pursuing. We also team opportunities to develop! received praise for the freedom to express • Show the way forward. Set engaging goals opinions, appreciation of work and the clarity of and support your team’s ambition! goals. Out of all the respondents, 92% • Encourage continuous improvement. considered that our company takes care of Contribute to an innovative and open corporate social responsibility well. 85% of all atmosphere! respondents and 77% of production workers • Take responsibility for quality and thought that their working environment is safe. results. Inspire your team toward an Both of these scores improved compared to the entrepreneurial mindset! previous year. The identified development needs were THE D R IVE ! PE RS RSONN ONNEL EL particularly focused on supervisor work, inclusion and information flow. We also SU R RVEY VEY IS A CHANCE organised a virtual workshop where the T O MA K KE E A employees could actively present ideas for our company’s future success and share their D DII FFER ENCE competence. Our annual Drive! personnel survey is an The importance of working together and important tool for developing our organisation developing shared processes, operating models and company. It enables our personnel to and a shared working environment were evident actively and comprehensively give feedback on from both surveys’ results. In Nokia, for example, matters that have improved their job satisfaction the results will be used for reviewing workspaces or that need improvement. in order to improve the working culture. Of all group personnel, 91.3% responded to the Supervisors communicated the Drive! survey 2017 survey (88.7% in 2016). The overall score – results to the entire organisation. They received the People Power index that measures special Drive! coaching on reviewing the results employee engagement and prerequisites for with their teams, identifying improvement needs engagement – grew on the group level. The and implementing the action plan with their trend has been positive in the past three years, teams. In addition, HR and occupational wellwhich means that employee engagement has being coordinators have actively participated in improved. All in all, we improved our the review sessions. Review sessions were arranged for all production shifts, for example, and the process included identifying teams that need special support. 75 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Satisfied and motivated personnel R RESUESU L LTT OF DRIVE ! PERS PERSO O NN N N EL SUR SURV V EY ((O O V ERAL L RESU R ESU L LTT ME A SURE D W I T H PE ASURE PEO O PLE PO POWER WER I ND N D EX ) 2013 2015/2016 2017 Nokian Tyres Finland 63.9 61.5 67.3 Nokian Tyres Russia and Kazakhstan 69.0 73.8 74.9 Sales companies 72.7 72.8 70.4 Vianor 76.3 75.4 76.4 Nokian Tyres Group 69.7 70.8 71.8 which was established in 2015, our group’s office PE PEO O P LE RE VIE W WS S employees have two reviews and production workers one review each year. The People Our performance appraisals, the People Reviews include all of our personnel regardless Reviews, shape our direction in the near future of gender or employee group. and set concrete targets for the daily work based on the business strategy. These discussions are In 2017, a total of 83.4% of our personnel had a also an important part of supervisor work, and People Review session (86% in 2016). Year over they are essential for competence development. year, the numbers were higher in our sales companies. In Vianor, on the other hand, the The People Reviews assess how well the set challenging year and ongoing profitability targets have been reached and look at the improvement programme resulted in decline in overall performance in line with our values. They the conducted People Reviews. In 2018, we will also go through the targets for the coming year, pay special attention to making the People discuss the prerequisites for success and review Review process a more integral part of competence development needs in terms of the leadership also in Vianor. We will also continue targets and the future needs. The People offering global supervisor training and Reviews are recorded in an electronic tool and particularly focus on improving performance reported to the management. assessment and conducting assessments fairly. In early 2017, the all managers received training The Drive! survey results indicate that the People on the importance of the People Reviews, Reviews are considered to be beneficial, and performance management and the process they demonstrate a positive connection to itself. According to our People Review process, employee satisfaction in each survey topic, regardless of the employee group. 76 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Satisfied and motivated personnel PE PEO O P LE RE VIE W WS' S' IMP LEM EN ENTA T AT I O N ((RR EA LI S SA ATION, %) 2015 2016 2017 Nokian Tyres Finland 79.4% 97.4% 99.7% Nokian Tyres Russia 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Vianor 37.6% 75.1% 87.0% Sales companies 79.7% 69.8% 56.3% Nokian Tyres Group 82.8% 86.0% 83.4% The new system helps us harmonise our people W O R KD KDA AY BRING BRINGS S processes, and it will support business decisionPE PEO O P LE PR PROCEOCE S SSESE S T TO O making with real-time data and analytics. This way, we can support the formation of global THE D I G IT ITAL AL E RA teams and international rotation as well as business management. After its implementation, The implementation of the new HR information Workday will promote equal treatment and system, Workday, advanced in 2017 according to transparency in our company. Workday compiles plan. It will be introduced across the group in all employee data into a single location, which early 2018. The significant HR processes will be simplifies data management and speeds up the integrated into the HR information system within flow of information. Each employee can check the next two years. Harmonising practices is one and update their information in the system. of the first steps towards our shared vision: one company – one team. 77 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Satisfied and motivated personnel SMALL INITIA ATT I V E S B R IN ING L LOOT S O F JO OY Y T TOO L LOOC CAAL C COO M M U NITIES N ITIES In Russia, our employees made a difference by purchasing gifts that a charity organisation delivered to lonely, elderly people in need. We have also started to organise a clothes collection drive twice per year. Some of the clothes are sold through Kiitos charity shops and some are delivered directly to people in need. Worn out clothes are sent for recycling. In the 2017 campaign, our employees collected some 200 kg of clothes. They were We influence society in many ways: In Nokia, donated to Kiitos charity shops, and the we are one of the major employers. In Russia, money went to helping homeless people in St. we built housing for our personnel. We pay Petersburg. Unsold clothes were donated to taxes that support the well-being of people in the residents of the Borisova Griva village. several countries. We are also actively involved in making road traffic safer. We believe that We also participated in making the roads in even small actions matter and, in 2017, we Nokia safer for children together with a local carried out many initiatives with our association that organised a children’s safety personnel. event. Nokian Tyres supplied Pirkanmaan Karting ry with three junior karts within the In Nokia, we helped children in need in the Flying Finn 100 youth sport campaign. Before Tampere Region through our collaboration the karting club juniors started training with with the Tampereen Hope ry association. the new vehicles, our employees’ children got Nokian Tyres donated business gifts for Hope the opportunity to take them for a test drive. to sell, and our employees had the opportunity to buy products. In a 2017 Our units around the world organise various initiative, we raised nearly EUR 5,500 for the initiatives and take both small and large association to buy, among other things, food actions for a safer, more equal and better vouchers for Christmas for families in need. tomorrow. Our employees have also spread joy by raising money for new school bags and supplies at the start of the school term and donating Christmas presents to children through the Hope association. 78 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Satisfied and motivated personnel T O TA L W WORK ORK F FOR ORCE CE BBYY EM PL PLO O Y M ENT EN T T Y PE, EMP E MPLO L O Y ME NT C CONTR ONTR A ACC T AND AN D REREG G I O N, N, BR RO O K EN D DOWO WN B BY Y GE NDE R Nordic Russia CE and North The rest Total and Eastern America of the CIS Europe world Total workforce on 31.12.2017 2,602 1,532 170 195 14 4,513 Women 388 233 64 18 8 711 Men 2,214 1,299 106 177 6 3,802 Total number of own 2,558 1,532 169 195 14 4,468 employees Women 378 233 63 18 8 700 Men 2,180 1,299 106 177 6 3,768 Number of supervised 44 0 1 0 0 45 workers Women 10 0 1 0 0 11 Men 34 0 0 0 0 34 Total number of seasonal 1,375 0 0 5 0 1,380 employments in Vianor during 2017 Permanent 2,453 1,458 168 195 0 4,274 Full-time 98.3% 100.0% 95.2% 97.4% 100.0% 98.7% Part-time 1.7% 0.0% 4.8% 2.6% 0.0% 1.3% Women 14.2% 12.3% 36.9% 9.2% 58.3% 14.2% Men 85.8% 87.7% 63.1% 90.8% 41.7% 85.8% 79 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Satisfied and motivated personnel T O TA L NUMBE R AND RA RAT T E O F NEW N EW EM PL PLO O Y EE HI R ES AND E MPL MPLO OYE E T URN URNOV O V ER B BY Y G EN END D ER, A GE GR GROUP OUP,, AND RE REG GION Nordic Russia CE and North The rest Total and Eastern America of the CIS Europe world Total number of new employees 466 304 127 36 1 934 Number of women 85 68 53 5 0 211 Number of men 381 236 74 31 1 723 Number of under 30 years old 218 177 16 19 0 430 Number of 30-50 years old 207 127 98 12 1 445 Number of over 50 years old 41 0 13 5 0 59 New employee hires rate (Total) 18.2% 19.8% 75.1% 18.5% 7.1% 20.9% Percentage of women 3.3% 4.4% 31.4% 2.6% 0.0% 4.7% Percentage of men 14.9% 15.4% 43.8% 15.9% 7.1% 16.2% Percentage of under 30 years old 8.5% 11.6% 9.5% 9.7% 0.0% 9.6% Percentage of 30-50 years old 8.1% 8.3% 58.0% 6.2% 7.1% 10.0% Percentage of over 50 years old 1.6% 0.0% 7.7% 2.6% 0.0% 1.3% Nordic Russia CE and North The rest Total and Eastern America of the CIS Europe world Total number of terminated 327 132 19 41 2 521 employees (fixed terms not included) Number of women 30 39 8 8 0 85 Number of men 297 93 11 33 2 436 Number of under 30 years old 77 55 3 28 1 164 Number of 30-50 years old 173 76 15 8 1 273 80 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Satisfied and motivated personnel Number of over 50 years old 68 1 1 5 0 75 Turnover rate (Total) 12.8% 8.6% 11.2% 21.0% 14.3% 11.7% Percentage of women 1.2% 2.5% 4.7% 4.1% 0.0% 1.9% Percentage of men 11.6% 6.1% 6.5% 16.9% 14.3% 9.8% Percentage of under 30 years old 3.0% 3.6% 1.8% 14.4% 7.1% 3.7% Percentage of 30-50 years old 6.8% 5.0% 8.9% 4.1% 7.1% 6.1% Percentage of over 50 years old 2.7% 0.1% 0.6% 2.6% 0.0% 1.7% C OMPO OMPOSITION SITION OF GO GOV V ERN ERNAN AN C E B O D I ES AN D B BR R EA KDOKDOWN WN OF E MPL MP LO O Y EES PER EM PL PLO O Y EE C AT E EGOR GORY Y A AC C C ORDIN G T TO O G EN END D ER AN D A AG GE GR G ROUOU P Nordic Russia CE and North The rest of Total and Eastern America the world CIS Europe Number of individuals 18 2 4 2 1 27 within the top management Number of women 5 0 0 0 0 5 Number of men 13 2 4 2 1 22 Percentage of women 27.8% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 18.5% Percentage of men 72.2% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 81.5% Number of under 30 years old 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of 30-50 years old 8 2 3 2 1 16 Number of over 50 years old 10 0 1 0 0 11 Percentage of under 30 years 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% old Percentage of 30-50 years old 44.4% 100.0% 75.0% 100.0% 100.0% 59.3% Percentage of over 50 years 55.6% 0.0% 25.0% 0.0% 0.0% 40.7% old 81 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Satisfied and motivated personnel Number of white collars 1,105 385 165 95 13 1,763 Number of women 264 175 63 18 8 528 Number of men 841 210 102 77 5 1,235 Percentage of women 23.9% 45.5% 38.2% 18.9% 61.5% 29.9% Percentage of men 76.1% 54.5% 61.8% 81.1% 38.5% 70.1% Number of under 30 years old 79 109 19 17 1 225 Number of 30-50 years old 714 260 118 43 12 1,147 Number of over 50 years old 312 16 28 35 0 391 Percentage of under 30 years 7.1% 28.3% 11.5% 17.9% 7.7% 12.8% old Percentage of 30-50 years old 64.6% 67.5% 71.5% 45.3% 92.3% 65.1% Percentage of over 50 years 28.2% 4.2% 17.0% 36.8% 0 22.2% old Number of blue collars 1,435 1,145 0 98 0 2,678 Number of women 109 58 0 0 0 167 Number of men 1,326 1,087 0 98 0 2,511 Percentage of women 7.6% 5.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 6.2% Percentage of men 92.4% 94.9% 0.0% 100.0% 0.0% 93.8% Number of under 30 years old 321 344 0 17 0 682 Number of 30-50 years old 800 766 0 63 0 1,629 Number of over 50 years old 314 35 0 18 0 367 Percentage of under 30 years 22.4% 30.0% 0.0% 17.3% 0.0% 25.5% old Percentage of 30-50 years old 55.7% 66.9% 0.0% 64.3% 0.0% 60.8% Percentage of over 50 years 21.9% 3.1% 0.0% 18.4% 0.0% 13.7% old Composition of the Board 6 Number of women 2 Number of men 4 82 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Satisfied and motivated personnel Percentage of women 33.3% Percentage of men 66.7% Number of under 30 years old 0 Number of 30-50 years old 2 Number of over 50 years old 4 Percentage of under 30 years 0.0% old Percentage of 30-50 years old 33.3% Percentage of over 50 years 66.7% old *The information in all charts above has been compiled from local HR systems. 83 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Economy ECO N NO OMY F I NA N A N C I AL MA NA NAG G EMENT CU CUS S T OMER R EL A ATITI ONS AND DEL I VER VERY Y R EL I AB I L ITY AR E Good financial management supports systematic ES ESSENTIAL SENTIAL and foreseeable operations. Financial success and our ability to create value for our Long customer relationships based on trust stakeholders lay the foundation for our financial create opportunities for improvement and responsibility. success. Delivery reliability is one of the prerequisites of our success. PR P RO OFITTAAB B LE LE GR RO O WTH BENEFIT BENEFITS S E EVVER RYYO N NE E Our profitable business enables us to offer work and well-being for our personnel and also consider investors, customers and stakeholders. 84 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Financial management FI FIN NA AN N C I AL M ANA ANAG G EMENT Product and customer profitability guide our operations, which we develop in a crossorganisational way, together with the business units. Following our internationalisation, our Finance function is actively involved in developing global processes and systems that Our financial responsibility is based on our enable the best possible service for Nokian company’s financial success and ability to create Tyres’ customers. Our goal is to ensure that the value for stakeholders. Nokian Tyres conducts systems grow in a controlled manner along with active and result-oriented financial the company and that our operating models management. Our Finance function collects continue to be reasonable and flexible locally. In extensive information on the operating relation to these efforts, one of our most environment as well as the different stages and significant projects in 2017 was renewing the results of our company’s business processes. ERP system of our Russian factory. Good financial management enables planned activities and forecasting. In 2017, Nokian Tyres The head of financial administration is Vice performed well in all of its key business areas President of Finance, who reports to the and is now back on track to growth. company's President & CEO. Together, they are also in charge of investor relations. Major Our business must be profitable so that we are investments are discussed by the regularly able to offer security, work and well-being for convening Investment Board. our personnel, while also considering the investors, customers and other stakeholders. Financial management covers the following Our strategic goal is to grow faster than the material topics: market and be the world’s most profitable tyre • Profitable growth and a good profit level company. • Customer satisfaction • Sustainability improving our competitiveness FO C U USS AREA A R EAS S OF FINA NC IA L • Business risk management, including MA ANAG N A G E MENT M ENT F FOR OR 2017 2017– – 20 1 8 sustainability The goals of our Finance function in the coming For more information about the effects of the years include enabling new projects and special topics on the Nokian Tyres value chain and investments by ensuring sufficient cash and their scope, see the materiality analysis. credit limits. In 2017, the Finance function was closely involved in the preparations of our C OR POR A ATE TE GOGOVER VER NANCE IN A factory investment in Dayton, Tennessee. In NUT NUTSHELSHEL L addition, Finance is closely involved in the implementation of our company’s potential Our corporate governance is based on the structural changes, including the assessment annual general meeting, Board of Directors, and management of the related risks and President & CEO, group’s management team, opportunities, while adapting our financial Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act and reporting according to the business needs. applicable regulations as well as the group’s 85 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Financial management policies, procedures and practices. The Board of • The Board of Directors is responsible for Directors has approved the corporate corporate governance and the appropriate governance statement and the company’s conduct of ordinary activities. The Board auditors verify that the statement and its related holds the general authority in matters descriptions of the internal reporting controls concerning the company, unless other and risk management correspond to the company bodies have the authority under financial reporting process. the applicable legislation or articles of association. The policies and key tasks of the • The annual general meeting holds the Board are defined in the Limited Liability highest decision-making power. Among Companies Act, the articles of association, other things, the annual general meeting and the Board’s rules of procedure. The key decides on the confirmation of the tasks include consolidated financial company’s annual accounts, profit statements, interim and half-year reports, distribution and releasing the Board of proposals to the annual general meeting, Directors and the President & CEO from appointing and dismissing the President & liability. Moreover, the annual general CEO and organising financial control. meeting elects the members of the Board of • The President & CEO manages the group’s Directors and the auditor and determines business operations and implements the their remuneration. In addition, the annual current corporate governance in accordance general meeting can make decisions with the instructions and guidelines concerning amendments to the articles of provided by the Board of Directors. The association, share issues, granting warrants President & CEO may, considering the and the acquisition of the company’s own extent and nature of company’s operations, shares, for example. only undertake unusual or far-reaching • Shareholders have the legal right to actions with the Board’s authorisation. The propose matters for consideration by the President & CEO is responsible for ensuring annual general meeting by submitting a the legal compliance of the company’s written request to the Board of Directors in accounting and for arranging reliable asset time for including the matter in the management. invitation to the meeting. • The group’s management team assists the President & CEO in the management of the company’s operations. In accordance with the group’s meeting policy, the Management Workshop convenes once per month and it is attended by the President & CEO along with the business Vice Presidents, service Vice Presidents, Vice President for Russian operations and chief audit executive (CAE). 86 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Financial management • The group’s internal control mechanisms Financial risks are related to fluctuations in the are in place in order to ensure that the interest rate and currency markets, refinancing financial reports released by the company as well as counterparty and receivables risks. contain material and accurate information Hazard risks may lead to injuries, property on the group’s financial standing. The group damage, production outages, environmental has defined the group-level instructions and impacts or liabilities to third parties. policies for the key operational units specified below in order to ensure efficient The most significant risks related to Nokian and profitable company operations. Tyres’ business are the country risks related to the Russian business environment, reputation See our full corporate governance statement risks, tax risks (especially in Finland), product here. Read more about our report of salaries and R&D risks, production outage risks, currency and remuneration here. and receivables risks as well as the governance, information security and data administration RI R I SK M ANAANAG G EM ENT A AT T NOKIAN risks. Due to the company’s product strategy, T TY YR RE ES interruption risks that are related to marketing and logistics may also have a significant impact, The basic functions of every sustainable especially on peak season sales. company include risk management, which involves identifying and prioritising the In 2016, we conducted in-depth assessments of applicable risk factors and preparing for the sustainability risks in accordance with our road main risks. At Nokian Tyres, Corporate Risk map and included detailed evaluations of Management (CRM) also includes the sustainability risks. The risk analysis conducted sustainability aspects. at that time focused special attention on corporate social responsibility risks, the most The group has adopted a risk management significant of which are related to the company’s policy, approved by the Board of Directors, reputation and product quality. In 2017, we which supports the achievement of strategic continued our work on the risk maps related to goals and ensures business continuity. Our risk management and expanded our views to group’s risk management policy focuses on include the sustainability, human rights and data managing both the risks pertaining to business security aspects. opportunities and the risks affecting the achievement of goals in the changing operating The risk management process aims to identify environment. and evaluate the risks and to plan and implement the appropriate practical measures The risks are classified as strategic, operational, for each risk. Among others, such measures may financial and hazard risks. Strategic risks are include avoiding the risk, reducing it in different related to customer relationships, competitors’ ways or transferring the risk through insurance actions, political risks, country risks, brand, policies or agreements. Control functions and product development and investments. measures refer to verification or back-up Operational risks arise as a consequence of procedures that are applied in order to reduce defects or failures in the company’s internal the risks and ensure the completion of the risk processes, personnel’s actions or systems or due management measures. to external events, such as legislative changes, unpredictable rulings by judicial systems or There is no dedicated organisation established authorities or changes in raw material prices. for risk management. Risk management is 87 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Financial management considered as the company’s internal activity. Read more about our principles of investor The related responsibilities follow the general relations. division of responsibility adopted elsewhere in the organisation and its business, which is SU SUS S TAINABIL I TY I MPR MPRO O VING followed by each person individually. We take OUR C COMPETI OMPETI TIVENES TIVENESS S into account our corporate social responsibility and the related aspects in all of our functions In addition to pioneering products and excellent and at all levels. In 2017, we continued service, we also want to be an industry pioneer developing the group-level risk management in terms of sustainability. The more often our responsibilities and roles. The changes will brand and products are associated with become effective at the beginning of 2018. The sustainability in addition to safety and high new assignment of roles includes a Vice quality, the more we can attract sustainabilityPresident responsible for group-level risk conscious customers. Corporate sustainability management and the related implementation also improves our competitiveness, thereby measures. Our company’s Board of Directors supporting our goal of profitable growth. discusses the most significant risks and their Business success, in turn, benefits our related measures annually in connection with surroundings and stakeholders. the strategic process. In addition to our corporate sustainability goals C O M PLA PLAII NT NT PR ROC OC EDU RE IN and road maps, our externally assured GRI Standards-compliant Corporate Sustainability F I NA N A N C I AL C COMM OMM U NICNICA ATION Report guides the development of sustainability Our policy regarding investor relations guides in our company. For us, profitable growth, good our continuous interaction with our investors. In HR management and environmental aspects, line with the policy, we provide all of our along with product safety and quality, are investors with the same transparent and timely important for the development of sustainable information on our activities at all conditions. All business operations. investors are equally included in the scope of Our selection for Dow Jones’ DJSI World our general and public disclosures. One of our sustainability index in 2017 may be considered ways of disclosing information is our investor as a result of our long-term efforts. With a total website. sustainability score nearly twice as high as the Investors can contact us personally or at a industry average, our company significantly common email address intended for investors. improved its results in the 2017 assessment. Our We address the questions and raised issues in score of 78 points was only one point behind the accordance with our policy on investor relations. world’s highest score in the Auto Components We also offer our investors an opportunity to sector. We were the highest-ranking tyre have one-on-one discussions or group manufacturer. The Dow Jones Sustainability discussions. We regularly meet with our major Index (DJSI) is an annual sustainability investors and arrange factory visits for them in assessment for large publicly traded companies, Finland and Russia. performed by the Swiss RobecoSAM. Our group’s communication is based on the We are included in the OMX GES Sustainability Nokian Tyres’ communication policy. Finland GI index, which provides transparent, objective and reliable information for making responsible investments. The companies are 88 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Financial management selected for the index based on their compliance • 102-18 Governance structure of the with the requirements that focus on the organisation management of environmental, social and • 201-1 Direct economic value generated and corporate governance (ESG). We are also distributed included in the STOXX Global ESG Leaders and • 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts FTSE4Good indices. • 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement We track financial management with the following indicators: 89 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Profitable growth benefits everyone P PRO R OFIT TABA B LE G GRO R O WTH BENEFIT BENEFITS S E EV VER RY YO N NE E We seek growth and strong profitability for our C ONTINUOU ONTINUOUS S I MPR MPRO O VEMENT I N business. Our strategic goal is to grow faster AL L AR EA EAS S than the market. Through financial success and profitability, we are able to offer security, work For us, it is important to improve our products and well-being for our personnel, while also and maintain our position as a leading considering the investors, customers and other manufacturer of premium tyres. We focus our stakeholders. production on core products with good margins and make consistent investments in improving We reached our goals for 2017: we are back on quality, productivity and logistics. Our strong track to growth and increased our turnover in expertise in the northern conditions has enabled terms of Passenger Car Tyres, Heavy Tyres and us to grow our product range and extend our the Vianor chain. Furthermore, we saw a positive sales to new areas. Consumer recommendations trend for the third consecutive year in our Drive! strengthen our company’s reputation and drive personnel survey. We experienced no our sales. permanent or temporary layoffs in our production during 2017. However, due to the In addition to product development, we challenging year, temporary layoffs were prioritise the continuous improvement of our required at Vianor. business models and processes. The management and functionality of the Our goals for 2018 include maintaining the distribution chain are basic requirements for industry’s best operating profit level (22% at a growing our sales and for receiving a good minimum), aiming for organisational efficiency return on investment. Profitable growth requires and growing sales faster than our overhead that we continuously increase our capacity. We, costs. The goals are set until the end of 2018, therefore, invest in new production capacity and we will review their progress during the year according to our growth targets while following 2018. the market developments. Profitable business not only benefits our stakeholders in various ways, it also enables us to further develop our business. Moreover, financial success makes our own business even more interesting and varied overall. 90 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Profitable growth benefits everyone T H E NE W F FAAC T TOOR RYY S U PPO R RTTS O U R GO OA AL OF DOUBLING OU UR R NOR RTH TH A ME R IC ICA AN S SAA L E S W I T HINH IN F IVE YEARSY EARS We are currently making between 600 and 700 different products for the North American market. Moving the production of these tyres to the upcoming Dayton, TN factory will boost our factories’ productivity and efficiency and simplify our production, thereby enabling us to grow our production capacity. This will be our first North American production facility, with a production capacity In May 2017, we announced that we are of 4 million tyres per year. It will be possible to building a factory in Dayton, Tennessee, which expand the factory at a later time. We will also will be our third factory. This important build a logistics centre in the area with a investment decision follows our growth storage capacity of 600,000 tyres. The strategy. North America is one of our key construction is scheduled to start in early growth areas in addition to Central Europe. 2018, and we expect tyre production to start in Our investment will support our sales in North 2020. America and Canada, enable us to serve our customers better and yield savings, among The new factory in a nutshell others, with customs duties and logistics costs. 91 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Profitable growth benefits everyone KEY FI GURE S S,, IFRS EUR million 2017 2016 change % Net sales 1,572.5 1,391.2 13.0 Operating profit 365.4 310.5 17.7 % net sales 23.2 22.3 Profit before tax 332.4 298.7 11.3 % of net sales 21.1 21.5 Return on capital employed (ROI), % 22.4 19.9 Return on equity (ROE), % 15.1 18.7 Interest bearing net debt -208.3 -287.4 27.5 % of net sales -13.2 -20.7 Net cash flow from operating activities 234.1 364.4 -35.6 Gross investments 134.9 105.6 27.8 % of net sales 8.6 7.6 1.0 Earnings/share, EUR 1.63 1.87 -13.0 Shareholders equity per share, EUR 10.74 10.75 -0.1 Equity ratio, % 78.2 73.8 Taxes, EUR 111.0 46.9 Wages, fees, social security contributions 215.2 197.6 Personnel, average during the year 4,630 4,433 IM MPA P AC T O N S SOC OC IETY A ND creator becomes even more significant. Our tyre factories are significant employers. The salaries C O M M UNIU NI TIES and taxes that we pay support the structures of Nokian Tyres contributes to society and society and improve the quality of life for communities through the payment of salaries thousands of people. and taxes. We directly employ more than 4,600 people around the world. When we also consider all of our subcontractors, our role as a job 92 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Profitable growth benefits everyone NO N O K I AN T YRES A ND TH E C CA A SH We are one of the major employers in Nokia and have built housing for our personnel in Russia. FLLOO W B E TWEEN T WEEN The taxes that we pay support the well-being of S TAKE A K E HO LDERS people in several countries, and we are actively involved in making road traffic safer. Many small A good financial result has extensive effects on actions – from our dialogue with our our stakeholders. The following graph shows neighbourhood and work with educational Nokian Tyres’ economic footprint in terms of its institutions to minor contributions for local stakeholders. sports clubs – have an effect on individuals and communities. In 2017, we continued our long-term partnership with the International Orienteering Federation. Our agreement with the International Orienteering Federation provides us with high visibility during the annual World Orienteering Championships and World Cup events. In 2017, we became the main partner and title sponsor for the first IRONMAN triathlon race to take place in Finland. The first Nokian Tyres IRONMAN 70.3 Finland event will be organised in Lahti, Finland on 30 June 2018. The high-energy sport matches our values that promote mobility and an active lifestyle while supporting the company’s brand visibility in Finland as well as internationally. Succeeding under exceptionally demanding conditions through cleverness and relentlessness is also something found in the Swamp Soccer World Championships, which take place in Hyrynsalmi, Finland annually. We have been the main sponsor of the championships for more than 10 years. Furthermore, we have been one of the main sponsors of the youth road safety campaign “Turvassa tiellä”. A RT P AR NE TN E RSH IPIPSS A ND S PO NS SPO NSO ORRING ING As a registered participant in the UN Global Compact Initiative, we annually support the We locally assist and support organisations and initiative and its efforts to promote corporate events that suit our company culture and brand. sustainability. Learn more about the topic. We continuously work with various organisations in places where we employ people. 93 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Customer relations and delivery reliability are essential CU C US STO M E R R E ELATIONS LA TIONS A ND D DE ELIV VE ER RY Y RE R E LIA BILITY A RE E ESS S SE ENT N T I AL We want the dealers and users of our products Along with our annual customer satisfaction to be the most satisfied customers in the tyre survey, we have introduced an online survey that industry. Delivery reliability is one of the focuses on our supply chain, logistics and prerequisites for success in this industry, which customer service performance. The purpose of is heavily affected by the peak seasons. this survey is to track customer satisfaction with our service, wherein delivery reliability is one We want to be our customers’ first choice. essential component. We will continue Accordingly, customer satisfaction and good developing our operations further based on the partnership are specified in our strategy as results. Going forward, we will conduct the development needs. Long customer survey two times per year, after each peak relationships based on trust provide mutual season. opportunities for improvement and success. We support our customers’ success through DEL I VER VERY Y R EL I AB I L ITY IS commercial collaboration and our pricing policy, CR ITI C CALAL FFOROR SUCSUCCES CESS S among other things. Nokian Tyres’ products are sold in 59 countries We aim at continuously improving customer by thousands of customer companies as well as satisfaction in the annual customer satisfaction our own sales organisation. By delivery index by one percentage point, at a minimum. reliability, we mean delivering the right products Our customer satisfaction survey was conducted according to contract in terms of the product over the phone in 14 markets and 264 quality, method of transport, delivery location, customers responded. The survey comprised 13 delivery time and price. sections, with a new section on availability in general and during the peak seasons. One special characteristic of our core market is that the sales of passenger car tyres are heavily In 2017, overall customer satisfaction was up by built around two peak seasons. Succeeding 2.6%, being 8.3 on a scale of 0 to 10 (8.1 in 2016). during the peak seasons is essential for our 77% of the respondents gave us an overall score business. We sell most of our summer tyres to of 8, 9 or 10. The Net Promoter Score (NPS), consumers a few weeks before and after Easter. which tracks customer loyalty, grew to 40 from Consumer sales of winter tyres peak between 31 in 2016. This was the result of more good September and November depending on the scores and fewer poor scores. For instance, this weather conditions, and we sell about 20% of year, 31% of the respondents gave us a 10 our winter tyres in the first 10 days after the first (compared to 19% in 2016). Similarly, we snowfall. received a 6 from 3% (5% in 2016) and a 3 from just 1% of the respondents (2% in 2016). We will Our key success factors include our extensive improve our operations further based on the distribution network and flexible and efficient feedback. logistics. Nokian Tyres and Vianor have worked 94 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Customer relations and delivery reliability are essential for a long time towards improving and By maintaining an extensive network and streamlining their logistics. In many cases, building long-term partnerships, we can ensure forecasting delivery volumes to partners is the good readiness to respond to changes, for only way to ensure sufficient capacity during the instance by using alternative delivery routes or peak seasons. Tyre transports are planned 1 to 6 delivery partners. months in advance, and inventory forecasts are made up to two years ahead. D IG ITITA AL SER RVVICES BRIN NGG UUS S CL CLO O SER TO T H E C U US STO M E R The online concept was developed based on a need identified in our customer satisfaction surveys. Our major goals with the service include increasing interaction and reaching all of our customers digitally. The service enables us to offer our customers relevant content and support their business. This is also a way to improve our customer relationship management model. For our business, it is essential that our The service responds to digitalisation that customers know our company and the changes customer behaviour and the way the products we produce. Establishing strong markets function. Tyre manufacturers must be product and company knowledge and earning able to quickly provide customers with mutual trust in all aspects make it easier for information on product pricing, availability and the customer to sell our products and conduct technical details, among other things. profitable business operations. The cost-efficient online service improves the In 2017, we launched a new digital service for availability of information and reduces the our customers where they can order products, need to travel. It also enables everyone to download marketing materials, complete access the same information and makes it training courses and contact our customer easy to implement changes and updates. service. We started rolling out the service in the Central European market last spring and in North America at the end of the year. We intend to introduce the service in the Nordic countries in 2018. 95 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Planet P PL L ANANE ET MA ANAG M ENT OF N A G E MENT A TYR E'S L IFE CY CYCLCL E AND EN E NVVIR RO N M ENT O NM ENTA AL REECY CYCL CL I NG RE R E SPO NSIBILITY The life cycle of a tyre spans the manufacture of We consider the entire product life cycle and all raw materials and products, storage and several of our company’s functions in terms of rounds of transportation. Most of a tyre’s environmental responsibility. We want to go environmental impacts are generated during beyond the minimum legal requirements. use. EN E NVVIR RO N M ENT O NM ENTA A L IMP IMPA AC T TSS OF PR P ROODU UC C T ION We aim at managing the environmental impacts of our products over their entire life cycle and addressing the environmental aspects of our operations in a comprehensive and systematic manner. 96 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Management of environmental responsibility M ANA ANAG GEMEN NT T OF E ENVINVI R RO O NMN M E NT NTA AL RE R E S PO P O N SI B I LI TY A ND IMPR RO O V E M E NT N TS S are based on the corporate social responsibility that we recognise as well as our strategic business goals. We also consider the entire product life cycle and all of our functions in terms of environmental responsibility. Environmental management covers the following material topics: 1. Reducing the use of water in tyre production 2. Preserving and promoting biodiversity at the production sites The outset of our operations includes 3. Energy-efficient production and the use of uncompromising respect for the environmental renewable energy and safety aspects as well as ensuring high 4. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions in quality and a good customer experience. They transport and production are an integral part of the Scandinavian way of 5. Reducing waste volumes in tyre production doing business and our company culture, and they apply globally throughout our group. For more information about the effects of material topics on our value chain and their scope, click We want to be an international industry leader here. also in terms of environmental matters. The awards and excellent reviews that our company Environmental management is guided by the and products have received demonstrate that following policies: environmental aspects, quality and safety are The Environmental, Safety and Quality Policy guides important for our customers and stakeholders. environmental aspects in our group. The policy has Our successful development projects, therefore, been approved by the President & CEO, and it was guide improvements across the industry. revised the last time in spring 2017. Environmental When developing the functions that affect our aspects are also discussed in our ethical guidelines environmental responsibility, we want to go that we updated in 2017. beyond the minimum requirements of the legislation and applicable standards. Our activities aim for continuous improvement and 97 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Management of environmental responsibility Our activity management system is based on the The development of environmental aspects and ISO 9001, IATF 16949, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and quality is reviewed each quarter at the ISO 17025 standards and meets the applicable management meetings. The senior management regulations and customer demands. We are also provides direct feedback to the responsible committed to following the UN Global Compact persons, as needed. principles. A UT HO RI T I ES AND AN D MA M A NA NAGE GE ME NT S SY Y S TEM S PERM I T TS S Our goal is to manage the environmental Our production facilities have valid impacts of our products over their entire life environmental permits as well as chemical cycle and address the safety and quality aspects handling and storage permits. These permits of our operations in a comprehensive and and other environmental and safety activities are systematic manner. The activity management supervised by several authorities according to system that covers the environmental aspects, the local laws. We maintain a continuous safety and quality serves as a key tool for this dialogue with various authorities in order to take purpose. Our operations manual is ISO 14001 any official requirements and requests into compliant in terms of the environmental aspects account in a timely manner. We immediately and ISO 9001 compliant as regards quality. The notify the authorities of any disruptions, key document that guides our environmental accidents and deviations from permit protection efforts is the Environmental requirements. Protection procedure. Our production facilities and Swedish sales company Nokian Däck are We see official permits as minimum also covered by the joint environmental and requirements and consider eco-friendliness to quality system and included in our ISO 14001 be much more than simply complying with the and ISO 9001 certifications. permit limits. We are committed to being a part of genuinely sustainable development. We Our environmental and quality targets are actively monitor the trends in environmental and specified in the company’s quality and safety regulations in Finland and the EU, and sustainability strategy, which is drawn up for a anticipate the effects of pending regulations on period of five years and updated annually. Vice our operations. President, Quality & Sustainability is involved in drawing up the strategy along with the Environmental and Responsibility Manager, who C O NT NTR RO OL OF reports to the vice president. Working together with environmental experts, the Environmental C HEM I C CALS ALS and Responsibility Manager prepares an annual environmental programme for the factories. The Control of chemicals aims at ensuring the safest programme specifies the detailed targets, possible use of chemicals for our employees, the actions, schedules and responsible persons for environment and end users. Our company the goals presented in the strategy. This meets all the requirements of European (the leadership covers all the aspects of the REACH and CLP regulations) and local chemicals environmental management system. In addition, legislation. individual units have their own projects for developing the operations and processes. 98 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Management of environmental responsibility In our production, we never use carcinogenic purpose is to ensure eco-friendliness in chemicals or SVHC chemicals (Substances of production and a safe working environment that Very High Concern) as per the EU’s REACH meets high standards of quality. The audits aim regulation. Our products do not contain any soto verify if our operation complies with the called “conflict minerals”. legislation, Environment, Safety and Quality policy and the instructions in the Moreover, all of our products meet the EU activity management system. REACH requirements concerning PAHs. We also intend to ensure that no products sold in Vianor We carry out internal environmental and quality stores now or in the future contain any such audits according to an annual plan such that chemicals. each area of the activity management system is audited at least once every three years. We draw New raw materials for rubber compounds are up the annual plan on the basis of a five-year tested in Nokia for quality assurance and plan, taking into account the findings of the suitability for production both in laboratory and previous audits. In production, we audit the production conditions. We maintain a list of raw environmental aspects and chemical safety materials that are approved for the manufacture through regular Safety Walks at individual of rubber compounds, and our procurement departments and every six months through personnel are only allowed to purchase these inspection rounds by chemicals experts. raw materials for our production plants. Internal audits also include the audits carried out No auxiliary chemical is taken into use at the by our customers and partners, such as Nokia factory before our chemical control team automotive industry representatives. The audit has issued a department-specific usage permit conducted in connection with the weekly for the substance in question. The team includes management review is also considered an the Environmental and Responsibility Manager, internal audit. an environmental engineer, a chemist from the R&D laboratory and an occupational physician. An external auditor performs an audit once a The purpose of this practice is to harmonise the year in order to assess our activities’ compliance use of chemicals throughout the company and, with the relevant standards. Legal and whenever possible, to replace harmful chemicals regulatory compliance is supervised by the with safer ones. authorities and insurance companies annually or as required. We require all of our chemicals suppliers to provide us with chemical safety data sheets (SDS) in compliance with valid legislation prior to OR RG ANII S G AN SAAT I O N F FOOR the purchasing of chemicals. The SDSs of the EN ENV VIR ROON NMM EN T TALAL chemicals that we use are registered in a database that all personnel can access. We also M ANANAG A G EM ENT EN T organise regular trainings on chemicals for our employees. Our group’s sustainability efforts are coordinated by the Environmental and AU D I T TSS Responsibility Manager. Environmental and chemical safety and sustainability aspects belong to the Quality and Sustainability unit, and the Regular audits are an important part of our overall efforts are coordinated globally by Vice environmental, safety and quality efforts. Their 99 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Management of environmental responsibility President, Quality & Sustainability. The goals of departments’ environmental experts and points quality and sustainability management are of contact in the interaction between accident prevention, uninterrupted production, departments. They also coordinate the ensuring high quality and good corporate appropriate handling of chemicals and waste in citizenship in all areas of operation. their departments. Environmental engineers take care of practical environmental coordination and training, for K EY M EA EASURESSURES I N 2 0 1 7 instance regarding chemicals, emissions and AND AN D G O OALS ALS F FOO R 2 018 waste. Furthermore, in Nokia, the environmental representatives and supervisors of individual A summary of the essential goals of Nokian departments address environmental Tyres’ 2017 environmental programme, their responsibility alongside their other duties. The completion and our goals for 2018 is presented environmental representatives act as their in the following tables. Item Target in 2017 Progress in 2017 Statutory Implementation Implemented. requirements according to the Nokian Tyres’ environmental permits and legislation VOC Reaching the Incineration plant has worked as intended. emissions emission limit of the Improvements in the collection implemented in the VOC Directive, production of heavy tyres; last improvements improving the carried out during the summer outage. The total collection of solvent emission limit of the VOC Directive (25%) has not emissions from the yet been reached, with the current emissions at production of heavy 38%. tyres Energy Implementation of The implementation of department-specific measures to save measures has progressed according to plan. energy Wastewater Reducing the Measures implemented; the set limit values have pollutant load in been met since June. wastewater (Vsevolozhsk) 100 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Management of environmental responsibility Chemical Preparing a safety Implemented. safety report in accordance with the Seveso-III Directive for the Nokia factory Safety audits 2 times/factory Implemented. and monitoring the use of chemicals Materials Verifying that the Implemented. development products do not No SVHC chemicals are being used. contain any SVHC chemicals as specified by REACH Increasing In accordance with Implemented. environmental each factory’s awareness environmental among the programme personnel Item Target in 2018 Statutory Implementation according to Nokian Tyres’ environmental permits requirements and legislation at the production facilities. VOC emissions Reaching the emission limit of the VOC Directive at the Nokia factory. New solutions are being sought in order to reach the target. Energy Implementation of measures to save energy. Annual reduction of energy consumption by 1% at the production facilities. Odour Looking into possibilities to reduce odour emissions from the factories, including a study on the composition of the rubber compounds that generate odour and the possibility to replace constituents. Chemical safety Two chemical safety audits at the production facilities. Material efficiency Initiating material audit activities at the Nokia factory. Materials Verifying that the products do not contain any SVHC chemicals as development specified by REACH. 101 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Management of environmental responsibility Increasing Regular trainings and communication about environmental matters. environmental awareness among the personnel Building projects Permit procedures and ensuring chemical and environmental safety concerning the factory in Dayton, TN and the test track in Spain. as appropriate. Our factories’ environmental E NVI R ENVI ONME NT RONME NTAL AL experts are responsible for these records. The COSTS purpose of this practice is to collect the feedback on the status of our environmental aspects and In addition to personnel and technology, we consider our stakeholders’ related requests and allocate financial resources to environmental opinions. responsibility. In the fiscal period, our We have taken a two-tiered approach to the environmental management costs amounted to management of environmental complaint approximately EUR 300,000. This figure includes procedures. If the complaint is minor in the the expenses and investments that are related scope of Nokian Tyres’ production, an to air, soil and water protection, waste environmental expert can handle it management, environmental management and independently and/or the manager decides on noise reduction. In the previous fiscal period, the the necessary course of action. In case of a investments focused on the Vsevolozhsk factory, larger event, the decision to escalate the matter where we invested approximately EUR 550,000 is taken in Nokia by Vice President, Quality & in waste management and treatment of Sustainability and in Vsevolozhsk by the stormwater and wastewater. In early 2017, the production manager and then, if necessary, by Vsevolozhsk factory was issued a fine of the line management. approximately EUR 56,000 for exceeding the emission limit in wastewater. By the end of the year, the revised treatment of wastewater T RARAC CKIN NG G brought the emissions below the set limits. EN ENV VIR ROON NM M EN T TALAL C OMPLAINT RESPO N NSI SI B I LI T Y ME M ECH CH A NICS IN We track our environmental responsibility E NVI R ENVI ONME NT RONME NTAL AL with the following indicators: R RESPONSIBILITY ESPONSIBILITY 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 301-2 Recycled input materials used 302-1 Energy consumption within the We document the annual environmental impacts organisation of our tyre factories and report them to the local 302-3 Energy intensity authorities as required in each country. We 303-1 Water withdrawal record feedback to a register and take the 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products necessary corrective actions. We quickly assess and services on biodiversity and respond to all complaints and address them 102 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Management of environmental responsibility 305-1 Direct GHG emissions significant air emissions 305-2 Energy indirect GHG emissions 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 305-7 Nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides and other 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 103 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Environmental impacts of production E ENVINVI R RO O NM N M E NT NTA A L IMP IMPA AC T TS S OF P PRO R ODUCTION Our goal is to manage the environmental impacts of our products throughout their life cycle. We take a comprehensive and systematic approach to environmental aspects in our activities. The environmental impacts from tyre production include odour, dust emissions, noise, waste, energy consumption and solvent emissions (VOC emissions). The most significant of these impacts are VOC emissions and, locally, odour. We constantly strive to reduce these impacts in the best possible ways: we improve our operations and find efficiencies, track emissions and correct identified deviations. In accordance with our Environmental, Safety and Quality Policy, we aim for zero defects in our environmental, health, safety and quality activities. 104 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Environmental impacts of production C O NSIN SI D ERI NG B I O D I V ERSI T Y We have always considered biodiversity as part of our environmental efforts. We have assessed our factories, test tracks and retreading plants in terms of biodiversity. Our company has little direct impact on biodiversity. Nevertheless, we make an effort to track and minimise the impact of our operations on our immediate surroundings. In 2017, we carried out environmental reviews for our planned factory in Dayton, Tennessee and test track in Spain in order to minimise our impact on biodiversity in the areas. 105 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Environmental impacts of production ENER E NERG GY Energy consumption within the organisation We purchase energy for our factory in Nokia 1,510 1,563 1500 from an external supplier. The required energy 1,370 can be divided into electricity, heating and 1250 steam. Renewable energy sources account for 1000 approximately 9% of the electricity that we TJ purchase. 750 613 560 572 500 We use biomass and natural gas as the energy sources for heating and steam generation. A 250 biomass power plant that supplies our Nokia 0 factory started its full production in April 2016. 2015 2016 2017 The new plant reduces the use of fossil fuels – Nokia natural gas – in favour of local energy sources in Vsevolozhsk the region. Our Vsevolozhsk factory uses natural gas as an Energy intensity energy source. We buy the electricity from an 14 13.4 external supplier, but use our own power station 12 11.8 11.5 11.3 11.3 for the energy required for heating and steam. 10.2 10 Our Energy Savings working group continued its GJ/production t activities in 2017. We clearly met our target of 8 reducing our yearly energy consumption by 1% 6 per production tonne, with an 8% reduction from the previous year. 4 2 In November, we organised a campaign for collecting ideas to save energy from our 0 2015 2016 2017 employees in Vsevolozhsk. We received a total of 75 ideas, which we will evaluate for feasibility in Nokia Vsevolozhsk early 2018. We will award the people behind the best ideas in the spring of 2018. 106 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Environmental impacts of production Energy usage C AR BON DIO DIOXIDE XIDE ((C C O 2) Nokia 700 We calculate our tyre production GHG emissions from raw material purchasing to the disposal of 600 the product in compliance with the ISO 14064 500 266 standard. Our Vsevolozhsk factory uses its own 255 248 400 power station for generating most of the energy TJ it needs. Therefore, the factory’s direct GHG 300 123 155 167 emissions exceed those of the factory in Nokia. 200 We are seeking a 20% reduction in CO2 100 183 169 180 emissions by 2020 and a 30% reduction by 2030. The point of reference comprises our 2013 0 2015 2016 2017 Electricity Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in relation to Heating production. The actual reduction from 2013 was Steam 36% in 2017, which means that we met and clearly exceeded the target. In 2017, our marketbased Scope 2 emissions were approximately EMI E MI S SSI SI ONS 33,500 tonnes CO2 eq. The emission calculations are based on Finland's residual mix of electricity E EMMIS SSI SI O N NSS FR FROM OM ENER ENERGGY production, the emission data provided for us by PR P RO ODU UCC T ION Nokianvirran Energia and location based emission factor of Russian factory's energy An independent company annually measures consumption. We could not access market-based the nitrogen and sulfur emissions from energy (source and/or supplier-specific) emission production at our factory in Vsevolozhsk. Our factors related to our Russian factory. nitrogen and sulfur emissions are below the set emission limits. For our detailed sustainability goals, see the section on sustainability management. NOx and SOx emissions Vsevolozhsk Direct green-house gas 70.9 emissions 70 62.1 Scope 1 60 71,522 55.4 69,865 50 62,458 60k 40 t CO2 eq t 30 40k 20 10 20k 1.1 0.8 0.8 0 2015 2016 2017 1,479 528 612 0k 2015 2016 2017 NOx SOx Nokia Vsevolozhsk 107 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Environmental impacts of production Indirect green-house gas our factory only in the production of heavy tyres emissions and retreading material for improving adhesion. The VOCs from retreading material production Scope 2 and the assembly of heavy tyres are collected 34,625 and conveyed to a catalytic incineration plant. 30k Collecting solvent emissions from the production 24,667 of heavy tyres poses a challenge. In the production of heavy tyres, it is not possible to CO2 eq t 20k 18,837 18,144 seal the emission sources such that all emissions 11,166 12,177 could be collected and conveyed for incineration. 10k In Nokia, we aim to comply with the total 0k emission limit of the European VOC Directive, 2015 2016 2017 which is 25% of the solvents used. In 2017, we Nokia improved the collection of solvents in the Vsevolozhsk assembly of heavy tyres, nearly doubling our collection rate. This reduced our total solvent Greenhouse gas emissions emissions from 45% in 2016 to 38% of used intensity ratio solvents. Scope 1 + Scope 2/production tonne No solvents are used in tyre manufacture at 0.74 0.72 Vsevolozhsk. According to the local legislation, emissions are calculated based on emission 0.60 0.55 measurements. VOC emissions are generated 0.45 due to the raw materials used in the processes. CO2 eq t/t 0.37 VOC emissions 73.9 72.5 69.3 70 63.1 0 60 2015 2016 2017 52.3 53.3 Nokia 50 Vsevolozhsk t 40 30 V O LA LATT I LE OR ORGG A NIC 20 C O M PO UND U NDS S, V VOC OC S 10 Solvents, or volatile organic compounds (VOCs), 0 form our most significant emissions into air. As 2015 2016 2017 the legislation concerning VOC emissions is Nokia country-specific, our calculation and reporting of Vsevo VOC emissions varies by country. In Nokia, we follow the European VOC Directive, which stipulates that emissions are calculated based on the used solvents. We use solvents in 108 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Environmental impacts of production P AR A RT T I C LE EM IS ISSIONS SIONS (DU (DUS S T) In 2017, we were contacted three times concerning odour emissions. In Nokia, we Particle emissions are caused by the processing inspected the odour control equipment as a of powdery chemicals in our compound mixing result of these comments. We will decide on department. The mixing equipment is fitted with corrective actions in the spring of 2018. At the effective ventilation and dust collection devices, Vsevolozhsk factory, we established an “Odour and the best separation rates achieved by water Panel”, which reports to an environmental cleaners exceed 99%. We measure particle expert on any exceptional odours. The purpose emissions with particle concentration and is to determine which process stages generate differential pressure gauges. In addition, outside odour and plan ways to improve the situation. experts carry out regular concentration The monitoring period continues until spring measurements. The measured particle 2018. concentrations have complied with the permit limits at both of our factories. The dust that NOI SE passes through the filter system mainly causes an aesthetic inconvenience and poses no harm Our production facilities have noise limits to the environment or health. subject to their environmental permits. We regularly track and measure noise emissions. O OD D O UR UR According to the measurements, we are below the noise limits. According to surveys that we have commissioned, odour emissions are momentary. The mastication process for softening natural W AT ER AN AND D rubber causes discharges of compounds during W A S T EW EWA AT ER the precipitation and dehydration phases of rubber milk, which results in an unpleasant Our tyre manufacturing processes use large odour in the near surroundings. We use droplet quantities of cooling water. In Nokia, we take separators for reducing the odours from cooling water from the nearby Nokianvirta river mastication. We have also managed to lower the and discharge it back into the river after use. The number of separate mastication processes, Vsevolozhsk factory uses municipal tap water for thereby reducing the related odours. Some cooling and then conveys it to a wastewater odours are generated during the tyre curing treatment plant. The cooling water has no process. The quantity of the curing fumes contact with production chemicals at any stage released in the process is directly proportional to and, therefore, does not become contaminated. the amount of cured rubber. The concentrations The wastewater in Vsevolozhsk is conveyed to a of individual substances in the fumes are very treatment plant. small. In the past two years, our factories have introduced new odour control equipment that represents the best available technology (BAT). In Vsevolozhsk, the technology covers all the mixing lines, whereas in Nokia the technology is being implemented gradually. 109 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Environmental impacts of production Cooling water Water discharge Nokia Sewage 7,367 7,271 248,453 6,984 6,925 250k 242,678 7k 6,573 6,527 226,043 6k 200k 5k 158,866 150k 1,000 m3 4k M3 122,958 3k 98,036 100k 2k 50k 1k 0k 0k 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Withdrawal, Nokianvirta river Nokia Discharge, Nokianvirta river Vsevolozhsk Total water withdrawal In Nokia, we take annual samples from the Municipal water cooling water discharged into the river and from the wastewater conveyed to the municipal 311.6 303.2 300 treatment plant in order to verify the water 276.5 quality. The wastewater conveyed into the 250 municipal sewage system and the cooling water 200 discharged into the Nokianvirta river have been 1,000 m3 practically clean. 150 100 The pollutant load of wastewater from the 64.0 62.8 Vsevolozhsk factory has previously exceeded the 52.1 50 set limits. We took corrective actions already in 0 2016 and, in May 2017, we introduced 2015 2016 2017 automated wastewater aeration in balancing Nokia reservoirs. As a result, the pollutant load has Vsevolozhsk remained below the agreed limits. We aim to reduce the consumption of municipal water by 25% by 2020 compared to the 2013 baseline. In 2017, our consumption of municipal 3 water (m /tonne of products) was approximately 40% lower than in 2013. MA ATT ERI ALS Our production uses excellent raw materials that contribute to the safety and high quality of our tyres. We are continuously exploring the 110 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Environmental impacts of production utilisation of recycled materials but, in general, Raw materials recycled materials contain impurities that would Non-renewable raw materials degrade our products’ safety characteristics. This 124.4 125.2 is why we primarily use virgin raw materials in 125 108.7 our production. 100 Raw material composition of rubber compound of passenger kt 75 car tyre 50 41.8 40.3 35.4 25 0 2015 2016 2017 Nokia Vsevolozhsk Protective agents 1% Raw materials Booster chemicals 4% Vulcanising agents 3% Percentage of materials used that are Plasticiser 8% recycled input materials Filler substances 34% Rubber 50% 8.5 8.0 8 7.4 7.7 7.0 6.8 Raw materials 6 Renewable raw materials % 40 38.1 4 32.9 31.3 2 30 0 2015 2016 2017 kt 20 Nokia Vsevolozhsk 10.7 11.1 9.6 10 0 WA S T E 2015 2016 2017 Nokia Waste is generated both in our actual production Vsevolozhsk and support functions. The generated waste can be roughly divided into three categories: landfill waste or non-recyclable waste, recyclable waste and hazardous waste. We weigh all production waste and record the department-specific volumes on a monthly basis. For other types of waste, we prepare 111 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Environmental impacts of production reports annually. The waste volumes are Wastes by disposal method determined in weighing by waste management Nokia companies. We sort the generated waste at our factories in accordance with separate waste management instructions. Most of the production waste is taken directly to be utilised. We store hazardous waste separately at the collection points in containers that carry warning labels. RE R EC CYYC C LA LABLE B LE W WAA S TE The utilisation rate of our production waste has Reuse 8.4% Recycling 79.1% been growing for years. Composting 0.9% Recovery as energy 11.6% Scrap tyres, or tyres that do not meet our high Landfill 0% standards of quality, are taken to recycling directly from production. Non-vulcanised scrap Wastes by disposal method rubber is generated in the production stages Vsevolozhsk preceding vulcanisation, or curing. This material’s reuse applications include impact padding, conveyor belts and other rubber products that do not have as critical material requirements as tyres. Other generated recyclable waste categories include combustible waste, plastics, scrap iron and steel, wood, paper, biodegradable waste, cardboard, glass and electrical and electronic equipment. Reuse 11.8% LA L A N D F I LL W WA A S TE Recycling 70.5% Composting 0% Recovery as energy 3.3% Mixed waste that cannot be utilised or recycled Incineration (mass burn) 3% is taken to a landfill. We aim to further reduce Landfill 11.3% the amount of landfill waste by sending the waste that we generate to recycling and utilisation. Our goal for 2020 is that no waste generated in production is taken to a landfill. In 2017, 100% of factory waste in Nokia and 88.7% in Vsevolozhsk was sent to utilisation, so we are heading in the right direction. 112 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Environmental impacts of production Amount of wastes Amount of wastes Nokia Vsevolozhsk 7k 100.2 14k 90 6k 100 12k 89 5k 99.8 10k 88 4k 99.6 8k 87 ton % ton % 3k 99.4 6k 86 7,938 8,386 8,960 4,626 4,430 2k 4,262 99.2 4k 85 1k 99 2k 84 1,531 1,526 1,180 0k 27.4 98.8 0k 83 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Utilized wastes Utilized wastes Landfilling Landfilling Utilization % Utilization % Total waste by disposal method Nokia + Vsevolozhsk 2015 2016 2017 Disposal methos t % t % t % Reuse 1,495 11.7 1,736 12.2 1,611 10.8 Recycling 9,691 75.7 10,056 70.9 10,884 73.1 Composting 20 0.2 26 0.2 42 0.3 Recovery as energy 677 5.3 830 5.9 862 5.8 Incineration (mass burn) 0 0.0 128 0.9 317 2.1 Landfill 921 7.2 1,398 9.9 1,180 7.9 HAZ H AZ ARD O U USS W WAA S TE We take all hazardous waste to an authorised processing plant. Roughly a quarter of this waste is seal oil from compound mixing machines, whose consumption is directly proportional to the manufactured rubber compound volumes. All hazardous waste generated in our Nokia factory is utilised for energy or as materials. 113 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Environmental impacts of production Hazardous wastes Hazardous wastes by disposal 9.5 method Vsevolozhsk 8 7.8 6 5.7 kg/t 4.1 4.2 4 3.6 2 0 2015 2016 2017 Recycling 1.1% Incineration (mass burn) 26.4% Nokia Recovery as energy 29.1% Vsevolozhsk Landfill 43.4% Hazardous wastes by disposal O T HER L LO CA OC AT I O N NSS method Nokia Our sales companies and Vianor stores always comply with the local regulations. We sort the waste and deliver it for reuse whenever technologically and economically feasible. The most significant environmental impacts of our locations come from waste and energy consumption. In connection with our group’s energy-efficiency audits, we are launching focused assessments in two Vianor service centers in 2018. Furthermore, our sales Recycling 21.5% Incineration (mass burn) 0% companies and Vianor service centers pay Recovery as energy 78.5% attention to the efficiency of product transports. Landfill 0% 114 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 A tyre's life cycle and recycling A T YR Y RE E ' S LI F E C Y YCC LE A ND RE R ECY CYC C LI N NG G We use “life cycle” to refer to the different stages Most of the environmental impacts during a that a product undergoes from manufacture to tyre’s life cycle are generated during its use. The use and, ultimately, recycling. The life cycle of a single most important factor is the vehicle’s fuel tyre begins with a rubber tree in the southern consumption. Fuel consumption can be hemisphere, for example in Indonesia or decreased by reducing the tyre’s weight and Thailand. Then, the following stages of life cycle rolling resistance, thereby cutting the exhaust includ the manufacture of raw materials and gas emissions and the formation of greenhouse products, storage and several rounds of gases. However, the most significant factor transportation. The tyre’s actual life cycle ends, affecting the level of exhaust gas emissions is for instance, when the tyre is crushed and used the driving style. Economic driving can lower fuel as a construction material. consumption by 10–20%. The life cycle can be roughly divided into four Since the most significant environmental impact parts: over a tyre’s life cycle comes from fuel consumption during use, the following diagram 1. Purchasing and manufacture of production presents a tyre’s environmental impacts as the inputs, such as raw materials and energy. carbon footprint. 2. Tyre manufacture. 3. Use of tyre. Carbon footprint over a tyre’s 4. Utilisation of used tyres. lifecycle The outset of our environmental protection is the life cycle approach. This means that we take responsibility for the environmental impacts of our activities and products throughout their life cycle. In accordance with our purchasing policy, our product procurement process includes determining our suppliers’ commitment to the environmental aspects. In 2017, 71% of our raw material suppliers had the ISO 14001 certification. We require all of our contract partners, including suppliers and contractors, to Transportation 0.4% commit to our principles. Raw materials and tyre production 10.8% In-use phase (including end of life tyres) 88.8% 115 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 A tyre's life cycle and recycling 116 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 A tyre's life cycle and recycling WE P PAAR RT TICIP PAAT E I N T HE H E RESEAR RESEARC CH ON THE PO OT TENTIALL LY H A RMF U L EF F E Y HA EC CTTS S OF M IC R RO O POL LYYMERS design, we aim for the best combination of wear durability on the one hand and grip and safety characteristics on the other in order to optimise the tyre in terms of road safety and eco-friendliness. Additional research is required The current research has noted that, in fresh water areas, particles in sediments may pose a Motor vehicles have been brought up as one low risk to some aquatic organisms. However, of the sources of microplastics that are ending additional research is required in order to up in seas and other bodies of water. In the determine whether the particles that enter context of tyres, the term “microplastics” is bodies of water pose harm to the ecosystem somewhat misleading because tyres contain or human health. rubber rather than plastic. However, plastic and rubber are both polymers. One important aspect of reducing the harmful impacts of driving is how we can prevent Many publications include the dust created particle emissions from traffic or control them during tyres’ contact with the road – i.e. wear in an eco-friendlier way from the particles from the tyre and road surface – infrastructure perspective. Such areas for under micro polymers or microplastics. Out of improvement could include sewer systems, the particles that are generated, roughly one ditch embankments or water purification. half comes from the tyre and the other half from the road surface. As the particles are We are actively following the studies on this quite heavy, most of them settle along roads, a topic and participate in external studies small fraction of them remains airborne and ordered by ETRMA and other organisations. some are swept into bodies of water by The latest ETRMA Cardno study will be rainwater. published in early 2018. The ongoing research on the tyre and road wear particles and on As a tyre manufacturer, we are responsible for microplastics in general is more the safety of our products. Friction between comprehensive than before. Reliable field and the tyre and the road is a significant safety laboratory tests for understanding the nature, factor and it is required for a tyre to grip harmful impacts and routes of entry of the properly. Friction also causes tyre and road particles are required because many of the wear, resulting in wear particles. In tyre current estimates are based on mathematical models and calculations. We are committed to continuous improvement and are developing our products 117 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 A tyre's life cycle and recycling and functions to be even more eco-friendly. We take human safety and health very seriously. If future research indicates that micro polymers are harmful, we will react accordingly and look for new solutions. R RETRETR EADING OFFE RS WHERE D O T Y RES END EN D E C O -FRIE NDL NDLY Y DRIVIN G UP AF T ER U USE?SE? The Nokian Noktop retreading complements our Approximately 3.2 million tonnes of used tyres service range and brings cost savings and ecoare discarded each year in Europe. Luckily for friendlier kilometres to professional driving. Tyre the environment, discarded tyres are not retreading allows the operator to save money, worthless and can serve various reuse or resources and the environment. A good tyre recycling applications. Among other things, the carcass can easily be retreaded two times, which tyres can be used in noise barriers along cuts tyre costs by approximately 30%. motorways or as an elastic base material in horse riding arenas. CO2 emissions are generated during tyre production as well as driving. Retreading has a If tyres are not appropriately recycled, they will significant impact on the carbon footprint of end up in the environment or pile up in garages. tyres: manufacturing a new tyre results in The recycling rate of tyres in Finland is high approximately 220 kg of CO2 emissions, compared to many other countries. In 1995, whereas the figure for retreading is only Nokian Tyres and other companies in the tyre approximately 40 kg. Furthermore, each industry established the Finnish Tyre Recycling retreading operation saves 40 kg of rubber and Ltd in order to promote the centralised 70 litres of oil per tyre compared to new tyres. collection and utilisation of tyres nationally. In Our new Nokian E-tread product family provides Finland, nearly 100% of tyres are recycled. In all even higher raw material and energy savings. As of Europe, for example, the figure is 95%. The a result of our product development efforts, we rest of the tyres are taken to landfills. In Russia, are able to recycle our tyres’ excellent tread the tyre recycling rate is low. According to local rubber compound even more efficiently without legislation, in 2017, our tyre recycling had to be compromising on quality. equivalent to 20% of our total sales in Russia, and we met that target. Our winter tyres for trucks and buses and our Noktop retreading materials use a Cap/Base Part of recycled tyres is utilised for material; they structure which is optimised for the seasons in are shredded or granulated to replace rock the north. Its tread is composed of two layers. materials in various road construction and civil When a tyre is fitted in the autumn, the softer engineering applications. Rubber chips are light, top layer (Cap) provides winter grip. The top insulate moisture and maintain their form. They layer will wear out by the spring, revealing the support the road surface and make asphalt harder rubber compound (Base), which ensures quieter. The flexible properties of rubber are put that the tyre delivers sturdy performance in the to use once more when it is reused as a base following summer. material for sports venues. 118 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 A tyre's life cycle and recycling Retreading is one of the best recycling methods. of tyres is close to that of oil. The use of recycled If the carcass of a tyre is undamaged, it can be tyres as an energy source has been growing for retreaded. Bus and truck tyres, for example, can years and, today, approximately half of the tyres be retreaded up to 2–4 times. recycled in Europe are used in waste-to-energy applications. We are constantly looking for new Another way to utilise recycled tyres is to ways to recycle and utilise tyres. combust them for energy, as the heating value 119 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Independent assurance report I NDE P E ND NDENT A AS S SU RA NC E RE REPO ORT RT This document is a translation of the Finnish report Our responsibility is to express an independent conclusion on the Corporate Sustainability Information. We have conducted the T O THE MANA MANAGE GE ME NT engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 OF NOK IAN TYRE S PL PLC C (Revised). To the fullest extent permitted by law, we accept no responsibility to any party other than Nokian Tyres for our work, for this We have been engaged by the Management of assurance report, or for the conclusions we have Nokian Tyres plc (hereafter Nokian Tyres) to reached. provide limited assurance on corporate sustainability information from the reporting We are independent from the company period 1. January – 31. December 2017, which according to the ethical requirements in Finland has been presented on Nokian Tyres’ website on and we have complied with other ethical specifically indicated web pages as well as in a requirements, which apply to the engagement PDF-format report “Corporate Sustainability conducted. We apply the International Standard Report 2017” (hereafter the Corporate on Quality Control 1 (ISQC 1) and accordingly Sustainability Information). maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards were procedures regarding compliance with ethical used as the assurance criteria (hereafter GRI requirements, professional standards and Standards). applicable legal and regulatory requirements. IINHER NHER EN T LIMIT LIMITA ATIONS TION S SUM M AR ARY Y O F T HE ON THE E NG NGA A GE ME NT W O RK PERF PERFO O RM ED The inherent limitations on accuracy and A limited assurance engagement consists completeness in data related to the Corporate primarily of making inquiries of persons Sustainability Information are to be taken into responsible for the preparation of the Corporate account when reading our assurance report. The Sustainability Information presented, and presented Corporate Sustainability Information applying analytical and other evidence gathering is to be considered in connection with the procedures, as appropriate. The procedures explanatory information on data collection, performed in a limited assurance engagement consolidation and assessments provided by vary in nature and timing from, and are less in Nokian Tyres. extent than for, a reasonable assurance The Management of Nokian Tyres is responsible engagement and consequently the level of for the measuring, preparation and presentation assurance obtained in a limited assurance of the Corporate Sustainability Information in engagement is substantially lower. accordance with the GRI Standards. 120 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Independent assurance report In our engagement we have performed the Assessment of data accuracy and completeness following procedures: through a review of the original documents and systems on a sample basis and; Interviews with members of Nokian Tyres senior management; A site visit conducted to one of Nokian Tyres´ sites. An assessment of conformity with the reporting principles of GRI Standards in the presentation of the Corporate Sustainability Information; C O NC NCL LUU SI O N NS S An assessment of the definition of the reporting Based on the assurance procedures performed, boundaries for Corporate Sustainability nothing has come to our attention that causes Information in the context of Nokian Tyres’s us to believe that the information subject to the business operations and sector; assurance engagement is not prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards in all An assessment of data management processes, material respects. information systems and working methods used to gather and consolidate the Corporate Helsinki, 9 March 2018 Sustainability Information; KPMG OY AB A review of the presented Corporate Sustainability Information with an assessment of Lasse Holopainen, Authorised Public Accountant, information quality and reporting boundary KHT definitions; Tomas Otterström, Partner 121 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI content index GRI GRI C CO O NT N T E NT INDEX GRI Content Where to find? UNGC SDG standards: comparison comparison disclosure 2016 version Strategy and analysis 102-14 Managing director’s review Greetings from the President & CEO Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation Our group in a nutshell 102-2 Most important trademarks, Our group in a products and services nutshell 102-3 Location of the organisation’s Our group in a head office nutshell 102-4 Area of operations Our group in a nutshell 102-5 Operational structure of the Our group in a organisation nutshell 102-6 Market areas Our group in a nutshell 102-7 Size of the reporting Our group in a organisation nutshell 102-8* Total number of employees Satisfied and UNGC 6 8 by employment contract and motivated gender personnel 102-41* Percentage of total Data is not UNGC 3 8 employees covered by cathered yet in collective bargaining corporate level. agreement 122 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI content index 102-9* Organization's supply chain Value chain UNGC 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 102-10 Significant changes to the No significant size, structure, or ownership changes during structure of the organisation the accounting period. 102-11* Precautionary approach or Sustainability UNGC 7 principle addressed by the management company 102-12 Commitment to external Materiality corporate social assessment responsibility initiatives 102-13 Memberships in Materiality organisations assessment Identified material aspects and boundaries 102-45 Ownership structure and Financial form of company Statement Bulletin 2017 102-46 Defining the report content Materiality and aspect boundaries assessment 102-47 Material aspects Materiality assessment 103-1 Aspect boundary within the Materiality organization assessment 103-1 Aspect boundary within the Value chain organization 103-1 Aspect boundary outside the The report does organization not include an external accounting of the organization. 103-1 Aspect boundary outside the Value chain organization 123 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI content index 102-48 Causes for and impact of Materiality information deviating from assessment previous reports 102-49 Most important changes to Materiality the scope of the report, its assessment delimitations or measurement methods Stakeholder engagement 102-40 Stakeholders of the Stakeholder organisation engagement 102-42 Definition and selection Stakeholder criteria for stakeholders engagement 102-43 Principles of stakeholder Stakeholder activities engagement 102-44 Topics brought up by Stakeholder stakeholders engagement Report profile 102-50 Reporting period Materiality assessment 102-51 Time of publication of the 03/17/17 previous report 102-52 Report publication frequency Materiality assessment 102-53 Contact information Our group in a nutshell 102-54 Claims of reporting in Materiality accordance with the GRI assessment Standards 102-55 GRI content index This engagement 102-56 External assurance Materiality assessment 102-56 External assurance Independent Assurance Report 124 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI content index Governance 102-18 Governance structure of the Financial organisation management 102-32 Highest governance body Top approving organization's management sustaibility report approves sustainability report annually. Ethics and integrity 102-16* Organization's values, Sustainability UNGC 10 principles and standards management Economic 103-1, Disclousure of the Financial 5, 8 103-2, Management approach management 103-3 201-1 Produced and distributed Profitable 8, 9 direct financial added value growth benefits everyone Indirect financial impacts 103-1, Disclousure of the Financial 103-2, Management approach management 103-3 203-2 Key indirect financial impacts Profitable 8 and their scope growth benefits everyone Materials 103-1, Disclousure of the Sustainability UNGC 1, 2, 103-2, Management approach in 3, 4, 5 103-3* procurement 103-1, Disclousure of the Management UNGC 7,8,9 103-2, Management approach of 103-3* environmental responsibility 125 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI content index 301-1* Materials used by weight or Environmental UNGC 7,8 8, 12 volume impacts of production 301-2* Percentage of materials used Environmental UNGC 8 8, 12 that are recycled input impacts of materials production Energy 103-2, Disclousure of the Sustainability 103-3 Management approach management 103-1 Disclousure of the Materiality Management approach assessment 302-1* Energy consumption within Environmental UNGC 7 8, 12, 13 the organization impacts of production 302-3* Energy intensity Environmental UNGC 8 8,12 impacts of production Water 103-2, Disclousure of the Sustainability 103-3 Management approach management 103-1 Disclousure of the Materiality Management approach assessment 303-1* Total withdrawal by source Environmental UNGC 7,8 impacts of production Biodiversity 103-1, Disclousure of the Sustainability 103-2, Management approach management 103-3 304-2* Description of significant Environmental UNGC 8 impacts of activities, impacts of products, and services on production biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 126 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI content index Emissions 11, 13 103-2, Disclousure of the Sustainability 103-3 Management approach management 103-1 Disclousure of the Materiality Management approach assessment 305-1* Direct greenhouse gas Environmental UNGC 7,8 3, 12 emissions impacts of production 305-2* Indirect greenhouse gas Environmental UNGC 7,8 3, 12 emissions impacts of production 305-4* Greenhouse gas (GHG) Environmental UNGC 8 emissions intensity impacts of production 305-7* Nitrogen and sulphur dioxide Environmental UNGC 7,8 3, 12 emissions and other impacts of significant emissions production Effluents and waste 103-2, Disclousure of the Sustainability 103-3 Management approach management 103-1 Disclousure of the Materiality Management approach assessment 306-1* Total water discharge by Environmental UNGC 8 3,12 quality and destination impacts of production 306-2* Total weight of waste by type Environmental UNGC 8 3 and disposal method impacts of production Products and services 9 103-1 Disclousure of the Materiality Management approach assessment 127 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI content index 103-2, Disclousure of the Management 103-3 Management approach of product advancements, product safety and product liability NA* Extent of impact mitigation of Your tyre UNGC 7 13 environmental impacts of choice matters products and services. No standard exists, but this is a material topic for the company. NA* Extent of impact mitigation of Innovation UNGC 8, 9 13 environmental impacts of improves products and services. No safety and ecostandard exists, but this is a friendliness material topic for the company. Compliance 103-1, Disclousure of the Sustainability 103-2, Management approach management 103-3 103-1, Disclousure of the Environmental 103-2, Management approach impacts of 103-3 production 307-1* Monetary value of fines for Management UNGC 8 non-compliance with of environmental laws and environmental regulations responsibility Overall 103-1, Disclousure of the Management 103-2, Management approach of 103-3 environmental responsibility 128 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI content index NA* Total environmental Management UNGC 7, 8, 9 protection expenditures and of investments by type. No environmental standard exists, but this is a responsibility material topic for the company. Environmental Grievance Mechanisms 103-1, Disclousure of the Management 103-2, Management approach of 103-3 environmental responsibility 103-2* Number of grievances about Management UNGC 8 environmental impacts filed, of addressed, and resolved environmental through formal grievance responsibility mechanisms Social labour practises and decent work 103-1, Disclousure of the HR 103-2, Management approach management 103-3 401-1* Total number and rates of Satisfied and UNGC 6 8 new employee hires and motivated employee turnover by age personnel group, gender and region Occupational health and safety 103-1, Disclousure of the HR 103-2, Management approach management 103-3 103-1, Disclousure of the Sustainability 103-2, Management approach management 103-3 403-2 Number of accidents and Getting to go occupational diseases, lost home healthy working days and absences 129 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI content index 403-2 Number of accidents Getting to go home healthy 403-2 Type of injury, occupational Data not yet 8 diseases and total number of cathered in work-related fatalities, by corporate level. region and by gender Training and education 103-1, Disclousure of the HR 103-2, Management approach management 103-3 404-2 Personnel expertise Satisfied and 3, 8, 13 development programmes motivated and learning action personnel programmes 404-3* Development discussions Satisfied and UNGC 6 3, 5, 8 motivated personnel Diversity and equal opportunity 103-1, Disclousure of the HR UNGC 6 103-2, Management approach management 103-3* 103-1, Disclousure of the Ethical UNGC 6 103-2, Management approach quidelines 103-3* 405-1* Composition of governance Satisfied and UNGC 6 5, 8 bodies and breakdown of motivated employees per employee personnel category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Society 103-1, Disclousure of the Profitable 103-2, Management approach growth 103-3 benefits everyone 130 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI content index 413-1* Operations with It is not possible UNGC 1 implemented local to calculate this community engagement and indicator from development programs our operations. Public policy 103-1 Disclousure of the Materiality Management approach assessment 103-2, Disclousure of the Ethical 103-3 Management approach quidelines 415-1* Political contributions Materiality UNGC 10 assessment Customer health and safety 103-1, Disclousure of the Management UNGC 7 103-2, Management approach of product 103-3* advancements, product safety and product liability 416-1* Product and service Innovation UNGC 7 categories for which health improves and safety impacts are safety and ecoassessed for improvement friendliness Product and service labelling 103-1, Disclousure of the Customer 103-2, Management approach relations and 103-3 delivery reliability are key 102-43 Results of surveys measuring Customer customer satisfaction relations and delivery reliability are key *indicators that also measure company’s progress on the GC principles 131 NOK I AN TYR ES PL PLC C Pirkkalaistie 7 P.O.Box 20 FIN-37101 NOKIA FINLAND Tel. +358 10 401 7000 email: info@nokiantyres.com WWW WWW.. N OK I ANTYR ES ES.. C OM
