Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life About This Report Cover Story Humanity and the Future People are precious. Corporations exist for people. Rooted from this philosophy, the slogan“Humanity and the Future” expresses our commitment to people-centered management. Since Kyobo Life published its first sustainability report in 2011 and also the first report in Korea's life insurance industry, it has been published every year as a channel through which it communicates its sustainability management activities to its stakeholders under the banner of “shared growth with our stakeholders.” This is Kyobo Life’s 8th Sustainability Report. Reporting Period & Scope The present report covers Kyobo Life’s sustainability management activities from January through December 2017. As regards quantitative performance, the data for the last three years are disclosed to show trends, while quantitative data that do not match the three-year period are indicated with notes. If data have been revised in the financial statements or errors found in the previous report have been corrected, such revisions or corrections are indicated with notes. The scope of this report includes the headquarters and branches of Kyobo Life, Customer PLAZAs, and other domestic operations, however, overseas offices and branches are not included. The environmental data concern only certain domestic operations, which are indicated with notes. The standard currency used in the report is the Korean Won (₩), and other currencies are indicated with symbols next to figures, where applicable. Reporting Principles This report has been prepared based on ‘In Accordance – Core’ reflecting G4 Guideline of the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) which is the international guideline of the sustainable management report. All financial data included in this report have been prepared in accordance with the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). Report Assurance This report has been subject to an assurance process by the Korean Standards Association (KSA) in accordance with the three principles (inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness) of AA1000AS(2008) Sustainability Report assurance standards, and the assurance type is Type II. Please refer to the Independent Assurance Report in the appendix. Contact This report has been published in Korean and English, and is available on Kyobo Life’s website (www.kyobo. co.kr). For inquiries or comments about this report, Please reach out to the following contact for more information or inquiries. Strategic Planning Team, Kyobo Life, Jongro 1(Jongro 1-ga), Seoul, Korea Phone: 02)721-3067 Fax: 02)721-3849 e-mail: kyobocsr@kyobo.com Contents 4 Gwanghwamun Billboard 6 CEO Message 8 Top 10 News of Kyobo Life in 2017 10  In Commemoration of the Centennial Anniversary of Founder Yong-Ho Shin’s Birth 11 12 About Kyobo Life Company Overview 21 Kyobo Life’s Values 22 Kyobo Life’s Value Chain / 53 Kyobo Life’s Performance 54 Economic Performance 14 Business Overview Economic Value Creation and 57 Social Performance Distribution 16 Governance 63 Environmental Performance 24 Sustainability Management 18 Vision and Strategies Strategy of Kyobo Life 19 Stakeholder Engagement Core Activities in 2017 Appendix 26 Customer-centered Business 68 Materiality Test Activities 70 Implementation Status of the 32 Support for Enhancing Financial Sustainability Development Goals Planners’ Competence 71 Third Party Assurance 37 Support for Improving the 73 GRI G4 / ISO 26000 Index Corporate Culture 76 UN Global Compact 44 Improvement of Financial 77 Awards / Association and Soundness Membership regarding 48 Social Contribution Activities Sustainability Management Reflecting the Nature of the Life 78 Financial Highlights Insurance Business 79 Declaration of Vision2020 4 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Gwanghwamun Billboards 2017 along with the Four Seasons Since 1991, Gwanghwamun Billboard has conveyed the message of love and hope to the public, updated every season of the year. The Billboard can also be found in Kyobo Tower in Gangnam, Seoul and Kyobo Life building in Jeju Island sharing the heart-warming message with people. SPRING SUMMER It means that we need to It means that like a river overcome difficulties that flowing leisurely in the sunshine, we encounter in our life and let us get along with one live toward hope every day another and continue to with a fresh attitude of mind. move on to a better tomorrow. Gwanghwamun Billboards 2017 along with the Four Seasons 5 The Four Seasons (四季) in Gwanghwamun 2017 AUTUMN WINTER It means that as we can see It means that even the desolate the stars shining in the night sky winter field where there seems to with all our heart, be nothing has new life waiting let us lead a life of wisdom so for the spring in it, let us not be that we may find something frustrated by difficult realities precious in everyday life. but rather live with hope. 6 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life CEO Message I would like to warmly thank all of the stakeholders (customers, employees, investors, communities, government officials, etc.) who demonstrate ongoing interest in and support for Kyobo Life. In 2017, both internal and external factors, such as the inauguration of the new government, North Korea’s nuclear provocations and the unstable situation in Northeast Asia, and the U.S. interest rate hike amid the domestic and overseas economic recovery, occurred simultaneously, thereby having a significant impact on the business environment. In addition, it was in a year that clearly felt the impact of the '4th industrial revolution’ in our daily lives due to the innovation of the digital technology, such as big data, artificial intelligence and block chain. In order to enhance the competitiveness of our business while adapting to changes for the future, and also to clarify innovation objectives pursued by Vision2020, Kyobo Life has defined its Vision2020 more clearly as ‘the most innovative life insurance company in terms of products and channels prepared for the era of the 4th industrial revolution,’ and faithfully implemented the 2017 business plan of ‘Innovation of product and channel going ahead half a step at a time.’ As a result, we were rated A1 by Moody’s, the global credit rating agency, for the third consecutive year, a unique distinction in the life insurance industry in Korea, and improved our financial soundness by issuing a hybrid bond with excellent terms in the overseas market. This was a first among Korean life insurance companies, thereby getting recognized as one of the safest investment assets in Asia. In addition, we were selected as the top company in the life insurance sector of the 'Korean Sustainability Index (KSI)' for the eightth consecutive year. In the belief that all humans are precious beings and the values they hold should be respected and realized, we have published our eighth Sustainability Report entitled ‘Humanity and the Future.’ This is the process whereby Kyobo Life shares with you the results of its endeavor for ‘the joint development with all the stakeholders’ and pledges to continue strive to do our best. The contents and results of the pledges we made with our stakeholders in 2017 are as follows Becoming a company that provides optimal insurance coverage and ongoing services The coverage retention system of the Lifelong Care Services, having been carried forward consistently since 2011, has been considerably improved ─ to the extent of becoming examplary in the industry. In addition, by steadfastly following customer-oriented management philosophy and preemptive customer coverage, Kyobo Life alone was selected as ‘the outstanding company for two consecutive years’ among Korean life insurance companies in ‘the Evaluation of the Financial Consumer Protection’ by the Financial Supervisory Service. In addition, Kyobo Life received the citation from the DirectorGeneral of Fair Trade Commission for its distinguished service for having taken the lead in extending financial consumers’ rights and interests. We will continue to assist our customers in retaining the optimal assurance so that they understand our commitment to their needs and feel more satisfied. CEO Message 7 Becoming a company that succeeds together with our Financial Planners By providing a long-term education system and training programs in order to enhance Financial Planners’ competence in keeping with the rapidly changing market environment, we are supporting the Financial Planners so that they can grow into professionals recognized by their customers. We have improved the training course at the education center for new Financial Planners of less than one year’s experience to grow into specialists of insurance coverage for customers, and we are operating ‘the FP Academy of the Insurance Coverage for Customers’ in order to support the existing Financial Planners to improve their productivity. In terms of heightening Financial Planners’ sense of mission and self-esteem and enhancing their motivation, Kyobo Life also holds the MDRT event every year. Becoming a company that grows together with our employees In preparation for the fourth industrial revolution era, we are striving to create a culture of actively taking on new challenges all the time and shaping a workplace that promotes employee development. We help our employees understand the essence of the life insurance business, the mission of life insurers and the true meaning of customer coverage value through the experience of the lifelong planning process and provide each of our members with the opportunity to grow to love our company like a family. By providing our members with various learning programs for their spontaneous competence development, we enhance Kyobo Life’s learning culture of ‘Let’s learn while working and work while learning.' We support them to grow and develop with the best expertise to quickly respond to any environmental changes. In addition, we have improved the in-house system that reduced work inefficiency, selected and rewarded exemplary employees who actively practiced key objectives and core values, and held workshops and conferences for supporting female employees’ competence development. Becoming a company that is attractive to investors In the insurance business, maintaining stable financial soundness is essential above all else. Preparing for implementation of the IFRS17 and the new Korea Insurance Capital Standard(K-ICS) in 2021, we are striving to prepare for the relevant infrastructure and system according to the plan. As for asset management, we have carried on with implementing various measures for preemptive risk management, such as hedging against the risk that household debt could potentially become a serious problem, while emphasizing a balance between risk management and profit. While continuously increasing high interest rate assets for improving profits from asset management, we have striven to improve the holding period return by continuously identifying alternative investment outlets whose profitability is high vis-à-vis the risk. Becoming a company that grows together with the government and communities Kyobo Life is striving to develop together with the government and local communities, aiming to make social contributions through activities reflecting key characteristics of the life insurance business, helping neighbors recover from adversities they suffer ─ due to poor health or lack of finances and knowledge ─ and lead a bright and healthy life. We have operated various voluntary services for adolescents and the educationally underprivileged groups in commemoration of the centenary anniversary of founder Yong-Ho Shin’s birth and, as a part of our global social contributions, conducted overseas volunteer activities in Laos so that the children in that country may have ongoing educational opportunities. In addition, in order to help the residents affected by the earthquake in Pohang, all the employees of Kyobo Life made a donation through voluntary fundraising. As a member of the UN Global Compact, Kyobo Life expresses its constant support for the ten principles in the four fields ─ human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption ─ suggested by the UN Global Compact, and observes them in all management practices. In the era of the fourth industrial revolution, we will face new challenges head on, while continuously coping with the uncertain market changes, in order to move toward achieving bigger and bolder goals. We will do everything in our power to fully embrace our corporate management philosophy of ‘shared growth with all of our stakeholders’ throughout any difficulty. We appreciate and look forward to your continued support March 2018 Thank you! Chang-Jae Shin, CEO & Chairman, Kyobo Life 8 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Highlight Top 10 of Kyobo Life News The top 10 news of Kyobo Life for the year 2017 have been selected based on the result of online survey of over 5,000 participants consist of employees and Financial Planners. in 2017 1 The centennial anniversary of the founder Yong-Ho Shin’s birth, shedding new light 2 Majority of exclusive rights for use in the industry… Innovative products were reon the philosophy of fostering sincere persons markable In commemoration of the centennial anniversary in Kyobo Life has acquire 17 exclusive rights for use, 2017 of the founder Yong-Ho Shin’s birthday, Kyowhich is the highest number among the life insurers bo Life socially shared the life and philosophy of in Korea. Kyobo Life was recognized externally for the founder who had strived to foster sincere perits excellence in the product development on three sons throughout his life far and wide. In September occasions during 2017 alone, with the outstanding2017, The memorial ceremony was held followed by ly innovative (no dividend) Kyobo In-Advance CI Inthe memorial concert with the scholarship students surance making the retirement nest egg associated and prizewinners of each public welfare foundation, with aging secured more easily by introducing The as well as VIPs in field of art and culture. In addition, Partial Conversion Service of the Insurance for the events such as photo exhibition in commemoration first time among Korea’s life insurers in November of the founder, a hundred-day reading campaign 2017, (no dividend) Kyobo Solid Variable Whole-Life and the late-night book store was well received by Insurance launched in June 2017, and (no-dividend) the public. The academic symposium shed new light Kyobo Fit-My Lifetime Personalized Health Insuron the fostering philosophy of the founder, profesance launched in April. sors and students of the educational institutions at* Exclusive rights for use: the patent of the insurance prodtended to discuss the direction of future education uct that prohibits other insurers from selling similar products for a certain period (3 months) in order to protect the inspired by the founder’s educational ideology. first-mover advantages of the company which has developed a new product Moody’s awards Kyobo Life industry’s Chairman Chang-Jae Shin of Kyobo Life, No. 1 in customer protection! Ranked as the 5 highest credit rating with A1 for three con6 awarded the Order of Legion d’Honneur, 7 best by the Financial Supervisory Services secutive years the highest decoration in France Kyobo Life was rated “Good”, the top rating, in eight Kyobo Life has been rated as A1 (Stable) by Moody’s, Chairman Chang-Jae Shin of Kyobo Life has been areas out of 10 areas subject to evaluation in ‘the a leading global credit rating agency, maintaining awarded the Order of Legion d’Honneur, the deco2016 Financial Consumer Protection Survey’ imthe highest credit rating in Korea's insurance indusration of the supreme authority presented by the plemented by the Financial Supervisory Services, try for three consecutive years. It represents Kyobo French Government. Legion d’Honneur, which is thereby having received the best grades for four Life’s excellent financial stability and risk managethe most distinguished national medal in France, consecutive years in the life insurance industry folment capability have been acknowledged internais conferred on persons who have rendered distinlowing the Grade 1 earned in the Complaints Survey tionally. This has significant meaning as it has been guished service in respective areas of politics, the for two consecutive years from 2014 to 2015. This accomplished unwaveringly despite the uncertain economy, culture, scholarship, and sports, etc. Chairrecord is unique among life insurance companies in business environment and the regulatory oversight man Chang-Jae Shin’s award for the Order of Legion Korea, and the reasons for such constant achievetightened by the financial authority. Major global d’Honneur resulted from his endeavor to globalize ment of excellent customer protection were that we financial companies such as Goldman Sachs and Korean literature through the Daesan Cultural Founhave practiced the complete enrollment for reducing Morgan Stanley were also rated A1. Kyobo Life is dation encourage mutual exchanges of literature and mis-selling and have been fulfilling ‘the Lifelong Care the only insurer in Korea to be assigned such a high ideas between Korea and France, and his contribuService.’ credit rating. tion on broadening the horizons of cultural exchange between Korean and France, well-planned support in arts and culture, such as the Gwanghwamun Billboard, and Kyobo Book Center played major part in receiving the award. Top10 News of Kyobo Life in 2017 9 Kyobo Life ranked 1st in Sustainability InBlock chain, big data … leading the digital 3 dex’s life insurance business category for 4 innovation eight consecutive years Kyobo Life has led various digital innovations while Kyobo Life was once again rated No. 1 in ‘the Korea converging the digital technologies, such as block Sustainability Index’s life insurance business catechain and big data. with the insurance industry. gory in 2017. This result means that Kyobo Life has Since we were selected as the pilot business of the become the leading enterprise practicing ‘sustainblock chain supervised by the Korean government ability management’ in the best way and Kyobo has in April 2017, we have been developing innovative received the best score in the life insurance industry technologies in the insurance services field. The as it was highly regarded for its efforts for the joint typical results are the automatic claim service of development with all the stakeholders. Such factors the fee-for-service health insurance in which the as establishing the fair-trade practices, managing insurance is claimed automatically at the same time the business transparently, leading the consumer with the payment of medical bills; and the coverage protection, and striving for prevention of customer analysis system of gathering together the insurance complaints, etc., have acted positively. coverage for customers and sending them to Financial Planners' tablet PCs, etc. In addition, we held the InsurTech Hackathon for the first time in Korea’s insurance industry in November 2017 in order to help IT experts to put their heads together for drawing fresh ideas. Kyobo Life will keep on meeting with customers with constantly innovation by actively utilizing new technologies of the 4th Industrial Revolution. The Lifelong Care Service V3 for optimizFaster and more convenient digital point of Succeeding in issuance of the hybrid bond 8 ing the insurance coverage for customers 9 contact, such as quick authentication etc. 10 in the global market Kyobo Life has changed the name of ‘the Lifelong Kyobo Life has been applying quick authentication Kyobo Life’s excellent financial soundness also Care Service’ having entered its seventh year in to the point of internal contact and the point of worked in the global market. We have successfully 2017 into ‘the Lifelong Care Service V3’ for carrycustomer contact, such as the mobile window, and issued the hybrid bond of US$500 million for global ing forward the optimized service of the insurance company website, since November 2017. Quick auinvestors for the first time in Korea’s life insurance coverage for customers. The key point of the new thentication means simplifying the authentication industry. With orders coming in from numerous Lifelong Care service V3 is helping customers to method by the security PIN set with the finger scan global investors, the coupon rate was set at 3.95% maintain the optimal coverage through the process or 6-digit password etc. In this way, in Korea’s inp.a., which is the all-time low rate among that of of checking and rescheduling the state of the insurance industry, we are the pioneer in introducing the hybrid bonds issued by Asian insurers. Thanks surance coverage for customers based on lifecycle the quick authentication on all the digital points of to the crucial role of its high international credit ratplanning. We have changed our approach from focontact used by customers, Financial Planners and ing having been maintained for several years, Kyobo cusing on the retention service of each contract to employees. By applying the quick authentication Life’s hybrid bond has drawn great attention in the ‘the insurance guarantee for customers’ which is a which has improved the ease of use and significantglobal market and could attract many investors. comprehensive concept for helping our customers ly enhanced security, we have made a great appeal to cope well with any adversity. to our customers and Financial Planners. 10 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Special Section In Commemoration of the Centennial Anniversary of Founder Yong-Ho Shin’s Birth The year of 2017 marks the 100th anniversary of the birth of “Daesan” Yong-Ho Shin, the founder of Kyobo Life, who is considered one of the great businessmen having enhanced the Korean economy in the 20th century. He was called ‘the pioneer in insurance, or the great leader in insurance’ through his life exclusively for the life insurance and had been widely known in the global insurance industry as well as in Korea. Until the end of his life at the age of 86 in September 2003, the key word that had been dominating Daesan’s life was ‘national education’, or, ‘fostering sincere persons. The education that he had aimed for throughout his life was the ‘the living education’ which was more comprehensive and acquired through the actual experience, beyond the school education. For the founder who actually wrote, “I work while learning and learn while Concert in commemoration of the founder working’ in the column of the highest level of education in his curriculum vitae, everyone whom he met was his teacher and everything that he looked at and heard about was the subject of learning. To him, education in the true sense of the word was ‘fostering sincere persons who pursue self-development and maturity as a human being in their lives through ceaseless learning.’ With the passion for ‘the national education’ blossoming through hardship in his life while going through the Japanese colonial period and the Korean War, he created educational insurance for the first time in the world and established the Kyobo Book Center Co., in the center of Seoul followed by the establishment of three public welfare foundation including Daesan Cultural Foundation, Kyobo Foundation for Education and Daesan Agriculture Foundation. In September 2017, in commemoration of the centenary anniversary of founder Daesan Yong-Ho Shin, Kyobo Life held a memorial concert at Jamsil Lotte Concert Hall attended by about 1,800 people including all the scholarship students and prizewinners of the public welfare foundations, as well as important people in the world of arts and cultures, and of related institutions. In addition, we proceeded with the academic symposium shedding new light on Daesan’s educational philosophy under the theme of ‘Daesan’s ideals of education and direction of the future education. About 300 people including professors of the Korean Educational Research Association and officials of related organizations participated in the symposium; and Kyobo Book Center Co. operated various reading campaigns from September, such as the 100-day reading campaign, late night bookstore, book concert etc. Moreover, various programs were completed with great success including, but not limited to, the memorial photo exhibition containing the founder’s trace, volunteer work conducted by executives and team heads of Kyobo Life, ‘Daesan People’s Day’ hosted by Daesan Agricultural Foundation, Long March of Northeastern Asia conducted by university students, etc. The late-night book store Photo exhibitiion in commemoration of the founder About Kyobo Life 11 Family About Kyobo Life 12 Company Overview 14 Business Overview 16 Governance 18 Vision and Strategies of Kyobo Life 19 Stakeholder Engagement 12 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Company Overview Kyobo Life was founded in 1958 under the philosophy of promoting education for people and creating national capital. Kyobo Life has been guided by its founding mission of ‘helping people to overcome future adversities through mutual assistance and thereby fulfill their lifelong dreams.’ Moreover, Kyobo Life is a professional life insurer striving to achieve Vision2020 as ‘the most innovative life insurance company in terms of products and channels prepared for the 4th Industrial Revolution.’ Company Facts General Information Organization Number of personnel Head Office Company 3 Offices 4 Profit Kyobo Life Insurance Co. Ltd name Divisions 4 Value Employees Divisions 56 Teams Establish -ment date August 7, 1958. 3,757 persons CEO Chang-Jae Shin (愼 昌 宰) Financial Planners 17,348 Sales Kyobo Building, 1, Head 15 Divisions, Jong-ro (Jongro 1-ga), Jongro-gu, Office 2 Departments Seoul, Korea persons Corporate History Firmly rooted in the belief that “education is the key to the future of the nation,” Kyobo Life has been leading Korea’s insurance industry for the past 59 years, and continues to blaze a trail with its know-how. 1958 ~ 1979 1980 ~ 1999 1958 Established 'Korean Education Insurance Co.,', 1980 Established 'Kyobo Book Centre Co., Ltd' Created ‘Jinhak Insurance,’ the world’s 1983 Founder Yong-Ho Shin awarded 'World Insurance Grand Prize' first education insurance by the International Insurance Society (IIS) 1964 Awarded ‘Presidential Honors’ of Excellence in Saving in the 1991 Established 'Daesan Agriculture & Cultural Foundation First Savings Day Awards (Current ‘Daesan Agriculture Foundation)' 1967 The best company in its respective industry 1992 Established 'Daesan Cultural Foundation' with 32.7 billion won in insurance contracts within just nine 1995 Company renamed as ‘Kyobo Life Insurance Co. Ltd.’ years after foundation. 1996 Founder Yong-Ho Shin inducted into the IIS 1978 Contract exceeded KRW1 trillion for the first time. 'Insurance Hall of Fame' 1997 Established the Educational and Cultural Foundation of Kyobo Life (Current 'Kyobo Foundation for Education') About Kyobo Life 13 Status on Operation Locations Affiliated Companies Kyobo Life has 556 branch offices and 58 customer PLAZAs in Korea. Kyobo Life has twelve affiliated companies that operate mainly in the life insurance sector. The synergistic effects that Kyobo Life and its affiliated companies create through organic exchanges help enhance the brand value and corporate value of Kyobo. Credit Ratings Category Company Financial (8) Kyobo Securities Co., Ltd. Domestic National Information Korea Investors Korea Kyobo AXA Investment Managers Co. Ltd. & Credit Evaluation Service Ratings KCA Claim Adjustment Co., Ltd AAA Saengbo Real Estate Trust Co., Ltd. A&D Credit Information Co., Ltd., Kyobo Life Asset Management Co., Ltd. (America) Kyobo Life Asset Management Co., Ltd. (Japan) Kyobo Life Planet Life Insurance Company International Moody’s Fitch Non-financial (4) Kyobo Book Centre Co.,Ltd. A1 A+ Kyobo Realco Co.,Ltd. Kyobo Information & Communication Co., Ltd. Kyobo Data Center Co.,Ltd. 2000 ~ 2010 2011 ~ Present 2000 Proclaimed the Ethics Charter of Kyobo people 2011 Proclaimed ‘Kyobo Vision2015’ 2001 Proclaimed 'Vision2010' and 'CI' of Kyobo people 2012 CEO & Chairman Chang-Jae Shin won ‘Best Insurance CEO 2002 Founded 'Kyobo Dasomi Volunteer Service Center' of the Year’ in Asia Insurance Industry Awards 2004 Won 'Customer Satisfaction Grand Prize (for five 2013 Established ‘Kyobo Life Planet Life Insurance Co. Ltd.’ consecutive years)' and dedicated to the 'Hall of Fame' 2014 Won the second ‘Beloved Corporate Government’ 2009 Selected as Best Insurance Company in Asia of Presidential Award the Year (2009)' in the Asia Life Insurance Industry Won the private company prize in the process sector 2010 Joined International Agreement for Corporate Social for Porter Prize for Excellence in CSV Responsibility and UN Global Compact 2016 Proclaimed ‘Kyobo Vision2020’ Won the 12th Management Transparency Award. 2017 Acquired the credit rating of A1 from Moody’s for three consecutive years Selected as top company in the life insurance sector in the ‘Korean Sustainability Index (KSI)’ for eight consecutive years 14 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Business Overview Life Insurance Business Process The life insurance business process comprises the following three stages: subscription → retention → payment. In the subscription stage, Kyobo Life conducts life cycle planning, and devises and recommends the best plan in accordance with the needs and financial abilities of customers. In the retention stage, Kyobo Life explains the details of a contract and the benefits of the contract, and helps customers to handle contract-related matters. In the claim payment stage, the benefits promised in the insurance contracts are paid to help customers in their times of need. The premiums paid by customers are managed according to a long-term strategy with the focus on stable returns. New subscription Number of payment 799,000 cases 3,429,000 cases Initial premiums Paid insurance KRW 855.1 billion Subscriptions Payments KRW 9,415.9 billion Customers 4,338,000 persons In-force premiums Retention KRW 10,766.2 billion Asset Management Loans KRW 18.6 trillion Securities KRW 70.3 trillion As of the business year 2017, Kyobo Life closed a total of 799,000 new contracts, provided retention services to 4,338,000 customers, and paid out KRW 9,415.9 billion in 3,429,000 claims. About Kyobo Life 15 Key Products Kyobo Life offers a full range of financial products for private and corporate clients, including insurance, loans, funds, trusts. In particular, Kyobo Life specializes in family life guarantee and senior citizen life guarantee products which pertain to Kyobo’s roots in the life insurance industry to help customers prepare for and manage future risks. Insurance Products Integrated CI Insurance Whole Life · Term Insurance Pension · Deposit Insurance Health insurance is the insurance that covers main Whole Life · Term Insurance pays benefits to the Pension insurance is used by customers who wish diseases and death together, and Integrated CI Inbeneficiary at the time of the insured person’s to accumulate assets and enjoy a better lifestyle surance covers a whole family with a single condeath. There are different types, such as univerafter retirement. Policyholders can either detertract. CI (Critical Illness) insurance combines the adsal whole life insurance, which provides premium mine the payment period or choose to receive a vantages of health insurance and life insurance. It adjustments and advance payment options, and pension up until death. Deposit insurance can pays out part of the benefits in the event of illness term life insurance, which covers a specific period serve as an instrument to build assets or save and the rest upon the insured’s death. of time intensively. money for specific purposes. Education · Child Insurance Health · Injury Insurance Retirement Pension Insurance Education insurance is intended to help parents This product package includes the health insurance Retirement Pension Insurance is provided under save money for their children’s education. The polipaying insurance at the time of diagnosis of diseasthe Employee Retirement Benefit Security Act. We cy holder can receive benefits each year to support es and surgical operation, the Accident insurance provide retirement pension management and asset education according to the age of the child, and covering impaired status or dementia in daily life, management services with this product. special options may be included in the contract to and the fee-for-service health insurance paying inprotect the insured child against such risks as dissurance for the actual medical expense. ability, accident and illness. Child insurance offers stronger coverage for accident, illness, or disability. ※ Details information on insurance products can be found on Kyobo Life corporate website (www.kyobo.co.kr). 16 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Governance Kyobo Life believes that a stable, efficient, and transparent governance structure is required to ensure the company’s sustainable growth while simultaneously promoting the rights and interests of various stakeholders in a balanced way. Kyobo Life’s core decision-making bodies are the general shareholders’ meeting and the board of directors, and outside directors are actively involved in monitoring corporate activities. In addition, the company appoints compliance officers and operates an audit committee to ensure thorough internal control, with the ultimate goal of raising Kyobo Life’s corporate value. Corporate Governance Chart Audit Committee Directors Recommendation Committee General Board of Shareholders’ Risk Management Committee Directors Meeting Remuneration Committee Management Committee ※K yobo Life publishes ‘Annual Report on Corporate Governance’ in accordance with the ‘Exemplary Norm on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies.' The details of Kyobo Life’s corporate governance can be found on the corporate website (www.kyobo.co.kr). Ownership Structure Kyobo Life has a transparent and clear ownership structure. The largest shareholder is CEO and Chairman Chang-Jae Shin, who holds 33.78%, and the majority shareholders have remained unchanged for the past three years. Shareholders (%) 33.78 Chang-Jae Shin 5.65 Three persons including in-Jae Shin 5.85 KEXIM Bank 2.24 AXA 1.07 Goldman Sachs 9.79 Corsair Capital 1.00 Employee Stock Ownership Union 1.00 Meiji Yasuda Life 9.05 Affinity 0.36 Others 7.62 Ontario Teacher’s Pension plan 2.30 Life Investors of Korea 4.50 Government of Singapore 5.33 Standard Chartered PE Investment Corporation 5.23 IMM 5.23 Baring PE About Kyobo Life 17 Board of Directors The board of directors sets and controls the company’s management goals and key strategies, with the aim of implementing transparency management as the backbone of sustainable growth. The board supervises how the company is run by the management and supports the management at the same time. Composition According to the articles of incorporation, the board should be composed of four or more members. The current board is composed of six directors (two inside directors and four outside directors), all of whom must pass the “fit and proper” test as required under the relevant laws, including the Insurance Business Act, before being appointed at a general meeting of shareholders. In particular, outside directors are nominated by the Directors Recommendation Committee from among outside experts who possess professional expertise and who do not have any interest in the company, and undergo a strict and fair screening process. All these steps are intended to ensure transparency in the company’s management. Committees within the Board of Directors Committee’s name Roles Audit Committee Evaluate and improve management performance and adequacy of overall internal control systems Directors Recommendation Recommend CEO, outside director and auditor candidates with expertise and qualifications that fit the company’s Committee strategic targets Risk Management Committee Establish basic policy and key policies on risk management, and approve management strategy based on risk Remuneration Committee Design and implement compensation system for executives in connection with risk Management Committee Decision-making on important issues such as long and short-term management policies and establishment of management plans Composition of Board of Directors Category Name Position Area of expertise Chang-Jae Shin (Born in 1953) CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors Directors Jeong-do Heo (Born in 1965) Chief Marketing Officer Jung-Hyo Lee (Born in 1946) Former chairman of the Daesan Agriculture Foundation Business Administration, Accounting /Kyobo Foundation for Education Outside Seong-Sik Hwang (Born in 1956) Former President of Samchully Corp. Business Administration, Accounting directors Yeong-Taek Park (Born in 1959) Affinity Equity Partners, Managing Partner Finance, Accounting Hari R. Rajan (Born in 1977) Corsair Capital, Managing Director and Partner Finance Evaluation & Remuneration of Executive Management The remuneration of the executive management is determined based on the evaluation of performance against annual targets in each area, as reported to the board of directors at the end of each business year. The remuneration of directors is determined at a general shareholders’ meeting and the details of remuneration of outside directors are disclosed at our website (www.kyobo.co.kr >> Disclosures >> Governance Disclosures). 18 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Vision and Strategy Vision2020 : The most innovative life insurance company in product and channel prepared for the 4th Industrial Innovation Kyobo Life is expediting the achievement of its Vision2020 as ‘the most innovative life insurance company in products and channels prepared for the 4th Industrial Innovation.’ Under this new vision Kyobo Life will strive to attain its core goal of helping people to overcome future adversities and pursue their dreams without disruption due to financial hardships, based on the principle of mutual assistance. To this end, Kyobo Life will think and act from the perspective of customers, upholding the principles of honesty and sincerity as Kyobo Life takes full responsibility for the results, rising to new challenges, and not allowing the fear of failure to discourage the company from trying again. Visible Future Core Values Vision2020 We will always put The most innovative life insurance our customers first in our thoughts company in product and channel prepared and actions for the 4th Industrial Innovation We will always We will always be innovate, starting Core purpose honest and sincere over again if at first To help everyone pursue confidently their most precious dreams throughout in every respect we do not succeed their lives overcoming every adversity by mutual support 2017 Business Environment and Responses In order to proactively respond to future changes and realize Kyobo Life’s Vision2020, Kyobo Life analyzes the constantly changing industry trends and business environment, identifies potential risk factors, and derives business potential from various opportunities. Changing Business Environment Implications & Future Responses 2017 Business Plans & Key Tasks •Enhance product competitiveness, such as development of differentiated products reflecting customers’ needs, etc. •Intensified population aging and low birthrate “ Innovation of products and •Expand sales of products for family life guarantee Society •Increased single-person households channels going ahead half by implementing stronger marketing campaigns and elderly households a step at a time! ” with the focus on customer guarantees. •Enhance the competitiveness of the •Strengthen the channel competence through product · service value innovation of sales training. •Strengthen ‘the organization· •Continuing trend of low growth and competence’ of the channels. low interest rates -C ontinuously expanding the honest •Expecting restricted economic recovery and faithful channel organization Economy due to increase of uncertainties of both -R einforcing the competence of the •Continuously strive to defend the holding period domestic and global financial markets coverage value suggestion returns (HPR) from falling. (Innovation of the sales training) •Existing probability of an additional •Manage assets in response to increasing volatility in Increasing the volume of activities domestic base-rate increase domestic and foreign financial markets. faithful to the perspiring sales staff •Continuously respond to strengthened regulations •Continuously strengthening regulation of the •Respond preemptively to the regulation of the financial soundness. Available capital↑ financial soundness, such as IFRS17 (to be of financial soundness. ( required capital↓ ) introduced in 2021), K-ICS*, etc. •Enhance the responsiveness of asset Politics •Strengthening the legal responsibility of management against market changes. financial institutions due to enhancement of •Practice the leading customer protection protection of financial consumers •Perform creative business. •Increasing convergence of the financial industry Technology •Enhance use of fintech and big data •Increasing use of fintech and big data * the New Korea Insurance Capital Standard About Kyobo Life 19 Stakeholder Engagement Kyobo Life has identified five major groups of stakeholders according to their legal responsibility and impact on business activities, and is striving to fulfill Kyobo Life's philosophy of “pursue shared growth with all stakeholders.” Channels of Communication with Stakeholders Kyobo Life operates various channels of communication to gather opinions from its key five stakeholder Groups: namely, customers, Financial Planners, employees, investors, government and communities. Government and Customers Financial Planners Employees Investors communities CommuWebsite, customer panel Website exclusively for Financial Intranet, IR section on the company Website (social contribution nication (quarterly), customer Planners, Financial Planner labor-management website, shareholders’ section), Kyobo Dasomi channels satisfaction survey satisfaction survey (annual), meetings and council meetings (regularly once Volunteer Service Center (annual), special event support for high-performing (quarterly), employee a year), board of directors’ (frequent), meetings for premium customers Financial Planners (quarterly), satisfaction survey (on meetings (monthly), IR with business partners (frequent), etc. various meetings for Financial occasion), etc. activities (frequent), etc. (frequent), etc. Planners (frequent), etc. Stakeholder Survey Investors / Government Customers Financial Planners and communities Method Satisfaction Brand Satisfaction Reputation Purpose To assess customer To measure the company’s To assess the competitiveness of To improve the company’s satisfaction with Kyobo Life brand power and obtain data planners’ activities and devise ways to improve reputation, based on the and major rivals, and to that can be used for strategic customer satisfaction. results of surveys on the work out ways to enhance brand management. company and the CEO. the level of satisfaction. Period Jul.-Aug. 2017 Jul.-Aug. 2017 Jul.-Aug. 2017 Nov.-Dec. 2017 Content •Assessment of customer •Company awareness and •Assessment of customer satisfaction •Reputation of life insurance summary satisfaction with Kyobo customer loyalty with Financial Planners companies and CEOs Life vs competitors •Brand image of life insurance •Identification of strengths and weaknesses that affect (awareness/likability) •Corporate image •Survey on how customers the competitiveness of Financial Planners’ activities •Channels through •Satisfaction with use life insurance companies •Identification of complaints and needs of Financial which insurance-related insurance products Planners information can be obtained Management Information Session for Employees Kyobo Life holds management information sessions to explain key business issues to employees and thereby improve their understanding of those issues and to facilitate two-way communication between the management and employees. Date and July 14, 2017 Time (two sessions at 10:00~11:00 and 15:00~16:00) Location Convention Hall, Kyobo Life Gwanghwamun Head Office Content First half 2017 results, business environment and directions of the second half marketing strategy Briefing Session on the Management Information 20 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Experts' Meeting Meeting Overview Date and November 2 (Thu.), 2017, Topics Time 15:00~17:00 Kyobo Life’s sustainability management system Location Seminar Room, 23rd Floor, Kyobo Life Gwanghwamun Head Office and future strategies, review of the FY2016 Moderator Representative Se Woo Jung (THE CSR) Sustainability Report. “You had better add more impact “You need to reflect the recent “I’d like to recommend you to to the Report based on a trend of the sustainability expand the social contribution principle of the choice management in your activities influencing your and concentration” business activities.” corporate ideology.” Gyeong-Shin Kim Jae-Seong Gwak Ju-Sik Kim (Professor, Sungshin (Professor, Kyung Hee (Senior social worker, University), University) Samsung Medical Center Kyobo Life has received awards several times in Recently, in relation to sustainability management, Kyobo Life has been continuing its social the field of the sustainability management and the global issue is how to match the Sustainable contribution activities reflecting the nature of the its sustainability report also demonstrates the Development Goals (SDGs) of the UN Global life insurance business, such as Dasomi Save a standard. From this point on, I hope Kyobo Life Compact with the enterprise and internalize Small Breath, dispatch of caregivers to the lowerwill deliver a message with impact by reducing the them strategically. When carrying forward the income group, etc. In the future, I hope Kyobo total reporting volume and organizing the report sustainable management activities in the future, Life will expand its ‘education’-related activities, focused on major issues through selection and it is necessary for Kyobo Life to reflect the such as training experts in the education and concentration. trend through reference of relevant cases or welfare programs for adolescents in the light of participation in seminars. connectivity with ‘promoting education for people,’ which is the foundational ideology of Kyobo Life, systemizing the existing economic education for the employees, etc. “I think it’s necessary “You should enhance the connectivity “It is necessary to implement the to pay more attention of the corporate vision with sustainability management through to the human rights the sustainability the socially responsible management.” management system” investment……” Jong-Sun Park Eun-Gyeong Lee Jong-O Lee (Director, Sejong (Team head, UN Global (Director General, Korea Education Institute) Compact) Sustainability Investing Forum) Recently, the focus of corporate management has As Kyobo Life has been recognized, in the meantime, Recently, how to manage customers’ fund been changing from the ethical management into as the enterprise outstandingly implementing the responsibly has become a priority matter. In the the human rights management. Human rights are sustainable management, I hope you to keep on case of AXA, they fulfill their socially responsible a vulnerable field in Korean domestic enterprises leading the sustainable management. As the New investment while responding to climate change by and, in this context, Kyobo Life needs to pay Government has strengthened the compliance the method of not investing in enterprises using attention to the human rights field in the process of public enterprises (ethical management) since fossil fuels, etc. I suggest Kyobo Life also give of carrying forward CSR activities considering its launching and spread the basis to private consideration to fulfilment of socially responsible comprehensively such social value and corporate enterprises, I want Kyobo Life to become a model investment in connection with the IR department ideology. case of the private enterprise. In addition, I think it a on the investment portfolio. good idea for Kyobo Life to deeply consider setting up a process for enhancing the link between your vision and the sustainable management. About Kyobo Life 21 Love Kyobo Life’s Values 22 Kyobo Life’s Value Chain / Economic Value Creation and Distribution 24 Sustainability Management Strategy Major Activities in 2017 26 Customer-centered Business Activities 32 Support for Enhancing Financial Planners’ Competence 37 Support for Improving the Corporate Culture 44 Improvement of Financial Soundness 48 Social Contribution Activities Reflecting the Nature of the Life Insurance Business 22 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Kyobo Life’s Value Chain / Economic Value Creation and Distribution Product · Service (Emotional stability / Financial guarantee) Insurance premium (trust) Customer Information on products and service/ support for competence improvement Financial Talent and endeavor planner Service for performance creation and competence improvement Talent and endeavor Employee Creation of performance Capital Investor Engagement in the development of communities Shared growth Government and Communities Others Value chain Value distribution Kyobo Life's Values 23 Kyobo Life’s value chain is composed along with all of the stakeholders. The value chain chart shows how our customers, Financial Planners, employees and the Government and communities create and share values in collaboration, as well as investors of Kyobo Life. Reserve funds for claims Customers put their trust in Kyobo Life by choosing the company's products and services and by 13.5764 entrusting their funds to Kyobo Life, and Kyobo Investment income KRW trillion Life reinvests and manages funds responsibly and safely. KRW 4.3 trillion Kyobo Life gets involved in, and shares values with, communities by paying taxes, conducting social Fees, training costs contribution activities, and local procurement. The 623.8 economic values that Kyobo Life creates through business activities, including premium income from KRW billion insurance sales, and gains from investment and the management of assets, are distributed to key premium income stakeholders. KRW 11.6 trillion Wage, welfare and benefit costs, etc. Kyobo Life recruits talented employees and benefits 424.6 from talent, and in return provides the employees with a variety of services designed to help them KRW billion produce results and enhance their competences. Total revenue Dividends Kyobo Life obtains capital from shareholders and investors, and allocates the capital to different KRW 15.9 trillion KRW 102.5 billion businesses to create the best possible results. Creation of economic value Taxes / donations, etc. Kyobo Life gets involved in, and shares value The economic values that Kyobo with, communities by paying taxes, and Life creates through business 516.5 engaging in social contribution activities, local procurement, etc. activities, including premium KRW billion income from insurance sales, and gains from investment and asset management, are distributed to key stakeholders. Others KRW 731.7 billion 24 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Sustainability Management Strategy Kyobo Life’s sustainability management is based on two pillars: the philosophy of sustainability management, which consists in seeking shared growth with all stakeholders; and Vision2020, through which the company strives to achieve product and channel innovation preparing for the '4th Industrial Revolution’ and thereby become the No. 1 life insurance company in Korea. Kyobo Life has categorized stakeholders Customer who are closely related to Kyobo Life into groups, and defined Kyobo Life's promises to each group of stakeholders accordingly. Kyobo Life's sustainability management includes the fulfillment of these promises. Company that provides The sustainability management system that Kyobo Life is implementing Our optimum insurance consists of the promises that Kyobo Life makes to stakeholders, the Promise coverage and ongoing principles according to Kyobo Life fulfills those promises, and the key services performance indicators (KPI) by which the company evaluates how well those principles have been followed. •We will listen to the customers and manage the company from the customers’ perspective. Vision2020 •We will enhance service quality The most innovative life insurance company Our throughout the policy life cycle, in product and channel prepared for the 4th Princifrom underwriting to persistency ples and benefits payment. Industrial Innovation Sustainability Management Philosophy Pursue Shared Growth with For All Stakeholders Kyobo Life’s Stakeholders Persistency rate* (13th month) 2017 Priority Tasks 78.6 •Enhance the competitiveness of produc · service value. •Enhance ‘the organization · competence’ of the channel. % Continuously expand the honest and sincere channel organization Enhancing the competence of the coverage value suggestion (Innovation of sales training) Customer Increasing the volume of activities faithful to the satisfaction level aggressive sales efforts •Respond preemptively to the regulation of financial KPI 73.8 Available capital↑ soundness. ( Required capital↓ ) points •Enhance the responsiveness of the asset management against market changes. •Practice the customer protection initiatively. •Perform the creative business. Market share rate* 2017 Five key issues •Business activities focused on customers •Support enhancing the Financial Planners’ competence •Support for improvement of the corporate culture 10.5 % •Enhancement of the financial soundness •Social contribution activities reflecting the nature of the life insurance business Kyobo Life's Values 25 Financial Planner Employee Investor Government & Communities Company that Company that grows Company that Company that succeeds together together with the grows together is attractive to with our Financial government and with our employees investors Planners communities •We will pay respect to and trust •We will continue on our corporate •We will continue to produce •We will actively carry out corporate the Financial Planners as business culture of joy, pride and trust. exceptional profits through the social responsibility activities partners. good growth. to grow together with our •We will provide equal communities. •We will establish fair standards and opportunities and reward •We will increase the value of help the Financial Planners engage according to fair evaluation. company through preemptive •We will manage our business in their sales and service activities risk management in an environmentally friendly •We will support our employees with peace of mind. way, reflecting the nature of our to grow and develop into the business. •We will support Financial Planners insurance experts. to grow into insurance experts. •We will grow together with our partners through fair competition. Financial Planner Training hours Return on equity(ROE)* Social contribution ratio* satisfaction level per employee /amount 70.8 points 94 hours 7.5 % 2.3 / 146 % KRW billion Financial Planner Competence development Total assets* Weight of Socially responsible settlement ratio* (13th month) expenditure per employee investment (SRI) 41.1 % KRW 202,000 KRW 104.5 trillion 8.5 % * Persistency rate (13th month): (Contract maintenance fee / Underwriting fee) × 100 Risk based capital Energy consumption * Market share rate is based on Premium Income as of December 2018 ratio(RBC) * Financial Planner Settlement Ratio: (Number of advanced Financial Planners / Newly Registered Number of Financial Planners) × 100 296.0 17,430 ※ Financial Planners Settled in the 12th month includes those signed more than one more new contract and retained more than 10 contracts signed as of the 13th month * Return on Equity (ROE): Net Income / {(Capital at the Start of Period + Capital at the End of % TOE* Period) / 2} × 100, based on consolidated financial statements * Risk Based Capital (RBC): Available capital for insurance claim payments (payment capacity) / Required capital for risk management (RBC total risk) x 100, based on consolidated financial statements * Total assets: Based on consolidated financial statements * Weight of socially responsible investment (SRI) ratio: SRI investment / General account assets) x 100 * Social contribution ratio: Amount of social contribution / Net Income, based on consolidated * TOE (Tonnage of Oil Equivalent): Amount of energy produced when burning one ton of oil, financial statements standardized in calorie units 26 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life 2017 Five Key Issues of Kyobo Life Performance Management Framework for Customers Kyobo Life’s O u r p l ed g es to C u stomers Management We will become a company offering Activities for superior customer coverage. Customers •We are striving to listen closely to the voices of customers and strive to run our business from their viewpoint. •We are striving to enhance the quality of all our services, from insurance policy purchase to retention to payment. Key Customer Related Issues •Carrying forward the customercentered management •Enhancing customer satisfaction activities Key Activities in 2017 •Developing the customized •Enhancing competitiveness new products of product·service value •Vitalizing fintech (block chain) •Enhancing ‘the organization· •Striving to protect customers competence’ of the channel -E  nhancing the competence of the coverage value suggestions (Innovation of sales training) Increasing the volume of Key Customer Related Performances activities faithful to Persistency ratio* Customer satisfaction level Market share ratio* (%) aggressive sales efforts (13th month) (%) (points) •Practicing customer 80.0 10.8 protection initiatively 79.1 78.6 10.5 76.4 10.3 -S  trengthening customer protection activities 73.4 73.8 -E  ffectively responding to evaluations related to customer protection 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Key Future Tasks •Expanding the customer base (new customers/retained customers) Providing retained customers with optimal service of customer coverage Developing and providing market-development products and services for securing new customers •Improving the channel expertise * Persistency rate = (Retention contract premium / New contract premium) × 100 Enhancing Financial Planners’ competence in life cycle planning * Market share rate is based on Premium Income and Strengthening sales managers’ expertise the data of 2017 are as of December 2017. Kyobo Life's Values 27 Customer-Focused Business Activities Enhancing Competitiveness of Product·service Value Focused on Customers Customers are the core stakeholders Kyobo Life has carried forward the product innovation going ahead half a step for achieving in the realization of Kyobo Life’s Vision2020. Product innovation means enhancing the competitiveness of products and prodVision2020 (Korea’s most innovative uct-related services. For securing the value competitiveness, it is very important to promptly life insurance company in product and provide the differentiated insurance products and product-related services from the customers’ channel prepared for the 4th Industrial viewpoint by securing various ideas from both inside and outside the company. Innovation), and we will strive for creating performance by consistently Contest of Product/Channel Innovation Ideas Production innovation cannot be achieved by a improving competence by 2020. single team or individual working alone. Therefore, we launched a contest of the company-wide Through habituation of innovative product · channel innovation idea to the exactivities that members of the tent of contributing to achievement of Vision organization change, even small things 2020 and cultivation of an innovative organizational culture in which the collective intelliin their daily work, from the customers’ gence is exerted by collecting creative ideas point of view, we will do our best so of all the employees. Contested ideas will be that our customers may empathize used as a basis for the new product developwith and feel satisfied with the whole ment and channel management plan of Kyoprocess ranging from development bo Life in the future through evaluation. Award Ceremony for Excellent Top Suggestions of products and services to initial policy purchase, retention and benefit Timetable for Product · Channel Innovation Ideas Contest payment, etc. As a global trend, the financial paradigm Submission 1st Review and Selection 2nd Review and Selection is shifting toward strengthening Total of 2,864 items submitted Selected; Selected; consumer protection, amid rising Product innovation: Product innovation: 35 items Product innovation: 10 items social demand for improving the rights 1,244 items Channel innovation: 40 items Channel innovation: 10 items and interests of financial consumers. Channel innovation: * Evaluation by the working group of (announcement: 10 items, doc1,620 items product · channel and the product umentary evaluation: 10 items) Kyobo Life is running an organization concept TF group * Evaluation by the group of working dedicated to protecting financial * Appealed items are reevaluated by organization heads the consultative group of the organiconsumers as its top priority, in an * Collection and reflection of opinions zation heads. from Financial Planners(product) and effort to uphold the core value of managers(Channel) customer-centered management. Development and Rollout of New Insurance Products When Kyobo Life develops new products, we focus on creating insurance products that cater to the changing needs of customers according to each life stage. In 2017, Kyobo Life's renewed efforts to develop new products tailored to the needs of customers resulted in the launch of diverse new products. Major New Products (No-Dividend) Kyobo In-Advance (for Women) CI Insurance (No-Dividend) Kyobo Variable Whole-Life Insurance CI (Critical illness) insurance product covering various illnesses Insurance product with the whole-life insurance protecting over the whole four phases of life (chronic illness, complicayour family and GI (General Illness) coverage keeping your tions, etc.) and with service function, etc. health along with the variable functions hedging against inflation. (No-Dividend) Kyobo Personalized Whole-Life Insurance (No-Dividend) Kyobo Substantial Variable Whole-Life Insurance Insurance product which means the whole-life insurance suitSimple and easy insurance product securing the competitiveable for the customers having difficulty in insurance subscripness of premium and refund rate, while concentrating on the tion, and enables the insurance to be subscribed by the cusbenefit payment at death, and containing only the core covtomer through simplified notification and covered by company erage. through a simple screening test. 28 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Positive Effects of Product Innovation: Obtained Exclusive Rights to Use Exclusive right to use is intended to protect the initial interests of the developer company of a new product for a fixed period of time (three months, or six months). Kyobo Life obtained three exclusive rights to use in 2017. ‘(No-dividend) Kyobo My Whole-Life Customized Health Insurance’ was highly appreciated for the originality and excellence of the product regarding new contract conversion methods leading the life insurance industry (partially converting the existing benefit payment at death), and ‘(No-dividend) Kyobo Substantial Variable Whole-Life Insurance’ regarding the differentiated application of the coverage expense, premium bonus, whole-life coverage option, etc. for Promotional video of Insurance System V3 the first time in Korea respectively. ‘(No-dividend) Kyobo In-Advance CI Insurance’ has been recognized for Next-Generation System ‘Insurance System V3’ Going Smoothly In its innovation as this product made it easier than ever to secure the 2016, Kyobo Life embarked upon the construction of Insurance System retirement nest egg associated with aging by introducing ‘the service V3 in order to cope with changing customer needs, diversification of of partially converting the premium’ for the first time in Korea’s life inproducts and channels, and evolving communication and information surance industry. technology. The purpose of this system is to provide customers with With these, Kyobo Life has become the life insurer holding 17 exclusive optimal products and services by innovating the process. Insurance rights to use, which is the most among life insurers in Korea. All the System V3 completed the analysis stage, selected totally 37 system employees of Kyobo Life will become the subject of the product innoconstruction tasks and is carrying out them sequentially according to vation, striving to continthe leading and trailing relation, and will be opened in November 2018. uously develop creative When Insurance System V3 is open, the easy and convenient work enproducts and enhancing vironment will be created from the customers’ viewpoint. the product competitiveness. Main contents of Quick Service at the Internet Counter (No-dividend) (No-dividend) (No-dividend) Category Existing Changed Remarks Kyobo My WholeKyobo Substantial Kyobo In-Advance Life Customized Variable WholeCI Insurance Same as the left, Application for advance Health Insurance Life Insurance Agreement to pay the withdrawal, Application premium of variable for general benefits Expanding Services insurance in advance, payments, Inquire the target Seventeen Products with Exclusive Rights of Use provided Suspension of the variable insurance / services (Development Profit of New Products) premium payment, change fund, Application/change of •Family Account Insurance •Kyobo My Child Healthcare Payment of premium the electronic transfer (no dividend, 2002) Insurance (no dividend, 2012) •Kyobo Dasarang Life Insurance •Kyobo Love for Grandchildren Same as the left Available to (no dividend, 2003) Insurance (no dividend, 2013) CertifiAuthentication Authentication choose the •Kyobo Edu K Insurance •My Future Pension Plan – Kyobo Variable cation certificate certificate certification (no dividend, 2004) Pension Insurance (no dividend, 2014) method + security card + mobile phone method •Kyobo Group Disability Income •My Love for Family-Kyobo New Whole certification Insurance (no dividend, 2005) -Life Insurance (no dividend, 2015) •Kyobo Life Care Insurance •Keep-Your-Dream-Alive Kyobo Pension (no dividend, 2006) Insurance Ⅱ(no dividend, 2016) Expansion of the Target Work and Certification Method of ‘Quick •Kyobo My Child’s Future •Kyobo Premier CI Insurance Service’ at the Internet Counter The Internet-based Quick Service Care Variable Pension (no dividend, 2016) (no dividend, 2007) •(No-dividend) Kyobo My Whole-Life allows customers to make simple payment applications only with •Kyobo CI Whole-Life Insurance Customized Health Insurance (2017) an authentication certificate and SMS authentication via mobile (no dividend, 2008) •(No-dividend) Kyobo Substantial phone. A security card is not necessary. We added agreement to pay •Second CI Coverage Special Variable Whole-Life Insurance (2017) Policy Conditions (renewable •(No-dividend) Kyobo In-Advance CI the premium of variable products in advance, suspension of the pretype) (no dividend, 2010) Insurance (2017) mium payment, application/change of the electronic transfer, etc. Kyobo Life's Values 29 to specific services available on Quick Service (premium payment, Composition of the Health Coach Service application for or repayment of advance withdrawals, and applica•Everyday challenge: IoT-base measurement of exercise and reward tion for general benefits payments). In addition, we made transac(walking challenge) tions convenient by expanding the certification method which had •5! My coaching: 1:1 Customized health improvement program, been available with only an authentication certificate and a security provided among 5 programs of exercise/nutrition/stress management/ moderation in drink/prohibition of smoking card for the authentication certificate and mobile phone certification. •Check-check My Health: Analyzing the biological age and providing the health report after analyzing the health checkup result Promotion of ‘the Customer Coverage Optimization Service’ of Life•Health library: Retrieving the health information checked by the long Care Service V3 Kyobo Life’s Lifelong Care Service, having gone medical professional and providing the Webzine service into its seventh year (since 2011), has been continuously developing •coach 1:1 consulting: Supporting 1:1 chatting with the expert and consultation with KAKAO talk the existing services, including the upward homogenization of the quality, etc., and exerted various efforts. In 2017, we advanced the ‘Customer Coverage Optimization Service’ of Lifelong Care Service V3. Automatic Premium Payment Service Utilizing the Block Chain Kyobo The main point of Lifelong Care Service V3 is to help customers retain Life was selected as ‘the block chain pilot project for creating the base optimal coverage through the process of checking and re-planning cusof IoT (Internet of Things) activation’ conducted by the Korean Governtomers’ coverage state based on the life cycle planning. Until now, we ment in the first half of 2017 and has started the project of establishing have focused on the retention service of the past contract. However, ‘the insurance claim by smartphone’ utilizing the block chain technology the feature of Lifelong Care V3 is converting the focus to ‘the customer based on IoT. The purpose of this system is to improve the complicated coverage’ helping our customers recover well from adversity. We will process of the insurance claim for solving the inconveniences suffered by continue to keep our promises on ‘customer coverage’ and make the the customers who claim small amounts of insurance and providing the best efforts so that our customers can appreciate and feel satisfied economic benefits. The project of ‘the insurance claim by smartphone’ with the customer coverage optimized service. is a service where copies of the medical records insurance claims are automatically generated and claimed when the conditions of insurance Status of Key Performance Indicators (KPI) payment are met even though the consumers do not claim the insurance Category Units 2015 2016 2017 through the one-stop automation of the whole insurance claim process. No. of customers who have With this service, we expect that the insurance payment procedure will thousand 2,464 2,516 2,612 experienced Kyobo service be simplified and the transparent management will be possible as the person, (Cumulative total after 78.8 81.2 82.4 % whole process is recorded in the block chain. We plan to pilot-operate promotion of the project) this project for about two years until 2019 and then expand it gradually. Payments for unclaimed accident insurance benefits billion 33.1 35.9 40.2 Brief Summary of the Service Improvement regarding (Cumulative total after KRW automatic insurance payments promotion of the project) Lapse/cancellation rate 1 Receipt of 4 Insurance % 6.1 6.1 6.0 (Annual cumulative total) medical bill payment CurHospital Customer Insurer rent 2 Issuance of 3 Insurance Development and Provision of ‘Kyobo Health Coaching Service,’ the certificate claim Health Management in Everyday Life Kyobo Life has developed the ‘Kyobo Health Coaching Service,’ which provides an unequaled and comprehensive health management service through the smartphone 1 Receipt of 3 Insurance application by expanding the therapeutic support-centered service Immedical bill payment to the proactive management for helping customers’ healthy life. This Hospital Customer Insurer proved is a health improvement service for helping customers enhance their lifestyles by utilizing the digital base. The Health Coaching Service is 2 Application for composed of a total of five different kinds and provides customized automatic claim services through expert management so that our customers may have continuous interest in health and practice. Integrated authentication of the block chain 30 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Holding the InsurTech ‘Hackathon’ Contest More than 100 people out tasks for accomplishing such management slogan. We are striving to of 29 teams (11 teams from the business sector and 18 teams from the strengthen all the more awareness among all employees and Financial general sector), including students and general developers, startups, etc. Planners of the importance of customer protection, systemize the interselected through the document screening, participated in this contest, nal process for protecting our customers and establish the foundation and planned and developed the new business model and insurance serutilizing VOC for the management. vice applying the fintech technology through night work for two days. The participants were classified into the general sector and the busiVOC Management Support Kyobo Life comes up with ideas for imness sector and ten teams were awarded. The awarded teams are given provement by analyzing customers’ feedback so that they can be a various benefits: For the general sector team awarded with the grand management asset, and classifies VOCs into the customers’ suggestions prize, selection of candidates by examining their personal histories will in which customers engage based on VOC and the internal suggestions be exempted when they apply for jobs in Kyobo Life, and for the busiin which the employees engage based on customers’ feedback, thereness sector team awarded with the grand prize. They will be provided by continuously improving the VOC Management Council through the with a preferential opportunity to engage in the relevant projects, if relevant consultative groups. The VOC Management Council was opcarried forward, and will be allowed to preferentially move into the KISA erated a total of 12 times in 2017 and as of the end of the year, 21 Fintech Technology Support Center and given preference to participate suggestions out of 34 led to improvements and improvements based in the fintech enterprise support project. on 10 suggestions are currently under way. A typical case out of the improved suggestions is that we have prepared a customer reception Customer Satisfaction Survey Kyobo Life has conducted its annual manual separately for the financially vulnerable social group (senior citcustomer satisfaction survey since 2000 in order to assess the level of izens older than 70, recipients of national basic livelihood guarantees, customer satisfaction with its services and identify the needs of cusseverely disabled persons, etc.) and designated the dedicated customer tomers so as to swiftly respond to changes among customers and in service staff for supporting the business process. the market. The results of the 2017 survey show that customer satisfaction rose to 73.8 points, slightly lower than that of the previous year. Stricter Disclosures for Customer Protection Kyobo Life’s website has a section titled “Customers’ Plaza” where, with just one click, customers Customer-Satisfaction Level (point) can view all of the essential information on customer protection. The Survey subjects Adults between 20 and 64 years old who subscribed information in this section is regularly updated, thereby protecting custo life insurance within the past three years tomers’ right to know. Period of survey July ~ August 2017 Number of people Total of 1,000 persons Rated No. 1 for four consecutive years in customer protection among surveyed life insurance companies: Chosen as the best company in the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS) financial consumer protection survey Kyobo Life got recognized as the best company among the life insur76.4 ance companies in the '2016 FSS financial consumer protection survey.’ Following achievement of the first grade in the compliance sur73.8 vey for two consecutive years in 2014 and 2015, respectively, Kyobo 73.4 Life achieved the Good Grade. This was the highest grade, for 8 items out of 10 in the financial consumer protection survey implemented in 2016 and 2017 respectively, thereby allowing it to be considered an outstanding company. Kyobo Life is the only life insurer that obtained 2015 2016 2017 the highest grade in the industry for four consecutive years in this way, which is more meaningful. This performance is the result of having divided the category into 5 measurable indicators, such as number of Enhanced Efforts in Customer Protection complaints filed, the length of time for processing complaints, etc., and Kyobo Life decided upon its management slogan for the year 2017 as non-measurable indicators including the consumer protection organiza‘The Product · Channel Innovation Going Ahead Half a Step!’ and set tion and system, consumer protection system in the stages of product up ‘Practicing the customer protection initiatively’ as one of the key development, etc., and then comprehensively evaluating them. Kyobo Life's Values 31 The key factors that Kyobo Life could continuously achieve the excellent customer coverage results was that we reduced mis-selling by complete subscriptions and practiced Lifelong Care Service sincerely. In addition, typical efforts include the systematic process responding to customer complaints promptly, such as dispatch of CS manager, operation of the Soritgui (listening to VOCs) system, etc., and active faceto-face consultation with organizational leaders, customer-centered management (CCM), customer panel system, etc. While it is expected that competition among financial institutions will become fiercer for obtaining higher customer protection evaluation, Kyobo Life plans to strive for the provision of more differentiated cusAward Ceremony of the Fair Trade Commission tomer protection. Evaluation Status by Insurer Company name Good Average Insufficient Customer Satisfaction Center, Starting as ‘KCA Service Corporation’ Kyobo Life 8 2 0 In 2017, the Customer Satisfaction Center of Kyobo Life was opened A Life, B Life 7 3 0 as the as ‘KCA Service Corporation.’ KCA Service Corporation, which has started work by changing the management system to facilitate the C Life, D Life 6 4 0 customer counseling business in the light of the rapidly changing insurE Life 5 5 0 ance industry and the business environment. Kyobo Life plans to strive toward becoming the most trusted customer service specialist in the F Life 4 6 0 life insurance industry based on more than 500 professional employees, customer consulting expertise accumulated over the years, and high-quality counseling service. The starting of KCA Service Corporation Awarded with a Citation from the Director-General of the Fair Trade this time is expected to break new ground in Kyobo Life’s innovation of Commission at the 22nd ‘Consumer Rights Day’ Event Kyobo Life recustomer service. ceived the Citation from the Director-General of the Fair Trade Commission in the commemorative event of the 22nd ‘Consumer Rights Day’ conducted by the Fair Trade Commission. This citation is awarded to enterprises rated excellent in consumer-oriented management, and Kyobo Life was recognized as an exemplary financial company having taken the lead in protection and increase of rights and interest for financial consumers and, as a result, received such award. Especially, chief elements of the award are continuous improvement of the relevant system and process based on the customer-oriented management philosophy, provision of the differentiated customized Lifelong Care Service for retaining coverage of each individual customer, social contribution activities fit for the nature of the life insurance Comemorative event for 'KCA Service Corporation' business, etc. In addition, Kyobo Life has obtained certification of Customer Centered Management (CCM) dsix consecutive times (every two years) from 2007 to 2017 from Fair Trade Commission. 32 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life 2017 Five Key Issues of Kyobo Life Kyobo Life’s Performance Management Framework for Financial Planners Business O u r p l ed g es to Fi n a n c i a l P l a n n ers Activities for A company that succeeds together Financial with its Financial Planners Planners •We shall always respect and trust Financial Planners as business partners. •We shall set fair and reliable rules that will guide Financial Planners as they conduct sales and services. •We shall provide support for Financial Planners to grow as insurance experts. Key Financial Planners Related Issues •Support for enhancing our planners’ competence •Programs to support our Key Activities in 2017 planners’ activities. •Support for the sale of •Make the value of our products complete insurance contracts. and services more competitive. •Enhance the organization and competence of our channels. -C  ontinue to expand the network of channels, based on honesty and a sincere attitude. -S  trengthen the ability to Key Financial Planners Related Performances propose the value of retention Financial Planner satisfaction level Financial Planner settlement ratio* (Innovate sales training). (points) (13th month) (%) Increase activities driven by hard 43.8 work-based sales efforts. 39.8 41.1 73.1 •Strictly follow the complete contract sale process and the 71.0 70.8 rules of our policy-retention services. 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Key Future Tasks •Expand the customer base (new customers/retained customers) •Enhance the channel expertise Enhancing Financial Planners’ life-cycle planning competence competence * Financial Planner Settlement Ratio: (Number of advanced Strengthening sales managers’ expertise Financial Planners / Newly Registered Number of Financial Planners) ×100 ※ Financial Planners Settled in the 13th month includes those who signed more than one new contract and retained more than 10 contracts signed as of the 13th month. Kyobo Life's Values 33 Support for Enhancing on Financial Planner's Competence Support for Financial Planning Competence Financial Planners are the Kyobo Life Kyobo Life has continued to modify its education and training themes each year in tandem with stakeholders who come into direct the changing business environment to ensure that Financial Planners can grow into financial contact with customers, connect experts who are trusted by customers. In order to help all Financial Planners become “customer products and services to customers, guarantee experts,” Kyobo Life runs a training center for all FP support groups, and from the and act as communicators. They second half of 2017 Kyobo Life has been helping raise the productivity of our Financial Planners play the role of facilitators in closing by establishing the Customer Coverage FP Academy. insurance contracts with customers, and perform an important role in 2017 Improvements to Education Support for FPs In 2017, Kyobo Life secured the channel matching the needs of customers with competitiveness through enhancing of Financial Planners’ competence, and strived for enhancing the products and services that Kyobo competence of financial planning and of FP branch managers and persons in charge of training. Life can offer to meet those needs, Brief Summary of the plan for strengthening Financial Planners’ competence in 2017 throughout the retention and benefit Strengthen channel competitiveness through payment processes. FPs’ competence enhancement Supporting the enhancement of Financial Planners’ competence is Enhance the coverage value suggestion competence a critical element of the company’s Financial Planners within the 12th month Financial Planners of or over the 13th month efforts to ensure that Financial Planners possess the ability to identify •Improve/strengthen the education courses •Newly establish the education course of the training centers for FP support groups. of 13th ~ 24th month. the varying needs of customers and Improve the education course •Newly establish the Customer Coverage FP design insurance products that best fit within the 3rd month. Academy. (after completing Hi Center) Improve the education course •Improve the operational standard and their needs. of 4th ~ 7th month. contents of Hi Center. Improve the education course •Newly establish and improve the education course of 8th ~ 12th month for the professional FP of retirement pension •Improve the education course of high-performance FP Enhancing competence for FP branch managers and the class in charge of education Education Programs for FPs Kyobo Life offers a variety of education programs to support the development of Financial Planners into professionals and to make the company the most favored workplace for Financial Planners. Kyobo Life's field-oriented education program is diversified according to each FP’s status and length of service. The company also offers test-preparation courses for Financial Planners who wish to acquire licenses in such areas as variable insurance sale and fund investment consulting. FPs’ Education Program by Length of Service Before Official Solicitors’ Introduction Life-Long Care, Solicitors’ employment /FP registration course for experienced Introductory registration course Headquarters (25H for aggregation Financial Planners (2 months) (25 H for cyber) Program (1 day) / 5H for cyber) (3 days/ 1 day) 2nd~3rd month 4th~5th month 4th~5th month 6th~7th month 6th~7th month Life-Long Care, Products in depth Customer Retirement planning Financial planning Advanced (5 days) reassurance (5 days) (5 days) (5 days) (2 weeks each) 8th~12th month 13th month 4th~24th month Coverage consulting Challenge leaders BTP (3 days each) (2 days) (1H per week) 14th month 25th month 37th month 13th~24th month 13th~24th month Retirement planning, Financial planning, Prestige, Market Level-up Kyobo MDRT High-level High-level Basic-level (2 days, once a year) (2 days, once a year) (3 days, bimonthly) (3 days, bimonthly) (2 days) 34 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Operating the Customer Coverage FP Academy for Supporting EnProgram Details of Kyobo MDRT Day hancement of Financial Planners’ Productivity Kyobo Life has been operating the Customer Coverage FP Academy since December 2017 in Sharing order to help Financial Planners acquire life-long planning competence of •Share corporate corporate Communication strategy and recent the highest level in the life insurance industry. The Customer Coverage strategies with CEO issues FP Academy enhances Financial Planners’ suggestion competence of the coverage value through the life-long planning, expansion of the customer base, service of providing health service, etc. and, through this, promotes productivity enhancement. For successful operation of the Customer •Talks by external Coverage FP Academy, we have strived to heighten the effect of the eduMain lectures Story on recovering cation support, such as assigning excellent personnel having experienced Lectures adversity and practicing mentoring success as sales managers, supporting excellent infrastructure, etc. Enhancing competence •Optional lectures Optional by theme Expanding the customer Lecture/ coverage, etc. Mini Lecture •Mini lecture Sessions Sharing tips related to FP activities •Team booth Sharing -C hannel Marketing Support Information Team, Nobiliaire Center, information Sharing Nobiliaire Support Team, (knowlDAWIN Service Center, Sessions edge) Underwriting Team, Claims Team Customer Coverage FP Academy Session of Motivation Encourage•Session of encourage (enhancing ment/ •Donation events FPs’ sense Bridging •Ending Supporting Activities for Higher Performance : of pride) Event Establishing Kyobo MDRT* Culture Kyobo MDRT Day Kyobo MDRT Day has been held annually since 2014. The event of 2017 was held in March under the theme of “Let’s hit it bigger by obliging our customers bountifully,” at the company’s training center (Gyeseongwon), with more than 550 excellent Financial Kyobo MDRT Mentoring Day ‘The Kyobo MDRT Mentoring Day’ was Planners including those who had reached the MDRT threshold for the held in July 2017 to raise FPs’ understanding of the mentoring (menfirst time and lifelong MDRT members. The event was designed to cretor·mentee) for the creation of a sound MDRT culture and to promote ate an MDRT spirit-based FP culture and to raise the pride of successful and spread the MDRT spirit and specific success cases among Financial Financial Planners. Planners. Kyobo Life's MDRT mentoring program is designed to help * MDRT : MDRT refers to the Million Dollar Round Table, which started in 1927 in Memphis, Financial Planners acquire the MDRT spirit and grow into a mature Tennessee, to share information and knowledge among talented insurance and financial adprofessional and successful Financial Planner. The program is unique visors. Today it is a global organization of insurance experts with 49,000 members from 450 life insurance companies in 74 countries all over the world. As part of Kyobo Life's efforts in that it provides an opportunity for Financial Planners and their mento create a unique culture among Financial Planners, Kyobo Life actively supports Financial Planners through various MDRT-related programs. tors to form strong bonds by boosting each other’s morale, rather than simply sharing or transferring knowledge and information. At the Kyobo MDRT Mentoring Day, highlighting the features of the world MDRT annual meeting, we operated various programs, such as motivation, competence enhancement, idea exchange, etc. Kyobo Life's Values 35 Program Details of Kyobo MDRT Mentoring Day My Experience at the 2017 World MDRT Annual Meeting Communication •Understanding Understanding with Chief MDRT mentoring “I will keep on Distribution and sharing future mentoring Officer plans, etc. practicing the MDRT spirit and fulfill my dream of becoming Special •Mi-Hwa Kim, the lifelong MDRT Lecture by broadcaster membership.” the External The main character in Lecturer I my life is myself! Since joining Kyobo Life as a Financial Planner, though I achieved Motivating/ MDRT several times, I could never attend the annual meeting. Enhancing Finally, I boarded the plane bound for Orlando this year with firm compedetermination. Following the powerful lecture of ‘the Connection tence •Hye-Geol Hong, Zone,’ I searched about for various lectures which started in earnest Special medical doctor and concentrated on listening to those lectures. In particular, I was Lecture by Health stories that really impressed by ‘Tony Gordon’s lecture’ that provided information the External anyone can understand that one could encounter only through books. The contents of his Lecturer II easily lecture saying “One year’s goal is easy! So, set a daily goal every day. Thought it is difficult, be sure to set a daily goal and practice it.” and “The pain of rejection is momentary, but the delight of success lasts •President of the MDRT forever.” served as a momentum to renew my attitude of mind. Korea Organization I would like to recommend the MDRT members who have not yet Idea Sharing attended the annual meeting to have the opportunity to experience Exchange, The way to MDRT cases it. Especially, as for the Financial Planners who have yet to become etc. •Sharing activity knowthe MDRT member, I hope you to certainly obtain the membership how (Idea Exchange) for having the chance to attend the MDRT Annual Meeting. That is because there is so much that you can learn in the annual meeting if you are a genuine insurer and furthermore, if you want to do our World MDRT Annual Meeting Around 50 Kyobo Life Financial Planners work well for a long time. Just by feeling the passion shown by about and six sales managers attended the world MDRT annual meeting held 14,000 Financial Planners who gather there from all over the world, in June 2017 in Orlando, USA. Although an invitation to the meeting you can be fully inspired and find the energy inside of yourself. I look forward to certainly becoming the lifelong MDRT member by is a confirmation of their excellence as globally recognized insurance achieving the MDRT six more times consistently, and practicing the professionals, the biggest privilege is that they also get to meet outMDRT spirit of serving and sharing. standing Financial Planners from around the world and exchange ideas and information with them, which can be instrumental to enhancing their performance of their work. Support for Financial Planners’ Activities Kyobo Life provides various types of support designed to instill a sense of pride in the company among Financial Planners and to create a stable environment where they carry out their work effectively. The company implements programs to support the families of Financial Planners and to help them strike a balance between work and family life. In addition, Kyobo Life operates programs to boost the morale of Financial Planners. Overseas Language Program for Children of High Performing Financial Planners Since 2004, Kyobo Life has been running the ‘Overseas Language Program’ for children of high-performing Financial Planners twice Overseas Language Program for Children of Financial Planners 36 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life a year. Now in its thirteenth year (as of 2017), a total of 2,700 children of in active two-way communication. Honorary executives monitor FPs’ Financial Planners have participated in the program to date, making this activities and collect opinions from them, and deliver recommendations program the most popular motivational program for Financial Planners. and other opinions to the management on behalf of other Financial It is also one of the programs designed to motivate Financial Planners. Planners. They also exchange ideas with the relevant teams or departments on any matters discussed during the meeting. The Master of Study Camp for Children of Financial Planners Kyobo * Honorary Executive System for FPs: Kyobo Life runs an honorary executive program for Financial Planners in order to give them new challenges and strengthen their pride in the Life runs the Master of Study Camp for the children of Financial Plancompany. Kyobo Life selects Financial Planners who embody Kyobo Life’s core purpose and ners. Launched in August 2017, about 100 children of Financial Planvalues and inspire others, and provide the title of ‘honorary executive’ and relevant benefits, in order to establish the profile of a model Financial Planner and instill an exemplary perforners participated in the camp which aims at changing their study methmance culture. ods and study habits, as well as helping children plan their future and present a vision for learning in order to motivate them to pursue their learning and establish specific goals in life. The camp consists of various programs designed to encourage self-led learning, including “setting my own milestones,” “designing my own future and mentoring-aided self-motivated learning,” and “sharing my dream” (presentations). In addition, study mentors who are currently enrolled in prestigious universities shared their secret study methods and know-how, helping the young students in the audience develop a sense of confidence that they, too, can become a master of study, as well as acting as good role models. Honorary Executives Meeting Financial Planner Prime Leaders Club The Prime Leaders Club consists of high-performing Financial Planners who have contributed significantly to the growth of the company. They receive privileges as a token of the company’s recognition of their contribution, so as to enhance their loyalty to the company. The Prime Leaders Club is newly formed each year with Financial Planners who fit the membership criteria. The club is meaningful in that experiences of success are shared throughout the club, and the member Financial Planners take the lead in achieving the corporate vision. In 2017, the 128 Financial Planners who met the criteria became members of the club. The members are provided with various benefits for enhancing the sense of honor, competence development and activities support. The Master of Study Camp for Children Meeting with Outstanding Financial Planners Selected as Honorary Executives The management holds meetings with outstanding Financial Planners selected as honorary executives to keep abreast of the latest issues on the sales front, provide timely support to FPs, and engage Prime Leaders Club Kyobo Life's Values 37 2017 Five Key Issues of Kyobo Life Performance Management Framework for employees Kyobo Life’s O u r P l ed g e to E mp l oyees Management A company that grows together Activities for with our employees Employees •We shall continue promoting an exciting corporate culture filled with joy, pride, and trust. •We shall provide equal opportunities and reward employees, based on fair evaluation. •We shall help employees grow into experts in their chosen field. Key Employee Related Issues •Create a corporate culture conducive to maintaining a sound work-life balance. •Increase employees' satisfaction. Key Activities in 2017 •Improve work environment. •Recruit talent in a timely •Expand labor rights. manner and lay foundations •Strengthen the internal control for the systematic and protect whistleblowers. development of human resources. •Implement job-centered HR management. •Increase support for Key Employee Related Performances employee competency Training hours per employee (hours) Amount of competency development development. support per employee (KRW 1,000) •Create the corporate culture for practicing core values. 196 202 94 159 87 89 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Key Future Tasks •Improve the channel specialty. Enhance the specialty of sales manager. Enhance the life-long planning of Financial Planners •Recruit talent in a timely manner and create a systematic HR development framework. •Continue to operate a job-centered HR management system. •Establish an innovative culture, challenging ceaselessly. 38 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Corporate Culture Created along with the Employees Improvement of the Corporate Culture As Kyobo Life’s employees are Kyobo Life is striving to improve the corporate culture along with the employees to become a internal customers and members of sustainable enterprise. the organization at one and the same time, the excellent corporate culture Implementing the Campaign of ‘The Internal System Improvement’ for Innovation of Product · Chancreated along with the employees nel and Business Efficiency Kyobo Life has cooperated with all the employees and then implemented provides the standard of value and the campaign for improving the internal system which reduces the work efficiency in order to respond to behavior for the employees and the change of business environment preemptively, while catching up with the autonomous financial inbecomes the foundation of the novation recently led by the financial authorities, and achieve Vision2020 successfully. We divided opinsustainable enterprise. ions received from the employees into suggestions of the organizational unit and individual suggestions, We will strive to enhance the organized a task force for improvement of the internal system, then selected acceptable outstanding competence of Financial Planners and suggestions through two-step evaluations, and then proceeded with the organizational-unit award and the individual award. As a result of the campaign this time, about 600 suggestions were received and employees in order to offer the right 353 items were selected as the acceptable suggestions (including the conditional acceptances) after insurance products and services to evaluation and thus, 14 organizational units and 20 individuals were selected and awarded. customers, who form the backbone of Among the accepted suggestions, typical cases are as follows: the company’s growth. •Increasing the claimable amount for simple (fax) receipts of the accident insurance benefit up to KRW1 million; and, Kyobo Life will prepare for the era of •Improving the employees’ lunchtime (existing 12:00~13:00) to be flexibly operated depending on the dethe fourth Industrial Revolution and partmental situation. actively challenge new things all the Operating process of the internal system improvement campaign time. Though such challenges are not Receiving •Organizational * Sites : F  P Regional Support Unit (Business •Individual (1 person) linked to concrete achievements, in improvement unit Group), Customer Plaza, etc. opinions * Head Office : Team cases where they are worth trying •TF’s evaluation for improving •Implementation of award * The internal systerm and promise useful results, we will 1st 2nd The Council will the internal system TF : Compliance Officer, acknowledge and encourage them, Evaluating Organizing the Evaluation organize the Evaluation Strategic Planning Team, improvement Committee with the employees Committee with the Legal Services Team, using them as a foundation for of M or higher grade of the employees of Team Head Risk Management Team, opinions greater growth. In addition, we will TF-engaging departments or higher level. Customer Care Center •Decision on the items for the •Final evaluation and strive to take on ceaseless challenges second evaluation decision of award linked to bigger achievements by •Awarding * Working out the internal system improvement plan Selecting and (communication with related department) reflecting such experiences in our awarding *Subjects in need of suggestions from external supervisory authorities can be made a statement from departments management strategy. Awarding Excellent Employees Who Practiced Core Values (Customer Focus, Honesty and Sincerity, Challenge and Creativity) Kyobo Life implements ‘the Exemplary Award for Practicing Core Values’ by dividing the scope of awards into three categories of the Customer Focus Sector, Honesty/Sincerity Sector, and Challenge/Creativity Sector in order to widely award the employees practicing core values of the company exemplarily, and then selecting and awarding the candidates on a quarterly basis after receiving recommendations of each organizational head. The employees selected as the recipients of awards were invited for luncheon with Chairman Chang-Jae Shin and received incentives. Brief summary on awarding excellent employees having practiced core values Category Candidates Customer Employees who think and act preferentially from a customers’ viewpoint, understand customers’ Focus Sector needs rapidly and accurately for providing services, and solve customer-related problems actively Honesty · Employees who behave actively for the teamwork in the honest, sincere and altruistic attitude, Sincerity Sector and serve as a model in the organization Challenge · Employees who are not satisfied with the existing working practices but consistently suggest Commemoration of award to employees who excellently Creativity Sector alternatives from a new perspective, and establish challenging goals and strive for achieving such goals practiced the key values in charge of CEO Kyobo Life's Values 39 Awarding excellent organizations having invigorated collaboration of the employees’ praise corner In order to vitalize the desirable corporate culture, Kyobo Life has improved the system for selecting excellent praisers by organizational unit instead of having selected excellent praisers individually until now, and planned to operate the system by selecting ‘the theme’ annually. We selected the theme of 2017 as ‘the culture growing together through collaboration’ for making many members of the organization engage in the praise corner. We selected the superior organization giving and receiving lots of collaboration praise flowers at the praise corner in the ezMore system, which is the in-house intranet, as the excellent organization of the praise corner, and delivAwarding excellent organizations having invigorated collaboration ered mementos to such organization on a quarterly basis. of the employees’ praise corner (Suwon Customer Plaza) Key HR Development Tasks Competence Development Training Support Program Kyobo Life identified the “2017 Key HR Development Tasks” as part Kyobo Life's study support system allows employees to improve their of its efforts to meet two major goals for 2017: Implementing the Vicompetence on a voluntary basis and in a systematic way so as to make sion2020 of becoming “Korea’s most innovative life insurance company both individual employees and the organization more competitive, with in product and channel prepared for the 4th Industrial Revolution,” and the ultimate aim of attaining the strategic goals of the company. In 2017, pursuing “Innovation of Product & Channel Going Ahead Half a Step.” we supported the substantive competence development linked to the employees’ creative business performance and job achievement through 2017 Key HR Development Tasks enhancement of year-round study process at business sites and proviKey Tasks Action Items sion of various contents with quality, such as humanities, culture, etc. Establishing the organizational •Hold ‘a company-wide idea suggestion contest’ for innovation of Improvement of Support for the Competence Development Study in 2017 culture of product/channel. creativity and •Develop and operate ‘the innovative leadership course’ for Team innovation going Heads and new executives of Head Office. Completion of study for half a step ahead 50 hours a year •Establish and carry out ‘the system for fostering candidates of 10 minutes a day 60 minutes a week 50 hours a year Cultivating management executives.’ strategically the •‘Improve the system for fostering executives, organizational head executives, and new executives.’ organizational •Establish and carry out ‘the strategic plan for fostering women resources.’ heads and leaders •‘Improve financial insurance master and masters by department.’ Year-round Required Optional of next generation •Establish and carry out ‘the framework for fostering experts of study study study in-house education.’ •‘Permanently operate the mentoring program at sales sites.’ Enhancing the •Establish and carry out ‘vitalization of knowledge educational management at sales site’ support for •Develop and operate ‘the experience course of life-long Year-round autonomous Required education conOptional study by creating results at planning for Kyobo’s employees.’ study at sales sites ducted by the company individual sales sites •Develop and operate ‘package programs specialized for sales sites.’ •Smart Academy •Common required educa•Cyber education (knowledge video, etc.) tion (experience course •Education at the •‘Improve the study support system for developing members’ competence in FY2017.’ •Kyobo Love Flower of the life-long planning insurance training Establishing a year-round study •‘Expand and reorganize the year-round study program and system.’ (video on sales/ program, understanding institute base at work sites •Establish the ‘just-in-time knowledge supply system marketing, etc.) course of common job •Study Groups within the company.’ knowledge, etc.) •Reading education •Knowledge activities •Required education Making the compa(registration of ny-wide education •Develop and enhance ‘the company-wide integrated by level (competence knowledge, support systematic management system of education.’ enhancement course for suggestion of theme) and efficient for •Establish ‘quality improvement and efficiency plan of promoted employees, improving the the educational support service.’ •Consignment training required education course studying effect for site support for promotion, etc.) 40 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life 2017 Competence Development Training Support Program Courses Cost for Competence Development Training Support Total amount (KRW 1,000) Competency development cost per Required learning person (KRW 1,000) 783,602 Common required Job-specific, Required Education education Required Programs for Change of Status 196 202 692,362 Experience course of Course for competence Required course for the life-long planning enhancement of sales candidates for 159 process (Head Office), managers, course promotion, competence General professional for competence enhancement for 566,094 knowledge (sites), etc. enhancement of FP promoted employees, supporters, etc. etc. Year-round learning Smart Academy Kyobo Love Flower Reading education 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Vision2020, e-MBA, Marketing, business, Humanities, insurance/ Daily Insight, leadership, trends, etc. finance, marketing/ management school, sales, economics/ knowledge video, etc. management, Employee Training Hours self-development, etc. Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Annual training 323,393 317,871 328,819 Optional learning Training per person 87 89 94 Consignment education Self-led study Team study for site support Male 88 87 95 Cyber education, Study Groups, Consignment hour programs run by the study by organizational education at sites, Female 79 86 93 Insurance Training unit, etc. programs for vitalizing Institute, consignment organization, etc. Organizational heads 51 45 60 education outside the company, acquisition of Organizational members 89 92 94 certification, knowledge Training costs per persons KRW 1,000 896 1,045 1.122 activities, etc. 2017 Competence Development Training Process Establishing Study Plan Executing Study Plan Feedback on Study Results Utilizing Annual Study Results Learning plan Complete the education course Coaching/discussion with leader Annual study result feedback Employees can have an interview under the learning plan Conduct coaching/discussion from organization leader Comprehensive with their leader and choose Complete the education program sessions on skills training and feedback on annual study results per the methods and programs of according to the learning plan. performance target progress review each individual member of organization competence development that best suit their needs in order to Conduct self-directed study Feedback on learning results Reflect learning performance in produce the best possible results. Conduct self-directed study based (HR-leader) evaluation and HR decisions on study plan Group’s study progress, skills development training sponsorship costs Feedback to organization Application of learning results Members Leaders-provide feedback Apply learning results to improve job on learning practice rate and pace to performance. members PLAN DO SEE Kyobo Life's Values 41 Training Programs for Competence Development means that both mentor who is the senior employee and mentee who is the new employee grow together and support the achievement of perKyobo Love Flower is designed to educate sales managers working in the field on the latest insurance and financial formance for both organization and individual through mutual study, and Kyobo Love trends, and to equip them with professional knowledge aims at creating the collaborative organizational culture, minimizing new Flower on insurance sales and marketing to aid their competence employees’ trials and errors, and supporting their successful job perfordevelopment and performance enhancement efforts. mance. A total of 147 employees of Kyobo Life (71 mentors and 76 menKyobo Smart Kyobo Smart Academy (E-learning) offers an integrated, tees) actively engaged in the mentoring program run off for four months Academy video-based e-learning package to effectively support (two times or more per month), and successfully completed the event. (E-learning) year-round learning in the field. Operating the Mentoring Program for the Newly Appointed FP SupKnowledge Proposal allows employees to get involved in port Group Heads 2017 Kyobo Life has operated ‘the mentoring proKnowledge improving job processes as well as enhancing their business Proposal gram for the new FP Support Group Heads’ so that the FP Support efficiency and boosting their ability to think creatively. Group Heads newly appointed in 2017 may minimize trials and errors and perform their duties successfully through support from the senior Action Learning helps employees to learn from each other FP Support Group Heads. This program also has the purpose of helping Action and work together to tackle key issues of the company, Learning senior FP Support Group Heads to also achieve win-win results by muthereby contributing to higher job performance. tually studying through the mentoring process. The Kick-off workshop was composed of communications on summary of the sales site menMembers of learning clubs help each other to learn about toring program, team-building and mutual understanding, introduction Study issues that impact performance on the sales front, and Groups and training on how to proceed with the mentoring session, mentoring work out solutions. convention, etc. and it provided the opportunity for the foundation of Employees are encouraged to acquire professional the organizational culture where the seniors sincerely led the juniors, certifications that are deemed necessary and useful to the Professional who respected and apprised their seniors through operation of the performance of their work. Employees seeking to acquire a Certification mentoring program. Additionally, in the closing workshop, we encourcertification are reimbursed for the cost including tuition fees, texts, and application fees, within the limit set by the company. aged FP Support Group Heads who engaged in the mentoring program for five months and thanked one another. They had a meaningful time, 2017 Mentoring program operating process for new employees announcing the operational progress and sharing their improvement ideas for vitalizing the mentoring, while both mentors and mentees •Recommending mentors •Selecting mentors Matching of by Head Office finally exchanged thanks and encouraging messages to each other, received Mentor/Mentee •Reviewed by FP mentor license and mentee certificate, and congratulated one anothHeadquarters (Director) er. The mentoring program at sales sites contributes to the growth Kick-off workshop •Overview of sales site •Guidance of mentoring through mutual study, achievement of both individual and organiza(Operated by FP mentoring session progress tional performance and establishment of collaborative culture of study/ Headquarters) •Team-building and mutual •Mentoring program organization, and it is a part of the MDRT culture pursued by Kyobo Life. understanding •Twice per month during •Use of mentoring manual Mentoring the session (Regular •Input of activity report/ Session session: second and third feedback in the Wednesday of the month) mentoring system •Sharing the success •Completion ceremony Closing Workshop experience of mentoring (Gyeseongwon) •Deriving success factors Operation of the mentoring program for new employees (focused on the employees in charge of FP support) Kyobo Life has operated the mentoring program for the new employees working at sales sites focused on the employees in charge of Financial Planners. Mentoring Kick-off workshop 42 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Support of the Competence Development under the partnership agreement with a foreign enterprise, and from for Women Employees 2017, came to procced with the conference alone. Kyobo Life is operating various programs on motivation and competence development of career·leadership for growth and development of women employees. Operating the Happiness Workshop for Women Leaders Kyobo Life has operated the lecture-oriented happiness workshop for women leaders so that women FP branch managers may gather in one place and develop the soft power more, such as emotion, communication, sympathy, etc., which are the key factors of women’s competitiveness. Women FP branch managers responded greatly to the lectures running with such KWIN Conference topics as the highly impressive communication leadership, recreation technique, making a happy branch, etc. The executive lecture, which was Work-Life Balance highly immersive, focused on sharing of the best practice of FP branch Kyobo Life endeavors to make a workplace where the employees can operation, such as increase of FP activities using the tablet PC, etc. and work pleasantly while maintaining a sound work-life balance for creloyalty enhancement of the FP organization. Besides the program for ative job performance and creation of an exciting corporate culture. enhancing the business competence, the attendees had the opportunity to recharge both body and mind through the time of yoga, meditaOperating the Family Love Day As one of the programs for establishtion and healthy workout for releasing stress. Kyobo Life plans to strive ing the culture of the family-friendly enterprise, Kyobo Life designated for preparing for the venue where core women leaders can boost their the third Wednesday of the month as ‘the day for practicing family love’ self-esteem more and share differentiated knowledge and information. in 2010 and has been operating the event for eight years. ‘The day for practicing family love’ is the day when all the employees leave the office on time and digest the meaning of family love and practice loving their families above all while spending quality time with family members, thereby playing a huge role in practicing family love. We strongly recommend all the employees leave the office exactly at 6 p.m. on that day. Based on Kyobo Life’s family-friendly management, we will strive all the more for improving the employees’ quality of life, enhancing business productivity, securing/maintaining outstanding workforce and making the socially respected enterprise and happy workplace through the Women Leaders’ Happiness Workshop work-life balance of the employees. Holding the KWIN (Korea Women’s Innovative Network) Conference Operating ‘Daily FP Branch Manager Day’ for Supporting Staff Kyofor Developing Woman Leadership Kyobo Life held the KWIN Conferbo Life operates ‘the day of one-day FP branch manager’ in charge of ence in order to help the women employees in the organization develop support on every third Wednesday of the month. Under this system, the competence of career/leadership and establish human networks, the employees in charge of support can help the FP branch managers along with motivation for growth and development. That day, Chairman perform their duties better and the branch managers can have the opand CEO Chang-Jae Shin said in his welcome speech, “The premise for portunity of recharging, such as development of personal competence the enterprise to evolve into an organization capable of rapid innovaand healthcare, etc. The roles of one-day branch manager are reception tion is the culture of diversity and open-mindedness enabling each inof FP education participants, implementation of the morning session, dividual to overcome discrimination in the organization and exert their feedback after returning to the office, coverage retention, support of own creativity.” The special lectures given on the subject of the career Lifelong Care education, etc. In order for the employees in charge of development using strengths, finding strengths from a coaching persupport to help FP branch managers perform their jobs more activespective, “Sense of inferiority is my weapon,” etc. made the attendees ly, we select excellent one-day FP branch managers every month, and fully concentrated. Kyobo Life held the women conference since 2012 award and encourage them by FP Support Group. Kyobo Life's Values 43 Special Section Head Office Employees ‘Experience of Lifelong Planning Process’ Kyobo Life has operated ‘the experience of lifelong planning process’ course joined by all the employees of the Head Office in order to make the essence of the life insurance business and genuine meaning of the customer coverage value known well and increase the opportunities for practicing family love through experience of the actual coverage. This event also means that we support smooth communications between sites and Head Office by improving understanding of Commemoration of the Training Course of the Lifelong Planning Facilitator sales sites. The whole process includes that the employees actually experience the coverage analysis of themselves and their families and have the opportunities to practice family love through the pre-learning based on the importance of main products and coverage and the theory/practice course at the Seoul Education Center. In addition, we selected the facilitator of each team acting as the preacher of the lifelong planning and also operated ‘the day of family love sympathy experience,’ which is the experience program of the coverage value. On ‘the day of family love sympathy experience,’ we select and visit a specific place where we can experience the importance of coverage or autonomously select and visit the place where we can experience the coverage by organizational unit, such as the Memorial Forest, Seoul Metropolitan Memorial, National Cancer Center, etc. Meanwhile, after completing the experience, we posted our comments containing our feeling and photos on the Lifelong Experience Corner of the ezMore System, which is the in-house intranet, thereby expanding the bonds of empathy by sharing them altogether. After the experience course, we surveyed the employees of the Head Office and analyzed the result, and found out that their level of awareness on the necessity of coverage, understanding of the lifelong planning business (FP-Job understanding), the necessity of coverage analysis for themselves/families became much higher than before this experience. We finished this course after selecting, awarding and then encouraging the teams which outstandingly practiced family love. Visiting Seoul Metropolitan Memorial by Head Office employees Award to the teams having outstandingly practiced family love 44 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life 2017 Five Key Issues of Kyobo Life Performance Management Framework for Investors Kyobo Life’s O u r P l ed g es to I nvestors Management A company that is Activities for attractive to investors Investors •We shall constantly generate outstanding profits through good growth. •We shall raise corporate value through proactive risk management. Key Investor Related Issues •Improve Financial Soundness. •Acquire Management Transparency. Key Activities in 2017 •Management Performance and Business Strategies •Proactively respond to regulations of financial soundness. •Stabilize Management Increase available capital while Performance. reducing required capital. •Enhance Ethical Management. Improve the company-wide risk-management system and infrastructure. •Improve the ability to adjust assetmanagement strategies to keep Key Investor Related Performances them in line with market changes. -A  djust the asset management Total assets* (KRW 1 trillion) Return on Equity* (ROE) (%) Risk Based Capital* (RBC) (%) portfolio and continue expanding high-interest rate assets. 296.0 8.7 -R  aise the holding period return 104.5 7.5 259.8 233.9 7.0 and generate profits that exceed the target through quick 96.7 response to market. 92.0 -F  ocus on ALM*-oriented asset management. 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 •Continue the long-term, stable asset management. Key Future Tasks •Actively respond to changes of the financial soundness system. Increase available capital while reducing required capital. * Total assets are based on the consolidated financial statements. -E  stablish the asset management frame fit for the financial soundness * Return on Equity (ROE): Net Income / {(Capital at the Start of Period + Capital at the End of Period) / 2} × 100, based on consolidated system. financial statements, 2013/2014 Numbers adjusted •Enhance preemptive risk management in asset management * Risk Based Capital (RBC): Available capital for insurance claim •Raise awareness of the 4th Industrial Revolution and establish the payments (payment capacity) / Required capital for risk management (RBC total risk) x 100, based on consolidated financial statements digital infrastructure * ALM: Asset Liability Management Kyobo Life's Values 45 Improvement of the Financial Soundness Changes of Regulations on Financial Soundness In the insurance business, it is more Financial soundness regulation for insurance companies is the system that compels insurance important than anything else to companies to hold capital to cover the unexpected loss, if any, and aims at protecting policyholdmaintain stable financial soundness. ers and innocent investors. Especially, as the IFRS17 and K-ICS EU is enforcing the financial soundness system for insurance companies (Solvency II) based on which are new accounting standards, the market price evaluation of assets and liabilities, and International Association of Insurance will be introduced in 2021, the Supervisors (IAIS) is also carrying forward the enactment of the International Insurance Capital insurance industry should prepare Standard (ICS) based on the market price evaluation of assets and liabilities. The reason why the for conversion to the direction of financial soundness standard of the international insurance industry is based on the market price emphasizing financial soundness evaluation of assets and liabilities is that it is very important for insurance companies, unlike and long-term profit rather than the other financial companies, to manage assets and liabilities comprehensively in terms of the corexisting expansion of market share or porate strategy and securement of financial soundness. Korea also introduced and has been enforcing international accounting standards since 2011, pursuit of short-term profits. and IFRS17 (matters related to the insurance liabilities among the international accounting stanFrom this perspective, it is very dards) based on the market price evaluation of the insurance liabilities is expected to be enforced important for the insurance company from 2021. to manage the risk stably by Therefore, Korea’s financial supervisory authorities will continue with the introduction of K-ICS for inspecting afresh the company-wide the domestic insurance industry in order to enhance its competitiveness and reliability through risk management system, such as introduction of the financial soundness system meeting the international accounting standards development and sales of products, and having international consistency. management of insurance liabilities, asset management, etc. and managing the business from a long-term Brief Summary of K-ICS perspective. The Need for Introduction If the insurance liabilities are evaluated at the market price due to enforcement of IFRS 17, the volatility of liabilities increases; and thus, the risk of large volatility of profit and loss occurs. In order to measure such risk properly, the financial supervisory authorities plan to introduce the financial soundness regulation meeting the new accounting system. Principle of the Financial Soundness MeaCalculation System surement Taking all the risks, such as assets and liabilities, on the financial statement into Equity capital account, we should evaluate the solvency (Available capital) Financial margin by group. The purpose of this is to soundness ratio = preemptively block the contagion effect that Retained risk (Required capital) non-performing assets caused by failure of subsidiaries’ risk management spreads to the parent company by reflecting the risk of subsidiaries properly in the parent company’s solvency margin. 46 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Structure Diagram for Calculation of the Required Capital Total required capital Risk adjustment (Corporate tax effect) Basic required capital Lifelong-term non-life General non-life Credit risk Operational risk Market risk insurance insurance risk Mortality risk Insurable value and Interest rate risk Longevity risk reserve funds Stock risk Injury/disease risk riskCatastrophic Foreign exchange risk Property/other risk disaster risk Real estate risk Cancellation risk Asset concentration risk Working expense risk Catastrophic disaster risk Directions for Responding to K-ICS Adjustment of the Asset Portfolio We carried forward the preemptive Due to serial bankruptcies of large financial companies in the process of response to regulations of the financial soundness (reduction of the rethe global financial crisis in 2008, the issues on management and suquired capital and expanding the available capital) in priority in the secpervision of financial companies’ financial soundness were brought up tor of the asset management in 2017. In order to preemptively respond intensively and since then the financial supervisory authorities of each to regulations of the financial soundness and secure the long-term, country have been continuously tightening the regulations on equity stable future profit base, we selectively invested in long-term foreign capital. In order to respond to these financial supervisory trends and securities of which the yield is good vis-à-vis their risks and expandK-ICS, Kyobo Life has established and implements various ways for exed the volume, thereby greatly increased the duration. In addition, we panding preemptively the equity capital (available capital) and reducing have consistently expanded insurance policy loans through the analysis the retained risk (required capital). of big data. In addition, for actively responding to the introduction of K-ICS, we have reclassified the assets to be held up to maturity as the Main Points in Responding to K-ICS assets available for sale and set the foundation for actively expanding Asset Management Policy The principle of the insurance company’s the asset duration through reinvestment of the reclassified assets to asset management is to minimize the cash flow mismatch between aslong-term bonds. Meanwhile, as for the assets having short duration sets and liabilities through investment in long-term assets conforming and high risk, including loans on real estate and credit loans, we have to the property of life insurance liabilities. For this, Kyobo Life invests in adjusted the asset portfolio focusing on the response to regulations of assets generating stable profits, diversifies risks through investments the financial soundness, such as asset cleanup, improvement of asset in various assets, and makes investments based on the principle of the soundness through marketing focused on loyal customers, etc. risk management from a long-term perspective. Asset management Policy Main Content Asset management focused on the ALM Resolve the periodical cash flow mismatch between assets and liabilities and continuously compose (Asset Liability Management) the portfolio focused on safe assets capable of generating long-term and stable cash flow. Consistently strive to improve the earnings rate of assets by implementing the flexible investment Defense of the holding period return strategy considering domestic and overseas interest rate level. Respond in advance to increases of asset-related risks predicted when introducing K-ICS and establish Establishment of the response the preemptive asset management frame, such as composition of asset portfolio considering the risk/ system to K-ICS return of the new regime. Kyobo Life's Values 47 Reclassification of the Asset Accounts In December 2017, Kyobo Kyobo Life as the safest investment asset in Asia. Also, it is very meanLife has reclassified the financial assets to be held up to maturity of ingful that Kyobo Life was proved to be a credible financial company KRW31.5 trillion among the total assets (separate financial statement) even in overseas markets due to its excellent response to changes of of KRW97.8 trillion as the account of the assets available for sale. In systems, such as the regulations of financial soundness. Meanwhile, as accounting standards, the financial assets to be held up to maturiKyobo Life’s high international credit rating retained for several years ty are evaluated by cost method, thus having no risk of asset value played a crucial role, its hybrid bond could attract great attention in the fluctuation, but are restricted from sale until maturity once classified. global market and attracted many investors. Meanwhile, the financial assets available for sale have the risk of asset value fluctuation as they are marked to market when the interest rate changes but they are free for sale. In order to preemptively respond Rated A1 by Moody’s for Three Consecutive Years: to K-ICS to be introduced in 2012, Kyobo Life reclassified the finanOnly Kyobo Life in the Industry cial assets to be held up to maturity as the financial assets available Kyobo Life was rated A1 (stable outlook) by the global credit rating for sale when the interest rate is predicted to rise. Under K-ICS which agency Moody’s for three consecutive years. Given that Moody’s is one will replace the RBC system, the interest rate risk occurring due to the of the world’s top rating agencies, with a 40% market share of all rated duration gap between assets and liabilities is expected to be the largcompanies in the market, achieving the A1 rating for three consecutive est risk of the insurance company and, in that context, it is necessary years is meaningful in that it represents global recognition of Kyobo Life’s to carry out measures of increasing maturities of assets and reducing financial soundness and risk management ability despite the challengthe maturities of liabilities for management of the interest rate risk. Acing circumstances, including the prolonged low interest rate trend and cordingly, insurance companies have to actively increase investments global economic slowdown. Furthermore, with the assignment of the A1 in long-term bonds as their assets having long maturities. At present, credit rating, Kyobo Life now stands shoulder to shoulder with leading most of new assets are invested in long-term bonds. The financial asglobal financial companies such as Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and sets to be held up to maturity can be reinvested after sale only in case Bank of America, including Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Kookmin Bank, of impairment losses or within three months of the remaining maturity. and KEB Hana Bank in Korea. In its report, Moody’s explained that “KyoThough all the insurance companies are expected to strive for investing bo Life’s outstanding business soundness, strong capital adequacy, low in long-term bonds by 2020 when introduction of the new system will financial leverage (debts) ratio, and good profitability were reflected in be impending, as the supply of long-term bonds is limited, it is desirable the evaluation.” And “Excellent sales force, good market position, and dito make a lot of investment before 2020 if you want to invest in better versified business channel are also their strengths.” In addition, Moody’s terms. As we make a massive investment in assets at the period when predicted that Kyobo Life will retain its financial soundness in the future the interest rate is predicted to rise, the risk of decrease in asset value and evaluated the rating outlook as ‘Stable.’ Kyobo Life has retained the increases. However, as the interest rate risk gets reduced, our investcredit rating of A+ assigned from Fitch, one of the three largest credit ment becomes more stable in financial terms and we also can expect rating agencies in the world, for four consecutive years since 2013 and improvement of earnings rate from the bonds we newly invest in. was also assigned the top ‘triple AAA’ rating from Korea’s three major credit rating agencies including Korea Investors Service, Korea Ratings, and National Information & Credit Information (NICE). Issuance of the Hybrid Bond: Succeeding in Issuing the Offshore Hybrid Bond of US $500 Million at the Lowest Moody’s Credit Ratings of Key Companies in Korea and Abroad Interest Rate among Asian Insurers (as of June 2017) In order to preemptively prepare for the IFRS17 and the stricter K-ICS A1 planned to be enforced in 2021, Kyobo Life carried forward overseas issuance of the hybrid bond and has successfully issued the hybrid bond Kyobo Life, of US$500 million for global investors for the first time in Korea’s life Prudential (USA), MeijiYasuda, insurance industry. With orders coming in from numerous global invesMorgan Stanley Bank, Goldman Sachs, tors, the interest rate was set at 3.95% p.a., which is lower than that of BoA, Samsung Electronics, KB, hybrid bonds issued by major Japanese life insurers and it is the all-time KEB Hana Bank low among the interest rates of hybrid bonds issued by Asian insurers. Such interest means global investors evaluate the hybrid bond issued by 48 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life 2017 Five Key Issues of Kyobo Life Kyobo Life’s Performance Management Framework for Government and Communities Management O u r P l ed g es to Gover n ment a n d C ommu n i t i es Activities for A company that Grows Together with Government and the Government and Communities Communities •We shall actively engage in social contribution activities. •Environment management programs will be designed to reflect the unique characteristics of our life insurance business. •We shall pursue fair competition and shared growth with business partners Key Government and Community Related Issues •Increase environment Key Activities in 2017 management programs •Social contribution •Design and implement win-win activities reflecting the strategies nature of the life insurance •Develop environmentally business friendly products and services •Develop socially contribution product •Community service program Key Government and Community Related Performance Social contribution ratio/ amounts* (%) (KRW100 million) Weight of socially responsible Energy consumption* (TOE) investments ratio (SRI)* (%) 18,853 4.2 18,319 17,430 8.5 8.8 8.5 3.3 214 2.3 202 146 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Key Future Tasks •Provide support to overcome hardships due to lack of health, * Social contribution ratio: Amount of social contribution / Net Income finance, knowledge, which are closely associated with the * Weight of Socially responsible investment (SRI) ratio: nature of life insurance SRI investment / General account assets) x 100 * TOE (Tonnage of Oil Equivalent): Amount of energy produced when burning one ton of oil, standardized in calorie units Kyobo Life's Values 49 Social Contribution Activities Reflecting the Nature of the Life Insurance Business A Society of Kyobo Life’s Dreams Where People are Healthy and Connected The government and communities Kyobo Life dreams of a beautiful and healthy society where people beam with smiles, are provide a framework in which warm-hearted, healthy, and giving, and caring and considerate to others; a society where youth, Kyobo Life can grow and fulfill its the hope of the future, are healthy in body and in mind. role as a member of society, while simultaneously serving as important Principles of Social Contribution Activities The following principles are applied to all aspects of stakeholders. Kyobo Life’s social contribution programs including the selection, implementation and evaluation The Golden Rule of “treating others in of the programs. the way you would wish to be treated” Concentrate on the social contribution Focus on making a sustainable support sums up the business philosophy of activities for the socially neglected Focus on Form long-term system (social safety net) by developing Kyobo Life, particularly in the way class of people suffering from three helping people partnerships the program capable of resolving social adversities (lack of health, finance, and to overcome life with nonprofit problems from the long-term perspective that Kyobo Life strives to create knowledge) in order to practice the challenges organization through partnership with various vision of Kyobo Life. nonprofit organizations. win-win opportunities for the local communities in which the company Improve the efficiency of social contribution Efficiency Promote the long-term development activities through reproduction of social of social Evaluate of the project by evaluating the social operates. sharing by helping beneficiaries overcome value, effectiveness and efficiency of contribution programs adversities by themselves, i.e. supporting each project. Kyobo Life seeks to engage in social programs their competence development and preparing contribution activities that take for social jobs rather than simply benevolent help. advantage of its strengths as a life insurance business, and pursue not Help People to Overcome Adversities Related to Lack of Health, one-time but consistent CSR activities Finance and Knowledge in the long term rather than focusing Kyobo Life's social contribution programs are special in the sense that the company helps people on short-term opportunities, so that build the foundation upon which they can overcome difficulties on their own instead of simply the company and its communities can providing one-time support. In particular, Kyobo Life focuses on helping people who are struggrow together. gling with lack of health and financial issues and knowledge to deal with these issues and lead a positive and healthy life, because the company believes that these three areas are closely related to its business as a life insurance provider, and because the company believes it should share the expertise in these areas with people in need. Helping Overcome Health Adversity Kyobo Life supports various health programs such as family love program which promotes love and sharing with one’s loving family, to help people overcome health adversities so that all people may lead bright and healthy lives. Dasomi Save a Small Breath Program: Kyobo Life launched “Dasomi : Save a Small Breath Program to provide financial aid to low-income families struggling financially and emotionally following the birth of premature babies and to help these babies grow into healthy children. This project is operated by engagement of about 3,833 Financial Planners and ordinary citizens every month. Premature Baby Premature babies refer to babies who weigh 2.5kg or less at the time of birth or who were born on or before the 37th week of pregnancy. Since 2004 the project has helped pay the medical costs for 2,445 premature babies as of the end of 2017. Dasomi Hope Santa : ‘Dasomi Hope Santa’ event was held in December 2017 for visiting homes of premature babies who were so curious and inquisitive about the world that they were born a little earlier and giving them the gift of happy memories. In order to share happiness with more homes this year, we did not hold the opening ceremony but visited 146 homes, met 166 premaDasomi Hope Santa Visiting Children's Homes ture babies and spent a happy day delivering letters written by our employees and gifts to them. 50 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Helping People Overcome Financial Adversity Kyobo Life helps peoClub and make exchanges with one another even after the overseas tour ple to overcome their economic difficulties by getting socially involved and grow into social members with leadership and followership. and by planning a brighter, better future. 2017 Northeast Asia March for Undergraduate Students>: ‘Poet Dasomi Nursing Volunteer Group : This program trains female heads Dong-Ju Yun, and Entrepreneur Yong-Ho Shin: The Youth Spirit that of low-income households as professional caregivers if they wish to Brightened the Darkness’ work in this domain, provides them with opportunities for work, and 2017 Northeast Asia March went along with the theme of ‘Poet helps them to become financially independent, while offering free care Dong-Ju Yun, and Entrepreneur Yong-Ho Shin: the youth spirit having services to patients from the low-income class and elderly people who brightened the darkness’ for eight nights and nine days in August 2017. Participants gained strong inspiration while keeping track of have no family members to care for them. Since the program started Founder Yong-Ho Shin celebrating his 100th birthday this year and poet in 2004, 482 caregivers are working as of 2017, and 222,409 people Dong-Ju Yun. Participants actively joined together in the schedule of have benefited from free care services since 2004. touring the whole area of Beijing and Hailar where Founder Yong-Ho Shin spent his youth and the area of Longjing and Yanji of China where Annual Results of Dasomi Nursing Volunteer Group poet Dong-Ju Yun was born and grew up. Meanwhile, the university students who participated this year became the members of the Category 2015 2016 2017 Northeast Asia Frontier Club and attended the second leadership Nurses (persons) 495 373 482 camp, having the time to interact with one another continuously. Beneficiaries (persons) 10,209 8,244 6,597 Kyobo Life employees’ fund-raising activities for helping residents suffering from the earthquake in Pohang, Korea : Kyobo Life implemented the customer support in order to help our customers suffering from the earthquake which occurred last November in Pohang, North Gyeongsang Province, Korea, overcome their economic adversity and live healthy lives again. We allowed our customers of the earthquake-stricken area to postponed payment of premiums for six months, and also allowed our customers insurance policy loans and general loans to postpone repayment of the principal and interest and Kyobo Life Hope Dasomi Scholarship : This program supports adopayment of interest amount. During the relevant period, we let the inlescents who did not lose hope under very difficult circumstances and surance benefits continuously retained and had the insurance money went to college for fulfilling their future dreams among youths from paid to our customers more expeditiously. In addition, Kyobo Life dedomestic nursery facilities or group homes and children breadwinners livered a donation of KRW 105.8 milwhose educational opportunities were limited due to social prejudices lion collected through fund-raising and economic difficulties through scholarships and community support activities by all its employees to the so that they can grow into healthy members of society. Korea Disaster Relief Association Hope Dasomi Scholarship so that our neighbors of the earthCategory 2015 2016 2017 quake-stricken area can overcome No. of recipients (persons) 79 83 89 their adversities as soon as possible. Amount (KRW 1 million) 275 300 357 Helping to Overcome Adversity Due to Lack of Knowledge Kyobo Life supports teenagers, the future of society, to have hopes and dreams, and grow into talented adults. Northeast Asia March for Undergraduate Students : Now in its sixteenth year since its inception back in 2002, this program intends to help college students, who will be the leaders of the future, grow into global talents with leadership and we help them organize the Northeast Asia Frontier Hope Dasomi Scholarship Awarding Ceremony Kyobo Life's Values 51 Special Section Voluntary Service in Commemoration of the Centennial Anniversary of Founder Yong-Ho Shin’s Birth Our company engages in a variety of volunteer activities for adolescents and education-deprived classes of people in order to succeed and practice Founder Yong-Ho Shin’s ideology for cultivating the national education and sincere persons in commemoration of the centenary anniversary of his birth. 1.  ‘Voluntary service of the economic education’ by Executives and Team Heads On August, 2017, A total of 23 executives and team leaders of our Head Office visited Hyehwa Elementary School of Seoul, Korea and acted as one-day economic teachers. They provided economic education suitable for each grade level to about 600 schoolchildren in 23 classes, such as basic concepts of the economy, value and importance of jobs, etc. In order to allow the schoolchildren approach easily and interestingly the economic education, which could be felt difficult, our executives and team leaders used various methods including drawing pictures, putting stickers, doing role playing game, etc., thereby eliciting active participation. The voluntary economic education service this year Voluntary service of economic education means a lot as it actively practiced the educational ideology of the Founder who aimed at ‘the living education’ through actual experience which surpasses the school education and is more inclusive throughout his life. 2. O  ne company – one school financial education (pursuing dream and hope of One company – one school financial education the future generation) Kyobo Life’s FP branches, FP Support Groups and FT Headquarters set up sisterhood relationships with 467 schools of the entire country and continuously engage in one company – one school financial education for elementary school children, middle and high school students. We also proceed with the financial education easily taught using standard textbooks of the financial education and various game tools, and also operate the site-visit financial education program by inviting the schoolchildren and students to FP branches and FP Headquarters. 52 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Special Section Global Social Contribution: ‘Dasomi Global Volunteers Group’ (Sanzzallun Elementary School of Laos) ‘Dasomi Global Volunteers Group’ composed of 28 employees of Kyobo Life worked together to construct a library for Laotian children for five days from November 13. In the Sanzzallun Village of Sanakham Province located about 130 km west of Vientiane, the capital city of Laos, the residents send their children to schools with a firm conviction that the most fundamental way to get out of poverty is education even in such a difficult environment that it is even difficult to get a pencil. We constructed the Hope Library in the Sanzzallun Elementary School to help young students study in a little bit better environment and cultivate their dreams, and provided them with 1,000 books and the library equipment including bookshelf and reading tables, hoping that the children could get close with books. In addition, we built the school playground and planted 100 mango trees along with the children for their emotional stability. Kyobo Life has been volunteering in Vietnam every year since 2011, and constructed elementary schools and libraries in Vin Kan Dong Village and Ang Hip Village of Ben Tre Province, helping about 120 children continue their hope of learning. It is highly meaningful that volunteers enhance the effectiveness and authenticity of their voluntary service through continuous support rather than a one-time event. My Volunteer Experience in Laos Gratitude and happiness endowed me with the courage to take On the strength of abundant happiness that I experienced in up new challenges! Laos, I firmly believe I can shape a great future for me! Looking at the bright and untainted kids who were delighted and The landscape of Laos that I could see only on TV, kids, and their looks happy even with small things, I could meditate on the meaning full of curiosity… the goodness and purity that I could of thanks and happiness for what I had. Also, Icould have feel from them filled my heart with warmth. Looking the courage to keep my original resolution and mount at the people doing their best, even in a difficult a new challenge thanks to the volunteers who worked environment, I thought that I had made myself together by the sweat of their brows even in hot weather. less happy. Their lives that will remain as an For me, it was a glad opportunity to exchange good after-image for a long time in my mind hearts and dream a better dream. will be turned on in my life like an evening lamplight. Kyobo Life's Values 53 Dream Kyobo Life’s Performance 54 Economic Performance 57 Social Performance 63 Environmental Performance 54 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Total Assets (KRW 1 trillion) 104.5 92.0 96.7 Kyobo Life’s Key Economic Performance in 2017 is as Shown Below 2015 2016 2017 Net Income* (KRW 100 million) Return on Equity (ROE) (%) 2017 6,079 6,400 5,145 Economic 8.8 Performance* 7.0 7.5 shown on one page 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Premium Income (KRW 1 trillion) 12.6 12.2 11.6 Risk-Based Capital (RBC) (%) Loan Delinquency Rate (%) 0.52 296.0 259.8 0.48 233.9 0.44 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 * Prepared based on the consolidated financial statements * Net Income : Figure based on controlling interests Kyobo Life’s Performance 55 Economic Performance Financial Performance net profit during the term, improvement of the asset and liability strucThough the low growth trend continued in the business year of 2017, ture, thorough risk management, etc. The RBC ratio of 2017 business both the domestic and foreign economy is moving into recovery due year was 296.0%, far higher than 150% which is the appropriate level to stock price increases and interest rate rises. However, the unstable of RBC required by the financial supervisory authority. situation continued on account of the interest rate rise in the United States and reduction of quantitative easing (QE) in Europe externally Stability Indicators and concerns over insolvency of household debts and North Korea’s RBC Ratio (%) nuclear provocations, etc. internally. Nevertheless, Kyobo Life has faithfully practiced its mission of helping one another overcome adversities 296.0 and generated meaningful performance in the aspects of growth, profit 259.8 and stability. 233.9 Growth As the volatility of both domestic and foreign financial markets increased in the business year of 2017 due to increased uncertainties, such as potential realization of non-performing household debts fol2015 2016 2017 lowing the interest rate rise, unstable internal and external situations, etc., the insurance premiums recorded KRW 11.6 trillion, which was faltering in its growth year-on-year, but the net income was KRW 640.0 billion, having increased year-on-year. In addition, in spite of regulations Risk Management on the financial soundness, our RBC (Risk-Based Capital) ratio recorded Risk management is one of the key competitive factors in the insurance 296.0% on the strength of issuance of the overseas hybrid bonds, etc. business. Kyobo Life quantifies risk and manages it systematically in order to reduce and eliminate managerial uncertainty in advance and Growth Indicators thereby enhance stability. Category 2015 2016 2017 Premium income (KRW 1 trillion) 12.6 12.2 11.6 The Need for Risk Management Risk is called ‘all the possibilities that can negatively affect the achievement of goals and cause losses.’ Shareholders’ equity (KRW 1 trillion) 7.2 7.9 9.4 Therefore, risk management means all of the activities for making longTotal assets (KRW 1 trillion) 92.0 96.7 104.5 term, continuous profits by perceiving in advance the possibility that risk factors could occur, and to manage them preemptively. Profit Most life insurance companies saw their profitability drop in the business year of 2017 due to the challenging business environment The Concept of Risk Management and the prolonged trend of low interest rates. Nevertheless, Kyobo Life Risk exerted strong efforts to generate stable profits and posted a net profit of KRW 640.0 billion. Meanwhile, ROE and ROA increased slightly to 7.5% and 0.6% year-on-year respectively. Negative effects on Cause of losses Possibility goal attainment Profit Indicators Category 2015 2016 2017 ROE (%) 8.8 7.0 7.5 Causing financial Negative effects on all ROA (%) 0.7 0.5 0.6 losses, such as of the goal attainments decrease of asset Net income (KRW 100 million) 6,079 5,145 6,400 that our company Possibility that risk value, liabilities pursues, such as factors may occur bearing, etc. and nonthe vision, strategy, in the future financial losses, such as Stability Since introduction of the RBC (Risk-Based Capital) ratio as the business plan, etc. of damage of reputation, the company financial soundness indicator of the insurance company, Kyobo Life has etc. been managing the RBC ratio efficiently through continuous creation of 56 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Overview of risk management Risk Management Council : This is the organization discussing in adPolicy : Kyobo Life’s risk management policy is to control and manage effecvance matters for resolution by the Risk Management Committee and tively various uncertainties interrupting attainment of our business goals. issues related to risk management, and discusses resolutions of the Risk Management Committee, detailed action plans for the issues reStrategy : We manage the asset/liability portfolio comprehensively in solved by the Risk Management Committee, tolerance limit by risk, reaorder to improve profitability vis-à-vis risk by setting guidelines on the sons or countermeasures when the tolerance limit by risk is exceeded risk limit so that the risk level of the whole company can be approprior expected to be exceeded, etc. ately managed within the risk capital (amount of solvency) and setting the risk limit so that the guidelines can be complied with. Working Organization for Risk Management : The working organization for risk management that assists the Risk Management CommitRecognition of Risk : We recognize and classify the types of risk that tee and Risk Management Council in practice is classified and operated can occur in the business activities into market/credit/interest rate/inas a department dedicated to risk management and the individual risk surance/liquidity/operation/strategy/reputation risk and variable insurmanagement department. The Risk Management Team, which is the ance guarantee risk. We classify market/credit/interest rate/liquidity/ department dedicated to risk management carries out independently insurance/variable insurance guarantee risk as the financial risks and the Plan-See function related to risk management, such as the comoperation/strategy/reputation risk as the non-financial risks. pany-wide risk management policy and risk management plan, regulations/detailed rules on the risk management, risk limit planning, etc., Control of Risk : We set the risk limit at proper levels in order to avoid/ along with sales departments (including the non-financial risk manageaccept/shift/reduce the risk of the company, constantly monitor whethment) and the individual risk management department operates six er or not such risk level has exceeded and, in case of need, adjust the teams in order to carry out the Do function on the risk management. limit or establish and operate a contingency plan. In addition, we supTypes of Risk Individual Risk Management Department port correct and fast decision-making, like the risk management department review in advance and make suggestions on issues for imMarket risk management Asset Portfolio Management Team portant decision-making by the company, etc. Investment Analysis Team Credit risk management Personal Loan Marketing Team Risk Management Organization Risk Management Committee : Entrusted by the Board of Directors, Interest rate/liquidity ALM(Asset Liability Management) Team risk management the Risk Management Committee is composed of one internal director and two external directors, and resolves important decision-making on Insurance risk management Insurance Risk Management Team risk management of the company, such as the risk management policy according with the business strategy, key management strategies of Variable Life Insurance Management Infrastructure TF Guarantee risk management the company based on risk, risk limit of the company, etc. Risk Management Organization Risk Board of Directors management, decision making, and ultimate Risk Management Committee responsibility Risk Management Council ALM Council Risk and ALM Management Risk Management Team ALM Team Interest rate/ Variable Life Insurance Non-financial Types of Risk Market risk Credit risk Insurance risk ALM Management liquidity risk Guarantee risk risk Initial Risk Asset Portfolio Investment Analysis Team Insurance Risk Management Individual ALM Team Management Management Team Personal Loan Marketing Team Management Team Infrastructure TF Department Kyobo Life’s Performance 57 Customer Information Protection Training Status (hours) 2017 Employee Training Status Category 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Social 15 16 Financial Planners 9 10 12 12 12 Performance 12 11 Executives 9 12 15 16 11 9 IT Employees 14 14 16.5 16 13 shown on one Employees in charge of information page management and 16 15 16.5 16 28 protection 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Kyobo Life’s key social performance Labor Union Membership Rates (%) in 2017 is as shown below Parental Leave Application 2013 2014 and Return Rates (%, person) 73 68 2017 97.5 72 89.7 91.7 90.7 86.2 2015 2016 257 256 81 72 221 170 97 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 DA-WIN Service Status (No.of companies, persons) Service receiving companies Service recipients 1,183 77,668 1,094 1,050 1,030 68,609 63,399 854 58,455 53,111 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 58 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Social Performance Kyobo Life is striving to implement social responsibilities and is performing the role of corporate citizen, while also is fulfilling our social responsibilities by making Kyobo Life's corporate management transparent through ethical management and by offering competitive insurance products and services as a member of the community. In addition, Kyobo Life guarantees rights to employees and provides various company benefits for the employees’ happy life. Acquiring Management Transparency through Ethical Management The event of Work Ethics Resolution As corporate influence on society grows ever stronger, the expectations of the corporate role for social responsibility and ethical management are rising. In addition, as a financial services company whose ethics are Transparent Trades with Partner Companies Kyobo Life operates a heavily scrutinized, Kyobo Life recognizes the importance of securing system designed to secure transparency in trades with external partner corporate transparency to earn the trust of its stakeholders. companies involved in the major businesses of Kyobo Life. Kyobo’s Work Ethics Doctrine Kyobo Life has enacted the ‘Kyobo work Cyber Purchase System : To guarantee transparent and fair purchasing, ethics doctrine’ to clarify its intention to pursue ethical management, the entire purchase process is conducted through the company’s cyber and has established regulations on work ethics along with specific inpurchase system, which enables partner companies to conduct purstructions to establish guidelines on work ethics for all its employees. chases without the constraints of time and space, while allowing KyoAlso, all employees including the CEO are required to attend Kyobo’s bo Life to secure transparency in selecting partner companies through ‘Work Ethics Resolution’ event at the beginning of every fiscal year to competitive bidding without the need for face-to-face meetings. reinforce the company’s ethical work culture. Operation of Clean Contract System : Kyobo Life has established the Training Status of Employees Involved in Work Ethics and Security Clean Contract System to promote mutual benefits with stakeholders Category 2015 2016 2017 based on a transaction culture in which collusion and unfair trade practices, such as bribes and preferential treatment, are prohibited throughManagers 15.0 18.5 18 out the entire process of contractual fulfillment including product purEthics (persons) training chase, services, and construction. Non-managerial workers 16.5 14.5 16 (persons) No. of security employees Fair Trade Voluntary Compliance Program (CP: Compliance Program) 175 171 160 (Number of persons) Security 'Kyobo Life has appointed a manager and an organization dedicated to training Training execution rate 100 100 100 fair trade and put in place systems designed to ensure fair trade com(%) pliance, while continuing to train and monitor employees with regard to compliance. Operation of Internal Control System Kyobo Life complies with laws and regulations and practices management soundly, and abides by the basics that it should follow in order to protect shareholders, stakeholders, etc. Kyobo Life also monitors compliance with internal control standards and designates compliance monitoring personnel to report the investigation results to the Audit Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the entire internal control system. Kyobo Life’s Performance 59 Report of the Internal Control Assessment Results and Protection of Customer Rights and Benefits and Prevention of Unfair Recommendations for Improvement Trade Kyobo Life is committed to protecting the rights and benefits Assessment Section Recommendation for Improvement Related Department of financial institution users and customers by complying with insurance-related regulations. It also operates an advertisement review Establish a company-wide antimoney laundering frame according Compliance Officer system which requires new product advertisements and insurance broto the Risk-Based Approach (RBA). chures to be approved by the legal compliance monitoring body, and Control environment and prevents unfair trade by prohibiting the persuasion of customers of control culture Improve the frame for preventing Compliance Officer conflict of interest depending on competitors to trade with Kyobo Life. Nobiliaire changes of the regulation related to Support Team the financial investment business. Overview of Product Advertisement · Review Status Accounting, Improve the information security information and management system for reinforcing Information Category 2015 2016 2017 communications the protection of customer Security Team system information. Status of cases under review (case) 1,090 1,166 971 Improve the Financial Planners deal Sales Force process for enhancing complete Expansion Team subscription of the insurance product. Insurance Efforts for Insurance Claim Payments Kyobo Life currently executes operation Improve the internal control over its insurance payouts through 58 customer PLAZAs and 51 insurance production and use of informational Compliance Officer payout reception windows. In addition, we help customers who are materials for sales sites. unable to visit the plazas or reception windows with their insurance Improve the company rule and Retention of claims and payouts through the proxy insurance claim application and system related to the recovery of contract and Underwriting Team effect (resurrection) depending on the Financial Planners and visiting payout service. payout changes of the standard agreement. Application by Agent and Visiting Service of Insurance Payment Claims Status Category 2015 2016 2017 Responsibility for Insurance Products and Services Accident claim Paid amount Kyobo Life strives always to ensure that its clients recognize the value 4,686 5,121 5,158 application via agent (KRW 100 million) of life insurance and select the product that is most appropriate to their Payment by visit Paid amount needs, while improving the quality of its services from signing up for 2,755 3,170 2,666 service (KRW 100 million) insurance to maintenance and payout. Complete Subscription Process Kyobo Life provides all its Financial Responsibility for the Customers: Payout of Suicide Accident Death Planners with regular training on the complete subscription process, Insurance In February 2017, Kyobo Life decided to pay out all of the and reflects the subscription items in the company policies, with strict suicide accident death insurances of which the extinct prescriptions emphasis on the complete subscription process. were over and paid the insurance amount. Despite the Supreme Court’s judgment that we had no obligation to pay out suicide accident death Status of Complete Subscription Process insurance of which the extinct prescription was over, we made payment in order to fulfill our fiduciary duty. In addition, related to the suicide Compliance Notification of Full explanation accident death insurance, Kyobo Life faced the sanction of one-month with the three requirements of information customers need sales suspension for some insurance products from the financial superprinciples before signing to know visory authority in May 2017. Issuance of contract Clients are advised to fill Detailed and accurate ontaining the personal out all the requirements explanation of items signatures of the on the form prior to requiring explanation, contracting party and signing. such as product insurance subscriber, full characteristics and explanation of the contract, guarantees. and delivery of contract copy to the subscriber. 60 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Creating a Pleasant Workplace and health are reflected and monitored in the employment regulations Kyobo Life endeavors to create a pleasant working culture character(Chapter 6 Safety and Health), and we installed Occupational Safety and ized by joy, pride, and trust where employees can enjoy work while Health Committee under Chapter 19 (Occupational Safety and Health maintaining a sound work-life balance. Committee) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act. Employee Status As of the end of 2017, Kyobo Life has 3,757 employEmphasis on Family-friendly Culture Kyobo Life provides various proees, representing a 12.1% decrease from the previous year. Female emgrams to create a family friendly culture to support the development ployees account for 39.7% of the total, and there were 40 new recruits. of the company and the individual. Kyobo Life operates the ‘Kyobo Life In 2017, there were 73 employees who retired, i.e. a retirement rate of Dasomi Child Care Center’ for employees so that employees can focus 1.9%. There were 29 employees with disabilities, which represents a on work without worrying about childcare, and Kyobo Life also pro0.8% recruitment rate of disabled people. Female managers account vides parental leave and allowances, spouse parental leave, holidays for for 10.7% of the total, and the number has increased steadily over the prenatal checkup, shortened working hours during the child’s youngpast eight years. er years, pregnant employee protection, and child information sharing platform to foster a working environment that emphasizes a culture of Employee Status maternal protection. Category 2015 2016 2017 Parental Leave Applications and Return Rates Number of people with 50(1.2) 52(1.2) 29(0.8) disabilities (ratio) (%) Category 2015 2016 2017 Number of female Parental leave Males 4 2 6 59(7.9) 73(9.5) 80(10.7) Permanent managers (ratio) (%) applicants (person) Females 253 254 215 Number of males (persons) 2,268 2,312 2,264 Males 100 100 100 Return from parental Number of females (persons) 1,902 1,963 1,493 leave (%) Females 89.7 91.7 90.7 Employed Total (persons) 146 215 40 * Return from parental leave (%) is based on the returning employees in the relevant business year. Number (persons) 94 92 73 Retired Ratio (%) 2.3 2.2 1.9 Various Welfare and Benefits Systems Kyobo Life operates various Number of males (persons) 7 7 7 welfare and benefits systems designed to enable its employees to Non maintain a healthy balance between work and private life by offering permanent Number of females (persons) 216 202 152 help for life stabilization, residential stability, and healthy lifestyle and * Number of employees with disabilities : three persons in IT, 18 persons in the field, eight cultural activities. persons at head office Establishment and Operation of Protective Measure Criteria for the Employee Benefits System Customer Service Staff Kyobo Life established protective measure criteria for the customer service staff in March 2017 and is currently Stable lifestyle Residential stability Insurance plans (four major insurance implementing it. The customer service staff means our employees servplans), scholarships, travel expenses, Home purchase loan, rental of ing the customers by phone or face-to-face communication. Kyobo Life life insurance, pension plan support housing lease funds, operation (including National Pension Service), supports the relevant staffs to resolve their grievances through perifamily congratulatory and bereavement of company housing and boarding house, support of odical education of the service manual for dealing with customers with gifts, retirement gift, shelter during monthly rental fee natural disasters, childcare benefits, problem behavior and operation of ‘the Dedicated Grievance Council’ Kyobo Life Dasomi Daycare, funeral for the customer service staffs and prepares for measures to prevent service assistance recurrences, thereby helping them solve difficulties in their work. Healthy and cultural Cafeteria system lifestyle Can freely select benefits Safe Working Environment: Occupational Safety and Health ComHealth & fitness, R&R, according to needs company athletic meet, (Options: self-development, mittee Due to the nature of the insurance business, Kyobo Life does company social groups health management, cultural not have any employees in positions that are exposed to a high risk or activities, fitness) possibility of accidents or diseases. Items regarding employee safety Kyobo Life’s Performance 61 Anti-discrimination in the Workplace Kyobo Life accords considerable importance to maintaining the dignity and guaranteeing the rights of all its employees, and supports and complies with the principles on human rights and labor of the UN Global Compact (Protection and Respect of Human Rights, Prevention of Human Rights Violation, Effective Recognition of the Freedom of Association and the Right to Collective Bargaining, Elimination of all Forms of Forced and Compulsory Labor, Abolition of Child Labor, and Elimination of Discrimination in Respect of Employment and Occupation) Eliminating Employment and Occupation Discrimination Kyobo Life Agreement between labor and management provides equal employment opportunities regardless of gender, age, religion, and hometown through the blind recruitment processes. All opportunities and decisions in promotions, compensation, training, and retirement are made fairly and solely based on individual performance Efforts Toward Mutual Growth and capability. At the beginning of every fiscal year, all employees inKyobo Life pursues coexistence with its transaction partners and the cluding the CEO participate in a ceremony, and we have included an local community where its company management activities are conitem on eliminating cliques and bullying, and raised awareness on discerned. By promoting the advancement of Kyobo Life along with the crimination that can happen unintentionally. In addition, wages are paid mutual growth of its partners and local society, Kyobo Life is able to equally to both genders. As of 2017, the basic salary for newly hired successfully maintain a virtuous cycle of mutual advancement. permanent employees with a 4-year university degree is 233% of the minimum wage (KRW40.94 million). DA-WIN Service for Mutual Growth with Partners Kyobo Life is the first company in the financial services industry to be awarded the ConProtect and Respect Human Rights Kyobo Life recognizes that viosumer Satisfaction Management Award for five consecutive years. It lations of human rights in the form of sexual harassment do occur in operates the DA-WIN service program for mutual growth by sharing the workplace and thus strives to prevent incidences of such cases. the know-how of its customer satisfaction service with its partners. The compliance officer training emphasizes this important fact, and we DA-WIN service means that both Kyobo Life and partners grow in a winconduct sexual harassment training sessions for all Financial Planners win relationship. In addition, this is Kyobo Life’s differentiated sharing and employees under the oversight of the head of the organization. In management service practicing the management philosophy of sharing addition to the regular group training, Kyobo Life provides additional and favoring and, simultaneously, supporting our customers’ success resources on intranet and in-house satellite broadcasts in comic, animaby providing the CS education (consulting) and the organizational actition and other forms of media to convey the seriousness of the topic. vation program for customer satisfaction. Prevention of Child Labor and Forced Labor Kyobo Life does not hire DA-WIN Service Status and Performance employees below the age of 15 so as to prohibit child labor and limits Category 2015 2016 2017 the employment of teenagers below the age of 18. We also prohibit all Number of service receiving forms of forced labor that violate the free will of the employees. 1,183 1,050 1,030 companies (companies) Number of service recipients 68,609 58,455 63,399 (persons) Building a Cooperative Labor Management Culture Number of contracts 8,493 5,935 4,093 Kyobo Life believes that advancement of labor-management relations Financial (cases) is a must for any company’s competitiveness and communicates comperformance Contract amount 2,058 1,809 1,069 (KRW million) pany management information to the laborers so as to form strategic partner relations between labor and management. As of December 2017, out of 3,757 employees eligible for joining the labor union, 2,741, or 72.2%, of them belonged to a labor union. 62 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Digital Communication with Customers: The Digital Age, Emphasis on Concert In April 2017, Kyobo Life invited about 300 customers residLiterary Communication with Customers (‘Read, Walk, and Experience ing in the Seoul area and held a humanities talk concert at the Head Gwanghwamun’ Website) Kyobo Life utilizes Korea’s highly advanced Office of Gwanghwamun where they could enjoy literature and music. digital environment to provide differentiated customer services. Also, KyoAt the concert beginning with the opening performance with a saxbo Life operates the “Read, walk, and experience Gwanghwamun” website ophone, the complex cultural programs proceeded, including the pur(www.kyobostory.co.kr), a philosophical website that places great emphapose of the Dasan Literature Award, introduction of ‘Women and their sis on the value of human life itself. From January 2016, a mobile serevolving enemies,’ the awarded work in the novel section, and its auvice was launched so that all its contents can be freely used anytime and thor, the external lecture on ‘How to become a professional family,’ Q&A anywhere. The ‘Read, Walk, and Experience Gwanghwamun’ website is with customers, musical performance connected with the literature, available for users to enjoy the humanities walking along Gwanghwamun etc. Kyobo Life will keep on striving for shared growth through cultural where both the past and the present coexist. The main contents of this and intellectual interaction with more customers. website consist of the ‘Reading Literature’ section, where visitors to the site can encounter the humorous and heartwarming contents of literary works; the ‘Walking with History’ section, which provides new perspectives and insights through historical stories; and the ‘Experiencing Philosophy’ section, where users can experience the world of philosophy and discover how there are at least ten possible responses to every single question. Furthermore, the site offers diverse multimedia contents in the form of videos and Webtoons, and various lectures that enable viewers to enjoy literary content in a fun way. Any Kyobo Life customer can read best sellers in literature, history, and philosophy in the electronic library linked to the Kyobo Book Center Co., Ltd. The website contents of high-level humanities that you can hardly approach ordinarily, offering a vast cultural playground ‘Meeting of literature and music,’ Kyobo Nobiliaire Gwanghwamun Concert where clients’ knowledge and cultural needs can be fulfilled, while seeking to expand the literary empathy with clients using the mobile service. ‘Meeting of literature and music,’ Kyobo Nobiliaire Gwanghwamun Kyobo Life’s Performance 63 Energy consumption (TOE) 19,554 18,853 17,430 18,327 18,319 Kyobo Life’s key environmental performance in 2017 is as shown below. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Waste emissions & Recycled ratio Environmentally friendly financial (Ton, %) investment trends (%, KRW100 million) 97 98 97 97 87 30.5 29.8 30.9 28.5 26.6 379 377 2017 20,620 370 340 329 Environmental 19,311 18,108 16,150 Performance 13,634 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 shown on one page 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Carbon dioxide emissions (tCO2) 41,248 36,057 37,964 39,030 37,909 Waste recycling rate (Ton, %) Office paper and toner usage (Units, Boxes) 1.4 1.2 1.1 1.2 Toner 0.3 7,508 7,141 4,273 6,088 3,919 3,901 3,681 5,943 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 3,514 Office paper 4,723 4,413 4,279 4,016 3,779 1,745 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 64 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Environmental Performance Kyobo Life is a company that manages its life insurance business, which Eco-friendly Management Activities covers life and health threats, but recognizes that the environment is Electronic Subscription System for the Environment Kyobo Life uses a critical issue which has both direct and indirect effects on life insurpaper in many of its main tasks, and most particularly in the insurance ance. This is because the environment has a huge influence in terms subscription process, which involves contracts and many other essenof its effect on people’s health and lives. Also, consumer demand for tial documents. As such, Kyobo Life operates an electronic subscription eco-friendly management activities is increasing, and Kyobo Life sees system designed to reduce the costs and minimize the environmental this as a new opportunity for, rather than a limitation of, the company’s effects by reducing our paper usage. It is a one-stop system that regrowth. quires the customer to directly access the insurance company website using their accredited certificates in order to subscribe to an insurance product, and provides an explanation of the product details which reEco-friendly Social Contribution Activities quires acknowledgement of the explanations and the personal signaEco-friendly Dasomi Family Volunteer Group Kyobo Life carries out ture of the customer. and promotes various types of volunteer work in an effort to protect Electronic Subscription Process the environment. Every year, over 50 families participate in such initiaCustomer Data on the tives, and Kyobo Life is expanding the significance and value of enjoyFilling out information Customer subscribed able voluntary work and establishing an ideal weekend leisure culture the electronic registration/ compliance product subscription for families through family volunteer work programs. In addition, caring revision entry for and helping others in need through these programs help families strengthen their bonds and contribute to creating a healthy family culReinforcement of Waste Management Kyobo Life entrusts the waste ture. generated by its office spaces to an approved waste-processing company. Waste from the major buildings, including the headquarters, is discharged and recycled separately, and the annual amount of waste discharge is recorded and managed accordingly. Promoting Eco-friendly Transportation Methods Kyobo Life prohibits its employees from entering the training institute in Cheonan (Gyeseongwon) by private car, and instead pays its employees’ transportation costs based on KTX train fares so as to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions during their commutes. In addition, Kyobo Life has established a nationwide satellite broadcasting system for all our sales and service sites, which is intended mainly as a means of listening to major Eco-friendly Dasomi Family Voluntary Work events rather than as a means of gathering employees for major events. Dasomi family volunteer group activity status Schedule Program Location Activities Participants Understanding the ecological value, activities of cultivating the 14 employees’ 4.1(Sat) Cultivating healthy urban forest Seoul Forest Park urban park of Seoul Forest families -E  ducation of understanding resources recycling and environDisassembling toy wastes and donatSeoul Innovation 16 employees’ 5.20(Sat) mental problems ing upcycled products Park families Disassembling toys and making recycled artworks Understand the significance of the nest boxes for breeding of 15 employees’ 9.16(Sat) ‘Hanging bird nest’ in the urban park World Cup Park birds within city parks families Monitoring of nest boxes and making and planting new bird nests ‘Technology of Optimization,’a Seoul Energy Understand energy and optimization technology Make LED light 15 employees’ 11.11(Sat) Technology to Save Dream Center stands for low income families families Kyobo Life’s Performance 65 66,793 Reducing Electricity Usage Kyobo Life minimizes the operation of emSocially responsible investment amounts and investment weights ployee elevators other than in rush hours and lunch hours and main(KRW100 million, %) KRW100 million tains the building temperature above 26℃ during summer and below 20℃ during winter to reduce energy usage. Also, Kyobo Life has been 8.8 8.8 8.6 8.5 8.5 conducting the ‘three voluntary energy and resource saving campaign’ 8.1 7.6 since 2008 by turning off unnecessary lighting and unused computers, 66,793 64,786 and by using office resources economically. 6.7 59,451 Eco-friendly Financial Investment: Social Responsible Investment 56,733 Kyobo Life is a life insurance company that manages long-term assets 51,332 45,869 4.1 requiring the generation of stable long-term profits, but is expanding its eco-friendly finance investments to contribute to the public good as 38,286 30,912 2.1 well. Kyobo Life's social responsibility investments started off with indirect societal investment in such areas as road and harbor construction 17,192 projects, but it has now been expanded to indirect societal investment in eco-friendly infrastructures such as sewage plants, waste incineration facilities, and new energy development projects. Such expansion 7,611 is expected to generate profits for Kyobo Life as well as expanding the scope of beneficiaries to the entire local community. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Trend of the Green Financial Investment among Socially Responsible Investments Environment-related investment amount Weight in the socially responsible investment (SRI) amount (%) (KRW100 million) 20,620 19,311 18,108 30.9 30.5 29.8 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 66 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Status of the Environmental Data The following data have been compiled from 44 company buildings managed by Kyobo Realco Inc. (out of a total of 47 company buildings). However, the data for office paper/toner usage and waste discharge originate only from the Headquarters. Office Paper Usage Toner Usage Total CO2 emissions 4,723 Boxes 3,514 Units 36,057 tCO2 Total Water Usage Total Direct Energy Total Indirect Energy 511,151 Ton 2,379 TOE 15,051 TOE Office Paper and Toner Usage Energy Usage Category 2015 2016 2017 Category 2015 2016 2017 Office paper (box) 3,779 4,413 4,723 Gas 2,062 2,181 2,032 Direct energy Toner (unit) 3,919 3,901 3,514 Oil 442 367 347 (TOE) Subtotal 2,504 2,548 2,379 Electricity 16,314 15,737 15,020 Water Usage Indirect energy Regional 35 34 31 Category 2015 2016 2017 (TOE) heating Total usage (ton) 587,562 537,411 511,151 Subtotal 16,349 15,711 15,051 Recycled amount (ton) 1,745 7,508 6,088 Grand total 18,853 18,319 17,430 Recycled ratio (%) 0.3 1.4 1.2 Compared with the previous year 527 -534 -889 ※ TOE : Amount of energy produced when burning one ton of oil, standardized in calorie units Waste Emissions Carbon Dioxide Emissions Category 2015 2016 2017 Category 2015 2016 2017 Total emission (ton) 377 340 329 Direct (tCO2) 5,617 5,677 5,283 Recycled amount (ton) 368 331 319 Indirect (tCO2) 33,413 32,232 30,774 Recycled ratio (%) 98 97 97 Total (tCO2) 39,030 37,909 36,057 ※ 'Waste' refer to regular office waste produced by the company buildings Kyobo Life’s Performance 67 Appendix 68 Materiality Test 70 Sustainable Development Goals 71 Third Party Assurance 73 GRI G4 / ISO 26000 Index 76 UN Global Compact 77 Awards and Membership regarding Sustainability Management 78 Financial Highlights 79 Declaration of VISION2020 68 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Materiality Test Kyobo Life strives to determine the interests of internal and external stakeholders and the factors that can affect its business (potential factors included) and to reflect them in management decisions. Also, Kyobo Life has identified the crucial issues pertaining to stakeholders and business that must be managed with priority, and this sustainable management report was written based on systematically identified critical issues. Materiality Test Process Issues affecting Kyobo Life have been colMateriality Test Model The materiality test is based on an evaluation lected to determine the interest level of our stakeholders and business model created by the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies, and various relevance; this was a three-step process consisting of collecting releinvestigations and analyses were performed. vant issues, identifying level of interest and importance, and validity verification. Identifying Level of STEP 2 Interest and Importance STEP 1 Collecting Relevant Issues •Review internal policy, rules, laws •Review key performance indicators •Benchmarks •Issues identified from November 2016 to June 2017 •Analyze media •GRI G4 Category, Aspects •Survey stakeholders Kyobo Life has formed a database of issues based on the To determine the business materiality for Kyobo Life, scope and aspects of GRI G4, which is a guideline for basic systematically managed company policies were analyzed,g and global issues, and has collected issues through the along with domestic and international regulations and laws analysis of the previous year’s sustainable management and core performance indicators. Moreover, to determine report contents and the media along with finance company stakeholder interests, benchmarking and media analysis benchmarking. As a result, 123 preliminary issues were results were reviewed. collected, with the review process involving the compilation and deletion of issues reducing the number of issues to 59. 59 Business materiality Stakeholder interests •Company policies •Benchmarking Issues •Key performance •Media analysis indicators (KPI) •Domestic and international regulations 123 •Standards and laws Issues Appendix 69 STEP 3 Validity Verification •Assess level of significance to business Finalizing Issues Kyobo Life has deduced the top 20 issues through the matrix analysis •Assess level of stakeholder interest based on the business materiality and stakeholder interests. Also, Kyobo Life has selected the five major issues for different stakeholders The validity was verified through an assessment of the level of (customers, Financial Planners, employees, investors, government/ importance to business and stakeholder interevsts. communities). Top 20 Issues Stakeholder Interests 3 1 S  ocial Contribution Activities 10 Healthcare service Reflecting the Nature of 15 the Life Insurance Business 11 Sustainability management 2 2 Improve financial 12 E  ngage in and develop 1 soundness local communities 3 C  ustomer-centered 4 business activities 13 Fintech 6 5 4 E  xpand environment Seek win-win cooperation 14 management 14 7 15 Launch new products 5 E  thical 8 management 16 Minimize mis-selling 17 19 6 E  mployees’ corporate culture Risk management 20 17 13 7 P  rotect customers’ 18 F  inancial Planners’ capability information 12 improvement efforts 9 8 H  uman resource training 19  rowth and development G and employees’ 16 opportunities for women 10 18 competence development 11 E  nhance accessibility 20 Stabilize earnings 9 of financial service Importance on Business 2017 Top-5 Stakeholders' Issues Stakeholders Top-5 Issues Material Issues (GRI G4 Aspect) Scope Contents Customer Customer-centered business activities Product&Service Labeling Internal/External Support for Financial Planners’ capability Financial Planners Training and Education Internal/External improvement efforts Kyobo Life's Values Training and Education Employees Support for improvement of the corporate culture Internal (2017 Top-5 Major Employment Activities) Investors Improve the financial soundness Economic Performance External Government Social Contribution Activities Reflecting the Nature Communities Internal/External & Communities of the Life Insurance Business * The five major issues of 2017 are explained in detail in the '2017 Top-five Activities' section of this report 70 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Sustainable Development Goals The term ‘sustainable development goals’ refers to the company’s global priorities in responding to the tremendous economical, societal, and environmental challenges facing us, and which Kyobo Life aims to overcome by 2030. Kyobo Life has integrated the ‘sustainable advancement goals’ and the company's sustainable management system’ to actively participate in this movement, and has reviewed the progress of 17 items. Kyobo Life is planning to promote the best of the following 17 items: ‘Kyobo Life’s Sustainable Management Frame’ and ‘Sustainable Development Goals’ Sustainability The most innovative life insurance company in product and Pursue Shared Growth with All Stakeholders Vision2020 management philosophy channel prepared for the 4th Industrial Innovation Pledges for stakeholders Promise Principle KPI A company that is •Persistency rate (13th 1. We will listen to the customers and manage the company from the customers’ perspective. good at providing assessment) Customers 2. We will enhance service quality throughout the policy lifecycle, from underwriting to insurance coverage to •Customer satisfaction level persistency and benefits payment. customers •Market share rate •Financial Planner A company that 3. We will pay respect to and trust the Financial Planners as business partners. satisfaction level Financial succeeds together 4. We will establish fair standards and help the Financial Planners engage in their sales and •Financial Planner Planners with its Financial service activities with peace of mind. settlement ratio (13th Planners 5. We will support Financial Planners to grow into insurance experts. assessment) •Training hours per A company that 6. We will continue on our corporate culture of joy, pride and trust. employee Employees grows together with 7. We will provide equal opportunities and reward according to fair evaluation. •Employee satisfaction its employees 8. We will support our employees to grow and develop into insurance experts. level •Total assets A company that 9. We will continue to produce exceptional profit through the good growth. •Return on equity(ROE) Investors is attractive to 10. We will increase the value of the company through preemptive risk management. •Risk based capital investors ratio(RBC) •Societal contribution A company that 11. We will actively carry out corporate social responsibility activities to grow together with our ratio/amount Government grows together with communities. •Weight of Socially & Communities the Government 12. We will manage our business in a nature-friendly way, reflecting the nature of our business. responsible investment and communities 13. We will grow together with our partners through fair competition. (SRI) (proportions) •Energy consumption Sustainability Development goals (2016~2030) Kyobo Life’s Sustainable Advancement Goals Reduce Eliminate Healthy ‘Ties of Love’ activities to supProvision of health insurance port children from minority and healthcare services, health poverty poverty lifestyle and groups, ‘Kyobo Hope and Love insurance discount through welfare Insurance’ to provide insurhealth coaching service, health Quality Gender Drinking ance benefits to children from low-income checkup service and health information education equality water and families by utilizing dormant insurance for customers payments, etc. hygiene Appropriate Promotion Infrastructure ‘Kyobo Dasom Scholarship’ to Recruitment based on ‘Kyobo of economic provide educational opportuniProfessional’ along with fair energy for industrial growth and ties; various educational insurperformance evaluation and quality jobs innovation ance products; ‘New Employee anti-gender discrimination; ‘FeEradicate Sustainable Sustainable Mentorship System’ and ‘Talent Developmale Leadership Conference’ to instill motiinequality cities and consumption and ment Program’ to provide opportunities for vation for growth and development among homes production self-improvement and self-reinforcement; female employees and to aid their develop‘Northeast Asia Run for Under Graduate ment and building relationships for human Response Protection Protection of Students’ to provide opportunities for sturesource networks to climate of marine ecosystem dents to grow into global leaders change resources Accepting Expansion Constructing library and play‘Electronic Subscription System’ society and of global ground for an elementary school to reduce paper usage; promoat an underdeveloped area of tion of various other energy-ussystems partnership Laos; establishing the infraage-reduction activities. structure through expansion of ‘socially responsible investment,’ etc. Appendix 71 Third Party’s Assurance Statement To the management and stakeholders of Kyobo Life Foreword The Korea Standards Association (hereinafter “the Assurers”) was commissioned to perform an independent audit on Kyobo Life’s Sustainability Report 2017 (hereinafter “the Report”). the Assurers has provided an independent opinion, based on a review of data contained in the Report prepared by Kyobo Life (‘the Company’), and all the statements and performance data included in the report are the responsibility of Kyobo Life. Independence The Assurers, as an independent assurance body, has no professional interest in Kyobo Life other than in providing this third-party assurance on the Report, and it is not related to the Company in any way that may undermine its independence or conflicts of interests. Assurance Standards The Assurers verified inclusiveness, compliance with the principles of materiality and responsiveness, and reliability of the data disclosed in the Report at the “moderate” level in accordance with the verification standards of AA1000AS (2008); and other international standards including GRI G4 Guidelines and ISO 26000 were also applied in the verification process. Type and Scope The Assurers conducted Type 2 verification according to the AA1000 verification standards (AA1000AS), which means that the audit assessed the accuracy and reliability of the Company’s statements and performance data provided in the Report. The verification scope is from January 1, 2017, to December 31, 2017, and the data for the first half of 2018 was included when deemed necessary. The assurance focused on systems and activities including policies and goals, businesses and programs, standards, and achievements of the Company’s sustainability management. In addition, the financial audit was conducted on environmental and societal data and economic performance in a broad sense. Verification of stakeholder engagement was limited to a review of the Company’s materiality test process. Methodology The Assurers collected data, information, and evidence by using the following method. •Review and analyze media coverage on the Company’s sustainability •Review systems and processes that were used in improving the management in the recent 3 years performance of sustainability management and preparing the Report •Investigate issues of sustainability reporting selected by the Assurers •Crosscheck between financial performance data in the Report in consultation with the Company and the data in the Assurers’ report on the Company’s financial •Visit the head office of the Company and interview sustainability statements and disclosures managers and employees in charge of individual issues •Track and examine internal documents and basic data Results and Opinions [Principles & Process] The Assurers have reviewed the content of the draft report and offered our opinions, and the report has been revised accordingly. The Assurers have not found any material errors or inappropriate statements regarding the content of this report. The Assurers offers the following opinions on Kyobo Life’s Sustainability Report 2017: Inclusiveness Did the Company include stakeholders in the process of strategically responding to issues of sustainability management? The Assurers have verified that the Company encouragedstakeholders’ involvement in the process of sustainability management and that the Company is operating a variety of channels for communication with stakeholders. We have not found any important group of stakeholders left out in the above-mentioned process. Materiality Did the Company include material information that can assist stakeholders to make informed decisions? The Assurers find that the Company has neither omitted nor excluded any material information that stakeholders need to know. We have confirmed that the Company conducted a materiality test on the key issues that were identified in the analysis of the internal and external environment and prepared the report based on the results of the analysis. 72 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Responsiveness Did the Company respond to the demands and interests of stakeholders? The Assurers have verified that the Company is properly responding to the demands and interests of its stakeholders by reflecting the opinions collected from stakeholders on the Report. The Assurers have found no evidence that the Company’s responses to material issues involving stakeholders were misrepresented or misstated in the Report. GRI G4 Application the Assurers has verified that the Report was prepared in accordance with the Core Option of GRI G4 and confirmed, based on the data provided by the Company, that General Standard Disclosures, and Specific Standard Disclosures have been properly made. General Standard Disclosures The Assurers have verified that the Report complied with the requirements of the General Standard Disclosures of Core Option, and reviewed the following indices : G4-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 56 Specific Standard Disclosures The Assurers have verified DMA on the material aspects identified through the process of determining the reporting items and reviewed the following indices : G4-EC1, LA3, LA9, LA10, SO1, PR5 Opinions and Recommendations [Performance /Issues] The Assurers offer the following proposal to implement strategies in sustainability management in response to the issues with coherence atan organizational level. Economic performance In accordance with the goal to become the industry leader through innovative products and channels, Kyobo Life has built customer-centered mindset, while diligently carrying out performance commitment and nurture the core value with resilient effort to overcome any failure. Implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS 17) and K-Insurance Capital Standard in near future, will be a transition which will change the insurance industry environment fundamentally and the transition is becoming our reality. IFRS 17 towards insurance industry is demanding maintenance in large scale upon the financial system and process. Kyobo Life is proactively engaging in response to the variables in and out of the company, through increasing capital and adjusting on accounts receivables as well as strategically managing any long-term risk they may face. With the continuous effort to improve comprehensive strategy, sustainable management is achievable as a leading company. Environment Interest on social responsibility investment and proactive engagement in relation to non-financial index such as environment, social and governance on the company level is positively evaluated. Overall industry tendency in the growth of social responsibility investment on topics such as energy efficiency, renewable energy, saving biodiversity, clean energy transportation and clean water due to the severe environmental threat. Therefore, products that are reflecting environmental needs must be developed promptly. In addition, it is necessary to strengthen environmental management activity fit company’s characteristic. Environment management activity refers to an overall process of providing a company level of vision, objectives and specific action plan. The Assures propose to surpass simple activities and implement vision and objectives with continuous communication with stakeholders. Social As a leading company in sustainable management, Kyobo Life has enforced various effort in order to accomplish shared growth with stakeholders with remarkable accomplishments in 2017. Based on the values declared in Vision2020, it is evident that the achievements were progressively accomplished this year as well as the past years, based on the pledges and principles for core stakeholders such as customers, employees, Financial Planners, investors and local communities, through the management in relation to KPI in 2017. The Report is the 8th CSR report for Kyobo Life since their first CSR report on life insurance industry in Korea. In the future, we hope to play the leading role in sustainability management not only in life insurance industry as well as the industry in general, in compliance with international guidelines of CSR report, to demonstrate the new form of the report with in-depth and multifaceted analysis and evaluation of sustainable management activities and accomplishments. March 2018 Sang-Jin Lee, KSA Chairman & CEO Korean Standards Association (KSA), established as a special corporation in accordance with the Law for Industrial Standardization in 1962, is serving as a knowledge service provider who distributes and disseminates such services as industrial standardization, quality management, sustainability management, KS certification and ISO certification. KSA is committed to the sustainable development of Korean society as an ISO 26000 national secretary, certified GRI training partner, AA1000 assurance provider, KSI (Korea Sustainability Index) operator, UN CDM DOE (development operational entity), and assurance provider of the Korean government’s greenhouse gas energy target management system. Appendix 73 GRI G4 / ISO 26000 Index General Standard Disclosure Index Details ISO 26000 Page Assurance Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO Message 4.7/6.2/7.4.2 6~7 71~72 G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 18 71~72 Organization Profile G4-3 The name of the organization 12 71~72 G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services 15 71~72 G4-5 The location of the organization’s headquarters 12 71~72 Number and names of countries where the organization manages operating sites or which G4-6 12 71~72 are related to sustainable topics G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 16 71~72 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers G4-8 12, 14 71~72 and beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of the organization 6.3.10/6.4.112~14, 54, 60 71~72 6.4.2/6.4.3/ G4-10 Employment type, contract, and regional labor force status 6.4.4/6.4.5/ 12, 60 71~72 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 6.8.5/7.8 57, 61 71~72 G4-12 Explanation about the organization’s supply chain 58 71~72 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, G4-13 12~13, 16 71~72 ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 55~56, 76 71~72 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other G4-15 70, 76 71~72 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or G4-16 77 71~72 international advocacy organizations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries List of entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or G4-17 13 71~72 equivalent documents G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 68~69 71~72 G4-19 List of Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 68~69 71~72 5.2/7.3.2/ G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization for each Material Aspect 7.3.3/7.3.4 68~69 71~72 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization for each Material Aspect 68~69 71~72 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and its reasons About This Report 71~72 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries About This Report 71~72 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 19~20 71~72 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 19~20 71~72 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement G4-26 by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement 5.3 19~20 71~72 was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how G4-27 the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its 19~20 71~72 reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns 74 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Index Details ISO 26000 Page Assurance Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided About This Report 71~72 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) About This Report 71~72 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) About This Report 71~72 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents About This Report 71~72 Organization's ‘in accordance’ option, GRI Content Index, reference to the 7.5.3/7.6.2 G4-32 About This Report 71~72 External Assurance Report Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report, scope and basis of any external assurance, relationship between the G4-33 71~72 71~72 organization and the assurance providers, role of highest governance body or senior executives in seeking assurance Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 6.2/7.4.3/7.7.5 16~17 71~72 Ethics and Integrity Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of G4-56 4.4/6.6.3 58~59 71~72 conduct and codes of ethics Specific Standard Disclosure Aspects Economic Generic DMA 44 Economic 6.8.1-6.8.2/ Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8.3 /6.8.7/ 22~23 71~72 6.8.9 Environmental Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 63~66 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4 63~66 Water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 63~66 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) 6.5.5 63~66 Effluents and G4-EN23 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3 63~66 Waste Social Labor Practice and Decent Work Generic DMA 32, 37 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by G4-LA1 6.4.3 60 age group, gender and region Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary G4-LA2 6.4.4/6.8.7 60~61 or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 6.4.4 57, 60 71~72 Appendix 75 Index Details ISO 26000 Page Assurance Generic DMA 32, 37 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by G4-LA9 6.4.7 38~43 71~72 Training and employee category Education Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the G4-LA10 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career 6.4.7/6.8.5 38~43 71~72 ending Diversity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 6.2.3/6.3.7/ and Equal G4-LA12 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group 17, 60 6.3.10/6.4.3 Opportunity membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee 6.3.7/6.3.10/ G4-LA13 61 for Women and category, by significant locations of operation 6.4.3/6.4.4 Men Human Rights Non6.3.6/6.3.7/ G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 61 discrimination 6.3.10/6.4.3 Society Generic DMA 48 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 6.3.9/6.5.1Local G4-SO1 48~52 71~72 impact assessments, and development programs 6.5.2/6.5.3/6.8 Communities FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 52, 61 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 28 Anticompetitive G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.3 58~59 Behavior Product Responsibility Product and Generic DMA 26 Service Labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.6 26, 30 71~72 Customer Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of G4-PR8 6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.7 30 Privacy customer privacy and losses of customer data Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size FS6 14~15 (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector Product Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific FS7 Homepage Portfolio social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific FS8 Homepage environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose 76 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life UN Global Compact Kyobo Life joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in September 2010 and declared its commitment to follow the principles of the UNGC. This Sustainability Management Report contains the practices of ten principles. Principles Key Report Contents Page 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of •Kyobo Life Employees Code 58 internationally proclaimed human rights of Professional Ethics Human Rights •Protection of and respect 61 2. Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses for human rights •Promote activities for 30 customer protection 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective •Cooperative labor61 recognition of the right to collective bargaining management culture 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor •Prevention of forced labor 61 Labour Standards 5. The effective abolition of child labor, •Prevention of child labor 61 •Prevention of discrimination 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 61 in the workplace •Eco-friendly social 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 64 contribution activities Environment 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, •Activities for saving energy 64~65 •Expansion of eco-friendly 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 65 financial investment •Program of ethical education and practice 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including •Programs of autonomous Anti-Corruption 58 extortion and bribery compliance with fair trade •Clean contract system •Cyber purchase system Appendix 77 Awards for Sustainability Management Date Content Nov 2017 First place in the life insurance sector of the Korea Sustainability Index (KSI) for eight consecutive years Feb 2016 12th Transparent Management Grand Prize jointly hosted by the five economic organizations Oct 2015 Grand Prize in the 2015 4th Financial Customer Protection Grand Awards (Financial Supervisory Service Director Award) Dec 2014 Private Corporation Award in the process sector for Excellence in CSV in the 1st Potter Award Oct 2014 Second ‘Most Loved Company’ Presidential Award Nov 2013 Consumer Grand Prize sponsored by the Korean Society of Consumer Studies Nov 2013 UN Global Compact Best Practice Award Grand Prize in the life insurance category for Financial Customer Protection Awards sponsored by the Korea Economic Nov 2012 Daily (Financial Supervisory Service Director Award) Oct 2012 Chairman Chang-Jae Shin, selected Personality of the Year from International Reinsurance Conference (IRC) May 2012 Presidential commendation for those merited on Children’s Day hosted by the Ministry of Health and Welfare Minister Award from the Ministry of Knowledge and Economy at the ‘6th Sustainability Management Awards’ Nov 2011 (Grand Prize in First Sustainability Management Report category) Feb 2011 Minister Award from the Ministry of Health & Welfare in recognition of promoting welfare for the disabled Grand Award in financial product and service innovation category in ‘2010 Korea Financial Innovation Award’ for Sep 2011 (No dividend) Kyobo Life 100 Year Life Variable Pension Insurance’ May 2010 Chairman Chang-Jae Shin, selected for Korea Management Association (KMA) ‘2010 Korea CEO Award’ May 2010 Chairman Chang-Jae Shin, 19th ‘Mont Blanc Cultural Art Supporter Award’ Mar 2010 No. 1 ranking in the insurance industry as ‘50 Respected Korean Corporations’ by Fortune Korea Association and Membership Regarding Sustainability Management Organization Key Activities Year joined Life Insurance Association Promotes healthy insurance culture, support information sharing for rational insurance policy formation 1958 Korea Insurance Society Researches insurance related theories, laws, practices 1964 The Institute of Actuaries Korea Introduces insurance policies, hold seminars, exchange information with international actuary institutes 1978 Life Office Management (LOMA) Shares reliable insurance industry data and knowledge 1978 Insurance Development Institute Offers information on fair and rational insurance prices, rates and other related issues 1990 Consultation regarding information protection policy directions with other financial institutions and Financial Safety Forum 2002 Financial Supervisory Service Ethical Management (Yunkyung) SM Forum Shares ethical management practices of Korean companies and conduct research sustainability management 2005 Conducts various activities aimed at preventing, countering and reviewing hacking, and other information Financial Safety Agency 2006 protection activities Korea Fair Competition Federation Shares information to promote awareness and understanding of fair trade practices 2006 Korea Risk Management Researches risk recognition and loss, and offer information through business exchange 2006 Life Insurance Marketing & Research Research, consulting and education on life insurance 2007 Association (LIMRA) UN Global Compact Korea Exchange of information on implementation of corporate social responsibility 2010 78 Sustainability Report 2017 KYOBO Life Financial Highlights Balance Sheet (Statement of Financial Position) (KRW100 million) Category 2017 2016 2015 Assets 1,045,647 966,843 920,084 Cash and deposits 15,638 13,774 17,287 Financial assets* 584,117 526,120 499,767 Receivables 187,814 184,634 168,201 Other assets 67,491 65,580 66,123 Separate account assets 190,587 17,6735 168,707 Liabilities 947,116 888,218 844,850 Policy reserves 667,133 636,675 596,517 Other liabilities 85,210 70,258 74,818 Special account liabilities 194,773 181,285 173,515 Equity 98,531 78,625 75,234 Capital 1,025 1,025 1,025 Capital surplus and others 9,717 4,194 4,166 Accumulated other comprehensive income 18,456 10,148 11,152 Retained earnings Retained earnings 65,360 59,616 55,519 Non-controlling interest 3,973 3,642 3,372 Liabilities and equity 1,045,647 966,843 920,084 * Financial assets = Short-term trading financial assets + Available for sale financial assets * Prepared based on the consolidated financial statements Income Statement (Statement of Comprehensive Income) (KRW100 million) Category 2017 2016 2015 Operating revenues 153,530 144,423 142,552 Premium income 76,670 79,007 78,356 Investment income, etc. 76,860 65,416 64,196 Operating expenses 143,951 137,554 133,400 Increase in insurance contract 28,946 38,955 38,629 liabilities Insurance expense Insurance expense* 75,418 70,265 67,822 Other expenses 39,587 28,334 26,949 Operating income 9,579 6,869 9,152 Non-operating revenues 362 525 233 Non-operating expenses 567 272 610 Income before tax 9,374 7,122 8,775 Income tax 2,634 1,689 2,334 Net income 6,740 5,433 6,441 Share of controlling company 6,400 5,145 6,079 Share of non-controlling company 340 288 363 * Insurance expense = Paid claims + reinsurance cost + insurance expense + amortization of deferred acquisition expense * Prepared based on the consolidated financial statements Appendix 79 Declaration of Vision2020 Our mission is To help everyone pursue confidently their most cherished dreams throughout their lives overcoming every adversity through mutual support. To this end, we will Always put our customers first in our thoughts and actions, Always be honest and sincere in every respect always innovating, starting over again if at first, we do not succeed. When we achieve our company’s Vision2020, Kyobo Life will be the best company in the insurance industry That does not falter in any environment, and all employees will be recognized as the best insurance experts in the industry Through this process, Kyobo Life will grow together with our customers, Financial Planners, investors, communities, and all our stakeholders, And contribute greatly to the national economy and enhancing the public’s welfare. If we all come together with a strong teamwork, we will definitely be successful in achieving our vision
