COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS MAY 2018 2 Communication on Progress Nefab Communication on Progress Nefab 3 SUPPORT SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT PRESIDENT & CEO, STAFFAN PEHRSON WE OPTIMIZE TOTAL COST AND REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT WITH INNOVATIVE PACKAGING AND LOGISTICS SOLUTIONS. The UN Global Compact is a global strategic business initiative related to corporate responsibility, initiated SUSTAINABILITY IS AN INTEGRAL PART OF OUR VALUE PROPOSITION TO by the former UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan in 1999. Global Compact works with businesses to transform our world, aiming to create a sustainable and inclusive global economy that delivers lasting benefits THE MARKET. WORKING WITH SUSTAINABILITY MEANS THAT WE CARE to all people, communities and markets. FOR THE WELFARE OF OUR EMPLOYEES AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS, WHILE WE BALANCE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL Nefab became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in October 2008. As reflected by our core values and underlined in our code of conduct, we continuously strive to integrate the principles of ASPECTS OF OUR BUSINESS. Global Compact into our business. We realize that continuous work is needed in order to promote and further integrate the ten principles of Global Compact within and outside Nefab. TAKING A STRUCTURED APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY HELPS BUILD We want to lead the way towards a sustainable future society. To achieve this, we work with our supply A FAVOURABLE BUSINESS CLIMATE THAT ATTRACTS SKILLS AND chain, our own operations as well as with our value proposition to achieve sustainable development and STRENGTHENS OUR POSITION IN THE MARKET. SUSTAINABILITY ALSO manage our stakeholders’ requirements and expectations. A strategic priority for us is to support our customers’ ambitions in reducing their environmental impact. An example of that is when we support customFACILITATES BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT BY ATTRACTING CUSTOMERS er objectives of CO2-reductions by analyzing their current solution and propose new packaging solutions HAVING THE SAME MIND-SET. which reduce not only cost, but also environmental impact. In our yearly staff survey, we can see that our employees feel that it is important to work for a company who takes sustainability seriously in all aspects. OUR SUSTAINABILITY WORK IS GOVERNED BY NEFAB’S VISION, CORE We believe that our continuous commitment to the Global Compact Initiative will be beneficial for Nefab VALUES AND CODE OF CONDUCT, AS WELL AS OTHER RELEVANT and its stakeholders and at the same time help to improve the conditions in general for the global community. Consequently, I am pleased to confirm Nefab’s continuous support of the ten principles of the Global POLICIES, LAWS AND REGULATIONS. Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this Communication on Progress (COP) for the year 2016, we express our aim to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. Stockholm, May 2018 Staffan Pehrson President & CEO, Nefab Group 4 Communication on Progress Nefab Communication on Progress Nefab 5 NEFAB’S CORE VALUES • Nefab will ensure sustainability throughout the supply gap analysis was performed, which identified the need to tion, logistics, use phase and end of life. It analyzes multiple The corporate culture of Nefab is based on our shared core chain. implement a group wide quality management system and impact categories, such as Global Warming Potential (GWP), values: “Respect”, “Empowerment” and “Simplicity”. The • Sustainability shall be more clearly integrated in Nefab’s an updated Code of Conduct, to further strengthen our efwater and energy consumption. The impact calculations are value “Respect” means that we put the environment and own operations and internal processes. forts related to continuous improvement and sustainability based on the databases of the World’s leading LCA software; our customers first. We are proactive and responsive to • Sustainability is an integrated part of Nefab’s at large. The objective is now to certify the whole Nefab SIMA Pro. customer needs. We also encourage people to share their customer offering. Group according to ISO9001:2015, during 2017 and 2018. To During 2016, Nefab worked on 271 GreenCALC projects to opinions. Our second value “Empowerment”, means that facilitate the implementation of the new quality management customers around the world. Introducing new materials that we let people take decisions to enable profitable growth, Supply chain system and theupdated Nefab Code of Conduct, we are usare environmentally friendly is an area where we continue to within our strategic direction. We also give colleagues trust, In the process for supplier evaluations, we made a total of ing an IT-system, which will make it easier and more efficient work. In 2016, Nefab developed EdgePak which has an easy responsibility and mandate within their areas of responsibil140 evaluations during 2016 with an approval rate of 86%. to work with quality and CoC-related issues. In 2016, 17 of recycling process as it is completely made out of paper. ity. The third value “Simplicity”, implies that we drive innovaOne area of evaluation relates to how the supplier works Nefab sites were certified according to ISO 14001:2004. tion to simplify for our customers. It also means that we with environment. Suppliers also have to go through an Organization share ideas and best practices, and work as a team. online process to accept our Code of Conduct and comply Customer offering Nefab’s sustainability work is directed by the execuwith our Banned and Restricted substances list. Nefab’s business concept is to optimize Total Cost and reduce tive management, with the responsibility to monitor and VISION AND STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABILITY Environmental impact with innovative packing and logistics improve the implementation of our sustainability efforts. The overall goal is to position Nefab as a leading sustainable Internal processes solutions. In line with this, Nefab has developed a tool to quanNefab believes that commitment to sustainability in all company within industrial packaging. For this to be achievIn 2016 we initiated a group-wide initiative with the objective tify environmental impact from packaging solutions, the Nefab levels of the organization benefits the overall trajectory able, three basic strategies have been developed: to define our way forward with regards to quality manageGreenCALC. GreenCALC is a Life Cycle Assessment method of our sustainability management, throughout the global ment and Code of Conduct. A thourough situationand analyzing environmental impact from raw material, producorganization. 6 Communication on Progress Nefab Communication on Progress Nefab 7 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE Stakeholders to Nefab’s business are employees, customers, Environment and society suppliers, owners, environment and society (e.g. authorities Authorities in the countries where Nefab operates are and various interest groups). The company engages in relmainly concerned about safety, working conditions and evant dialogues with the stakeholders on multiple levels. health issues. The dialogue primarily takes place through recommendations and inspections. Employees and customers Every year, employees and customers are given the opportunity to express their views and wishes in comprehensive surveys. In the 2016 customer survey we asked our customers to rate how they perceive Nefab. The five most prominent factors were Global Presence, Sustainable Solutions, Delivery Performance, Design Capabilities and Service Level. The employee survey addresses topics relating to health, leadership, job satisfaction, working conditions and sustainability. Response rates for 2016 were recorded at 21 % for the customer survey and 81 % for the staff survey. Suppliers The dialogue with suppliers is on-going in daily contacts as well as in the work of supplier evaluations. Questions about code of conduct, including human rights, working conditions, quality, delivery precision and environment are asked, following a standard process established in our global procurement guidelines. ENVIRONMENT systems that increase utilization and reduce the consumpNefab’s greatest contribution to the environment is directly tion of materials and energy. Owners linked to the business offering, in which the customer is Since 2015, Nordgren/Pihl and FAM (Foundation Asset Manpresented not only with the most cost efficient packaging Environmental policy agement Sweden AB) are co-owners. The strong owners solution, but also its environmental impact. With the use of Nefab’s environmental policy is based on the principle that have provided the unique opportunity for Nefab to develop GreenCALC, customers are offered life cycle analysis, showwith our complete packaging solutions, we can avoid wasta long-term and holistic perspective when deciding our way ing how a new packaging solution can impact CO2 emising resources both in the packaging itself and in terms of forward. In board meetings and through direct questions, sions, comparing different solutions. damages. The goal is that the packaging products should owners question the business model and how it can be sushave low environmental impact throughout their life cycles. tainable in its value creation. Various initiatives and priorities Designing the packaging properly leads to more efficient The minimum requirement in our own production is to are discussed and the organization is always prepared to loads in trucks and containers, which means that customers comply with current laws and regulations and with the aim answer specific questions. An extraordinary positive side of carry less air and can reduce C02 emissions. As far as posto surpass them. FAM is that the profits they make goes to funding of Swedsible, all packaging solutions from Nefab are also designed ish research, so companies owned by FAM contribute to the with consideration to recycling. The customer offering future development of Sweden. includes a range of smart returnable packaging and rental 8 Communication on Progress Nefab Communication on Progress Nefab 9 EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION AGE DISTRIBUTION ALL EMPLOYEES INDEX (ESI) – ALL EMPLOYEES – BY FUNCTION 100% 75% 15%11% 22% 29% 72 71 68 50% 32% 61% 25% 10% 35% 2016 2015 2014 EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION INDEX (ESI) EMPLOYEES UP TO 29 YEARS OLD MANUFACTURING/ENGINEERING RESPONSE RATE EMPLOYEES 30–39 YEARS OLD ADMINISTRATION EMPLOYEES 40–54 YEARS OLD SALES, MARKETING & DISTRIBUTION EMPLOYEES 55 YEARS OR OLDER GENDER DISTRIBUTION AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ALL EMPLOYEES – BY REGION – ALL EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY Nefab’s market-leading position is maintained by focusKey ratios 2016 2015 2014 100% 3,000 ing on the individual employee’s development, ensuring Percentage of employees 24% 24% 24% continuous competence development. Nefab will offer who have union agreements 25% 21% 21% attractive opportunities to ensure that employees choose 2,363 Board members for the 5% female 8% female 7% female 75% to remain while allowing valuable new skills to be recruited. Group, gender breakdown 95% male 92% male 93% male 76% 76% 76% 2,000 2,310 2,330 24% Nefab is characterized by a customer-oriented corporate Presidents and other 21% female 18% female 20% female 31% culture where employees are encouraged to develop a prosenior executives* 79% male 82% male 80% male 50% * Management team members and similar. active approach. Nefab’s values and code of conduct form 1,000 the basis for the corporate culture. 25% theory and practice regarding packaging materials, sales 45% Internal trainings – Web Academy & Pakademy processes and testing methods. Classes are organized on Web Academy is Nefab’s online-based e-learning system. a yearly basis. As an example, the 2016 Pakademy in China 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 As part of Web Academy, employees are offered a variety gathered 28 students from twelve different countries. MEN ASIA of basic tutorials on the company’s packaging solutions and WOMEN EUROPE sales processes, as well as courses dealing with the comAMERICAS pany’s social responsibility, environment and human rights. Pakademy is offered in China and Sweden, once a year in order to address the need to educate newly recruited engineers and salespeople. These training programs include 10 Communication on Progress Nefab Communication on Progress Nefab 11 UNGC PRINCIPLES NEFAB CODE OF CONDUCT Human Rights Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed huinternationally proclaimed Human Rights man rights and ensure that the company is not complicit in human rights abuses. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Labour standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Freedom of association effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. As local or relevant laws allows, all employees are free to form, join or not to join unions and have the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Forced and compulsory labour COMMITMENT and compulsory labour. No form of forced or compulsory labour is tolerated and all employees Environment have the right to leave their employment as stated by contracts or local Nefab will continuously seek to implement the ten princiWith the use of GreenCALC we have been able to offer laws. Employees shall not be required to leave deposits of money or idenples of the United Nations Global Compact. The Nefab Code tity papers with their employer. important reductions of GWP (Global Warming Potential) of Conduct is an important tool to fulfill this commitment, 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Child labour to our customers. By using GreenCALC Nefab can support as it guides employee behavior to be in line with Global No person shall be employed who is below the minimum legal age for emcustomers in their green initiatives by: ployment. We are not complicit in any form of child labour or other forms Compact principles. For 2016, no issues were reported • Quantifying environmental impact in packaging solution. of child exploitation. A child means a person below the age of 18 years. No through Nefab’s internal “whistle-blower” network. Nefab one is employed below the completion of compulsory school or under the • Identify areas of improvements. will try to continue this positive trend by focusing on further age of 15 and no one under the age of 18 is employed for hazardous work. • Quantify improvements in reduction of Global Warming training in line with the Code of Conduct. Potential. Children shall not be employed for any work that is inconsistent with the Human rights • Implementing engineered complete packaging solutions child’s personal development, including health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral or social development. Using our e-learning system (Web Academy), Nefab develthat are optimized in terms of total cost and environmental 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Workplace oped a basic course in “Human Rights”, which was launched impact. respect of employment and occupation. We provide a working environment that is healthy, safe and in accordance in June 2010. During 2016, a total of 67 employees received with international standards and local laws for all employees. a diploma in this course. The course material contains Donations Appropriate health and safety information and training shall be provided to employees including, but not limited to, safe evacuations of buildings the Universal Declaration on Human Rights as well as the In 2016, as the third consecutive year, Nefab supported the and correct handling and marking of chemicals and machinery. principles from Global Compact and more business oriented World Wildlife Foundation (WWF) tree planting project on Discrimination issues in terms of Human Rights. Borneo. Nefab is also in a partnership with a NGO supplying Diversity among our employees is a positive attribute and no one regardless of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, nationality, parental status, marital computers to schools in developing nations. In this partnerstatus, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, ethnic background, social origin, Labour ship, Nefab provides support in kind by supplying packagsocial status, age, union membership or disability shall be discriminated. Nefab’s annual Staff Survey gives each employee the oppering solutions for the transportation. Harassments in the form of physical or psychological abuse are strongly tunity to provide feedback on working conditions, managAbove that, Nefab local sites try to be active in different prohibited, as are any kinds of intimidation or other threats. Employees with the same qualifications, experience and performance shall ers’ behavior, physical and psycho-social working environcharities and donation projects. In 2016, Nefab Portugal receive equal pay for equal work. ment, stress and more. In addition, free text comments can made a donation to the Portuguese Cancer Institute, for Environment Environment be submitted. All answers are anonymous and the survey the project “Smile Children Project”. In the same year, Nefab 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Precautionary approach is administrated through an external partner, using a cloud Estonia supported Estonian Invasport Union, that provides environmental challenges. Sustainable development is a key concept and finite resources are avoided based standard program. The response rate for 2016 was aid-related and technical services for wheelchair athletes. as often as possible. We also have a precautionary approach towards environmental challenges whereby dangerous materials are avoided when 81 %, which is considered to be very good. From the Staff Additionally, in 2016 Nefab China bought 1200 kg apples, suitable and more environmentally friendly alternatives are available. Survey a combined key ratio, ESI (Employee Satisfaction in order to support the raising of eight orphans from the 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Environmental responsibility Index), is communicated as a generic output from each Gansu province during one year. environmental responsibility. We strive to improve environmental performance in our own operations survey. The idea of a combined key ratio is to make it simple and to promote environmental responsibility within our sphere of influto communicate and simple to set targets in terms of imAnti-Corruption ence provements from one year to another. For 2016, ESI showed Nefab’s Web academy course about Anti-corruption was 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion We support innovative developments in products and services that ofof environmentally friendly technologies. fer environmental and social benefits as well as greater environmental a result of 72 versus last year’s 71, which is an improvement. launched in 2015 and by the end of 2016, 389 employees responsibility. Nefab also measure something called eNPS (employee Net had this diploma. During 2016 the number of new diplomas Anti-corruption Anti-corruption Promoter Score) and Nefab’s consolidated score was 9 this was 119. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Nefab’s reputation of honesty, integrity and responsibility must be upheld year (in 2015 it was 7). including extortion and bribery. and any involvement in bribery, extortion or corruption is not tolerated by Nefab in any form. Nefab’s Anti-corruption policy further outlines our responsibility in this area. Consumer interests When dealing with consumers, we act in accordance with fair business, marketing and advertising practices. We also ensure that the goods or services we supply meet all agreed and legal standards. We optimize total cost and reduce environmental impact with innovative packaging and logistics solutions. With our global engineering and supply capabilities we serve customers in every corner of the world. N E FA B .CO M
