A STEP TOWARD A BETTER WORLD NATIONAL PETROCHEMICAL INDUSTRIAL COMPANY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT YEAR 2017-18 WWW.NATPET.COM 1|Page ‫سورة الحجر‬ ‫صدق هللا العظيم‬ In the name of Allah, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful And the earth We have spread out (like a carpet); set thereon mountains firm and immovable; and produced therein all kinds of things in due balance (19) And We have provided therein means of subsistence, for you and for those for whose sustenance ye are not responsible (20) And there is not a thing but its (sources and) treasures (inexhaustible) are with Us; but We only send down thereof in due and ascertainable measures (21) True are the Words of God Surah Al-Hijr 2|Page Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud King of Saudi Arabia “My first objective is for our country to be a pioneering and successful global model of excellence, on all fronts, and I will work with you to achieve that.” 3|Page His Royal Highness Prince Muhammed Bin Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud Crown Prince, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense “Our real wealth lies in the ambition of our people and the potential of our younger generation. They are our nation’s pride and the architects of our future.” 4|Page TABLE OF CONTENTS Topic Page No. MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT AND COO 6 ABOUT THIS REPORT 7 SCOPE OF THE REPORT 7 COMPANY PROFILE 7 SUSTAINABILITY VISION AND COMMITMENT 8 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 8 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 10 MATERIALITY 11 PRIORITIZATION MATRIX 12 MATERIAL TOPICS AND IMPACTS 12 BOUNDARIES OUR PRODUCTS 13 SUPPLY CHAIN 15 GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATIONS WHERE OUR 16 PRODUCTS ARE EXPORTED EXTERNAL INITIATIVES AND MEMBERSHIPS 18 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 21 WASTE MANAGEMENT 22 HEALTH AND SAFETY 22 ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY 23 EDUCATION AND TRAINING 24 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 26 RECOGNITIONS 27 CONTACT US 28 GRI CONTENT INDEX 29 5|Page MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT AND COO The way we look at responsibility and sustainability stems from an inner belief in our obligation to society, we believe that corporate entity should give back to society. Businesses are all a part of society, so we at NATPET feel an obligation and a responsibility to make things better for everyone. By acting on that, we are simply showing gratitude to the society we are living in. The legacy we want to leave is the idea that businesses and individuals have to strive to improve society. For instance, I have seen our employees engage and volunteer to clean old city and the sea bed of Jeddah. It was very exciting for me to see that our employees are motivated, without any financial reward, to participate in activities for the benefit of society. At NATPET, in terms of sustainability, we have focused on environmental issues so far because of the strength of our knowledge base in this area. However, I want to see the company expand beyond environmental challenges and embrace social and economic-related sustainability issues, we are always thinking about what else we can do. This is the legacy we want to leave to continue our responsibility to society in the best way that we can. Jamal Malaikah President and COO, NATPET 6|Page ABOUT THIS REPORT At National Petrochemical Industrial Company (NATPET) we are aiming to show our commitment to sustainability by revealing our efforts in the three sustainability pillars, in protecting the environment, improving the society and achieving the economical profit. This report is the first sustainability report for NATPET, prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. SCOPE OF THE REPORT This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option, covering the period from 1st July 2017 to 30 June 2018, unless otherwise stated. We are proud to be amongst the top in applying these standards; however, we have not sought external assurance this year for our sustainability report. COMPANY PROFILE The National Petrochemical Industrial Company (NATPET) is a Saudi Arabian company established in 1999. The headquarter is placed in Jeddah and the plant is located in Yanbu Industrial City on the west coast of Saudi Arabia having a name-plate production capacity of 400,000 MT/Year. NATPET is a Saudi Joint Stock Company and its major stockholders are Alujain, Xenel and the General Organization for Social Insurance (GOSI). NATPET is considered as a small and medium enterprise and it has around 500 employees. Our vision is to be one of the major global players in the production and marketing of designated petrochemicals and downstream, and our mission is to efficiently apply best practices and processes to be the company of preferred choice to its customers, employees, suppliers, society and investors. NATPET’s PP products, with the brand name Teldene®, are sold in more than 90 countries in the world, spanning almost all regions of the world. The sales are carried out through NATPET’s own competent Marketing and Sales division and few off-takers with defined territories. Trial runs of NATPET products have been conducted by major industry acclaimed machine builders at their respective sites, like Brückner, Starlinger, Reifenhäuser (Reicofil) and AMUT who had posted those on their list of successfully performing grades, and recommended those suitable for respective applications by the downstream converting industry. All NATPET grades have been tested to comply with the required international regulatory standards, such as FDA, EU, REACH, RoHS … etc. NATPET puts utmost emphasis on the safety and security of humans and the environment they live in, and accordingly participates in regional and international initiatives to alleviate the society on these matters. Hence, NATPET has been recognized through a host of regional and international awards and certifications offered for its endeavors towards the above. 7|Page SUSTAINABILITY VISION AND COMMITMENT At NATPET, we care about the people and our community. We believe that enhancing diversity, well-being and developing our people will improve our business. We also care about our environment and we always try to spread this idea to our employees and the outside community. In NATPET we are committed to serving our community and protecting the environment for the future generations. In addition, we are working with our customers to provide them with the best services they need. Starting with our products, we value the quality and reliability of them. Moving to the pre and after sales services where we support our customers with their needs and problems. We highly value the speed and promptness of responding to our customers in order to fulfill any quires they have. SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY The sustainability strategy of NATPET is based on the United Nations’ pillars of sustainability: People, Planet and Profit. We always seek for the balance between our corporate social responsibility, caring about the environment and achieving the economical profitability. Moreover, we take into consideration our stakeholder interests, the concerns of the society and the benefits on our core business. The business model of NATPET is centered on the principles of sustainable development. As we believe that our activities and operations can affect the environment, our stakeholders and the economical profitability. Centralizing our business model to the principles of sustainable development will guide us to perform in a sustainable way and cascade the idea of sustainability to all management levels. Employees Development: NATPET always puts its employees’ development as one of its most important priorities. Because we believe that our employees are the main factor of success in the company. So, we train and provide our employees with the proper knowledge and skills that will help them throughout their careers. In addition, we attract, recruit and develop new talents and train them to be the leaders of tomorrow. In this way the company will be sustainable in its human capital. Local Community Improvement and Interaction: The local community is very important to us. We consider developing and interacting with the society as an obligation on us. Because we are operating in this society and developing it is part of developing the company. Also, we know that our operations and activities are affecting them directly and indirectly, so it is our responsibility to be aware about their interests and to respond to their needs, in order to ensure their safety and security. We consider this healthy relationship with the society as an essential part in our sustainability strategy. 8|Page Business Continuity: At NATPET we take into account the nature, scale and complexity of our activities. We set up our operations so that in the case of a major unscheduled business interruption our critical functions can be preserved and restored as quickly as possible and the normal provision of services and activity can be resumed within a reasonable period of time. Also we believe that our profitability is achieved by making sure that our business operations are within our market conditions and its reliability is maintained. Growing our Business: Business growth is essential to be a competitive player in the global market. The global market is changing and evolving very fast. Therefore, growing our business is a must to meet the demand of our customers and to add value to them. So, we always seek for opportunities to expand our business by entering new markets, improving our contracts, diversifying our portfolio and looking for joint ventures. Protecting the Environment: It is known that the environment is facing many challenges these days. The global warming, ozone layer depletion and the increase greenhouse emissions are some examples of these challenges. We at NATPET strive to protect our environment. Because we believe that our company will not be sustainable unless we reduce our footprint. Therefore, we are improving our processes and activities in the company to consume less resources like energy, water, materials … etc and to produce less waste and emissions. Also we are accredited to Environmental Management System ISO 14001, Responsible Care management system RC 14001, which reflect the quality of our systems in terms of the environmental impact. Alignment with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): In 2015 the United Nations adopted the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as agenda for the world to be achieved by 2030. The objective of these SDGs is to make our world more sustainable, resilient, inclusive and prosperous. We at NATPET are supporting these goals and aliening our sustainability goals with them. We are spreading awareness about these goals among our employees and local community through the different awareness initiatives made by the company. We believe It is a great opportunity for us to work with the local and international communities and business in order to achieve these goals. 9|Page STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our approach in reporting sustainability starts with identifying our stakeholders. All the stakeholders who can impact and influence the company in its sustainability strategy are identified through an effective process. This process starts with brainstorming in order to make a list of all possible stakeholders of the company. Then through deeper discussions and reasoning this list is ranked based on the impact of each stakeholder on NATPET and vice versa. The stakeholders with the highest ranks and most impact will be the key stakeholders of the company. Then the suitable engagement approach and the key topics of concern for each stakeholder are identified. Following is our list of key stakeholders associated with their engagement approach and key topics of concern: Stakeholder Engagement Approach Key topics of concern Company reputation and Periodic meetings, annual 1. Shareholders recognition, profitability, and quarter reporting. costs, market situation. Satisfaction survives, Product quality, asking for their responding to complaints 2. Customers suggestions and area of and resolve them. improvement. Periodic meetings, Job security, job 3. Employees surveys, emails, periodic satisfaction, training, reporting. career development. Attending conferences, Updating laws and participating in regulations, security, 4. Government committees and advisory compliance with groups, periodic auditing. legislations. 5. External Participating in Responsible Care Organizations e.g. conferences, membership management, innovation, GPCA in committees. supply chain. Protecting the CSR programs, awareness environment, minimizing 6. Local Community programs, site visits to the the footprint of the plant. company. Periodic workshops and Service pricing, product 7. Suppliers and discussions, receiving and service quality, contractors feedbacks, frequent strategic partnership. communications. 10 | P a g e Stakeholder Engagement Approach Key topics of concern Periodic discussions, Health and safety, frequent communications, reliability, service quality. 8. Distributors contracts and negotiations. Financing, loan paying Periodic meetings and 9. Banks scheduling, reputation of communications. the company. 10. Academic and NonResearch partnership and Scientific researches and Profit Organizations internship programs. students training. Transparency and Responding to media disclosure, enhancing questions and interviews, 11. Media company’s reputation, press releases, inviting to sharing achievements and conferences and events. best practices. MATERIALITY A material topic reflects a reporting organization’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts; or that substantively influences the assessments and decisions of stakeholders. To identify the material topics, NATPET engages its stakeholders in interviews and deep discussions to listen and benefit from everyone. These discussions are a great way to know the opinion of everyone about the topics that the company should consider as material topics. After hearing from everyone a prioritization matrix is used to identify the key material topics. Following is our list of material topics: 1. Health and safety. 9. Waste management. 2. Customer satisfaction. 10. Business continuity. 3. Product quality. 11. Anti-corruption. 4. Financial performance. 12. Corporate governance. 5. Education and training. 13. Competitive workforce. 6. Protecting the environment. 14. Sustainability. 7. Corporate social responsibility. 15. Reputation. 8. Energy consumption. 16. Raw materials & resources. 11 | P a g e PRIORITIZATION MATRIX MATERIAL TOPICS AND IMPACTS BOUNDARIES Impact Location Material Topics Inside Outside Health and safety.  Customer satisfaction.  Product quality.  Financial performance.  Education and training.  Protecting the environment.  Corporate social responsibility.  Energy consumption.  Waste management.  Business continuity.  Anti-corruption.  Corporate governance.  Competitive workforce.  Sustainability.   Reputation.  Raw materials & resources.  12 | P a g e OUR PRODUCTS Homopolymer Grade name Application Teldene® H03ML Injection Molding for house wares, toys, small appliance parts, Raffia and automotive compounding. Teldene® H03BPM Extrusion BOPP films at high speed for packaging, thermoforming, raffia and automotive compounding. Teldene® H03BPMP Extrusion BOPP films at very high speed with excellent process ability, thermoforming, raffia and automotive compounding. Teldene® H03TF In-line and off-line thermoforming for fruit baskets, trays, transparent drinking cups and containers. Teldene® H06ML Injection Molding for consumer goods such as food containers, house wares, toys and garden furniture. Also, components for appliances and parts for the automotive industry. Teldene® H08ML Injection Molding for consumer goods such as food containers, house wares, toys and garden furniture. Also, components for appliances and parts for the automotive industry. Teldene® H08CFM Extrusion for transparent cast film, shopping bags production. Engaged for packing film of snacks, pasta, bakery items, books, blankets, hosiery, shirts, lamination, automotive compounding. Teldene® H11BF Extrusion blown film for Food packaging, textile packaging film, packaging for hosiery, shirts, shopping bags and straws. Teldene® H12ML Injection Molding for production of furniture, crates, containers, caps and closures and general purpose injection molding articles. Teldene® H17ML Injection Molding for thin-walled articles, containers, boxes, caps & closures, household articles and toys, and components of compounding applications. Teldene® H25FBA Extrusion of fibers bulk continuous filaments (BCF) and continuous filaments (CF) such as carpet and upholstery. Also, staple fiber and nonwoven. Teldene® H26ML Injection Molding for thin-walled articles, containers, toys, vacuum flasks, household and kitchen articles, components of compounding and master batches application, and suitable for Lamination application. 13 | P a g e Random Copolymer Grade name Application Teldene® R25MLT Suitable for thin walled injection molding (TWIM) applications such as house wares, thin walled articles for food and non-food applications, video cassette cases, caps and lids, sports, leisure & toys and component parts for automotive industry. Teldene® R40MLT Suitable for high clarity injection molding and Injection-Stretch Blow Molding (ISBM) applications such as housewares and cosmetic packaging, food and non-food applications, CD cases and caps & closures and component parts for automotive industry. Medical Grades Grade name Application Teldene® H12ML-MG Injection Molding for Healthcare application such as sample containers, caps & closures, equipment parts. Teldene® R25MLT-MG Injection Molding for Healthcare application such as transparent syringes, sample containers, lab wares, and equipment parts. Teldene® R40MLT-MG Injection Molding for Healthcare application such as highly transparent syringes, pipettes, jars for lab wares. Also, vials, medicine containers and equipment parts. Heterophasic Copolymer Grade name Application Teldene® B07ML Injection Molding for products requiring a good resistance to long term heat exposure such as battery cases, automotive components and large containers and automotive compounding applications. Teldene® B20ML Injection Molding for toys, furniture, sport goods, leisure goods, Housewares, TWIM food containers, medium to Large pails, photovoltaic panel and automotive compounding application. 14 | P a g e SUPPLY CHAIN NATPET gets its feedstock from Aramco and Yanpet which provide Propane and Ethylene gases. Then through the technology licensed by lyondellbasell, NATPET produces wide range of polypropylene grades as mentioned before and distributed to more than 90 countries around the world namely in the countries of:  Europe.  Africa.  Latin America.  Middle East.  China.  Southeast Asia. Our supply chain is summarized in this diagram: Ethylene 400,000 MT Propene Polypropylene NATPET Complex Propane 15 | P a g e GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATIONS WHERE OUR PRODUCTS ARE EXPORTED Latin America Asia 16 | P a g e Middle East and North Africa Europe 17 | P a g e EXTERNAL INITIATIVES AND MEMBERSHIPS NATPET is actively participating in initiatives and events organized by itself or with its partners for the benefit of the community. Some of these initiatives are highlighted below:  Waste Free Environment Day 2018: WFE activities was initiated at school level and run almost a month, the closing ceremony was on the 25th of February 2018. The core of WFE is to promote recycling and to raise awareness on responsible litter disposal. The campaign focuses on changing people’s attitude toward litter disposal and raises the need for communities to respond to environmental issues. WFE focuses on the 3 R’s: Reduce, Reuse and Recycle. o KPI’s for 2018:  Regional KPI’s to increase participation by 10%.  To focus on educational component of campaign.  To extend to more locations and cities (in the case of NATPET, Jeddah will be a new city).  To extend the campaign to 1 new international location through affiliate offices.  Join hands with recycling partners and NGO’s.  Each city/campaign to develop competitions.  Guinness World Record: The largest flag unfurled underwater was achieved by ARC Ataa Alresalah in association with Coach Rebhi Skaik in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia on 29 th September, 2017. 18 | P a g e  Sponsorship and distribution of film on CD called, ‘two drops of oil’. A fun and informative tale of how two oil drops live two different lives. One as energy to heat our homes and the other as plastic. Discover the lifecycle of a plastic product from oil drop to recycling and then back to energy.  NATPET Environment Section initiated painting competition and involved age groups 5 to 18 years to create awareness about pressing environmental issues as children are often best messengers for any cause. The theme was “Clean & Green Environment”. 19 | P a g e  Specialized Knowledge at College Level: NATPET qualified volunteers are involved in sharing their best practices and experience at college level to geared up the young student with latest knowledge. E.g. NATPET volunteer from Logistics delivered twelve classes during last one and half years on the following topics at INMA Kingdom Training & Development Center: o Supply Chain Management & Planning. o Advance Communication Skills. o Warehouse Management. o Safety & Loss Prevention. o Basic Supervisory Skills. o Industrial Pollution: Ways of Reduction.  Developing Safety Culture at College Level (Yanbu). The Management has decided to improve and develop the safety culture in future workforce, hence decided to provide safety training at Industrial College Yanbu through word safety professionals EPC. NATPET also is a member in many organizations, communities and associations. The following are some examples of these memberships:  Member of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA).  Member of the American Society of Safety Engineers (ASSE).  Member of the Royal Society of Prevention of Accident (ROSPA).  Member of Responsible Care.  Member of the Gulf Petrochemical and Chemicals Association (GPCA).  Member of the Official ICC CEO G20 Advisory Group. OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH At NATPET we discuss, monitor and evaluate the economic, environmental and social issues through regular meetings involving our employees, the management and the Board. As with our risk management approach, we apply precautionary principle when making decisions that may cause serious or irreversible damages. At NATPET we have whistle-blowing procedure that encourages employees to raise their concerns under this procedure in the first instance. If a worker is not sure whether or not to raise a concern, he/she should discuss the issue with his/her line manager or the HR department. Negative feedback or grievances from our employees are always welcomed as they provide us with precious opportunities to improve work environment and facilitate fair settlement. 20 | P a g e CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NATPET believes that good corporate governance is a critical factor in achieving business success. The findings of internal and external audits are reported to and discussed by the Audit Committee. Internal auditors monitor the quality of the business controls through risk-based operational audits. As part of the Business Control Frame work, NATPET have implemented set of standards for internal controls. 21 | P a g e WASTE MANAGEMENT NATPET pollution reduction programs help in managing environmental responsibilities, comply with the applicable local/ Royal Commission, improved material and energy utilization in addition to reducing wastes and releases. The engineering and technical experts of the NATPET contribute in the way of proposing new materials, equipment modification, recycle/reuse of waste. NATPET has initiated major project on converting a Hazardous industrial waste as raw material to other industries e.g., research on transforming NaHS a hazardous waste to become an active agent for the leather industry. NATPET Environment section organizes environmental awareness and excellence competition in primary schools of RC, Yanbu in collaboration with the local environmental regulatory authority, Royal Commission Environment Control Department at Yanbu and RC primary education department. Environmental Major Milestones:  Zero violation of local & national Environmental Regulation.  100% compliance to set parameter for wastewater discharge to MARAFIQ IWTP.  No Groundwater contamination as per groundwater sampling report.  Continuous Emission Monitoring of stack Emissions.  NOx and SOx emissions from stacks far less than RC limit.  No incident of leakage for radioactive sources.  RC 14001:2015 valid certification and accredited with ANAB by ABS-QE, USA.  ISO 14001:2015 valid certification and recognition for RCMS by GPCA. HEALTH AND SAFETY Health and safety is one of our most important material topics. We give this topic the most of our focus and intention. We believe that employers are only truly sustainable when they ensure the safety, health and welfare of their workers. NATPET’s leadership commitment to Safety, Health and Environment is built on a genuine belief that profitability and creating shareholder value is equal to the company’s social responsibilities and commitment to health, safety and protection of the environment. NATPET has acquired the certification of OHSAS 1800:2007 Occupational health and safety which ensure that we apply an effective safety management system, which can be integrated with other management systems and help us to achieve better occupational health, safety performance and economic objectives. 22 | P a g e NATPET had received and granted a prestigious 2017 GOLD AWARD in Occupational Health and Safety from The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA). This shows that we had been demonstrating a socially responsible attitude among our employees which leads to developing a strong safety culture and enhanced safety performance in the entire plant. The Health and safety performance of NATPET in 2017 continues to be the high with much more achievements. The year was completed with Zero Lost Time Incident, and Zero Recordable Incidents, hence continue the earlier achievement of Zero Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) in 2017 also, on the journey towards Zero Harm Culture. HSE Performance – 2017-18: ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY At NATPET, we utilize existing resources optimally so that a responsible and beneficial balance can be achieved by using the assorted assets of the company efficiently to allow it to continue functioning profitability over time. 23 | P a g e Eco-profiles for Polyolefins in the GCC: The study was performed with the help of GPCA aiming the compilation of an Eco-profile for PP produced by NATPET. Eco-profiles assess the environmental impacts along the production chain from cradle-to-gate . This means that all relevant processes for polyolefin production from oil and gas extraction and processing, steam cracking, and polymerization are included in this analysis. Furthermore, generation of electric and thermal energy as well as the supply of auxiliary materials and transport processes were considered. As one of the goals of this study was to compare the results to Eco-Profiles published by the European Association of Plastics Manufacturers (Plastics Europe), care was taken to use the same methods and the same assumptions, where applicable. As a result, we can consider the results highly comparable with European Eco-profiles. The present study was conducted according the ISO 14044:2006 standard for life cycle assessment (LCA). Reduction in Greenhouse Gas Emissions: The project was performed by Balderrie Energies GmbH targeted the potential to reduce greenhouse gases at NATPET and for establishing an internationally recognized project that would have multiple benefits besides CO2 reduction. The study was targeted to be also an exercise for NATPET management and engineers to see their operations from the angle of energy management and to take direct and indirect economic benefits into consideration. NATPET policy continues to focus on:  Continuing to reduce the impact of our operations through our Green Manufacturing 2016 program, focusing on CO2 emissions, water, waste and restricted and hazardous substances.  Continuing our EcoDesign activities, resulting in Green Products.  NATPET Lab Participated in ASTM-PTP (2015-2016) Lab Got 20 Excellent (< 1 σ) and 6 Very Good (< 2 σ). EDUCATION AND TRAINING At NATPET we strive to recognize and support the staff and community by being sensitive and culturally aware. We also strive to balance competence in the technical aspects of our work with sensitivity to the individual needs and situations of staff, keeping the bigger picture in mind as we administer the details. 24 | P a g e  Our vision is to equip NATPET employees with the best training to meet Company Targets/Goals.  Our mission is to help NATPET employee be the best among the leading competitors in PP industries. NATPET invests in skills to prepare economies and labor markets for the demand and changes of increased global competition. NATPET also offers training opportunities and create learning potential and became learning organization in which workers have the opportunity to develop professional and social competences through peer learning. Our investments in training have a positive and significant impact on NATPET economic performance indicators. Training Programs for Continuous Development:  Language Training (English Improvement).  Management & Communication Training (Soft Skills).  Technical Training (Specialized Vendor Training).  Academic Training (College Placement, Co-Op College students & High School -Summer Students).  On the job trainees (OJT), and professional development programs (PDPs) training, train the trainer & Orientation.  Safety Training (HSE & F Department).  Courses, Conferences, Seminars and Self-study. Training Procedures & Methodology: A. Training and Documentation  Theory and Hands-on Training Documented by Task Certificates recorded in Training Manuals by Mentor, Supervisor and Training Manager. B. Training Manuals:  Ten (10) Training Manuals were designed, documented and executed on: o Plant Operation. o Maintenance. o Laboratory Technician. o Logistics Administrative Assistance. C. English Improvement (In house Training) is offered as per skill test conducted. D. Training out source.  In house and External training is offered as per TNA to all employees. E. On Job Training is offered to College and High School Students. 25 | P a g e Benefits of investing in training:  Enhancing employee’s competencies.  Increase and Improve: o Quality of People. o Quality of Products. o Productivity: Achieved Targeted Plans. o Cost: Eliminate/Reduce Equipment Failure and Downtime. o Material Flow: Eliminate Spare Parts Shortage/Over Stocking. o Safety: Safe Working Environment, Procedures and Process. o Man Power: Control Turnover/Successful Succession Plan. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The World Business Council for Sustainable Development defines Corporate Social Responsibility (commonly referred to as CSR) as “the continuing commitment by business to behave ethically and contribute to economic development while improving the quality of life of the workforce and their families as well as of the local community and society at large”. We at NATPET, in parallel to our daily business focus on customers and markets, we also continue to encourage our people to engage with their immediate wider community. As part of our commitment to sustainability, NATPET supports volunteer activities as a way of giving back to our communities. Employee volunteering embraces NATPET’ mission to improve people’s lives not only through our philanthropic activities, but also through our employees and our shared belief that each of us can touch the lives of those around us, making our world a better place. NATPET employees are the key enabler for making a difference, both within the company and to the lives of people, we touch with our meaningful initiatives and community programs. Through the Accelerate! program, NATPET is addressing structural change, focusing on execution, reducing overhead costs, investing in growth – and adopting a new company culture. This cultural shift is being driven by a new set of behaviors designed to help us unlock our full potential – Eager to win, take ownership and Team up to excel. A key initiative in this respect is our schools program. NATPET employees (Jeddah Proactive team) have volunteered to upgrade lighting in local schools and educate the children on energy efficiency and best use of environment, but the program goes much further. The Human Capital (HC) Plan establishes a framework of policies and practices that will guide our efforts in meeting these workforce needs. It contains interdependent improvement goals and action strategies that will transform how we assess, plan for, and respond proactively to our human capital challenges and needs. NATPET invests in skills to prepare economies and labor markets for the demands and 26 | P a g e changes of increased global competition. NATPET is working to develop locals and releasing them in local market as talented workforce, for this reason NATPET is engaged in various programs do develop the workforce. At NATPET our responsibility never completed until we assure the donations and charities are utilized effectively, our philosophy to invest in the community either donation or sponsorship. Contribution to School. Donations: Year Funds Allocated 2016-17 SAR 1.2 Million 2017-18 SAR 1.4 Million 2018-19 Budgeted SAR 1.8 Million Also we have a project with Al Nabta, local NGO for spreading Environmental awareness in community schools at Jeddah. “Story of Waste” designed to spread awareness among students on how and why they should recycle and safe the environment. This program targets intermediate and secondary school students (both genders). In addition, we have academia collaboration with KFUPM. In continuation to our activities of academia collaboration, NATPET has close coordination with Center of Excellence in Petroleum Refining and Petrochemicals (CRP), KFUPM. Moreover, we are sponsoring best students from top universities in international forums “GPCA – Responsible Care Conformance, UAE”. RECOGNITIONS  NATPET Stood 1st Position in King Khalid Award RCI – 2014.  NATPETWon Arabia CSR Award.  Amongst top in GPCA Responsible Care Award. o The GPCA Responsible Care® Awards have been developed to recognize and share the experiences of the companies and individuals that have exemplified leadership and outstanding performance based on the implementation and execution of the Responsible Care program. NATPET has been nominated for the following Categories:  “Best Responsible Care® Champion”  “Best Responsible Care® Project” 27 | P a g e  EBA Best Enterprise Award.  The BIZZ Award.  CFI-UK Oil & Gas Award.  Value Chain Leadership Award.  Marafiq Sustainability Award.  Best Saudi Company to work for. CONTACT US Please send comments or questions about this report to: National Petrochemical Industrial Company (NATPET) P.O.Box 4459 Jeddah 21491 Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 8th Floor, Future Business Center, Amanah Street Phone: +966 (12) 604 8600 Fax: +966 (12) 652 9379 Email: info@natpet.com 28 | P a g e GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page number GRI: Foundation 2016 [GRI 101 does not include any disclosures] 102-1 Name of the organization 7 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 7, 13, 14 102-3 Location of headquarters 7 102-4 Location of operations 7 102-5 Ownership and legal form 7 102-6 Markets served 15, 16, 17 102-7 Scale of the organization 7 102-8 Information on employees and other 7 workers 102-9 Supply chain 15 102-10 Significant changes to the organization No changes and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 20 102-12 External initiatives 18, 19, 20 102-13 Membership of associations 20 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 8, 9 of behavior GRI 102: General 102-18 Governance structure 21 Disclosures 2016 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 10, 11 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements NA 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 10 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 10, 11 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 10, 11 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 7 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic 7, 12 boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 11 102-48 Restatements of information No restatement No changes as 102-49 Changes in reporting this report is the first GRI report 102-50 Reporting period 7 This report is the 102-51 Date of most recent report first GRI report 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 29 | P a g e GRI Standard Disclosure Page number 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding 28 the report GRI 102: General 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 7 Disclosures 2016 the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 29, 30 102-56 External assurance 7 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22 boundaries “Waste Management” 103-2 The management approach and its 22 Components “Waste Management” 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22 “Waste Management” 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22 boundaries “Health and Safety” 103-2 The management approach and its 22 Components “Health and Safety” 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23 “Health and Safety” 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23 boundaries “Economic Sustainability” GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its 24 Approach 2016 Components “Economic Sustainability” 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24 “Economic Sustainability” 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 24 boundaries “Education and Training” 103-2 The management approach and its 25 Components “Education and Training” 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26 “Education and Training” 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 26 boundaries “Corporate Social Responsibility” 103-2 The management approach and its 26 Components “Corporate Social Responsibility” 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 27 “Corporate Social Responsibility” 30 | P a g e A STEP TOWARD A BETTER WORLD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-18 NATIONAL PETROCHEMICAL INDUSTRIAL COMPANY (NATPET) WWW.NATPET.COM 31 | P a g e
