Editing Policy ITOCHU Corporation’s Perspectives on Disclosure of Sustainability-related Sustainability Information ITOCHU Corporation believes that responding to the expectation of society To make information on ITOCHU's sustainability initiatives widely accessible, through business activities keeps our Sustainability and further growth. This information is disclosed through the following media. report presents our initiatives for promotion of Sustainability. Corporate Website Sustainability Pages Referenced Guidelines Information is disclosed regarding ITOCHU Corporation's GRI Standards 2016 issued by Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) sustainability activities in a format that provides detailed Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 version) issued by the Ministry of the coverage across a wide range of themes. Moreover, information on activities conducted during the current year is disseminated Environment of Japan on a timely basis. ISO 26000 (Guidance on social responsibility) www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/ A side-by-side comparison of GRI Standards and the UN Global Compact can be found at: www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/report/gri/ Reporting Period Sustainability Report Wide-ranging information covered in detail on the website Sustainability This report principally covers actual data for the fiscal year beginning on April 1, pages is published in PDF format as an annual Sustainability Report. 2017, and ended on March 31, 2018 (FY2018). The reports provide an ongoing perspective of ITOCHU’s sustainability However, some of the most recent information on our activities and initiatives activities. are also included. www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/report/ Publication Information Publication: September 2018 Next publication (scheduled): September 2019 Annual Report Previous publication: September 2017 Aimed at investors and other stakeholders, we provide particularly important reporting on ITOCHU's Sustainability activities, along with information such as management results and future growth Reporting Boundary strategies, in a comprehensive manner from a perspective based on the characteristics of the business activities of a sogo shosha. This report covers ITOCHU Corporation (9 domestic offices and 99 overseas offices) and its major group companies. www.itochu.co.jp/en/ir/ Corporate Profile From the cover Company name ITOCHU Corporation Power outages occur frequently in Founded 1858 Sumatra, Indonesia. Incorporated December 1, 1949 ITOCHU has been involved in one of Headquarters Tokyo: 5-1, Kita-Aoyama 2-chome, Minato-ku, the world's largest geothermal power Tokyo 107-8077, Japan projects in Indonesia's Sarulla region Osaka: 1-3, Umeda 3-chome, Kita-ku, in North Sumatra, and construction Osaka 530-8448, Japan was completed in May 2018. President & CEO Masahiro Okafuji Geothermal power is an extremely Common Stock ¥253,448 million stable renewable energy source, and the total output of the three generators is 330 megawatts. Number of offices Domestic offices 9 This initiative to provide electric light to neighboring villages after dark will lead Overseas offices 99 to improvement in living standards in the region and is linked to ITOCHU's Number of employees* Consolidated 102,086 Non-consolidated 4,285 mission Committed to the Global Good which involves building sustainable (As of March 31, 2018) societies through business activities. * The number of consolidated employees is based on actual working employees excluding temporary staff. Inquiries ITOCHU Corporation Sustainability Management Department Tel: +81-3-3497-4069 Fax: +81-3-3497-7547 E-mail: csr@itochu.co.jp Tokyo Headquarters Osaka Headquarters (North Gate Building) 1 Contents 1 Editing Policy / Corporate Profile / Contents Our Initiatives for Environment 59 Environmental Activities Policies Top Commitment 60 Environmental Management 3 Chairman & CEO 63 Precautionary Approach to Environmental Risks 4 President & COO 64 Promotion of Environment Conserving Businesses 67 Approaches to Conservation of Biodiversity 5 Message from Chief Administrative & Information Officer 71 Environmental Education and Awareness 72 Environmental Performance Data Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation 79 Environmental Accounting 7 ITOCHU Group Corporate Message 80 Initiatives toward Environmental Distribution 8 Sampo Yoshi and ITOCHU Sustainability 10 Basic Policy on Sustainability Employee Relations 12 Material Sustainability Issues 82 Human Resource Development and Training Supporting the Seeking of New Opportunities 18 Sustainability Promotion System 88 Creating Environments that Bring Out the Best in Employees 22 Stakeholder Relations 97 Introduction of Morning-Focused Working System 24 Sustainability Advisory Board 98 Initiatives Aimed at Occupational Health and Safety and Health and 25 Respect for Human Rights Productivity Management that Support the Activity of Employees 30 Penetration of Sustainability at ITOCHU 103 Labor Union and Employee Welfare 32 The United Nations Global Compact 107 Sustainability Action Plan for Human Resources and General Affairs Sustainability and Our Business 109 Employee Data 33 Textile Company 35 Machinery Company Corporate Governance and Internal Control / Compliance 37 Metals & Minerals Company 112 Corporate Governance and Internal Control 39 Energy & Chemicals Company 116 Compliance 42 Food Company 46 General Products & Realty Company 122 Evaluation by Society 49 ICT & Financial Business Company 124 Independent Assurance Report Sustainability in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment 51 Supply Chain Management 56 Business Investment Management 57 Product-by-Product Approaches to Sustainable Procurement 2 Top Commitment Chairman & CEO Sustainable growth through a reinvented sampo yoshi approach With a rich history spanning over 160 years, ITOCHU I believe that through these activities we will create is excited to create a brighter future founded on the future and display social leadership and that innovation. Passed down from generation to this is reinvented sampo yoshi. By combining generation since our founding, the ITOCHU spirit of material sustainability issues that look ahead to 2030 sampo yoshi (Good for the seller, Good for the buyer, and 2050 with the theme of reinvention that is and Good for society) needs to adapt to world's central to the Brand-new Deal 2020, ITOCHU aims to rapidly changing business environment and to evolve achieve sustainable growth through reinvented into reinvented sampo yoshi. Besides being the best sampo yoshi. global partner playing an integral role in supporting prosperous lifestyles, we need to try to reinvent our earn, cut, prevent principles by utilizing new technologies to evolve and advance our business model. We also need to reinvent working styles for Masahiro Okafuji higher productivity through steps to ensure our Member of the Board employees feel motivated and improve their health. Chairman & Chief Executive Officer 3 Top Commitment President & COO Rising to the challenge of reinvention ITOCHU Corporation has developed new businesses challenges, achieving sustainable growth as a and expanded its operations, always trying to stay a reinvented company, while integrating ESG step ahead of the times without fearing failure. considerations into its business activities, focusing However, the world is changing at dizzying speed on seven newly identified material sustainability amid technological breakthroughs such as the IoT issues in its main business, and returning the fruits and AI, collectively dubbed the Fourth Industrial of these endeavors to its stakeholders, society and Revolution. ITOCHU needs to embark on the employees. reinvention of its business with a sense of urgency. At the same time, we live in an age where the ESG (environmental, social and governance) approach is becoming more widely adopted. A number of our existing businesses will probably no longer be able to survive in the future and we need to consider Yoshihisa Suzuki business initiatives from an ESG perspective. In this Member of the Board environment, ITOCHU will continue to rise to new President & Chief Operating Officer 4 The sampo yoshi approach that has carved a 160-year history —We will pursue the highest level of productivity in the sector through the adoption of a Human Resources Strategy as a management policy. ITOCHU is a company, which for 160 years, ever since its founding by founder Chubei Itoh, an Ohmi merchant, has developed business while carrying on the spirit of sampo yoshi. In addition to this, a Human Resources Strategy to ensure that individuals perform at their full potential is essential, and this idea is also encapsulated in the corporate message I am one with infinite missions. In recent years, with a small group of capable talent, ITOCHU has been involved in cutthroat competition with other companies, and the importance of the Human Resources Strategy has, therefore, increased still further. ITOCHU's pioneering workstyle reforms, such as the morning-focused working system, have had a significant impact on Japanese society, including the government. The focus of these reforms is the pursuit of productivity. We moved beyond streamlining operations to freeing up time by eliminating waste for customer service and devised a strategic package of measures to increase employee motivation, develop skills, support active participation by diverse human resources, and improve health. For example, the aim of the Support Measure for Balancing Cancer Care and Work introduced in FY2018 in accordance with ITOCHU Health Charter is to achieve a work environment in which every employee fighting cancer can continue working without concern while maintaining motivation and challenging work, thus ensuring that individuals and organizations perform at their full potential. The health of individual employees underpins a company and enables employees to do good work and business and achieve good returns and this is again in the interests of all stakeholders. At the same time, I believe that, through our employees' fulfilment of infinite missions via our main business, we will be able to fulfil our responsibilities for achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG's). Under the new Medium-Term Management Plan Brand-new Deal 2020, we will pursue the highest level of productivity in the industry by implementing various measures that only ITOCHU can implement and promoting reinvented workstyle reforms based on the plan's basic policies of Smart Management and No. 1 Health Management Company. 5 Message from Chief Administrative & Information Officer Reinvented sustainability —We will help solve social issues though our main business, grounded in the sampo yoshi spirit. Itinerant trading is business that only Ohmi merchants could do, consisting of going to lands far away from the Ohmi region and negotiating with only a sample of cloth and delivering the goods afterwards. The sampo yoshi spirit developed by the Ohmi merchants as they gained the confidence and trust of sellers, buyers and the regions they traded with is also still alive today as a management philosophy that values not only the company's own profit but also business partners, employees, shareholders and various other stakeholders. To demonstrate our intent to honor this approach to the international society, since 2009 we have participated in the UN Global Compact. In April 2018, we formulated a Basic Policy on Promotion of Sustainability as a direction for initiatives based on the ESG perspective and the sampo yoshi spirit. ITOCHU's groupwide sustainability promotion measures are planned by the Sustainability Promotion Department and decided by the Chief Administrative & Information Officer as Chief Officers, before being implemented by each organization in Japan and overseas. The formulation of policies and important matters are discussed and determined by the Sustainability Committee, which is an important internal committee. In addition to the role of chairing the committee, the Sustainability Committee Chairperson attends board meetings, and the HMC and Investment Consultative Committee, and the status of major activities to promote sustainability are reported to board meetings in the form of regular reports and, through this and other measures, impacts on the environment and society are also taken into consideration in the decision-making process. By regularly seeking dialogue with stakeholders inside and outside the company, including the Advisory Board, we grasp society's expectations and demands of us and use these in the promotion of sustainability. We also recently appointed an ESG officer to each company and function and put in place a framework for contributing to the realization of a sustainable society through our main business. Revision of Material Issues Since ITOCHU identified material issues based on CSR for the first time in 2013, the company has regularly reviewed the issues in light of trends in international society and expectations of its stakeholders. We took the launch of the latest Medium-Term Management Plan as an opportunity to identify seven new material issues, taking into consideration the adoption of SDGs, the entry into force of the Paris Agreement and the ESG perspective. Each company will formulate targets and performance indicators corresponding to issues, further strengthen initiatives through their business, and conduct business activities based on an awareness of contributing to the SDGs. We would then like us to translate this into sustainable growth though a reinvented sampo yoshi approach, which is our aim under the Brand-new Deal 2020. Fumihiko Kobayashi Member of the Board Senior Managing Executive Officer Chief Administrative & Information Officer 6 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation ITOCHU Corporation is pursuing multi-facetted corporate activities in various regions of the world and a wide range of fields, and as such, we strongly believe that responding to the expectation of society through business activities keeps our sustainability and further growth. We believe that corporate social responsibility (CSR) lies in corporate thought and action on the question of how to play a role in building sustainable societies through business activities. We also believe that our mission is to fulfill our Corporate Social Responsibility as a global enterprise, always working from the viewpoint of whether we are contributing to the countries of the world and to society. ITOCHU Group Corporate Message ITOCHU founder Chubei Itoh first launched a wholesale linen business in 1858. For more than 150 years since, ITOCHU has passed down the spirit of sampo yoshi (good for the buyer, seller and society), a management philosophy embraced by Ohmi merchants that is the source of its sustainability thinking today. After considering ways to demonstrate its commitment to society as an international corporation and to put this commitment into practice, in 1992 ITOCHU formulated Committed to the Global Good as a corporate philosophy. The conceptual framework for this philosophy was reorganized in 2009. In order for all employees to properly understand the responsibility that the ITOCHU Group is charged with fulfilling for society and to make this philosophy an integral part of actions everyday, its core element, Committed to the Global Good, was set as the ITOCHU Mission for the entire ITOCHU Group. Accompanying this is a new set of five values, called the ITOCHU Values, considered vital for enabling each employee to fulfill their role in realizing the ITOCHU Mission. To embed the ITOCHU Values, ITOCHU has formulated 5 self-tests that employees can refer to in order to determine that the five values are present in their actions. In June 2014, we formulated our corporate message, I am One with Infinite Missions, which clarifies our corporate philosophy of Committed to the Global Good and is a promise to society that we will fulfill our responsibilities. The Corporate Message incorporates our promise to society, that we will continue to provide the abundance that results from business activities, and it also incorporates diverse aspects typical to ITOCHU, such as the rich personalities of our employees, our free spirited corporate culture, and individual capabilities. In this way, the Corporate Message expresses the values that must be shared by all employees as we take on further challenges. Mistake me not for just any ordinary person. I am one with countless missions. My workplace is the entire world. I engage in business across borders, touching people's lives and creating new lifestyles. Through my business, I bring about a brighter tomorrow for all around me. I dedicate myself to our common future, mindful of my responsibility to promote the prosperity of all earthly beings. In the end, I believe this leads to my own betterment. I am Itochu, with infinite missions around the world. 7 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Sampo Yoshi and ITOCHU Sustainability Basic Perspective on Sustainability at ITOCHU ITOCHU Corporation strongly believes that responding to the expectation of society through business activities keeps our sustainability and further growth. We also believe that corporate social responsibility (CSR) is to think about how corporations can play a role, in order to achieve sustainable society through business activities. This concept ties into our management philosophy of sampo yoshi, which was the foundation of our founder, Chubei Itoh, to build his business. We believe that Itoh Itomise thread our mission is to understand diverse values as a global enterprise, meet the and yarn store at the expectations of the society, and continue to be a corporation that is needed by the time of its opening in society. 1893 Our Founder Chubei Itoh and Sampo Yoshi The foundation of ITOCHU Corporation traces back to 1858, the year in which Chubei Itoh set out from Toyosato Village, in Shiga Prefecture, to Nagasaki as a traveling linen merchant. The base of Chubei Itoh's business was the spirit of sampo yoshi, which was a management philosophy of merchants in Ohmi, a province where he was born. The philosophy started in the shogunate era. Due to the merchants' contributions to the society, they were permitted to promote Our founder Ohmi merchants business activities in the region. Since then, not only good for the seller Chubei Itoh (courtesy of and the buyer, but also for the society became the management (1842 1903) Museum of Ohmi philosophy. This can be said to be the roots of today's idea of Merchant) sustainability, which requires corporations to balance their business activities with the interests of a variety of stakeholders. That spirit is evident in Chubei Itoh's personal motto, Trade is a compassionate business. It is noble when it accords with the spirit of Buddha by profiting those who sell and those who buy and supplying the needs of the society. The Roots of a Management Philosophy Inherited Since the Foundation Our founder Chubei Itoh established a store law in 1872, and adopted a meeting system. The store law was a set of house rules covering what in modern parlance called management philosophy, a human resources system and employment regulations, which subsequently became the foundation of ITOCHU Corporation's management philosophy. Emphasizing communication with employees, Chubei Itoh chaired meetings himself. Moreover, he incorporated a series of what were at the time groundbreaking management systems, including the codification of sharing of profit by three parties (*) and western bookkeeping methods. Those initiatives built the foundations of mutual trust between the store owner and the employees. Since that A daifukucho ledger era, we have based our corporate management on sustainability. from the time of ITOCHU's founding * Sharing of profit by three parties: In a predominately feudal era, this was an extremely progressive philosophy of sharing profits with employees. The store's net profit was divided among three parties: the store owner, the store's reserve fund, and store employees. 8 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation 150 Years of History and Sustainability In 2008, ITOCHU Corporation marked its 150th anniversary. Why were we able to keep developing for such a long period of time? We believe that it is because we have put into practice the spirit of sampo yoshi for 150 years, which is the root of sustainability. At the same time, as the business environment has changed with the times, we have established a corporate culture that anticipates changes and turns it into The headquarters with modern opportunities. amenities built in 1915 Since the foundation, ITOCHU Corporation has consistently thrived despite the turmoil it has faced in different eras, including two world wars and economic volatility. Starting as a trading company mainly handling textiles, we have fulfilled the role of a trading company that has responsively changed according to the demands of each generation. Furthermore, while significantly changing its products and business portfolios, we have expanded our sphere of influence from upstream raw materials to downstream consumer sales. ITOCHU Corporation has evolved into a general trading company, and from there into a globally integrated corporation. We are convinced that our history has continued for more than 150 years because we have surely upheld and passed on the spirit of sampo yoshi while remaining an essential component of society by responding to changes, in its expectations in different eras. 9 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Basic Policy on Sustainability Sustainability Promotion at ITOCHU Corporation ITOCHU Corporation believes in the importance of fulfilling its social responsibilities through the continuous enhancement of sustainable corporate value with its core business, in accordance with the ITOCHU Mission Committed to the Global Good, in the spirit of Sampo Yoshi (good for the buyer, good for the seller, and good for society), the management philosophy of merchants in the province of Ohmi that has been embraced by the company for over 160 years since its founding in 1858. The corporate message I am One with Infinite Missions expresses the intention contained in the corporate philosophy Committed to the Global Good. In order to promote sustainability over the medium to long terms, ITOCHU Corporation developed a direction for the promotion of sustainability as the Basic Policy on Promotion of Sustainability based on the spirit of the original management philosophy Sampo Yoshi, by integrating and consolidating existing Basic Policies for CSR Promotion and Environmental Policy from an ESG perspective. The Basic Policy on Promotion of Sustainability is as follows: Basic Policy on Promotion of Sustainability ［Ⅰ］Basic Philosophy ITOCHU Group, conducting business globally under the spirit of Sampo Yoshi, the management philosophy of merchants in the province of Ohmi, considers that addressing global environmental and social issues is one of the top priority issues in its management policy. We contribute to the realization of a sustainable society based on the ITOCHU Group Code of Conduct, in order to achieve the goals of The ITOCHU Group Corporate Philosophy, Committed to the Global Good. ［Ⅱ］Activity Guidelines In keeping with the basic philosophy presented above, ITOCHU Group sets out the following activity guidelines to promote its sustainability. (1) Identification of As a member of the international community, we seek to identify material issues and sustainability issues that lead to the sustainable growth of society as promotion of businesses well as our businesses, and aim to enhance corporate value through that address the social our business activities. issues We continue to address society's expectations and requests by (2) Establishment of increasing the disclosure of information and facilitating two-way mutual trust with dialogues with stakeholders. By pursuing these initiatives, we aim to society become a trusted Group. In pursuing business activities, we respect the legal systems of each country and international rules, and strive to prevent the occurrence of environmental pollution and/or human right and labor issues that (3) Strengthening of threaten our lives. In addition, we give due considerations to the supply chains and mitigation of, and adaption to climate change, the preservation of business investment the global environment, such as the conservation of biodiversity and management that lead ecosystems, and human rights issues. to sustainable use of natural resources, with We endeavor to grasp the utilization status of natural resources consideration for the (such as air, water, land, food, minerals, fossil fuels, animals, plants, environment and respect and others) and conditions of consideration for human rights and for human rights labor issues in the businesses that we invest and on the supply chains related to the products that we handle. We request our business partners to understand and implement our concept of sustainability, and aim to build a sustainable value chain. 10 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation We conduct employee education and awareness activities to deepen their awareness about solving social issues since promoting sustainability rests in the hands of individual employees. (4) Education and awareness of employees All employees observe the domestic and foreign laws and regulations to promote along with other requirements to which we have subscribed, and sustainability execute the action plans of each organization, based on this policy. Through this approach, ITOCHU aims to contribute to society through its business. April 2018 Masahiro Okafuji Chairman & Chief Executive Officer 11 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Material Sustainability Issues In April 2018, ITOCHU put forth material sustainability issues（Materiality）that incorporate an ESG perspective. Addressing these issues through its main business will help ITOCHU accomplish Brand-new Deal 2020's goal of achieving ongoing growth through a reinvented sampo yoshi approach. Sustainability initiatives of ITOCHU, which fulfills its responsibilities for the present and future society, also contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)*, which were adopted at a UN Summit in 2015. * SDGs: Sustainable Development Goals to be achieved by 2030, which were adopted by United Nations member states in September 2015 Material Sustainability Issues Materiality: Reinvent businesses through technological innovation We will create new value by working on new technologies proactively and trying to respond to changes in the industrial structure beyond the framework of existing businesses. Example of initiative Utilization of AI, IoT and Fintech We are working to evolve our Group's value chains into next-generation ones, centering on FamilyMart UNY Holdings Co., Ltd. In 2017, we established an operating company that promotes Fintech-related businesses with FamilyMart UNY Holdings. Therefore, we strive to promote businesses related to Fintech, including electronic money, credit cards, point programs and ID by involving Group companies. 12 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Materiality: Address climate change (contribute to realization of low-carbon society) We will strive to adapt to the impact of climate change on business. At the same time, we will work to promote business activities aimed at contributing to realization of low-carbon society and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Example of initiative Offshore wind power plant operated off the German North Sea Coast Given the growing demand for renewable energy, we participate in a power generation project in Germany with the CITTIC Group, with which we have formed a strategic business alliance and capital participation. With a total power generation capacity of 288 MW, it is one of the largest offshore power generation projects being operated off the German North Sea Coast. It supplies a sufficient amount of electricity for approximately 370,000 houses for standard German families, thereby contributing to the shift to a low-carbon society. Materiality: Cultivate a motivating workplace environment We will create an environment that enables each employee to fully demonstrate their capabilities with pride and motivation by taking advantage of diversity. Example of initiative Support measures for balancing cancer care and work In 2017, we began to provide support for balancing cancer care and work. The support measures include cancer screenings, which we conduct in cooperation with the National Cancer Center for the first time among private companies, and the estabishment of a system of support to balance cancer care and work, including an internal coordinator for this purpose. By promoting health management in this way, we will achieve a work environment in which all employees can remain motivated, find their work challenging and fully demonstrate their capabilities. 13 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Materiality: Respect human rights We will take initiatives for the respect and consideration for human rights through our business activities to stabilize our businesses and contribute to the development of local communities. Example of initiative Desalination project in Australia The ITOCHU Group is involved in the Victorian Desalination Project, which includes the largest desalination plant in Australia and one of the greenest in the world. As a rainfall-independent source of water, the desalination plant can produce up to 150 gigalitres of high-quality drinking water from seawater each year using energy-efficient reverse osmosis technology. Key components of the plant have a design life of at least 100 years, making it a sustainable long term water source that can be relied upon in times of drought. The plant is environmentally sustainable with all power used to operate it offset by renewable energy. It is set amongst constructed dunes and restored woodlands and wetlands in a 225 hectare ecological reserve. Materiality: Contribute to healthier and more enriched lifestyles We will contribute to realizing a healthy, rich life, aiming to improve the quality of life of all people. Example of initiative Initiatives for Promoting People's Good Health In response to the progress of aging and similar issues that are recognized as social problems in developed countries, we contribute to promoting people's good health and creating a dynamic society in through sales of advanced medical devices, the business of supporting the operation of designated regional cancer care hospitals, pharmaceutical development, and the business of supporting health management using ICT. 14 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Materiality: Ensure stable procurement and supply We will work to ensure the effective utilization and stable procurement and supply of resources in accordance with demand in each country, in consideration of biodiversity and other environmental issues, aiming to achieve a recycling-oriented society. Example of initiative Pulp business in Finland METSA FIBRE of Finland, one of the world's largest softwood pulp producers and our business investment destination, promotes the sustainable use of forest resources. The company's pulp production processes generate electricity and the company provides the surplus not required by its plants to the surrounding region to contribute to the local environmental preservation. Materiality: Maintain rigorous governance structures The Board of Directors will implement highly effective supervision of management from an independent, objective standpoint and enhance the transparency of decision making and we will ensure appropriate, efficient execution of operations. Example of initiative Strengthening the corporate governance function To ensure appropriate, efficient execution of operations, we promote effective measures for strengthening the monitoring function of the Board of Directors and improving the operation of the Board of Directors. 15 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Selection and Review Process of the Materiality Since ITOCHU Corporation identified material issues for the first time in 2013, the company has regularly reviewed the issues based on trends in international society, expectations of its stakeholders. In response to the recent social circumstances and changes in the business environment, such as the adoption of SDGs and the entry into the Paris Agreement, we took the medium-term management plan that commenced in fiscal 2019 as an opportunity to identify seven new material issues. 16 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Risks and opportunities for each Materiality Materiality Risks Opportunities Obsolescence of existing business models Creation of new markets and provision of resulting from the emergence of new innovative services. Reinvent businesses technologies, such as IoT and AI. through technological Utilizing new technologies for optimizing human Labor shortage in developed countries, loss of innovation resources and logistics, increasing excellent human resources in businesses in competitiveness by promoting work style reform. which efficiency improvement is delayed. And And others. others. Decline in demand for fossil fuels resulting from Increase of business opportunities related to Address climate change business regulations on greenhouse gas renewable energy and other contributors to (contribute to emissions and other changes. climate change mitigation. realization of lowDamage to business by increased occurrence of Retaining/acquiring customers with measures, carbon society) abnormal weather (such as drought, flooding, including strengthening the supply system to typhoons and hurricanes). And others. adapt it to abnormal weather. And others. Improvement of labor productivity and health Decline in labor productivity, loss of excellent and motivation, securing of excellent human human resources, missed business opportunities, resources, enhanced capability of responding to Cultivate a motivating increase in health-related expenses, and other changes and business opportunities, and other workplace environment events that would result from failure to take events that will result from the creation of a appropriate measures, and others. workplace that provides job satisfaction, and others. Business delay or business continuity risk Stabilization of business or securing of excellent resulting from the occurrence of a human rights human resources resulting from harmonious problem in business activities that expands coexistence with local communities. Respect human rights (geographically). Establishment of safe, stable supply system for Decline in credibility that may result from defects product enabled by the consideration of human in the social infrastructure services we provide. rights and improvement of work environment in And others. the supply chain. And others. Decline in credibility that would result from the Increase in demand for food safety and security occurrence of a problem related to the safety or and health improvement. Contribute to healthier health of consumers and service users. and more enriched Expansion of information, financial and logistics lifestyles Impact on business of destabilization of the services resulting from an increase in consumer market or social security system based on policy spending or penetration of the Internet. And change. And others. others. Impact of opposition movement resulting from Increase in resource demand attributed to an the occurrence of an environmental problem and increase in population and improvement of living worsening relationship with local communities. standard in emerging countries. Ensure stable procurement and supply Structural exhaustion of the overall industry Winning customer trust or creating new caused by the occurrence of price competition, businesses with a stable supply of mainly in the consumer-related sector. And environmentally friendly resources and others. materials. And others. Improvement of transparency in decisionOccurrence of business continuity risk or making, appropriate response to changes and Maintain rigorous unexpected loss resulting from the malfunction establishment of a stable basis of growth governance structures of corporate governance or internal control, and enabled by the establishment of a firm others. governance system, and others. 17 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Sustainability Promotion System Sustainability Promotion at ITOCHU Corporation For nearly 160 years, since its founding in 1858, ITOCHU Corporation has followed the spirit of Sampo Yoshi (Good for the seller, Good for the buyer, Good for society), which was the management philosophy of merchants in the province of Ohmi. We believe that fulfilling our social responsibility, in accordance with the ITOCHU Mission Committed to the Global Good, through our business activities is important. The Corporate Message is an expression that defines the corporate philosophy of Committed to the Global Good. We have defined our Basic Policy on Promotion of Sustainability, which is the orientation of our sustainability related activities, based on our corporate philosophy and changes in the external environment. Under these policies, we promote sustainability in an organized and systematic manner. Each organizational unit develops sustainability action plans, according to materiality, which we set as the priority issues to be solved through our business activities. These action plans are business activities for trading and business investment, which were planned along with the Mid-term Management Plan. Sustainability promotion flow 18 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Sustainability Promotion System Sustainability Management Department takes initiatives to plan and propose companywide sustainability policies to the CAO･CIO, the Chief Officer of sustainability. Individual organizational unit in Japan and other countries promote sustainability in accordance with the sustainability policies. The establishment of policies and key issues are discussed and determined by the Sustainability Committee, which is one of the key internal committees. The Chairman of the Sustainability Committee, in addition to the role as Committee Chairman, participates in meetings of the Board of Directors, the HMC, and the Investment Consultative Committee, reporting periodically on the status of the main activities for the promotion of sustainability to the Board of Directors, and making decisions based on the social and environmental impact of those activities. We also hold dialogues, such as at advisory board, with internal and external stakeholders every year to understand what is expected and requested by society and reflect this in our activities. Sustainability promotion framework Sustainability Committee meetings held in FY2018 Chairperson: CAO･CIO Members: President of ICT & Financial Business Company, Chief Operating Officer of Provisions Division, General Manager of Corporate Communications Division, Members General Manager of Human Resources & General Affairs Division, General Manager of Legal Division, Corporate Auditors, General Manager of Planning & Coordinating Department of each Division Company Main Resolutions Sustainability policy, Environment management review 19 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Promotion of sustainability through the Action Plans ITOCHU Corporation develops business in a wide range of fields through its seven Division Companies. In order to ensure the promotion of sustainability through business activities in trading and business investments, each Division Company formulates sustainability action plans, by setting key tasks and objectives in its fields. We promote sustainability in PDCA cycle system, and this cycle is monitored by Sustainability Management Department by holding review meetings twice a year with each organizational unit. In order to further strengthen the support of business activities, our headquarters' administrative divisions, domestic branches and offices, overseas sites, etc. also develop sustainability action plans, in line with their respective businesses and functions. Awareness of Risks and Opportunities ITOCHU Corporation operates businesses in a wide range of fields. Accordingly, we regularly review the industryspecific risks faced in each business field from the viewpoints of both internal factors and the external environment. Specifically, we identify the CSR risks in each business field and assess them by analyzing the frequency of incidence and materiality. By taking these assessments into account, we formulate countermeasures that lead to the prevention of the incidence of the risks and the reduction of their impact. We translate them into sustainability action plans and review them continuously. 20 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Opinions from Inside and Outside the Company ITOCHU Corporation puts emphasis on communications with various stakeholders, when selecting the materiality. Opinions and suggestions from outside the company that are received via our website are referred to by the relevant departments. In addition, we also hold dialogs with our stakeholders. For major initiatives, please see Stakeholder Relations (P22～23), Penetration of Sustainability at ITOCHU (P30～31), and Sustainability Advisory Board 2017 (P24). In promoting sustainability, we also refer to the following international guidelines, principles, etc. United Nations Global Compact (ITOCHU United Nations Universal Declaration of Human participates in this) Rights United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals * Human Rights United Nations Declaration on the Rights of United Nations Basic Principles on the Use of Force Indigenous Peoples and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials ISO26000 GRI Guidelines IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Charter of Corporate Behavior by KEIDANREN Framework) Shosha's Corporate Code of Conduct and Supply CDP Chain CSR Action Guidelines by the Japan Foreign Trade Council, Inc. OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises * SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals): Sustainable Development Goals for 2030, which replaces Millennium Development Goals, terminated in 2015. It consists of 17 goals, which aims to solve poverty and hunger, energy, climate change, peaceful society, etc. 21 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Stakeholder Relations Stakeholders of the ITOCHU Group In our diverse range of corporate activities conducted worldwide, we place strong emphasis on dialogue with the many stakeholders that surround ITOCHU. By engaging in dialogue with our stakeholders in the manner described below, we provide them with information about the activities of the ITOCHU Group, and identify their expectations and concerns regarding ITOCHU. We will continue to promote our sustainability by reflecting measures for addressing issues within our business activities, with the aim being to improve our corporate activities. * Besides those noted above, the list of our major stakeholders includes many other parties. Stakeholders Main methods of dialogue Provision of information through the Annual Report and official website Clients and business Notification of CSR action guidelines partners Quality control and fact-finding investigations about the status of CSR at suppliers Contact for inquiries General meeting of shareholders Investors meeting on business results Shareholders, investors, Provision of information through the Annual Report and official website and financial institutions Response to investigations and ratings performed by socially responsible investors Debt IR Participation in the government, the ministries related committees and councils Political organization, Activity through the trade association(Japan Business Federation, Japan Foreign trade association Trade Council) Social contribution activities and volunteer activities Stakeholder dialogue Local communities Dialogue with residents of areas around project sites Regular communication with NGOs and NPOs Provision of information via the intranet and in-house magazines Communication via training sessions and seminars Provision of career counseling Establishment of a 24-hour employee consultation desk system Employees Implementation of employee awareness surveys Labor-management meetings (including management meetings and settlement of accountings meetings) General employee meetings at each company 22 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Reference data FY2018: The expense of trade association and social contribution (Unit: 1 million yen) Trade association 67 Social contribution (donation) 311（153） Economic association 54 Political association 27 Other association 101 23 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Sustainability Advisory Board 2017 ITOCHU Corporation management and outside stakeholders held a CSR Advisory Board meeting at the Tokyo Head Office on January 15 to discuss sustainability. The Sustainability Advisory Board (former CSR Advisory Board) was set up to facilitate a dialogue with external stakeholders about whether the direction of ITOCHU's sustainability approach matches the needs of society within the context of the diversification and expansion of ITOCHU's business activities. In fiscal 2018, in response to the social circumstances and changes in the business environment, such as the adoption of the SDGs and the entry into the Paris Agreement, discussions were held on issues including material sustainability issues (materiality), which were reviewed by taking Brand-new Deal 2020, the new medium-term management plan that starts in fiscal 2019, as the opportunity to do so, as well as on the shift to a low-carbon society, human rights, and the supply chain. Experts from diverse backgrounds, including an investor, a specialist in human rights in Europe, and a person who worked for a global business corporation provided their frank opinions based on such matters as the investment environment and other companies' trends during the lively discussion. They also expressed their expectations for ITOCHU by making comments such as The perspective of ESG will be important. We request that you think about the impact society and the environment will have on your corporate activities in the medium and long term and cater to social needs with ITOCHU's solutions. ITOCHU will continue addressing those issues by expanding its businesses, taking environmental changes, such as climate change, as business opportunities. The opinions and input that the advisors provided will be reflected in future sustainability promotion efforts and, through dissemination of information, lead to enhancing understanding among stakeholders about ITOCHU's business activities. Date January 15, 2018 Review of material sustainability issues (materiality) Topic External environment related to sustainability and promotion of sustainability by ITOCHU Sustainability Advisory Board members Ms. Mariko Kawaguchi, Senior Researcher, Daiwa Institute of Research Holdings Ltd. Mr. Takeshi Shimotaya, Managing Director, Sustainavision Ltd. Mr. Hidemi Tomita Director Tomita of Lloyd's Register Japan K.K. ITOCHU members (Job title at the time) Fumihiko Kobayashi, Member of the Board, Senior Managing, Executive Officer, Chief Administrative Officer Yoshihisa Suzuki, Member of the Board, Senior Managing, Executive Officer, President, ICT Panelists & Financial Business Company Tomoyuki Takada, Executive Officer, General Manager, Corporate Communications Division Hiroyuki Kaizuka, Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Provisions Division Shunsuke Noda, Executive Officer, General Manager, Corporate Planning & Administration Division Akira Saito, General Manager, Legal Division General managers of the Planning & Administration Departments of each Division Company Akira Kurihara, General Manager, Sustainability Management Department (moderator) 24 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Respect for Human Rights Policies Related to Human Rights The ITOCHU Mission Committed to the Global Good stands at the heart of the ITOCHU Group's corporate philosophy. The Global good refers not only to improved living standards, but also a general sense of well-being. ITOCHU, as a company with diverse operations worldwide, respect human rights and individuality, and is committed to the global good of society and individuals alike. Accompanying this corporate philosophy, the ITOCHU Values consist of five values important for fulfilling the ITOCHU Mission Committed to the Global Good. One of those values is Diversity, under which the Group holds the human rights and individuality of every person as important. Based on this policy, ITOCHU supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the United Nations in 1948 as a common standard of achievement for all people and all nations. Furthermore, ITOCHU participated in the United Nations Global Compact in 2009 which is derived from this Declaration and other international standards. We apply the concepts of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, which were adopted in June 2011, to our risk management and other activities. We also take steps to raise awareness of these principles among our employees. Guided by this approach, we clearly prohibit the violation of human rights (prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, gender, religion, creed, nationality, physical condition, illness, age or other unreasonable causes) and sexual harassment (including discrimination or harassment based on sexual orientation or gender identity) in our employment regulations, and have outlined punitive measures to be taken against those who engage in such conduct. Excerpt from the ITOCHU Group Philosophy and Code of Conduct Booklet Respecting human rights and individuality We value the rights and individuality of each person. We show respect and are attentive to others regardless of gender, race, religion, or position. We don't discuss matters that cause discomfort; we don't discriminate or harass; we respect basic labor rights and eliminate forced labor and child labor. Excerpt from the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1:Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. See P32 for the full text of the United Nations Global Compact. Respect for Human Rights in Business Activities ITOCHU Corporation engages in business activities all over the world and conducts its business while respecting people's human rights in each of the regions in which it operates. Respecting the Rights of Indigenous People As part of its commitment to respecting human rights, when conducting business activities in regions that are home to indigenous populations, ITOCHU will recognize the unique cultures and histories of such peoples and endeavor to respect and consider their human rights in accordance with the laws of the country or region concerned as well as international agreements such as the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and Convention No. 169 of the International Labour Organization (ILO). Further, when considering investing in new business projects, ITOCHU will enforce prior checks on how such projects might impact the rights of indigenous people. 25 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Approach to Engaging the Services of Security Firms In December 1979, the United Nations adopted the Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials to compel member states to thoroughly enforce and promote appropriate roles for law enforcement officials such as police offers and the military, and to facilitate the respect and safeguarding of people's dignity in the execution of said officials' duties. For its part, ITOCHU Corporation supports the Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials in which the United Nations established basic principles governing the use of firearms by law enforcement officials based on the above Code of Conduct, and will engage in the selection of security firms in accordance with such principles. Human Rights in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment Consideration for human rights and labor practice in our supply chain and business investment is an important issue for ITOCHU Corporation with business activities in various regions around the world. We regularly make checks to see that our suppliers and investment subjects are properly managing things in this respect. See P51 to read more about Sustainability Management in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment. Considerations for foreigners Along the supply chain, when conducting the acceptance of foreign workers, trainees, and interns, these people are more susceptible to illegal practices due to various factors including social and/or economic standing. From the perspective of respecting and protecting human rights, we shall company with the labor laws of the relevant country and give due consideration to ensuring that no acts are conducted that violate the intended purpose of the acceptance system. Approach to Conflict Minerals Issues Some of the minerals produced in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries where conflicts are taking place can potentially provide sources of funding to armed groups which engage in inhumane acts, foment conflict or bring about human rights violations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, enacted in the United States in July 2010, required that U.S. listed companies disclose information such as their use of conflict minerals* produced in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries in their products. While ITOCHU Corporation is not bound by the reporting requirements of the United States' Securities Exchange Act, to fulfill its social responsibility in procurement activities, ITOCHU Corporation will coordinate with its business partners in keeping with the spirit of this legislation and promote initiatives to ensure that it does not help armed grounds that engage in human rights violations. * Conflict Minerals as defined by the law refer to tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten and other minerals specified by the U.S. Secretary of State. Correspondence about modern slavery and human trafficking The Company's Structure and Our Supply Chain Complexity With approximately 120 locations in 63 countries, ITOCHU, a Japanese sogo shosha, is engaging in domestic trading, import/export, and overseas trading of products such as textiles, machinery, metals, minerals, energy, chemicals, food, general products, realty, information and communications technology, and finance, as well as business investment in Japan and overseas. Our Policy on Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking ITOCHU is committed to ensuring that no modern slavery or human trafficking exists in our supply chains or in any part of our business. We participate in the United Nations Global Compact and apply the concepts of the United Nations Guiding Principles on business and human rights. Our existing policies contain provisions aimed at ensuring that there is no slavery or human trafficking in any part of our global business or supply chain. 26 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Our relevant policies include: ITOCHU group's Corporate Philosophy and Code of Conduct (P7) Policies Related to Human Rights (P25) Respect for Human Rights in Business Activities (P25～26) Human Rights in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment (P26～27) The United Nations Global Compact (P32) ITOCHU's Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains (P51) Internal Information Reporting System (Hotlines) (P117) Due diligence processes for modern slavery and human trafficking ITOCHU provides notice of ITOCHU's Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains to all new suppliers before engaging in any transactions. When discovering a case that does not comply with these guidelines, we will request the relevant supplier to take remedial action. If progress has not been achieved after requests for remedial action, we will reexamine its business dealings with such commercial counterparty. We also conduct due diligence in respect of significant suppliers and new business investments, including research on the seven core fields of ISO26000 (including modern slavery and human trafficking). We do additional due diligence through external specialized institutions in the case of new business investments requiring an expert perspective. Supply Chain Management (P51～55) Business Investment Management (P56) Risk Assessment ITOCHU implements on-site assessments; engages external experts; and conducts fact-finding investigations of its group companies, as needed, to ascertain whether there are any human rights issues such as, modern slavery or human trafficking. We also have established individual procurement policies and measures for products with potentially large impacts on society and/or the global environment, to minimize risk within supply chains. Supply Chain Management (P51～55) Product-by-Product Approaches to Sustainable Procurement (P57～58) Precautionary Approach to Environmental Risks (P63) Training ITOCHU works to spread understanding of the relationship between business activities and human rights through in-house training programs for organizational heads, individuals assigned overseas, and others. In addition, a handbook on communications with suppliers was created to inform employees how to communicate with their suppliers regarding CSR issues. Along with this handbook, we have set up a check system that enables sales representatives and local ITOCHU employees to undertake more specific checks of the actual status of how key suppliers manage human rights and labor practices, and we help these employees and representatives provide such suppliers with advice on improvement. Dialogue on business and human rights The CSR Advisory Board for FY2015 was held under the theme of Business and human rights : Relationships with local communities. 27 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Raising Awareness Internally of Respect for Human Rights Raising awareness through internal training programs We work to extensively embed understanding of the Number of employees who participated in relationship between business activities and human human rights training programs rights through in-house training programs. In the training program for new recruits, they are instructed Number of employees to acquire the proper mindset for respecting human who participated rights that they should have as members of the ITOCHU family, for example, the basic information for Training for New Recruits 152 people human rights, respect for different nationalities, ages Training for newlyand genders (including sexual minorities such as 64 people appointed managers LGBT). In in-house training for organization heads, sexual harassment (including discrimination or Training prior to 199 people harassment based on sexual orientation or gender overseas assignments identity) and power harassment issues are discussed, and a thorough understanding of human rights is fostered. During the training, we educate organization heads how to handle reports or incidents of harassment, and by doing so, strive to create a working environment with no harassment. Also, training conducted prior to overseas assignments includes the topic of consideration for human rights in the supply chain. In this way, we are working to raise awareness in each region. In FY2016, 426 people participated in human rights training. Employee Enlightenment about Business and Human Rights As a general trading company that operates around the world and plays an important role in supply chains, we are implementing educational activities about business and human rights in each region. The objective of these activities is to keep up with the latest developments relating to business and human rights, and to incorporate this knowledge into our business. See P31 for the latest seminar. Establishment of a 24-Hour Employee Consultation Desk System Employee Consultation Desk and Hotline ITOCHU has set up an employee consultation desk to allow employees to discuss problems they may be individually confronting. A HR Help Guide Book has also been posted to the ITOCHU intranet, and efforts to broadly raise employee awareness of the consultation desk are made as part of a structure that allows employees to consult on issues of concern. An external Hotline System staffed by independent counselors has also been established. The HR Help Guide Book posted on the intranet Career Counseling Center ITOCHU was one of the first Japanese companies to establish its own Career Counseling Center, where employees can consult regarding not only their individual careers, but on workplace culture, interaction with colleagues, remuneration, harassment, and other issues. Consultations can take place via phone, fax, email, post, or other means, and are dealt with by expert office staff. 28 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Raising Awareness Through Various Publications In an effort to avoid violations of human rights in the workplace, ITOCHU strives to raise awareness of human rights through a variety of publications distributed to all employees. ITOCHU's basic stance regarding respect for human rights is conveyed in a booklet explaining the ITOCHU Group's corporate philosophy and code of conduct to all employees. The Compliance Handbook has pages on respect for human rights, as well as power and sexual harassment, giving concrete examples of such conduct in an effort to avoid any violations of human rights in the workplace. A pocket-sized card on proper workplace etiquette details rules on the strict prohibition of any forms of harassment. Fair and Honest Recruitment At ITOCHU, recruitment decisions are based solely on an individual's abilities and merits, for fair and honest recruitment practices without regard for age, sex, or nationality. Measures we have taken so far for this purpose include the provision of human rights education through a guest lecturer from the Tokyo Metropolitan Human Rights Promotion Center and the reflection of the contents of this lecture in our training of interviewers. A watchdog system for ensuring fair and honest recruitment is also in place, and employees are selected and notified to serve as watchdogs and to promote awareness of human rights. 29 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Penetration of Sustainability at ITOCHU Sustainability Confirmation Test and Employee Questionnaire Each year, we conduct the on-line Sustainability Confirmation Test and Employee Questionnaire Survey with all ITOCHU employees around the world, in order to promote the in-house penetration of Sustainability awareness and study the awareness of employees. More specifically, once a year, our in-house magazine ITOCHU Monthly, which is published in the three languages of Japanese, English, and Chinese, puts out a special Sustainability issue. This issue presents the minimum requisite Sustainability -related knowledge and information which every employee should know. The implementation of the confirmation test on-line helps to heighten understanding of Sustainability among all employees. In FY2018, ITOCHU Monthly ran a special feature entitled ITOCHU's Further Growth — ESG Investment —, including the President's message on ESG and articles on basic knowledge and the history of ESG investment, and global trends on E (Environment) of ESG. The Confirmation Test consisted of questions on the topics introduced in the articles. A total of 6,457 non-consolidated and overseas bloc employees responded. The Employee Engagement Survey, asked employees questions about the sustainability promotion activities of ITOCHU Corporation and questions about their degree of motivation towards work. Response rate of the Sustainability test and Questionnaire 2017 Questionnaire for Questionnaire for employees of employees of Total ITOCHU Corporation overseas blocs Number of employees 4,794 1,663 6,457 Number of respondents 4,794 1,632 6,426 Response rate 100.0% 98.1% 99.5% <Questionnaire Results Excerpt> Do you feel proud to work for ITOCHU Corporation? 30 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation Sustainability Seminars We regularly organize internal Sustainability seminars to incorporate the views and opinions on various Sustainability issues from outside experts since 2007. Latest Seminar On March 1, a Sustainability Seminar on Business and Human Rights was held by inviting Mr. Saul Takahashi, the Representative in Japan of the Business and Human Rights Resource Centre, and Mr. Hidemi Tomita, who is a Director of Lloyd's Register Japan K.K. In the first part of the seminar, Mr. Takahashi gave a keynote lecture on stakeholder engagement. In the second part, based on questions from employees, Mr. Takahashi and Mr. Tomita gave talks on the key points needed for human rights risk management by a corporation in the form of a panel discussion. In the keynote lecture, Mr. Takahashi introduced human rights issues that trading company may face and examples of Panel discussion corporations' engagement in human rights problems that have actually occurred. In the panel discussion, Mr. Takahashi and Mr. Tomita talked about more specific examples of human rights issues and ways of handling them. Participants in the seminar provided many opinions such as Knowing the specific examples enabled me to become more strongly aware of the importance of human rights and gave me an opportunity to think about whether or not ITOCHU is associated with such problems, and The seminar was too short. With the endorsement of the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, we have entered an era when Japanese companies with supply chains that spread all over the world are required to understand and commit themselves to human rights issues and the responsibility of corporations. This seminar served as an excellent opportunity to think afresh about what responsibilities ITOCHU should fulfill in its individual businesses. FY 2018 Business and Human Rights FY 2017 What Can Be Done to Create a Sustainable Society? FY 2016 Global Initiatives and Innovations to Implement Bold Global Warming Countermeasures FY 2015 Business Activities from the Standpoint of Solving Global Issues FY 2014 Climate Change: Risk and Business Opportunities 31 Sustainability for ITOCHU Corporation The United Nations Global Compact ITOCHU's Participation in the United Nations Global Compact In April 2009, ITOCHU Corporation joined the United Nations Global Compact, a global initiative to achieve sustainable growth of the international Community. In the compliance of the Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, ITOCHU is striving to fulfill its corporate mission of Committed to the Global Good. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Human rights proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Labour Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environment Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Anticorruption extortion and bribery. Contribution to Activities of the Global Compact Network Japan ITOCHU Corporation actively engages in activities as a Board Member of the Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ), the local network of United Nations Global Compact in Japan. The GCNJ organizes the Working Groups by issues related CSR where member companies are able to learn from other companies' best practices and academic experts and to have discussions and exchange opinions regarding CSR initiatives. In FY2018, ITOCHU took part in following Working Groups. the Committee of Human Rights Due Diligence the Committee of SRI/ESG the Committee of SDGs the Committee of Reporting Research the Committee of Inclusive/Social Business 32 Sustainability and Our Business Textile Company The Textile Company consists of three divisions—the Apparel Division, the Brand Marketing Division 1, and the Brand Marketing Division 2—and develops businesses in a wide range of fields from raw materials to finished products, and from fashion to non-fiber materials. We are proud to be the leading Japanese general trading company in the textile field. Sustainability Action Plans SDGs Issues to Performance Materiality Business area Commitment Specific approach Targets address indicators Visualize the We will build a supply chains of production IT Introduce the the overall Group infrastructure that will production IT to reduce costs, be a common infrastructure to the State-of-the-art improve quality, platform of the supply main bases of the technologies and reduce lead chain and strive to Group and contribute (IoT) time, thereby improve added value to the improvement of developing a and promote Product, Lifecycle and supply system that Reinvent sustainable Management. Nextcan cater to businesses industrialization. generation market needs. through business We will utilize nexttechnological Development generation Improve production Make use of AI and innovation technologies, such as and sales efficiency by disseminate the State-of-the-art Radio Frequency making use of AI, and use of RFID tags, technologies IDentification (RFID) in addition, accelerate thereby improving (IC tag, RFID, tags, to contribute to the dissemination of production and and EC improved efficiency, RFID tags in the operating efficiency businesses) not only in the clothing industry, in an in the supply chain, apparel industry but effort to increase the traceability, and also in the associated trading volume. sales capabilities. logistics industry. We will accelerate initiatives for the Commercialize the Environmentally recycled fiber Stable Work aggressively on recycled fiber friendly business, not only to supply of the recycled fiber business as soon materials create new industrial business and lead the as possible. (sustainable businesses but also to resources industry in promoting Increase the ratio materials) such help solve the global and the use of sustainable of sustainable as recycled problem of apparel materials materials. materials to fibers waste and reduce Ensure stable materials we trade. petroleum-derived procurement materials. and supply Raise awareness of an We will contribute to ethical, sustainable FY2021 : Take Provision of increasing the lifestyle through brand initiatives with new commodities Brand visibility of a business, thereby brands. Have a that help marketing sustainable lifestyle promoting awarenesssustainable lifestyle achieve a business by taking advantage raising not only in the understood and sustainable of our strengths as a overall industry but instilled more lifestyle marketing company. also among widely. consumers. Make Group-wide We will promote efforts to review the FY2024: Establish Establishing information-sharing in social and and visualize the Respect a supply the overall Group and environmental safety supply chain of the human rights chain establish a safe, of the supply chain and overall Group, from reflecting secure supply chain, Supply chain make improvements as material Ensure consideration thereby helping management necessary, thereby procurement to stable for human customers with risk promoting the sales, to ensure a procurement rights and reduction and establishment of a responsible and supply the contributing to safe, secure procurement environment sustainable economic commodity supply policy. development. system. 33 Sustainability and Our Business Prior to FY2017, we cooperated fully with the Japan Fair Trade Commissionon its series of investigations into sales of corporate uniforms. However, thecommission issued the Company a cease-and-desist order citing infringementof Japan's Antimonopoly Act on certain projects. We take the situation quite seriously and will consistently apply the preventive measures* we formulated based on internal investigation results and external advisors' opinions to secure and solidify compliance with alllaws and ordinances, including the Antimonopoly Act. * These measures include: (1) Adjusting our internal rules related to compliance with the Antimonopoly Act, (2) Promoting voluntary reporting of violations, and (3)Strengthening and enhancing education on compliance with the Antimonopoly Act ESG related activities Strengthen Branding of Natural and Environment-Friendly Materials We've differentiated ourselves from competitors in our original raw materials business by branding, commercializing, and proposing natural materials like Peruvian Pima, Hamilton Lambs Wool, and One Cotton. As the transitional momentum toward sustainable materials in the global apparel market increases, we will strive to upgrade and expand our original materials and develop environment-friendly materials in the near future. Our own raw material brands: One Cotton and Hamilton Lambs Wool Hunting World's Activities to Support Borneo Hunting World is a luxury brand handled by ITOCHU Corporation. Since its creation in 1965, its logo has depicted a tuskless baby elephant. Besides symbolizing freedom and rebirth, this logo expresses the issue of protection of endangered species, and underscores the love and respect for nature felt by the brand's founder. To realize its dream of coexistence with nature, Hunting World Japan Co., Ltd., an ITOCHU Group company that sells the products of the brand in Japan, has been supporting activities for conservation of biodiversity by the NPO Borneo Conservation Trust (BCT) since 2008. The company designs and sells charity goods, and donates 1% of the proceeds from these sales. The donation is used for various conservation activities by the BCT. The fall of 2011 saw the birth of the first site of the Hunting World Kyosei no Mori (Symbiotic Forest of Hunting World) in four acres of land within the Green Corridor Plan* zone in Sabah, Malaysia, using the financial aid provided up to that point. In addition, an additional 1.5 hectares of land was purchased as the second site in February 2016. The financial aid Charity bag by Hunting World was also used for establishing the Borneo Elephant Sanctuary, the first facility in the Wildlife Rescue Center project promoted by BCT Japan, which is supporting BCT. * Green Corridor Plan: An initiative for conservation of biodiversity, by buying back land, separating forest preserves and protected forests in order to create a corridor for wild animals to move between those forests. Panoramic view of the rescue center 34 Sustainability and Our Business Machinery Company The Machinery Company operates businesses related to infrastructure projects, including IPP, water supply, environmental, energy, and transport, and businesses related to machinery, including marine, aerospace, automobile, construction machinery, industrial machinery, and medical devices. In addition, we are proactively developing opportunities in fields such as water and environment business, renewable energy business, solar industry, and biomass field. We position these businesses as ones for environmental protection, contribution to local communities, and others. Sustainability Action Plans SDGs Issues to Business Performance Materiality Commitment Specific approach Targets address area indicators We will develop power plants with a good balance between FY2031: Target to renewable energy Pursue opportunities achieve a power generation and Taking to invest aggressively renewable energy Overall power conventional power countermeasures in renewable energy ratio more than generation generation, thereby against climate power generation 20% (gross business contributing to the change through analyses of capacity basis) and development of countries and regions. reflect this to the countries and regions future strategy. in a sustainable manner that is Address climate optimized for each. change Expand sales of Contribute to spread We will achieve the eco-friendly of eco-friendly eco-friendly mobility products in vehicles by increasing society by response to the Sales of business of ecoTaking strengthening expanded lineup of passenger friendly and highcountermeasures businesses of electric EVs, HVs, vehicles cars and efficiency products, against climate vehicles (EVs), hybrid with a reduced commercial such as EVs, HVs, change vehicles (HVs), environmental vehicles vehicles with a vehicles with a reduced impact, and similar reduced environmental impact, vehicles from environmental impact, and those related. automakers as our and related parts. business partners. Promote sales of We aim to improve advanced medical Sales of quality of life by Increase the devices, such as MRIContribute leading-edge providing leading-edge penetration of guided radiation to healthier Promoting good medical medical devices and advanced medical therapy systems, and and more health among devices and advanced medical devices in Japan, the business of enriched people provision of services in the field of such as MRIsupporting the lifestyles medical medical care, where guided radiation operation of services technologies are therapy systems. designated regional innovated rapidly. cancer care hospitals. We will contribute to Expand water and improving the hygiene environment projects environment, the to promote the Expand and development of appropriate use and diversify the Improving water Water and economic activities, treatment of water investment and hygiene environmental and the protection of and the effective portfolio in the infrastructures projects the global environment utilization of water and through the resources, and reduce environment field. appropriate treatment the environmental and effective use of impact. water and waste. Respect human Set rules on due rights diligence related to social and business Establishing a We will contribute to environmental safety FY2020: Aim to supply chain improving the quality for suppliers and Overall implement the due reflecting of life of all business investment electric power diligence described consideration for stakeholders in the destinations based on and plant on the left in all human rights supply chain and the distinctive projects new development and the business investment characteristics of each projects. environment destinations. business, implement due diligence, and strengthen monitoring continuously. 35 Sustainability and Our Business ESG related activities Signed a Waste Management Contract with the City of Belgrade Together with France-based SUEZ, we signed the public-private partnership ( PPP ) contract with the city of Belgrade, Republic of Serbia, for a 25-year waste management and resource recovery project. The project involves building and operating an energy-fromwaste facility to treat 340,000 tons of municipal waste annually, equivalent to around 70% of the total municipal waste generated in Belgrade, and generate renewable heat and electricity. The project scope also includes the closure and remediation of the existing landfill, construction and operation of a new leachate-controlled landfill site. Expected view of Energy-from-Waste We will contribute to Serbia's environmental conservation by reducing facility waste volume landfilled and greenhouse gas emissions with the introduction of proper waste treatment facility. A stable supply of water, essential for life – The largest seawater desalination project in the Sultanate of Oman – Water demand in the Sultanate of Oman is expected to rise by around 6% per annum. A shortage of potable water arising from population growth and urbanization has become a serious issue for the country. In March 2016, Barka Desalination Company, whose shareholders include ITOCHU Corporation, concluded a contract to build and operate a new seawater desalination plant with a capacity of 281,000 m3 per day at Barka, located in the northern part of Oman. This project is a joint public-private project involving the government of the Sultanate and provides for the construction and operation for 20 years of a reverse Seawater desalination plant (under osmosis desalination plant with surrounding facilities. The plant began construction) supplying drinking water in June 2018. It will be the largest seawater desalination project in the Sultanate, with a total project cost of approximately $300M. ITOCHU sees the water business as a promising business area in light of soaring water demand arising from rapid worldwide population growth, economic development, global warming and other factors, and has been expanding seawater desalination, water and sewage utilities, and other water businesses. We are keen to promote projects that contribute to the effective utilization of water resources in regions around the world. Supplying clean electricity with solar power – Fourth operational solar power plant in Japan – Recently, the momentum to make effective use of renewable energy as global warming countermeasures has been expanding worldwide. In April 2018, the Saga-Ouchi Solar Power Plant (generation capacity: approximately 17,000 kilowatts), in which we participate, commenced commercial operations. The power plant, which was constructed in Ouchi-cho, Karatsu-shi, Saga, is so far the largest solar power plant in the prefecture. We plan to operate the plant for 20 years jointly with Kyudenko Corporation. The power expected to be generated per year amounts to nearly 24,000,000 kilowatts per hour, equivalent to the amount of electricity consumed by about 4,200 ordinary households the Saga-Ouchi Solar Power Plant annually. As a result, carbon dioxide will be reduced by as much as approximately 11,000 tons every year. This is our fourth operational solar power plant in Japan, following ones in Ehime, Oita, and Okayama. We will continue to proactively promote the renewable energy power generation business globally, so as to contribute to the establishment of a recycling-oriented society while taking into account environmental conservation issues such as the prevention of global warming. 36 Sustainability and Our Business Metals & Minerals Company The Metals & Minerals Company works in a broad value chain, ranging from the development of metal and mineral resources to the trading of steel and non-ferrous products. We create new initiatives for investments and trading, which benefit next-generation industries, aiming to ensure a stable supply while also maintaining a harmonious coexistence with society. Sustainability Action Plans SDGs Issues to Performance Materiality Business area Commitment Specific approach Targets address indicators Acquisition of superior resource We will contribute to Acquire equity projects to pass on the stable operation interests in superior to the future Stable supply of of various industries Ensure stable projects to secure generations, in industrial by maintaining and procurement Mining business resources to form the addition to resources and developing reliable and supply basis for the steady maintaining and materials supply chains for supply of raw materials expanding our essential raw and fuels. existing portfolio of materials and fuels. highly resilient mining projects. We will promote sustainable development of Sustainable mine natural resources Implementation of development by fully committing annual internal to EHS seminars to that reflects Ensure the thorough (environment, ensure our consideration of application of the Respect health, employees are the risks in EHS guidelines. human rights occupational fully aware of the occupational Contribute to local safety) and EHS guidelines. Ensure stable safety and Mining business communities through harmonious Donations to procurement health and activities for coexistence with medical care, and supply environmental improving medical local communities education and risks, and that care, education and in areas which we build contributes to infrastructure. local operate. infrastructure in communities We will improve local local infrastructure communities. such as medical care and education. Continue to be involved in the Contribution to development of the development technologies that of a low-carbon contribute to the society by reduction of committing to greenhouse gases We will realize technologies that emissions, including stable energy help reduce technologies for supply as our greenhouse gases carbon dioxide social mission and emissions. capture and storage Mining responsibility while (CCS) and carbon Development of business fully considering its dioxide capture and an optimal asset Taking environmental utilization (CCU). portfolio by fully Address Environmental impact. countermeasures considering social climate business Aim to develop an against climate We will contribute requirements, change Materialappropriate portfolio change to reducing including those related of coal assets by fully greenhouse gases related to the shift business considering its through businesses to a low-carbon environmental related to lightersociety. impact. weight vehicles Implementation and Electric Strengthen initiatives and expansion of Vehicles (EVs). in businesses that businesses that contribute to the contribute to development of developing lighter-weight lighter-weight vehicles and shift to vehicles and EVs (aluminum, shifting to EVs. copper, and other businesses). 37 Sustainability and Our Business ESG related activities Promoting ESG Initiatives That Will Contribute to the Stable Supply of Future Generation Resources Ensuring a stable supply of industrial resources and materials for the future generations is the Metals & Minerals Company's social mission and responsibility, and we are engaging in ESG-related initiatives to this end. We are promoting the material business such as aluminum and other metals that will be necessary for lightweight automobiles and electric vehicles. We are also supporting the development of technologies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Through such efforts, we are making a proactive effort to realize a low-carbon society. We are also thoroughly implementing our own EHS guidelines, contributing to local Support activities for an elementary school in the area near our Colombian communities on an ongoing basis, and ensuring sustainable resource coal operations development. ITOCHU Metals Corporation handles various types of recyclable materials. The company is expanding its recycling business by undertaking the appropriate processing of industrial waste on a contract basis and recovering chlorofluorocarbon gases, thereby helping to create a resource circulation society. EHS guidelines (mining business) The Metals & Minerals Company has established its own EHS(Environmental, Health, and Safety) guidelines (for mining business). EHS guidelines have been introduced to avoid and/or mitigate the risks related to environment, health and safety issues. These risks include environmental pollution due to exploration, development and production of metals, coal and uranium resources, and health issues or accidents suffered by those involved with business activities. We respect preservation of biodiversity as well as harmony with local communities under the guidelines. The guidelines are used when we assess new mining projects and also for existing projects as necessary. The guidelines will always be kept compliant with international standards, and shared throughout our group by educational campaign with specific case examples. 38 Sustainability and Our Business Energy & Chemicals Company The Energy & Chemicals Company consists of two divisions. One is the Energy Division, which handles trading of crude oil, petroleum products, LPG, LNG, natural gas, power, and other energy-related products and promotes exploration ,development and production of oil & gas projects. The other is the Chemicals Division, which promotes projects and handles trading of general petrochemical products, sulfur, fertilizers, pharmaceuticals, synthetic resin, household goods, fine chemicals, electronic materials, and other chemical-related products. We will build up the efficient and sustained business base by accumulating prime assets and optimizing our existing business. At the same time, we will aim to evolve into reinvent businesses by making use of new technologies, AI, and other resources. Sustainability Action Plans SDGs Issues to Business Performance Materiality Commitment Specific approach Targets address area indicators Pursuing Partnering with Development and opportunities to take experienced Taking Oil & Gas LNG production of natural part in LNG projects Address operators with high countermeasures (Liquefied resources with (i.e. LNG or natural climate technical strength in against climate Natural Gas) consideration in the gas emits less change the development change Projects reduction of greenhouse gases and production of greenhouse gases. than the other fossil natural resources. fuels). Contributing to the improvement of Aiming to obtain people's health and approvals in Asia and working North America for Actively promoting Contribute to environment new pharmaceutical to support the healthier and Promoting good through accelerating and other products Pharmaceutical development and more health among the development of of which we are products marketing of new enriched people pharmaceuticals and engaged in pharmaceutical and lifestyles other products in supporting the other products. fields with significant development, and to needs including launch them into the cancer-related market. fields. Be compliant with HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) standards in the Contributing in the Implementation of respective Establishment of development of local projects in government and an energy society by advancing compliance with the the ones set by resources Exploration & exploration & laws and regulations internationallyRespect development Production of production projects of the respective recognized human rights system that goes Oil & Gas that accommodate government and administrative well with local social and internationallybody. society and environmental recognized environment Reduction of HSE concern. administrative body. issues that involve serious damage to human beings and/or environment. 39 Sustainability and Our Business ESG related activities Compound semiconductor initiatives aimed at saving energy ITOCHU PLASTICS INC. (CIPS) is committed to actively developing energy-saving technologies and applications for resource-saving technologies, to help create a more technologically sustainable society. CIPS is particularly focused on gallium nitride compound semiconductors, which are effective for improving the energy efficiency of devices such as next-generation LEDs capable of producing natural light color, high-efficiency LEDs, semiconductor lasers, high-speed, high-capacity devices that will be needed for 5G communications in the future, and high-voltage, high-output semiconductor devices for use in electric vehicles (EV). CIPS is working with universities and public research institutions to develop the cutting-edge technologies needed Gallium nitride semiconductor for commercialization of the gallium nitride compound semiconductors. substrates From the research and development stages through to sales and marketing, CIPS will continue to contribute to society by improving the environment and paving the way for economic growth. An oil project in the Caspian Sea, which ensures a stable resource supply and contributes to local communities for harmonious cooperation As a member of an international consortium operated by BP, ITOCHU Corporation participates in the ACG field, a crude oil development and production project in the Caspian Sea in Azerbaijan, and the BTC oil feed pipeline project. Crude oil produced by the ACG project is supplied primarily to the European market via the BTC Pipeline, thus contributing to the stable supply of energy in the world. These projects operate in strict compliance with environmental and labor-related laws and industry standards, as well as initiatives to reduce carbon emissions from operations. The projects create local employment and promote various activities in areas such as education and agriculture in order to enhance harmonious coexistence with local communities. ITOCHU Corporation, on its own initiative, is fully committed to such activities, including donating computers to local schools via its subsidiary. Production platform (photo courtesy of BP p.l.c.) Acquisition of ISO 22301 certification aimed at making the tank terminal safe, secure, and resilient to disaster Chemical Logitec Co., Ltd. manages and operates Nagoya Chemport, which is engaged in work centered around the storage, receipt, and supply of liquid chemicals at the No. 9 lot in the Port of Nagoya. It is an important link in our supply chain in the Nagoya and surrounding areas. Learning from the Great East Japan Earthquake that struck on March 11, 2011, the company has since been preparing its facilities for the anticipated Nankai Trough Earthquake. It worked for two years on initiatives in the areas of employee education and training, facility improvement and systemic arrangements, aiming to make the chemical port safe, secure, and resilient to disaster. As a result, the company obtained ISO 22301-2012 certification for the first time on May 1, 2014, and successfully renewed certification on June 15, 2017. 40 Sustainability and Our Business ISO 22301 is a standard for management systems for maximizing an organization's ability to continue to provide services in the event of a disaster or accident that causes a discontinuation or inhibition of business, by resuming the business quickly and minimizing the impact on customers and other stakeholders. This was a milestone event, because Chemical Logitec Co., Ltd. became the first company in Japan's chemical tank industry and the ITOCHU Group to be given such certification. The company continuously reviews internal and external issues, striving to make improvements accordingly. In FY2016, it conducted a safety drill in the presence of cargo owners by assuming an accident took place when only a few people are ready to respond to it, such as at night and on a holiday. Night-time training, which was organized in FY2017, was held again in FY2018. It thus checked for problems in their response to the accident. The company continues striving to ensure safety in the event of a disaster, placing maximum priority on human life, and provide education and training to its organizations repeatedly to retain the trust of customers. Reducing the environmental footprint with the introduction of side shrink packaging As an initiative to reduce its environmental footprint, ITOCHU PLASTICS INC. ( CIPS hereafter) has supported the introduction of side shrink film at all stores operated by FamilyMart Co., Ltd., its domestic area franchise company locations, and Circle K Sunkus stores (collectively, FamilyMart ). Side shrink film is a style of packaging in which the plastic film around a package for a boxed lunch, sushi or noodle product only covers the area where the container and lid meet. FamilyMart has introduced side shrink packaging to nationwide stores in February 2015. The switch to side shrink packaging from full shrink packaging, where an entire container is covered with cling film, has made packages easier to open, improved the visibility of contents and Bento Box with Side Shrink Packaging offered advanced blocking properties. The new packaging also plays a major role in reducing the burden on the environment by decreasing waste, cutting the amount of plastic materials used in packaging and lowering CO2 emissions * The results in FY2018 (Comparison with previous full shrink packaging) Cutting the amount of plastic materials: Approx. 550 tons, Lowering CO2 emissions: Approx. 1,975 tons CIPS has corporate philosophy Providing lifestyle comfort and convenience with chemical and plastic materials. A corporate culture of integrity propelling us forward, together. ITOCHU Plastics. Through support for the introduction of shrink film and other endeavors, CIPS promotes corporate activities that balance a better global environment with economic growth and strives to preserve the environment, helping to realize a sustainable society. Initiative for providing services for optimal control of energy storage systems using AI technology ITOCHU Corporation has signed a capital and business tie-up with Moixa Energy Holdings Ltd., a UK company that operates a platform business, which applies AI technologies to energy storage systems. Through this capital and business tie-up, ITOCHU has acquired exclusive marketing rights in Japan for the Gridshare Client platform technology software. Used for energy storage systems, the Gridshare Client performs optimal control of energy for customers in various layers, including general consumers, power producers, and power transmission and distribution utilities. This software will enable the operation of diverse, nextgeneration businesses, including the Virtual Power Plant (VPP) business Image of Moixa and charge management for electric vehicles. By offering Gridshare Client, ITOCHU will contribute to the efficient operation of renewable energy, stabilization of the power supply, and building of a distributed energy society. 41 Sustainability and Our Business Food Company The Food Company consists of three divisions: the Provisions Division, the Fresh Food Division, and the Food Products Marketing & Distribution Division. The goal of this division company is to become the leading company in the global food industry. Accordingly, the Food Company is developing a high value-added value chain that organically links customer-driven food resources development, food resources supply, product processing, midstream distribution, and retail on a global scale with a focus on Japan, China and Asia. Further, throughout that system, we are upgrading controls for food safety even further to ensure trust and reliability. Sustainability Action Plans SDGs Issues to Business Performance Materiality Commitment Specific approach Targets address area indicators Introduce and utilize new technologies, especially in the sectors around retail that are facing a serious We will aim to labor shortage, thereby improve FY2019: Start maintaining social productivity and experimental convenience. At the same efficiency by operations that apply time, disperse human utilizing RPA and RPA and AI. resources to new services AI proactively. with the aim of further Reinvent improving convenience in Overall the consumer-related businesses Next-generation foodsector. through business related technological Development businesses Increase contact with innovation consumers by promoting We will aim to the retail business in our Promote the create innovative efforts to understand deployment of new services and new consumer behaviors, and products and new business by combine the wide range of services through integrating assets products, functions, and collaborations with the and new expertise of the Group to retail business technologies of create unique new value operated by the the ITOCHU that will be profitable for ITOCHU Group. Group. consumers and communal society. We will reduce the impact of FY2021: Aim to Taking abnormal weather Address Provisions Decentralize production develop other areas countermeasures on the business climate Fresh areas by collaborating with following the against climate with the aim of change foods Group companies. Philippines in the Fresh change ensuring the Produce Business. stable supply of agricultural crops. Proceed with the Increase the number of appropriate allocation We will select and persons with international of human resources as concentrate on Contribute to certifications/qualifications judges mentioned on Overall suppliers who are healthier and related to judgment on the the left to business Supplying safe, foodcapable of more Food Safety Management departments, with the secure food related manufacturing enriched System (FSMS) to enhance leading role played by businesses and supplying lifestyles the capability of human the food safety safe, secure food resources for selecting management stably. suppliers. organization of ITOCHU Corporation. Start procuring coffee We will establish a beans in Latin America in Proceed with Respect procurement a way that conforms to discussions of targets Establishing a human system that the unique codes of for the sustainable supply chain rights conforms to thirdconduct of manufacturers procurement of palm reflecting party certification as our customers. oil by collaborating consideration for Provisions Ensure criteria and with the trading human rights Participate in conferences stable unique codes of industry organization and the of RSPO, a third-party procurement conduct of based on customers' environment certification body on palm and supply manufacturers as situations and industry our customers. oil, and start supplying trends. RSPO-certified oil. 42 Sustainability and Our Business ESG related activities Establishing a Stable Production System by Promoting Integration HYLIFE's vertically integrated system enables to manage the entire supply chain independetly. The supply chain includes compound feed production, hog raising, and pork processing. As a result, the integrated strategy ensures stable supply of safe, secure, and high-quality products with a business model resilient to market price fluctuations. Aiming to further leverage these strengths over the medium to long term, the company has expanded its facilities, introducing technologies to partially automate pork processing, to increase production system efficiency and stability. Processing line Towards sustainable farm operation that responds to climate change In April 2013, ITOCHU acquired the Asia Fresh Food business and the Worldwide Packaged Food business of Dole Food Company, Inc., a U.S. company. After the acquisition, typhoons, drought, diseases and insect damage, among other disasters, hit the Philippines, the leading production site of Dole's major products. As a result, the production volume of bananas was 440,000 tons in FY2017, down 40% from the level prior to the acquisition. To recover and increase the production volume of bananas, we took steps to improve productivity, including the introduction of irrigation equipment, consolidation and expansion of farms, and measures to combat disease and insect damage. We also improved the productivity of pineapples through equipment investment in farms and reviews of cultivation methods. We are diversifying the regions where we produce our products in order to mitigate the risk of bad weather and other problems. Meanwhile, we made management improvements, refined our business and product focus and disposed of underperforming businesses. Moving forward, we will be ready to increase production in the Philippines to 800,000 tons of bananas and 1,000,000 tons of Banana Field pineapples by FY2021, aiming to be the largest integrator of agricultural products in Asia. In addition, based on its belief that people, environment, and society are the most important resources for the survival and development of a company, Dole spent more than 3.2 million dollars in 2017 on social contribution activities in the Philippines, Japan, South Korea, China, Thailand, North America and elsewhere. These activities included the donation of textbooks, desks, chairs, computers, and other equipment to dozens of schools in various places, the construction and maintenance of school buildings, the granting of scholarships, and the provision of educational opportunities for children with disabilities. The company also provided daily necessities and healthcare support to areas affected by natural disasters, and implemented initiatives for maintaining and promoting good health such as blood donations, hygiene education, and food aid. 43 Sustainability and Our Business Production of safe, secure, delicious pork meat ITOCHU Corporation holds a 49.9% share in HyLife Group Holdings Ltd. (hereafter, HyLife ), which conducts the pork meat production business in Manitoba, Canada. HyLife undertakes integrated production covering live production, food mill, and pork processing. This enables the company to manage and coordinate the supply chain on its own. Taking advantage of this integrated production system, HyLife ensures the stable supply of safe, secure, high-quality products with established traceability. In addition, the integrated production system has enabled the individual needs of customers to be provided to hog farms, and HyLife has established a specialty program for providing customized Pork meat processing process products to the Japanese market. This program is highly evaluated in the market, and as a result, HyLife has become No.1 in Canada in the export of refrigerated pork meat to Japan. In the specialty program for Japan, under the supervision of its in-house nutritionists and veterinarians, HyLife produces hybrid hogs bred from three different breeds it has selected and gives them feed produced mainly from wheat and barley from Manitoba, which is a renowned production area of high-quality wheat and barley. The company undertakes comprehensive daily management and supervision of the processes by involving expatriates from ITOCHU Corporation. Ensuring food safety through regular auditing of overseas suppliers Against a backdrop of increasingly diverse dietary lifestyles, the globalization of food distribution and increased awareness of health, consumers are taking an even greater interest in the safety and security of food. Meanwhile, incidents and problems have been occurring that threaten the safety and security of food, such as the BSE problem, violations of residue standards with pesticides and other substances and the distribution of foods using additives untested for safety. In FY2003, ITOCHU Corporation set up the Food Safety and Compliance Management Office and has since taken broad measures to ensure safety in the trading of food. Since FY2012, as part of these measures, A food audit underway ITOCHU has been regularly visiting and auditing food processing plants of overseas suppliers for imported food. ITOCHU determines the subjects and frequency of audits in correspondence with various factors, including the management setup in the host country, product characteristics and sanitation risks in processing steps. Our employees, local staff and/or Group company employees make on-site visits to carry out audits based on our own Plant Audit Check Sheet and make proposals for improvements as necessary. In FY2018, we conducted on-site audits for 186 suppliers. In addition to these measures, in January 2015 we set up the China Food Safety Management Team in Beijing to bolster safety management on foods imported from China. We have dispatched dedicated Japanese staffs who are highly experienced in factory audits (ISO 22000 Lead Auditors accredited by IRCA*) in our efforts to create a management structure comparable to the one we have in operation in Japan. In addition to having several Chinese staff dedicated to conducting regular audits, we have increased the opportunities for mutual checks through follow-up audits and similar, thereby making continuous improvements. In FY2018, we conducted regular audits and follow-up audits of 54 companies, having increased the cumulative total to 100 companies. Due to the recent revision to the Food Sanitation Act, hygiene control with HACCP is planned to be institutionalized. In accordance with the targets of control under the institution, we will plan to expand the subjects of the on-site audit in line with the food chain. * International Register of Certificated Auditors 44 Sustainability and Our Business Educational training programs related to food safety and compliance We provide educational training programs related to food safety and compliance in the form of e-learning as part of our efforts to raise employees' awareness of food safety and legal compliance and improve their knowledge about these issues. We are also developing human resources for audits in response to the expansion of subjects of the on-site audit. Food safety Compliance Main contents Internal regulations / manuals ESG All of Food Company employees (including contract workers, temporary staff, seconded employees, accepted seconded employees.) Participants All of Food Management Support Corporation employees (Food Management Support Corporation is a Food Company's wholly owned subsidiary and performs back-office support for the Company.) Number of 689 (FY2017), 699 (FY2018) participants Participation rate 99.3% (FY2017), 99.9% (FY2018) We will continue to provide training in FY2019 and onward, aiming to entrench the knowledge. 45 Sustainability and Our Business General Products & Realty Company The General Products & Realty Company consists of two divisions: the Forest Products & General Merchandise Division and the Realty & Logistics Division. The Forest Products & General Merchandise Division deals with pulp, natural rubber, tires, timber, housing materials and other products associated with daily life, while the Realty & Logistics Division is involved with the development of properties such as housing and distribution facilities and the distribution business including third-party logistics (3PL) and international transportation. Each division utilizes its collective strength and global network to provide society with new value and contribute to the realization of fulfilling housing experiences. Sustainability Action Plans SDGs Issues to Business Performance Materiality Commitment Specific approach Targets address area indicators We deal in Continue to request suppliers who have FY2026: Aim to Wood sustainable forest yet to obtain achieve a rate of products & resources to reduce Ensure stable Using certifications to 100% for materials materials the impact on the procurement sustainable obtain them. under high-level environment and and supply forest resources Pulp management or prevent the increase Conduct sustainability Woodchips certified ones that of greenhouse surveys of suppliers we handle. gases. and visit them. Consider investment, We will expand the participation, etc. in use of a sustainable Establish continuous, the slag business by-product (slag) as Taking stable business flow and focus efforts on Address Cement an alternative countermeasures between ironworks as creating demand, climate alternatives material to cement, against climate the supplier of slag and especially in change such as slag which is essential change other byproducts and developing for civil engineering, demanders. countries, with the construction, and aim of establishing similar works. continuous, stable business flow. Establish a safe, secure, environmentallyfriendly infrastructure, including facilities such as those for power supply, industrial Undertake further We will operate Providing an water/wastewater improvements of industrial estates in environment treatment, security infrastructure a high-quality that enables the and fire prevention facilities and the Respect manner that will focus to be Construction systems, or improve service system in human rights permit tenant placed on stable the existing industrial estates companies to focus production infrastructure to and continue diverse on stable production activities make it like the local contribution activities. above. activities. Create employment by inviting companies, and in addition, promote locally-based contribution activities. We will provide logistics services Establish and promote Establishing a Aim to increase the Contribute to adapted to changes the operation of highlogistics network trade volume of healthier and in distribution that value added logistics that is adapted products in the emore Distribution have resulted from services for business to changes in commerce logistics enriched the expansion of the operators who sell consumer markets in emerging lifestyles e-commerce market goods using ebehaviors countries. in emerging commerce. countries. 46 Sustainability and Our Business ESG related activities Stable supply of sustainable forest resources ITOCHU Corporation holds a stake in Metsä Fibre Oy (hereafter, Metsä Fibre ) in Finland, which is one of the world's largest softwood pulp producers. Metsä Fibre boasts annual pulp production of around 3.1 million tons (including production at Äänekoski Mill, a new mill that began operating after the construction work for increasing production was completed in August 2017). It commissions sales of the softwood pulp it produces, which is intended mainly for the Asian market, to ITOCHU Corporation as an exclusive agent. Finland is capable of the long-term stable supply of raw wood because the amount of raw wood growth exceeds its consumption. In addition, Metsä Fibre generates power from its pulp production process for its Äänekoski Mill, a new mill that began own consumption and supplies surplus power to the surrounding area, operating in 2017 thereby contributing to reducing fossil fuel consumption in the local area. By promoting initiatives with such an excellent partner, we will promote the sustainable use of forest resources and continue to strengthen our business. Becoming the World's No. 1 Trader in Blast Furnace Slag, a Cement Alternative Blast furnace slag, a byproduct of the steelmaking process, can be mixed into and used as a cement alternative. The use of slag helps to conserve limestone, a natural resource used in cement, and provides the environmental benefit of lowering CO2 emissions by around 40%* compared with concrete made entirely from cement. Blast furnace slag is also highly resistant to seawater and, being resistant to long-term corrosion, is widely used in large civil engineering structures at ports. Beginning some 20 years ago, ITOCHU now sells blast furnace slag produced in Japan and overseas in around 10 countries, making it the world's leading trader in slag, by handling volume. Going forward, we Structure employing blast furnace slag will build a sustainable and stable flow of operations in the slag business and are considering further investment and participation. * Calculated at a 55 : 45 ratio for cement : blast furnace slag Karawang International Industrial City: Growing Together with the Local Community ITOCHU Corporation operates the Karawang International Industrial City (KIIC), located in the east of Jakarta, the capital of Indonesia, jointly with a local partner. More than 150 tenant companies operate on a site of approx. 1,400 hectares. Substation facilities of the state-owned electricity company have been set up in KIIC, which has enabled the securing of electricity and ensured its stable supply. The industrial city also boasts stable infrastructure facilities built internally, including its own industrial water plant, waste water plant, retention basin for emergency backup, and road pavement for preventing traffic accidents in the city. KIIC also has Local Children Who Participate in Tree safety and security systems established, including 24-hour security by Planting Activities 150 security officers, a police station, security precautions jointly taken by the government of Karawang Regency and the police department of Karawang, and fire engines and an ambulance. In addition, KIIC has built smart street lights*, making it the first industrial park in Indonesia with lights of this kind, in an effort to reduce its environmental impact. 47 Sustainability and Our Business Further, KIIC companies have also continued to pursue various sustainability activities over the long term in healthcare, agriculture, the environment, education, and other areas. The unique activities of KIIC include support for the establishment of the baby health centers for community at six nearby villages and the provision of medical equipment for birth attendants. Joint activities with tenant companies include donating saplings and tree planting to local municipalities, which are carried out on World Environment Day each year. In addition, KIIC has established an agricultural park on its premises to promote education, training, and other activities related to agriculture, environmental protection, and others. In this park, specialists provide local farmers advice on farming and more than 10,000 saplings for forestation are grown each year. As the secretariat for sustainability activities of tenant companies, KIIC proactively supports activities including the monthly supply of baby food to local babies and toddlers, provision of scholarships to junior high and high school students, support for flood damage, and pest control, such as the extermination of mosquitos to prevent dengue fever and other infections. Through these initiatives, KIIC aims to be an industrial park that grows together with the local community. * Smart street lights: An IoT solution that controls power consumption and CO2 emissions by adding a dimmer control function to power-saving, high-efficiency LED, thereby improving the efficiency of the operation, maintenance, and management of street lights (making street lights smart). Approx. 1,200 smart streets lights were built in KIIC. 48 Sustainability and Our Business ICT & Financial Business Company The ICT & Financial Business Company consists of two divisions: the ICT Division and the Financial & Insurance Business Division, and strives to create a business synergy focused on service fields such as ICT and BPO. In areas such as the FinTech business, and amalgamation of Finance and Technology that has attracted increased attention in recent years, we are leading efforts to tackle and expand new markets by combining the business development functions of the ICT Division with the customer networks and expertise of the Financial & Insurance Business Division. Sustainability Action Plans SDGs Issues to Performance Materiality Business area Commitment Specific approach Targets address indicators Business We will try to create Seeking chance to Reinvent incubation new industries with Nextinvest in and make businesses through venture acquiring cuttingAchieve success new generation partnerships with through investment, edge innovations and service and business business startups, in order to technological focused on business models development. Development develop new innovation FinTech, IoT, AI such as IoT, AI, and businesses. and etc. FinTech. Business of clinical development We will provide support and value-added services pharmaceutical for pharmaceuticals Store and utilize Promoting marketing and medical sites, health data obtained FY2021: Managing support and will contribute to from health checkup, good health the health data of improvement of wearable devices, among people 1,000,000 people. Business of people's Quality Of and body providing Life (QOL) by composition scales. health care utilizing cutting-edge management ICT tools. solutions for individuals Contribute to healthier and We work on more expanding and enriched creating the retail Increase the number lifestyles financial market and of customers and Increase of the Providing Domestic and providing financial loan balance by number of financial overseas retail services to expanding and customers and loan services finance business individuals to creating the retail balance. contribute to financial market. enriching people's lives. We will contribute to Continue to enhance Maintenance maintain safe, ICT the value of ICT of industrial, secure, and highly Increase the number infrastructure solutions with logistics, and convenient social of procurement construction maximizing new transportation infrastructure partners. business product/service infrastructure through providing sourcing functions. various ICT solutions. * Throughout our business activities, we respect freedom of expression and privacy rights, which are important human rights issues regarding the Internet and SNSs. 49 Sustainability and Our Business ESG related activities Start-up Investments to Develop New Technologies and Service Models The rapid adoption of AI, IoT, and other new technologies is presenting to rebuild conventional business models and respond to digitalization as an important management issue for companies. By investing in start-up companies, the ITOCHU Group is endeavoring to promote the rapid utilization of new technologies and services at investees. Furthermore, by promoting open innovation and creating next-generation business models, we are supporting digitalization efforts at client companies. We are fostering stronger ties between start-up investees and ITOCHU Group companies by increasing share and dispatching employees. As a result, we aim to internalize some of the growth potential of those startCTC innovation space, DEJIMA up companies into the ITOCHU Group and cultivate as a new ITOCHU Group companies. Contributing to corporate health management and healthier employees through a mobile app that assists with health management and promotion Employers are increasingly being required to assist employees in managing and improving their health, as evidenced by the introduction of mandatory stress checks and data health plans for those covered under company or health insurance union policies. Every year, the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry publish a Health & Productivity Stock Selection, reflecting an increase in the number of companies looking to reduce medical costs, increase productivity and enhance corporate value by improving employee health management. ITOCHU has designed and developed a mobile app called Re:Body in Smartphone Application linked with a conjunction with Wellness Communications Corporation, a company wearable device 100%-owned by ITOCHU and NTT DOCOMO. Launched in April 2017, the app is designed to assist companies with health management and promotion. As well viewing and comparing annual health check results, it enables integrated management of data on users' everyday lives, including data on exercise and sleep from wearable devices, data such as weight and body fat from smart scales, and the contents of food diaries. Other features include communication with registered dieticians and other such specialists, so that users can access advice on improving their health, as well as managing and viewing health-related data. ITOCHU will be providing Re:Body to corporate customers as an employee health management solution in the near future, in an effort to contribute to corporate health management and healthier employees. 50 Sustainability in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment Engaged in trading and business investment on a worldwide basis, ITOCHU Corporation also takes full consideration for human rights, labor and the environment, etc., through sustainability management that is commensurate with the respective business activities for its supply chain and business investment. Through such consideration, the Company is determined to build a sustainable value chain and link this to heightening the competitiveness and corporate value of the ITOCHU Group. Supply Chain Management Basic stance on supply chain management In light of the increasing spread and complexity of ITOCHU's supply chains due to its business fields expanding, ITOCHU's business further requires risk management concerning human rights, labor and the environment not only in processes under their direct control but also in areas such as procurement of raw materials, production sites, intermediate distribution, and the regions of consumption. We at ITOCHU Corporation pay particular attention to management on the site of suppliers which occupy a fairly high share of our purchasing, and view our consideration and sense of responsibility for these areas as matters of great importance to be addressed with a high priority. ITOCHU Corporation has set out its Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains, and implements the following surveys and reviews. Through these activities, it is striving to prevent the occurrence of any problems. When problems are detected, it aims for improvement in the concerned areas through communication with suppliers. ITOCHU Corporation's Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains 1. Suppliers shall respect the human rights of its employees, and shall not treat employees in an inhumane manner including verbal abuse and physical punishment. 2. Suppliers shall not engage in forced labor or child labor. 3. Suppliers shall not practice discrimination in hiring and employment. 4. Suppliers shall prevent unfair low-wage labor. 5. Suppliers shall respect the rights of employees to organize and bargain collectively to promote smooth negotiation between labor and management. 6. Suppliers shall ensure that employees' working hours, holidays, and use of leave of absence are properly managed so as to comply with statutory standards. 7. Suppliers shall strive to provide employees with a safe and healthy work environment. 8. In the course of their business activities, suppliers shall duly consider the need to conserve ecosystems as well as local and global environments, and strive to prevent the occurrence of any environmental pollution. 9. Suppliers shall observe all related laws and international rules, and ensure fair transactions and prevent corruption. 10. Suppliers shall disclose information regarding the above items in a timely and appropriate manner. 51 Sustainability in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment Communication of the Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains to suppliers We believe it is important to win the understanding and cooperation of all our suppliers for our procurement-related policies. In keeping with this belief, in FY2014, we again made notice of the ITOCHU Corporation's Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains to the approximately 4,000 suppliers with whom we have continuing transactions. In January 2015, we established a rule to make notice of the guidelines to any new supplier before we start transactions. We are thus endeavoring to deepen communication with them on our sustainability-related policies. Response to non-compliant supplier When a case that does not comply with the intent of guidelines has been confirmed, ITOCHU will request the relevant supplier to take remedial action, and will provide support and guidance as needed. If a remedy is deemed difficult despite ITOCHU making continuous requests for remedial action, ITOCHU will reexamine its dealings with the supplier concerned. Sustainability Survey Starting from FY2009, in order to check the status of our various suppliers, each of the Division Companies and relevant Group companies of ITOCHU selects significant suppliers based on such parameters as high-risk countries, products handled and transaction amounts. Sales representatives of each Division Company or staff members of overseas subsidiaries and operating companies visit the suppliers and conduct the Sustainability survey by providing interviews or questionnaires (using the Sustainability Checklist) along with the mandatory questions on the seven core fields of ISO 26000. Conceptual rendering of the promotion of supply chain management 52 Sustainability in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment Sustainability Checklist The Sustainability Checklist is based on the seven core fields of ISO 26000 (organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, community involvement and development). We have added items that are specific to each field. For example, we added items to be checked related to forest conservation for the Forest Products & General Merchandise Division (lumber, pulp & paper); food safety items for the Food Company; and items related to the protection of intellectual property for the Textile Company. Referring to the opinions of external experts, we have set 19 of the survey questions as important questions. These are mainly related to human rights, labor practices, and the environment, where insufficient response or measures will increase the sustainability risk. Thus we strongly encourage suppliers to make improvements in these sustainability high-risk areas. The Supply Chain In addition, we have also published a handbook on communications with suppliers, and Communication use it to inform employees how to communicate with suppliers. Along with the Handbook handbook, we have set up a check system that will enable sales representatives and locally assigned ITOCHU employees to undertake more specific checks of the actual status of how key suppliers manage environmental issues, human rights, labor practices, the prevention of corruption, and other matters, and help them provide suppliers with advice on improvements. Moving forward, we will continue to conduct surveys and communicate with suppliers to raise employee awareness and enhance supplier understanding and implementation. Example descriptions in the HANDBOOK Forced labor means labor forced on a person against their will. Examples include restricting the staff member's freedom to leave the job until they repay a debt to the company and restricting their freedom to leave the job under the employment contract. Forced labor may be identified by asking staff members what their work shifts are like, whether they have break times, and whether they have sufficient time to eat meals, or by checking their facial expressions carefully. In a worst-case scenario, staff members are deprived of freedom for their entire lives, forced to live in a dormitory on the factory premises and prevented from going outside the premises. It is also effective to check whether there are any staff members who have come from rural areas or foreign countries to work for the supplier. Employers must be prohibited from taking the passports of staff members or master copies of their IDs or work permits, because such acts lead to forced labor. Reference Forced labor needs to be checked for not only at factories in emerging countries, but also at those in Japan. In recent years, the Technical Intern Training Program (TITP) of Japan has been criticized by some overseas countries. You should therefore also check whether suppliers in Japan employ any foreign staff members, and whether there are any problems with the work hours and wages of such staff members. 53 Sustainability in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment Sustainability Surveys in FY2018 In FY2018, ITOCHU surveyed 333 companies, including suppliers of overseas offices and Group companies. No serious problems requiring immediate response were found in the survey results. Even when surveys have revealed problems that are cause for apprehension, we confirm the initiatives for prompt improvement or countermeasures taken by the supplier. We will continue to communicate with suppliers to seek their understanding of our thinking. Surveys Inclusion Survey conducted in Survey items criteria subjects FY2018 Main questionnaires that are the same for all Textile Company 46 division companies: (1) Organizational governance: Responsibilities. Establishment of a whistleblowing system. Machinery (2) Human rights: Assessment of the risk of human 9 Company rights violations: Child labor, forced labor, and harassment. Prohibition of discrimination. Payment of appropriate wage amounts. (3) Labor practices: Management of working hours. Management of health and safety. Management of Metals & Minerals employee health. 20 Company (4) The environment: Waste, treatment of discharged ・High-risk water, handling of hazardous substances, climate countries change, approaches to the conservation of ・Countries with biodiversity specific (5) Fair operating practices: Prevention of corruption, Energy & transaction information management, prevention of the Chemicals amounts 45 infringement of intellectual property rights, Company ・Countries where sustainable procurement policies specific products are handled (6) Consumer issues: Quality control system, traceability (7) Community involvement and development: Dialogue Food Company 103 with local residents and general consumers ・Product-specific questions Textile Company: Control of chemical substances, and General Products 105 protection of intellectual property & Realty Company Food Company: Food safety, and checking traceability Forest Products & General Merchandise Division (Paper, wood chips, and wood products): protection of ICT & Financial 5 forests, and obtaining or enhancing third-party certification Total 333 For significant suppliers, personnel from the Sustainability Management Department of ITOCHU Corporate Communications Division make visits as necessary to undertake on-site surveys together with external experts. ITOCHU conducted a survey of PT. SANKYO INDONESIA, an associated company in Indonesia that operates the manufacturing business for electric blankets. The survey covered labor safety, labor management, human rights and environmental aspects based on the ILO Constitution, the standards of major global apparel brands and the laws and ordinances of Indonesia. 54 Sustainability in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment On-site report: a fact-finding survey at an electric blanket factory in Indonesia On November 14, 2016, ITOCHU and an external expert conducted an on-site survey of the electric blanket factory of PT. SANKYO INDONESIA, an associated company of ITOCHU. The factory is located in an industrial park that is a one-hour drive from the city center of Jakarta, and 500 employees including temporary workers manufacture electric blankets on a double shift basis during peak periods. In the morning, the survey team interviewed the president and personnel and general affairs manager, and checked documents concerning human rights and labor management. In the afternoon, the team reviewed, in the presence of the factory director, the production lines, the evacuation routes, management of chemicals and the rest of the factory. The external expert complimented the factory that the ages of employees were properly checked with official IDs when hired, that the working hours and payroll were systematized and managed appropriately, and that the documents were well organized. The expert also provided some advice from a labor safety and health standpoint to take further measures such as conducting disaster drills and health checkups on a regular basis and the factory immediately carried out these measures in effect. The factory continues to strengthen the production system with consideration for occupational safety and the environment with increased quality control and production efficiency. Regular on-site surveys of food processing plants Since FY2012, the Food Company has regularly visited and surveyed the food processing plants of overseas suppliers for imported food, under the initiative of the Food Safety and Compliance Management Office. In FY2018, we visited 186 overseas suppliers and implemented preventive measures for securing the safety of the food we trade with them. In January 2015, we set up the Food Safety Management Office in the Beijing office and established an auditing system for Chinese suppliers. In FY2018, such periodic or follow-up audits were made to a total of 54 companies. Fact-finding investigations of Group companies To prevent environmental pollution and related problems among the ITOCHU Group companies, personnel from the Sustainability Management Department have been making on-site visits for the purpose of survey work from a third party stand point, together with external experts. Number of Subject companies Surveys conducted in FY2018 Survey items region visited for onsite surveys Food hygiene audits by the Food Company* (suppliers from which products are imported Overseas 186 Food hygiene, food defense directly) Soil pollution, water and air Fact-finding investigations of Group companies discharge control, waste conducted as on-site fact-finding surveys of Japan 4 disposal, labor safety, suppliers as well quality control * Of those overseas suppliers, 7 were also the subjects of Sustainability surveys. 55 Sustainability in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment Business Investment Management The business activities at companies in which we invest must take account of and address their possible influence on the global environment and society at large. For this reason, we endeavor to understand the potential ESG risks and to prevent the actualization of ESG risks at the Group companies. We assess their activities by using a checklist and doing on-site visits, and take the requisite measures in response to the assessment results. We do these assessments as part of our environmental management system and try to improve their management level. Evaluating ESG Risks of New Investment Projects In approaching prospective new business investment projects, the proposing unit is required to make a due diligence using our ESG checklist for investments. Specifically, an assessment is made of items such as whether there are the policies and setups at the investment subject set in place as viewed from the standpoint of ESG and whether there is the possibility of significant adverse environmental impact, legal or regulatory violations, and the risk of litigation by concerned parties. The checklist consists of 33 items, including the seven core subjects in ISO 26000*, the international CSR guideline. (*Organizational Governance, Human Rights, Labor Practices, The Environment, Fair Operating Practices, Consumer Issues, Community Involvement and Development) The proposing unit also takes consideration of the opinions deriving from assessment based on risk analysis by the related administrative division. If any causes for apprehension are identified, a request is made for an additional due diligence study by an external specialized institution in the case of projects requiring an expert perspective. The actual project will commence only after this study confirms the absence of any problems. Fact-finding Investigations of Group Companies To prevent environmental pollution and related problems among the ITOCHU Group companies, ITOCHU (the Sustainability Management Department of our Corporate Communications Division) has been making on-site visits for the purpose of survey work continuously since 2001. In FY2018, such visits were made to a total of 4 companies, some involving the participation of external experts, with consideration of the level of environmental and social risks at each company. By the end of March 2018, such surveys had been completed at a total of 283 establishments. The survey work consists of interviews with management, a survey of facilities such as factories and warehouses as well as drainage into rivers, checks of compliance with environmental laws and regulations, occupational safety, human rights, and communication with local communities. Based on the findings, the survey work team points out problems, indicates measures for prevention, and confirms the status as regards correction. On-site report: a fact-finding survey at DOLE THAILAND On December 7 and 8, 2016, ITOCHU visited the Hua Hin factory of DOLE THAILAND, a manufacturer of canned fruits and fruit pouches, including those of pineapples, in Thailand. Based on the knowledge of an external specialist familiar with local laws and regulations, we conducted a detailed check of the status of risk management and compliance with laws related to the environment and labor safety, such as those for soil contamination control, waste control, chemicals management and safety measures. We confirmed that the company properly manages these matters. We also confirmed that the company implements important CSR measures, such as creating an internal occupational health committee, setting environmental targets and achieving the targets steadily, guaranteeing purchases from contracted farmers and having regular dialogues with the local government. The company responds appropriately to the advice that was given concerning the method for storing chemicals, measures for preventing accidents that may result from the operation of food-processing machines and other measures to further improve their level of management. 56 Sustainability in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment Product-by-Product Approaches to Sustainable Procurement At ITOCHU Corporation, we handle a broad range of products all over the world. Recognizing the impact of each product on the society surrounding it and on the global environment, we have established individual procurement policies and measures for products with large impacts and reflect them in our daily business activities. Policy on Procurement of Wood, Wood Products, Paper Manufacturing Materials, and Paper Products Objective and Background In order to fulfill its corporate social responsibility, ITOCHU Corporation (hereafter, ITOCHU ) has established the Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains and engages in business activities aimed at achieving a sustainable society. However, natural forests around the world continue to be decreased at high rate. One of the primary drivers of deforestation is unsustainable forest management for production such as large-scale clearcutting. In response, ITOCHU has established the following procurement policy to conserve natural forests and to continue the sustainable use of forest resources. It was drafted through consultation with WWF Japan. Scope of Application This policy covers wood and paper products that ITOCHU and its consolidated subsidiaries procure in Japan and overseas. Specifically, it covers raw wood, wood products, paper manufacturing materials such as wood chips and pulp, and paper products (hereafter, Forest products ). Basic Policy ITOCHU and its consolidated subsidiaries which handle Forest products will work to ensure the traceability of Forest products and procurement based on the following policies. 1. Support expansion of reliable forest management certification systems and give priority to Forest products with reliable certifications. 2. Production and manufacture of Forest products shall not impose an excessive environmental burden on High Conservation Value Forest. 3. Forest products and their materials shall have been produced (or logged) through appropriate procedures by following the laws and regulations of the area where the raw material is produced. 4. Forest products shall not be procured from any suppliers who contribute to serious environmental or social problems, such as the destruction of High Conservation Value Forest. Implementation and Operation ITOCHU and its consolidated subsidiaries which handle Forest products will strive to implement the above basic policy in a phased manner in consideration of the characteristics of each country and region. In implementing the policy, we will review this policy regularly and cooperate with customers, specialists, and stakeholders, including NGOs, while also considering the provision of support for the shift to production systems which will help improve sustainability of production areas. Information Disclosure and External Communication To ensure transparency, we will disclose the progress of our initiatives through the Sustainability Report and promote society's understanding of the sustainable use of forest resources through appropriate communication with customers. 57 Sustainability in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment Approach to Conflict Minerals Issues Some of the minerals produced in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries where conflicts are taking place can potentially provide sources of funding to armed groups which engage in inhumane acts, foment conflict or bring about human rights violations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, enacted in the United States in July 2010, required that U.S. listed companies disclose information such as their use of conflict minerals* produced in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries in their products. While ITOCHU Corporation is not bound by the reporting requirements of the United States' Securities Exchange Act, to fulfill its social responsibility in procurement activities, ITOCHU Corporation will coordinate with its business partners in keeping with the spirit of this legislation and promote initiatives to ensure that it does not help armed grounds that engage in human rights violations. * Conflict Minerals as defined by the law refer to tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten and other minerals specified by the U.S. Secretary of State. Policy on Procurement and Supply of Nuclear Fuels ITOCHU and its subsidiaries procure all nuclear fuels inside and outside Japan solely through ledger transfer transactions. Believing it is important to obtain an understanding of, and cooperation in, its procurement and supply policy and recognizing that the mission of playing a part in the nuclear fuel cycle is the role it has to play, ITOCHU endeavors to make its policy known to the parties concerned, to bolster its internal structure, and to secure a sense of ethics. All the nuclear fuels it procures inside and outside Japan are solely used for civilian power generation or for peaceful purposes. It complies with all Japanese and overseas laws and regulations related to nuclear security. Activities for Sustainable Procurement of Palm Oil To ensure that sustainable procurement can be carried out consistently in consideration of human rights and environmental conservation, ITOCHU Corporation makes notice of its Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains to its suppliers and undertakes regular communications with them on Sustainable procurement through fact-finding surveys and other activities. We recognize that the procurement of palm oil in particular requires consideration for environmental issues, labor safety, human rights, and relationships with local communities, so we became a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) in 2006. We participate regularly in its meetings to promote the transparency of our supply chains and trade with suppliers who improve traceability. In this way, we strengthen our system for the sustainable procurement of palm oil. 58 Our Initiatives for Environment As a general trading company, ITOCHU provides various products and services and invests in businesses inside and outside of Japan, and positions global environmental problems as one of materiality in management. In order to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society, ITOCHU is promoting environmental conservation activities. Environmental Activities Policies ITOCHU Corporation positions global warming and other environmental problems as one of the top priority issues in its management policy. In addition, to fulfill our corporate philosophy Committed to the Global Good, we have established the ITOCHU Group Basic Policy on Promotion of Sustainability which includes the idea of the Group's environmental policy. Now, we advance our corporate management and activities on a global scale under this policy, not only to contribute to the prosperity of the present generation, but also from the view point of what we can create to pass on to the next generation, while keeping a strong awareness of global environmental problems. The ITOCHU Group Basic Policy on Sustainability From April 2018, we adopted the Basic Policy on Promotion of Sustainability as a new policy based on the spirit of Sampo Yoshi, by integrating and consolidating Environmental Policy and Basic Policy for CSR Promotion. More details on the Basic Policy on Promotion of Sustainability are available P10～11. ITOCHU Corporation's Stance on the Environment ITOCHU Corporation is active in Japan and internationally, offering a wide range of products and services, developing resources, and investing in businesses. Our activities are closely related to global environment problems. We believe that a company cannot grow sustainably without awareness of these problems. In 1990, we created a Global Environment Department, and in April 1993, we documented our environmental activity guidelines in the ITOCHU's Activity Guidelines on the Environment (the predecessor of our Environmental Policy). In 1997, these guidelines were revised to the ITOCHU Corporation Environmental Policy and we have subsequently revised this policy several times, in order to keep up with changing demands over time and reflect them in the Policy's expression. 59 Our Initiatives for Environment Environmental Management ITOCHU Corporation has formulated the Basic Policy on Promotion of Sustainability covering the entire ITOCHU Group. ITOCHU is aware of the impact that its business activities may have on the global environment. We have thus built a framework for assessing the impact of the products we handle, and in particular before making new investment, in order to prevent environmental risk. We believe it is important to contribute to sustainable development as a corporation by implementing both the offense of promoting environment conserving businesses and the defense of taking a precautionary approach to environmental risks. Environmental Management System In 1997, ITOCHU Corporation became the first trading company to establish an environmental management system (EMS) based on ISO 14001, and we continue to work to improve our EMS. The system's aim is to comply with environmental laws and regulations, take precautionary approaches to environmental risks, including those related to climate change, and promote environment conserving businesses. Specifically, the system controls and manages targets through a yearly PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle of setting targets for preventing environmental risk, for promoting environment conserving businesses, and concerning climate change risks, such as energy conservation, resource saving and CO2 emissions; evaluating and analyzing progress; and acting to achieve our targets. ITOCHU Corporation's Environmental Management Organization From April 2018, we adopted the Sustainability Promotion System by integrating and consolidating Environmental Management System and Sustainability Promotion System. More details on the Sustainability Promotion System (P18). * Subsidiary companies included: CI Textile Service Co., Ltd. ITOCHU Automobile Corporation ITOCHU Metals Corporation Food Management Support Corp. ITOCHU Orico Insurance Services Co., Ltd. ITOCHU Financial Management Inc. ITOCHU Treasury Corp. ITOCHU Human Resources & General Affairs Services Inc. ITOCHU Taiwan Corporation 60 Our Initiatives for Environment Internal Environmental Audits Internal environmental audits based on ISO 14001 are conducted every year, and in fiscal 2017, they were carried out in all 59 departments (including five departments utilizing a self-check format). Findings from the audits, conducted over roughly six months, are instrumental in taking precautionary approach on the environmental risks. Audit teams are comprised of members of the Sustainability Management Department, and carried out their work with an emphasis on auditing legal compliance. Results of External Inspections Each year, ITOCHU is inspected by BSI Group Japan KK (BSI) in connection to ISO 14001 certification. The fiscal 2018 inspection was a surveillance audit. The outcome of the inspection was an overall improvement grade and continued certification, based on an acknowledgement of ongoing system improvement efforts by ITOCHU. Environmental Management Targets and Results With respect to environmental management, ITOCHU establishes environmental objectives to be tackled in the medium-term, and then sets specific targets and conducts performance reviews based on those targets each fiscal year. Item Fiscal 2018 Environmental Targets Review Fiscal 2018 Implementation Details For all investment projects, we When investing, perform environmental performed environmental risk risk assessments in advance and ensure assessments in advance through the thorough corporate wide utilization of CSR and Environmental Checklist for the CSR and Environmental Checklist Investments. (The items subject to for Investments. ○ assessment include the state of energy Strengthen the awareness of risk consumption and CO2 emissions.) management through the entire supply We assessed the environmental risk of chain through Environmental Risk new products and conducted reviews of Assessments by Product and ensure the assessment details for existing thorough corporate-wide utilization. Prevention of products. Environmental Pollution/ We conducted internal audits in 59 Observance of Laws and Regulations Promote initiatives to improve departments (including five management levels by confirming departments utilizing a self-check environmental management systems, format), confirmed the operation of ○ legal compliance and the state of environmental management systems, environmental performance through legal compliance and the state of internal auditing. environmental performance management, and provided advice. We conducted onsite surveys and Select Group companies and conduct provided advice to four Group on-site surveys of their environmental ○ companiesto improve environmental management status. management on site. Expand the scope of monitoring to We collected and disclosed information information such as the energy from 16 overseas branches (including emissions of overseas Group ○ local subsidiaries), 65 domestic companies, as well as major domestic operating companies and 46 overseas Promotion of Environmental and overseas subsidiaries. operating companies. Conservation Activities Set and review targets based on the We planned, executed and reviewed the Sustainability Action Plan. respective environmental conservation ○ (Promote at least one target at each activities of all company divisions and company and branch) branches. 61 Our Initiatives for Environment Item Fiscal 2018 Environmental Targets Review Fiscal 2018 Implementation Details We held summer vacation environmental classes (July 25, 100 Conduct environmental education for participants) and operated the ITOCHU elementary and junior high school ○ Pavilion Eco Shop at Kidzania Tokyo students. (experienced by approximately 21,782 Harmonious Coexistence participants a year). with Society Coordinate with regional companies and We conducted events, volunteer local governments on environmental activities and other initiatives in conservation activities ○ coordination with local companies and (Promote at least once such initiative at governments on a per-branch basis. each branch) We provided basic environmental Conduct and promote learning through education (May to July, 3,960 seminars, tours, basic environmental participants) and education for education and education for personnel personnel with specific duties (May to ○ with specific duties for employees of March, 400 participants). ITOCHU Corporation and Group Thesustainability seminar titled Human companies. rights seminar? was held on March 1, Promotion of Educational with 250 people attending. Activities We held a sustainability e-learning Conduct training sessions and promote program (October November 2017, learning regarding Waste Management 4,853 participants) and Environmental and Public Cleansing Law and Soil ○ and Social Risk Response Seminar Contamination Countermeasures Act for (including the Soil Contamination employees of ITOCHU Corporation and Countermeasures Act) (July 12, 250 Group companies. participants). * ○︓Implemented △︓Partially ×︓Not yet implemented 62 Our Initiatives for Environment Precautionary Approach to Environmental Risks In addition to evaluating environmental risks of the products we handle, we are committed to taking a precautionary approach to environmental risks. This commitment also extends to ITOCHU Group companies, reflecting the need to identify the impact on the global environment of the business activities of the Group as a whole. Evaluating Environmental Risks Posed by Products Handled We handle a wide and diverse range of products on a global scale. We thus carry out our own original environmental impact evaluations on all the products based on our belief that it is vital to evaluate the impact of these products to the global environment, the state of our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and their relationship with stakeholders. We use a so-called LCA*-based analysis method at all stage of product life cycle from procurement of raw materials, production, and use, through disposal of products. For assessing the risks relating to climate change, shrinkage of rain forests, desertification, global warming and other factors related to climate change are included in the items subject to assessment in this analysis. If the evaluation shows that the impact on the global environment by particular products exceeds predetermined benchmarks, then we create manuals and the concrete procedures to manage transactions of these products. * LCA (life-cycle assessment) is a method that evaluates the environmental impact of products at all stages of their life cycle, from raw materials, manufacturing, transport and use through to disposal and recycling or reuse. Fact-finding Investigations of Group Companies We analyze about 200 of our 326 Group companies (as of March 31, 2018) with relatively higher levels of impact on the global environment, and conduct investigations of about 10 of them per year. Over the 17 years to the end of March 2018, we did on-site investigation at 282 worksites. The evaluation is made using Q&As between auditors and management, inspections of plants, warehouses, and other facilities, surveys of wastewater released into rivers, and assessments of compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Evaluating the Environmental Risks of New Investment Projects ITOCHU Corporation and its subsidiaries in Japan employ an ESG checklist for investments (The items subject to assessment include the state of understanding of energy consumption and CO2 emissions in association with climate change risks.) to evaluate in advance the market, social and environmental impact of business investment projects entered via M&A in Japan and overseas. We revised this checklist to reflect the seven core subjects (Organizational Governance, Human Rights, Labor Practices, The Environment, Fair Operating Practices, Consumer Issues, Community Involvement and Development) of ISO 26000, and we began to utilize the new checklist in fiscal 2014. When specialist insight is needed, ITOCHU calls on specialized external bodies to render an advance inspection of the project. Action on the project then moves forward once inspection results and the presence of no major problems are confirmed. Internal and External Inquiries and Our Response In the year ended March 31, 2018, we received a total of 39 inquiries from outside the Company, which were broken down as follows: industry (15), government and industry groups (8), and media and research firms (2), requirement of ISO14001 certification from customers (14). There were no environment-related incidents, problems, lawsuits against the Company. Meanwhile, the number of inquiries from within the Company and ITOCHU Group companies was as follows: 84 inquiries regarding laws including Japan's Waste Management and Public Cleaning Law, and 5 inquiries regarding business investments. 63 Our Initiatives for Environment Promotion of Environment Conserving Businesses ITOCHU Corporation is committed to solving environmental issues through its businesses. As a framework for promoting these businesses, each division formulates a Sustainability Action Plan and promotes initiatives according to the PDCA cycle. ITOCHU also recognizes consideration for the environment (climate change, preserving biodiversity, etc.) and sustainable resource utilization as materiality and focuses on finding solutions to these challenges. Renewable Energy ITOCHU Corporation is addressing social issues through investment in power generation assets that are expected to grow as a necessary means of energy supply and that make effective use of renewable energy such as geothermal and wind power. Shepherds Flat wind power plant Name of Business Greenhouse Gas Details of Initiative Operator / Investment Country Generating Capacity / Size Reduction Figures Project CPV Keenan Ⅱ Wind Power Approx. 410,000 tons / USA 152MW Generation Project year Shepherds Flat Wind Power Approx. 1,480,000tons / Wind Power Generation USA 845MW Generation Business year Business Cotton Plains Approx. 580,000 tons / Wind and Solar Pear USA 217MW year Generation Business Offshore Wind Power Butendiek Offshore Wind Approx. 750,000 tons / Germany 288MW Generation Business Power Generation Project year Biodiesel manufacturing Biodiesel Manufacturing project in Nebraska, USA run Approx. 520,000 tons / USA About 50 million gallon/year Business by Flint Hills Resources, year Benefuel and others Incineration treatment of ST&W Waste Management 260,000 tons / year of general Estimated 62,000 tons / Project / SITA South Tyne & England waste Scale of power year Wear Holdings Limited generation: Equivalent power consumption of 31,000 homes Incineration treatment of Cornwall Waste Management 240,000 tons / year of general Estimated 60,000 tons / Project / SITA Cornwall England waste Scale of power year Holdings Limited generation: Equivalent power consumption of 21,000 homes Incineration treatment of Merseyside Waste 460,000 tons / year of general Estimated 130,000 tons Waste Management Management Project / SITA England waste Scale of power / year Projects Merseyside Holdings Limited generation: Equivalent power consumption of 63,000 homes Incineration treatment of West London Waste 350,000 tons / year of general Estimated 83,000 tons / Management Project / SITA England waste Scale of power year West London Holdings Limited generation: Equivalent power consumption of 50,000 homes Incineration treatment of Serbia Waste Management 340,000 tons / year of general Project / Beo Cista Energija waste Scale of power Estimated 120,000 tons Serbia (Construction will begin in generation: Equivalent power / year 2019) consumption of 30,000 homes (planned) Geothermal Power About 1,000,000 Sarulla Operations Ltd Indonesia 320MW Generation tons/year 64 Our Initiatives for Environment Name of Business Greenhouse Gas Details of Initiative Operator / Investment Country Generating Capacity / Size Reduction Figures Project Oita Hiyoshibaru photovoltaic power plant Japan 44.8MW 32,000 tons/year large-scale solar power plant Shin-Okayama photovoltaic power plant Japan 37MW 26,000 tons/year Photovoltaic Power large-scale solar power plant Generation Saijo Komatsu photovoltaic power plant Japan 26.2MW 18,000 tons/year large-scale solar power plant Saga-Ouchi photovoltaic power plant Japan 21MW 15,000 tons/year large-scale solar power plant Water-Related Businesses About 97.5% of the earth's water consists of sea water. Water available for use by human beings accounts for only 0.01% of the total. Meanwhile, the demand for water worldwide is steadily increasing due to economic development driven by the newly emerging countries, population growth, and changes in precipitation patterns caused by climate change. ITOCHU Corporation has positioned the water-related business as a priority field, and is developing business globally in areas such as sea water desalination, water treatment, and concession projects which started in 2014, with a view to helping solve water problems around the world. Country Details of Initiative In 2012, ITOCHU invested in the UK-based Bristol Water Group. This made us the first Japanese company to participate in the UK water sector. Bristol Water Group is providing full drinking water services from water resource management to water treatment, water supply and Concession project distribution, billing service, and customer service to 1.2 million customers in UK. on water supply and In 2014, ITOCHU invested in CANARAGUA CONCESIONES S.A., which manages concessions of sewerage systems upstream and downstream water, sewerage network and the integral water cycle in the autonomous of the Canary Islands. This made us the first Japanese company to participate in the Spanish water sector. CANARAGUA CONCESIONES S.A. is currently providing services to an extended total of approximately 1.3 million inhabitants in the Islands. ITOCHU invested and participated in a seawater desalination project in Victoria, Australia. With the ability to meet around 30% of the water demand in Melbourne, this project supports the stable supply of water to the city from 2012. ITOCHU has become the largest shareholder in a seawater desalination project with a capacity of Seawater 3 281,000 m per day that is being undertaken by Oman Power and Water Procurement Company Desalination (OPWP), a government entity of the Sultanate of Oman, at Barka, located in the northern area of the country. This is the largest seawater desalination project in the Sultanate of Oman, and involves the construction of a reverse osmosis desalination plant and surrounding facilities that will operate for 20 years. The seawater desalination plant will start supplying drinking water in June 2018. ITOCHU began delivering large numbers of seawater desalination plants in Saudi Arabia from the 1970s. Supply of seawater In the 2000s, ITOCHU and Sasakura established the joint venture company ACWA Power desalination plants Sasakura (Sasakura Middle East Company, present) with local capital in the country. We also and manufacture & expanded into rehabilitation projects for seawater desalination plants with APS. sales osmosis In August 2010, the joint venture company Arabian Japanese Membrane Company, LLC, which membranes manufactures and sells reverse osmosis membrane elements for seawater desalination, was established with Toyobo and local capital. 65 Our Initiatives for Environment Tree Plantation The earth is rapidly losing its forest coverage. ITOCHU Corporation is attempting to expand its businesses in the field of paper and pulp by developing renewable forest resources on its own. It also promotes tree plantation with a focus on businesses that will contribute to preventing global warming. ITOCHU was the first Japanese sogo shosha to obtain CoC certification*1 from the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)*2 and begin importing certified wood chips. *1 :FSC is an international organization that certifies forests where logs and lumber are produced, as well as the distribution and processing of logs and lumber from the forests. *2 :CoC certification is a certification from FSC regarding the management of processing and distribution process. CoC stands for Chain of Custody. Name of Business Operator/Tree Plantation Country Project Size CENIBRA (Celulose Nipo-Brasileira S.A.) Brazil 131,310ha ANCHILE Chile 26,562ha Southland Plantation Forest Co. New Zealand 8,777ha Acacia Afforestation Asia Vietnam 1,520ha South Wood Export Ltd. New Zealand 1,422ha Other Environmental Businesses Project Name Details of Initiative As an initiative to reduce its environmental footprint, ITOCHU PLASTICS INC. ( CIPS hereafter) has supported the introduction of side shrink film at all stores operated by FamilyMart Co., Ltd., its domestic area franchise company locations, and Circle K Sunkus stores (collectively, FamilyMart ). Side shrink film is a style of packaging in which the plastic film around a package for a boxed lunch, sushi or noodle product only covers the area where the container and lid meet. Reducing the environmental FamilyMart has introduced side shrink packaging to nationwide stores in footprint with the February 2015. The switch to side shrink packaging from full shrink introduction of side shrink packaging, where an entire container is covered with cling film, has made packaging packages easier to open, improved the visibility of contents and offered advanced blocking properties. The new packaging also plays a major role in reducing the burden on the environment by decreasing waste, cutting the amount of plastic materials used in packaging and lowering CO2 emissions. The results in FY 2017 (Comparison with previous full shrink packaging) Cutting the amount of plastic materials: Approx. 430 tons Lowering CO2 emissions: Approx. 1,540 tons 66 Our Initiatives for Environment Approaches to Conservation of Biodiversity While the business activities of companies are heavily reliant on the supply of the natural bounty produced by biodiversity (ecosystem services), they are also a great burden on the ecosystem. To achieve sustainability for our planet and society, ITOCHU have stipulated consideration for environment as part of our Activity Guidelines under the ITOCHU Group Basic Policy for Sustainability Promotion. Through our business activities and social contribution activities, we will strive to protect biodiversity and ensure the sustainable use of resources. Concern for Biodiversity in Business Activities Concern for Biodiversity in Wood Procurement Natural forests around the world continue to be decreased at high rate. One of the primary drivers of deforestation is unsustainable forest management for production such as large-scale clear-cutting. In response, ITOCHU has established the procurement policy to conserve natural forests and to continue the sustainable use of forest resources. Policy on Procurement of Wood, Wood Products, Paper Manufacturing Materials, and Paper Products (P57) Concern for biodiversity in pulp production projects ITOCHU's Group company CENIBRA in Brazil has consistently engaged in everything from forest management to pulp production. In 2005, CENIBRA obtained forest certification from the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) as well as CoC certification (certification for management of processing and distribution processes). Of the roughly 250,000 hectares of land the company owns (equivalent to the area of Kanagawa Prefecture), about 130,000 hectares are used to plant trees and produce pulp, while the other approximately 100,000 hectares are preserved as permanently protected forest or legally protected forest, maintaining the ecosystem. The company also addresses the restoration of natural forests. Each year it plants some 70,000 tree samplings of the four varieties that make up the native forests in an initiative that spans as much as 300 hectares each year. Protective breeding activities for endangered species of bird are also underway at Macedonia Farm in a protected zone of natural forest. Scarce wild birds such as the pheasant family bird, mutum are protected and bred at the farm and later released into the wild. One of CENIBRA's vast plantations The rare mutum at Macedonia Farm 67 Our Initiatives for Environment Activities for Conservation of Biodiversity Even apart from its business activities, the ITOCHU Group is working to conserve biodiversity through social contribution initiatives. Support of Amazon Biodiversity Conservation Program Starting in FY2017, ITOCHU Corporation has been supporting the new concept of Field Museum, a biodiversity conservation program in the tropical forests of the Amazon that is being run by the Wildlife Research Center of Kyoto University with the National Institute of Amazonian Research for the purpose of conserving the environment and biodiversity. The Amazon rainforest accounts for over half of all the rainforest acreage that remains on earth. It is widely considered a treasure-trove of ecosystems. However, the valuable ecosystem is being lost in recent years due in part to the rapid economic development and deforestation The Amazon rainforest is the largest in attributed to the lack of environmental education for local residents. the world and is said to supply one-third Working with the National Institute of Amazonian Research, the Wildlife of all the oxygen on earth. Research Center of Kyoto University conducts research and dissemination activities for maintaining the valuable ecosystem of the Amazon. The Japanese and Brazilian institutes have conducted joint conservation research and facilities development by using the advanced technologies at which Japan excels. ITOCHU Corporation supported the construction of the Field Station, a base for natural observation and research into the diverse species and ecosystem of the Amazon. This facility was constructed in the Cuieiras region, through which a tributary of the Amazon River flows. An inaugural ceremony for this facility, which was constructed through industry-academia-government collaboration, was held on-site in May 2018. The Field Center has lodging facilities as well as a multi-purpose building including a visitor center to welcome seminar and conference guests, permitting long-term monitoring of flora and fauna in an optimal region with both inundated forests and terra firme (nonflooded areas). The facility has thus attracted attention in Japan and other countries. It is anticipated that the Field Station will facilitate mediumto long-term advanced research on the tropical forests of the Amazon, while helping to stimulate environmental education activities to help conserve Amazonian biodiversity. A large number of projects are being planned in addition to those for research on water-dwelling animals (river dolphins, manatees) of the Amazon and the upper canopies of the rainforest, which have traditionally been challenging to study. The activities also include a program for protecting the Amazon manatee, a vulnerable species, and ITOCHU Corporation supports a program for reintroducing the manatee to the wild. While an increasing number of manatees are being taken into protective custody after being injured by poachers, it is difficult for the animals to return to the wild on their own. This has made it imperative to establish a project for reintroducing the creatures to the Amazon. The program aimed to have at least nine manatees return to the wild and at least 20 return to semicaptive environment within the three-year project period from FY2017. By May 2018, 15 manatees had returned to the wild and 21 had returned to a semi-captive environment. The completed Field Station The Amazon manatee, an endangered species 68 Our Initiatives for Environment Support for Purchasing Milk for Amazon Manatees at Eco Shop Pavilion in KidZania Tokyo In April 2012, ITOCHU Corporation opened Eco Shop, an environmental pavilion giving children hands-on experience with eco activities, in KidZania Tokyo, a facility devoted to vocational experience for children. In FY2018, this pavilion was renovated under the theme of Amazon Ecosystem Conservation as a promotional measure for the Amazonian manatee reintroduction project (Manatee Homecoming Project). For each child visiting, the pavilion donates 10 yen as financial support for purchasing milk for Amazon manatees. Based on the number of children who visited this pavilion in FY2018, ITOCHU donated an amount equivalent to the amount needed to feed one manatee for 968 days. Eco Shop pavilion An Amazon manatee drinking milk Activities for Revival of Tropical Forest and Conservation of the Ecosystem on the Island of Borneo The island of Borneo is largely covered with tropical forests spanning the countries of Malaysia, Indonesia, and Brunei. In area, it is about twice as large as Japan and the third-largest island in the world. It is known as a treasure-trove of biodiversity. However, it is also in the process of development, and some tropical forest areas have been damaged to the point that their ecosystems cannot be conserved on the strength of nature's own powers of revival alone. The ITOCHU Group is supporting activities since 2009 for revival of forests in the district of North Ulu Segama in the Malaysian state of Sabah, in the northeastern part of the island. The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), the globally active organization for protection of nature, is engaged in activities for forest revival in an area of about 2,400 hectares, in coordination with the Sabah Forestry Department. The ITOCHU Group is supporting revival over a portion measuring 967 hectares larger than any other zone of forest revival supported by an ordinary private enterprise. The afforestation was completed in 2014, and all on-site operations including maintenance and management operations were completed in January 2016. The district is also a habitat for the orangutan, an endangered species. The revival will help to protect not only the orangutan but also many other species living there. Tree-planting by tour participants The orangutan, an endangered species 69 Our Initiatives for Environment Hunting World's Activities to Support Borneo Hunting World is a luxury brand handled by ITOCHU Corporation. Since its creation in 1965, its logo has depicted a tuskless baby elephant. Besides symbolizing freedom and rebirth, this logo likewise anticipated the issue of protection of endangered species, and underscores the love and respect for nature felt by the brand's founder. To realize his dream of coexistence with nature, Hunting World Japan Co., Ltd., which sells the brand in Japan, has been supporting activities for conservation of biodiversity by the NPO Borneo Conservation Trust (BCT) since 2008. The company designs and sells charity goods, and donates 1% of the proceeds from these sales to BCT. By so doing, it is defraying part of the cost for purchase of land for the green corridors and rescue of Borneo elephants which have strayed into plantations. In addition, the fall of 2011 saw the birth of Hunting World Kyosei no Mori (Symbiotic Forest of Hunting World) based on independent purchase of four acres of land within the Green Corridor Plan* zone, using the financial aid provided up to that year. Furthermore, BCT Japan, which is supporting BCT, helped out with the funding needed for establishment of the Borneo Elephant Sanctuary, the first facility in the Wildlife Rescue Center project, which began in September 2013. * Green Corridor Plan: A initiative for conservation of biodiversity by such activities as buying back land separating forest preserves and protected forests, to make a corridor for movement between them by wild animals. The Borneo elephant, an endangered The Kinabatangan River area in the species Support is also provided for efforts northeastern part of the island of Borneo is including construction of facilities for the subject of the Green Corridor Plan. temporary protection and treatment of the There are plans to acquire a total of 20,000 elephants before returning them to the hectares. forest, as well as for taming them. 70 Our Initiatives for Environment Environmental Education and Awareness We are committed to improving the environmental awareness of the entire ITOCHU Group. To encourage environmental conservation efforts among our employees we offer a wide range of education programs, as well as seminars on environmental laws, and seminars to raise awareness of global environmental issues, which also target Group employees. Seminars We actively hold seminars in order to ensure that all employees of the ITOCHU Group are aware of and comply with the requirements of environmental laws and regulations, and in order to raise environmental awareness. Internal Seminars and Training Sessions (FY2018 results) Content Timing Target Participant Employees and Group Environmental Managers Conference 24th April 2017 (Tokyo) 116 Company Employees From May to July 2017 Employees and Group General Education Approx.4,000 58 times in total Company Employees From May 2017 to March Education of staff in specific Employees and Group 2018 Approx.400 operations Company Employees 31 times in total Environment and Social Risk Employees and Group 22nd July 2017 Approx.200 Response Seminar Company Employees The Waste eOctober November Management and Employees Approx.4,380 learning 2017 Public Cleansing Law Employees and Group Sustainability Seminar 1st March 2018 Approx.200 Company Employees CSR Seminar for the specific Employees and Group departments and ITOCHU group at any time 20 Company Employees companies Sustainability Seminar Held For Sustainability Seminars, please see the Penetration of Sustainability at ITOCHU (P30～31). 71 Our Initiatives for Environment Environmental Performance Data ITOCHU Corporation strives to achieve environmental conservation not only through business activities, but also through office activities, such as cutting back electricity consumption and the promotion of the recycling of waste, in which all its employees can easily participate. In addition, it has gradually expanded the scope of the collection of environmental performance data on Group companies in Japan and overseas, and overseas offices to understand the actual environmental situation and improve its environmental conservation activities in the future. Environmental Performance Environmental Performance Data at the offices Electricity Consumption★ Waste Volume★ Scope: Tokyo headquarters, Osaka Scope: Tokyo headquarters headquarters, Branches in Japan, Other branches and business facilities in Japan Paper Consumption Water Consumption★ Scope: FY2011-FY2016 Tokyo Scope: Tokyo headquarters headquarters, FY2017-FY2018 Total of domestic bases of ITOCHU corporation * Please look at the tables below for the data of group companies in japan, overseas offices and group companies. Independent Assurance Report (P124): The following data marked with ★ are assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd, an external assurance provider based on the international standard ISAE 3000 & ISAE 3410. ★ :Total value of electricity consumption and CO2 emissions for the Tokyo headquarters, the Osaka headquarters and branches in Japan, domestic branches and other business facilities, along with data of CO2 emissions attributed to distribution, waste volume, recycling rate and water consumption, gray water production and wastewater discharge for the Tokyo headquarters. 72 Our Initiatives for Environment Independent Assurance Report (P124): The following data marked with ◆ are assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd, an external assurance provider based on the international standard ISAE 3000 & ISAE 3410. ◆ :Total value of electricity consumption and CO2 emissions for the Tokyo headquarters, the Osaka headquarters and branches in Japan, domestic branches and other business facilities, Group companies in Japan, overseas offices and overseas Group companies. Target Setting ITOCHU Corporation has established targets for electricity consumption, reduced generation of waste volume, the promotion of recycling, and reduced paper and water consumption. ITOCHU’s target figures are presented in the following table. ITOCHU has announced a goal of reducing specific energy consumption at ITOCHU Corporation itself and its consolidated subsidiaries by an average of at least one percent per year and is striving to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Target for the Year FY2018 Results Single Year Target Ended March 2021 Electricity Consumption of Tokyo and Decrease of 2.1% Reduction of 30% Osaka Headquarters, Branches in Reduction of at least 1% compared with FY2017 compared with FY2011 Japan and Other branches and annually business facilities in Japan levels levels 33% reduction 10% reduction 20% reduction Tokyo Headquarters Waste Volume compared with FY2011 compared with FY2011 compared with FY2011 levels levels levels Tokyo Headquarters Recycling Rate 94% 90% 90% Tokyo Headquarters Paper 9% reduction compared 3% reduction compared 3% reduction compared Consumption with FY2011 levels with FY2011 levels with FY2011 levels 20.6% reduction 10% reduction 15% reduction Tokyo Headquarters Water compared with FY2011 compared with FY2011 compared with FY2011 Consumption (City Water) levels levels levels Scope of the Data ○:in scope of aggregation Water CO2 emissions Electricity Waste Paper consumption and from business consumption volume consumption wastewater facilities discharge Tokyo headquarters ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Osaka headquarters ○ ○ － － － Branches in Japan*1 ○ ○ － － － Other branches and business ○ ○ － － － facilities in Japan*2 Group companies in Japan*3 ○ ○ ○ － ○ Overseas offices*4 ○ ○ ○ － ○ Overseas group companies*5 ○ ○ ○ － ○ *1 The branches in Japan cover all 5 domestic branches of ITOCHU Corporation. *2 Business facilities cover business facilities ITOCHU Corporation owns or rents, excluding the facilities for dwelling. The number of offices: FY2015: 12 offices, FY2016: 8 offices, FY2017: 8 offices, FY2018: 6 offices *3 From FY2015 to FY2017, the Group companies in Japan cover consolidated subsidiaries in which ITOCHU has directly invested (as of March 31). The number of companies: FY2015: 73 companies, FY2016: 70 companies, FY2017: 65 companies. For FY2018, all consolidated subsidiaries (208) are covered. *4 The overseas offices cover main offices. The number of offices: FY2015: 16 offices, FY2016: 16 offices, FY2017: 16 offices, FY2018 15 offices *5 From FY2015 to FY2017, the overseas group companies cover consolidated subsidiaries in which ITOCHU has directly invested (as of March 31). The number of companies: FY2015: 49 companies, FY2016: 44 companies, FY2017: 46 companies For FY2018, all consolidated subsidiaries (299) are covered. 73 Our Initiatives for Environment However, companies that are held for investment purposes that are expected to be sold within the coming five years are not included in the scope of data. The CO2 emissions of places of business that are not manufacturing sites and have no more than 10 employees are not included in the scope of data because the amount of CO2 emissions is insignificant. Electricity Consumption The table below shows electricity consumption and CO2 emissions from business facilities from FY 2015 to FY2018. ITOCHU installed inverters for the ventilation systems and LED desk stands, and introduced other energy-saving facilities, while all employees took the initiative of turning off lights and office equipment when not in use. In addition, a morning-focused working system was launched on October 1, 2013 for trial basis and officially introduced on May 1, 2014 for full-time employees at the headquarters and branch offices in Japan, and this has also led to the reduction in our electricity consumption. Unit:Thousand kWh FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Tokyo headquarters 9,297 9,169 9,331 9,200 Osaka headquarters 455 442 434 409 Branches in Japan 415 326 291 292 Other branches and business facilities in Japan 1,385 1,300 1,270 1,184 Total of domestic bases of ITOCHU corporation★ 11,552 11,237 11,326 11,084 Group companies in Japan 503,558 484,755 471,432 620,621 Overseas offices 3,466 3,424 3,087 2,224 Overseas group companies 149,151 147,665 143,485 500,777 Grand total of ITOCHU Group◆ 667,727 647,081 629,329 1,134,705 For the Tokyo headquarters, data has been calculated in accordance with the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation. For the Osaka headquarters, branches in Japan, other branches and business facilities in Japan and group companies in Japan, data has been calculated in accordance with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. However, companies that are held for investment purposes that are expected to be sold within the coming five years are not included in the scope of data. The CO2 emissions of places of business that are not manufacturing sites and have no more than 10 employees are not included in the scope of data because the amount of CO2 emissions is insignificant. CO2 Emissions from Business Facilities Unit:t-CO2 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Tokyo headquarters 5,133 6,229 6,459 6,307 Osaka headquarters 238 235 221 208 Branches in Japan 272 208 180 175 Other branches and business facilities in Japan 741 664 641 582 Total of domestic bases of ITOCHU corporation★ 6,383 7,336 7,501 7,273 Intensity figures per employee (Total of domestic 1.498 1.714 1.737 1.660 bases of ITOCHU corporation) Intensity figures per one square meter of all floor space (Total of domestic bases of ITOCHU 0.054 0.063 0.064 0.063 corporation) Group companies in Japan 364,772 369,775 340,559 1,186,179 Overseas offices 1,940 1,907 2,238 1,674 Overseas group companies 103,181 102,372 98,427 955,559 Grand total of ITOCHU Group◆ 476,226 481,389 448,725 2,150,685 74 Our Initiatives for Environment For the Tokyo headquarters, data has been calculated in accordance with the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation. For the Osaka headquarters, domestic branches and offices, other business facilities and Group companies in Japan, data has been calculated in accordance with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy and the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. For overseas offices and overseas group companies, the figures are calculated using the CO2 conversion factors for each countries (average 2010-2012) found in the International Energy Agency (IEA)'s statistics. For the total of domestic bases of ITOCHU Corporation, CO2 emission of Scope 1 is 98t-CO2★ and CO2 emission of Scope 2 is 7,175t-CO2★ For all ITOCHU Group, CO2 emission of Scope 1 is 1,540,041t-CO2◆ and CO2 emission of Scope 2 is 610,644t-CO2◆ CO2 Emissions per MWh from electricity generation Unit:t-CO2/MWh FY2017 FY2018 Grand total of ITOCHU group 0.524 0.506 Energy consumption of Business Facilities Unit︓GJ FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Tokyo headquarters 130,393 129,084 134,076 130,977 For the Tokyo headquarters, data has been calculated in accordance with the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation. All domestic bases of ITOCHU Corporation Energy consumption FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Non-renewable fuels purchased and consumed 903 805 765 610 (Unit:MWh) Non-renewable electricity 26,481 25,955 30,282 29,558 purchased (Unit:MWh) Steam / heating / cooling and other energy (non11,286 11,286 8,299 8,206 renewable) purchased (Unit:MWh) Total renewable energy generated (PV) 106 87 58 58 (Unit:MWh) Total costs of energy consumption (Unit:million 587 580 564 576 yen) Waste Volume The table below shows the waste volume generated in Tokyo headquarters building, group companies in Japan, overseas offices and overseas group companies from FY2015 to FY2018. We have been promoting waste segregation. We, at the Tokyo headquarters, are striving to reduce their waste generation with a target of achieving a 10% reduction of waste generated compared with FY2011 levels. Through initiatives such as 2-in-1 and doublesided printing, ITOCHU has been able to reduce waste volume, and in FY2015 the Tokyo headquarters building received a Minato Ward Waste Reducing Business Operator Commendation. 75 Our Initiatives for Environment FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Waste volume 654 711 674 698 Tokyo headquarters (Unit: t) building★ Recycling rate 95 95 94.3 93.8 (Unit: %) Group companies in Waste volume 21,825 23,470 21,947 177,526 Japan* (Unit: t) Waste volume Overseas offices 7 9 33 5 (Unit: t) Overseas group Waste volume 14,271 14,569 10,016 141,392 companies (Unit: t) The waste volume of Tokyo headquarters includes waste sold as valuable resources. Paper Consumption The table below shows the paper consumption from FY2015 to FY2018.(FY2015-2016 Tokyo headquarters, FY20172018 All domestic bases of ITOCHU Corporation) We, at the Tokyo headquarters, have been promoting the reduction of paper consumption, with a target of reducing paper consumption by 3% compared with FY2011 levels, by means such as encouraging paperless activities and stopping the unnecessary use of paper. Unit: Thousand sheets (A4 equivalent) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Copy paper consumption 34,575 31,896 34,940 32,949 Water Consumption and Wastewater Discharge The table below shows the water consumption, gray water production and wastewater discharge in Tokyo headquarters and water discharge in group companies, overseas offices and overseas group companies from FY2015 to FY2018. We, at the Tokyo headquarters, have been promoting efforts to reduce water consumption, with a target of reducing water consumption by 10% compared with FY2011 levels, through the recycling of used water for toilet flushing. Unit:m3 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 City water usage by the 45,501 46,922 52,248 43,039 Tokyo headquarters★ Gray water production by 36,658 35,729 30,736 33,830 the Tokyo headquarters★ Wastewater discharge by 64,329 62,857 63,446 58,129 the Tokyo headquarters★ Wastewater discharge by group companies in 1,042,686 981,549 846,700 14,628,762 Japan* Wastewater discharge by 9,679 5,932 5,722 5,863 overseas offices* Wastewater discharge by Overseas group 339,543 205,394 207,267 11,831,598 companies* * Calculation assumes the same volume as water consumption when wastewater discharge has not been ascertained. 76 Our Initiatives for Environment Environmental conservation at the Tokyo Headquarters Building Solar power generation We installed solar panels on the roofs of our TOKYO headquarters and the adjacent CI Plaza. It has started to generate electricity since March 2010. The capacity of generation for solar panels is total 100kW which is equivalent to panels on prevailing 30 detached houses (approximately 3.0kW per detached houses). We make use of all clean energy generated with these solar panels in our TOKYO headquarters and it regards as electric energy (Maximum power generation at moment) covered 3.5 floors lighting. Effective Use of Water Resources Since the treatment facilities for recovered water (gray water, rainwater and spring water) were installed when the Tokyo headquarters was built in 1980, recovered water have been effectively utilized to flush the toilets. The change on amount of securing gray water may be caused by the rainfall every year so that city water usage tends to increase when the rainfall is a little. Therefore, we take care of saving water to install the devise for economize hand washing water and flushing in toilets. Tokyo Metropolitan Government Program to prevent Global Warming ITOCHU Corporation submitted the Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FY2016 to 2020 to the Tokyo Metropolitan Government, in accordance with their Ordinance on Environmental Preservation. In the plan, we committed to reduce CO2 emissions in the Tokyo headquarters by 15%, compared to the benchmark (the average of annual CO2 emissions from FY2003 to 2005). Emissions in FY2017 came to 6,459 tons CO2, down around 39% from the benchmark. Those below submitted to Tokyo Metropolitan Government are available in Japanese. Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FY2011 to 2015 (Submitted in November 2011) (Japanese Only) Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FY2011 to 2015 (Submitted in November 2012) (Japanese Only) Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FY2011 to 2015 (Submitted in November 2013) (Japanese Only) Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FY2011 to 2015 (Submitted in November 2014) (Japanese Only) Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FY2011 to 2015 (Submitted in November 2015) (Japanese Only) Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FY2016 to 2020 (Submitted in November 2016) (Japanese Only) Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FY2016 to 2020 (Submitted in November 2017) (Japanese Only) * The plan submitted to Tokyo Metropolitan Government for greenhouse gas emission reduction includes not only the Tokyo headquarters, but also the adjacent commercial facility, CI PLAZA . 77 Our Initiatives for Environment Participation in COOL CHOICE ITOCHU Corporation is participating in COOL CHOICE, the campaign aimed at building a low-carbon society to alleviate climate change, led by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment. In keeping with this participation, it is striving to hold down use of airconditioning in summer and heating in winter, and to turn power off when not needed. It is also promoting other activities of environmental conservation that can readily be performed by all employees in their workplaces, such as rigorous sorting of refuse in the office and extensive recycling. 78 Our Initiatives for Environment Environmental Accounting Environmental Conservation Costs The environmental conservation costs for all of ITOCHU Corporation's domestic branches in FY2018 are as follows. (Unit: 1,000 yen) Classification Amount Costs inside business areas 690,574 Up/downstream costs 14,676 Management activity costs 131,935 Research and development costs 500 Social activity costs 7,810 Costs to address environmental damage 8,457 Total 853,952 Summarized based on the Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 Edition from the Ministry of the Environment. Scope of Calculation: All domestic branches Target period: April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018 Environmental Conservation / Economic Effects The environmental conservation effects and economic effects of ITOCHU Corporation's paper and electricity usage and waste emissions for fiscal 2018 are as follows. Environmental Economic Effects Conservation Effects (Unit:1,000JPY) Paper Usage 1,991,000sheets 1,413 Electricity Usage 300,000kWh 6,002 Waste Emissions -24t -1,200 Water Usage 14,526m3 5,762 Environmental conservation and economic effects are calculated by subtracting actual values for the current fiscal year from those for the previous fiscal year. Scope of Calculation: Paper and Water Usage Tokyo Headquarters building, Electricity Usage, Waste EmissionsAll of domestic branches. Monitoring the State of Environmental Liabilities With respect to environmental risks, particularly asbestos, PCB and soil contamination, associated with tangible fixed assets of ITOCHU Corporation itself and its Group companies including land and buildings, ITOCHU not only complies with legal requirements but also conducts monitoring on a voluntary basis and seeks to respond in a way that is conducive to the switch determination and judgment of management policies. In fiscal 2018, ITOCHU will continue to promote the sharing of related information through various training (P71) such as training sessions on the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act. 79 Our Initiatives for Environment Initiatives toward Environmental Distribution ITOCHU Corporation is working on green distribution that will reduce the burden on the environment in order to comply with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. Carbon Dioxide Emissions Associated with Distribution The following graph shows the CO2 emissions associated with the outsourced shipment of goods consigned by ITOCHU Corporation. Change in CO2 Emissions Attributed to Distribution★ ★ Data assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd, an external assurance provider based on the international standard ISAE 3000 & ISAE 3410. FY2016 data was corrected because there was an error. Environmental Energy-Saving Measures Environmental Energy-saving measures are set forth in the following measures and policies in effect across the company. In addition to these, each division company formulates specific measures. Selection of Modes of Transportation Promoting utilization of rail and sea transportation Use of partial and consolidated cargo services Actions to Improve Transportation Selection of appropriate vehicle models and larger vehicles Efficiency Transportation route ingenuity Improved loading ratios Coordination between freight carriers Review of transportation plans, frequency, etc. and recipients 80 Our Initiatives for Environment Specific Measures 1) Selection of Modes of Transportation Examine and analyze the circumstances of long-haul truck-based transportation and consider changing modes of transportation, starting with businesses able to transition to rail and domestic vessel-based transportation, which place a comparatively lighter burden on the environment. 2) Actions to Improve Transportation Efficiency Examine the circumstances of transportation and consider actions such as appropriate vehicle model and transportation route selection. Further, try to improve loading efficiency and reduce specific energy consumption. 3) Coordination between Freight Carriers and Recipients ITOCHU's internal judgment criteria on the use of distribution companies requires it to check the status of a company's environmental distribution initiatives and recommends the usage of accredited companies. To achieve measures (1) and (2) above, ITOCHU will endeavor to build cooperative frameworks with distribution companies as well as partner suppliers and other parties. 81 Employee Relations As a general trading company that has a diverse range of businesses around the world, ITOCHU believes that the human resources are its greatest management asset. Accordingly, ITOCHU will proactively advance efforts to develop and strengthen human resources as the management foundation supporting the growth of its business activities. We will continue to pursue human resources initiatives, such as cultivating industry professionals and creating systems in which diverse human resources can flourish globally. Human Resource Development and Training Supporting the Seeking of New Opportunities Ongoing Promotion of Global Human Resources Strategy Human resources are what support the stable, ongoing growth of ITOCHU Corporation. Since FY2008, ITOCHU has been promoting a global human resources strategy in order to maximize the value of human resources and optimize the talent development of the Group on a global basis. Specifically, in FY2011, we established leadership standards for managers and developed a global human resources database of organization managers*. We also created a Talent Management Process for recruiting, fostering, utilizing and promoting talented personnel who will play key roles in the expansion of revenues and profits overseas, by cooperating with each Division Company and the overseas blocs. In addition, the ITOCHU Mission and Values, which we have passed down since our establishment 160 years ago, are reflected in our recruitment standards and in our evaluation and human resources development programs. This enables us to hire and develop human resources around the world who are suited to ITOCHU's values. Talent Management Process * We are assigning, promoting, and developing human resources on a global basis regardless of nationality, by implementing the ITOCHU Global Classification (IGC) in FY2010 as a common measure of job level / level of responsibility for all jobs and positions worldwide. * Related Data: Number of overseas bloc employees by region (P109) 82 Employee Relations Development Policy Our human resource development activities are available Basic Structure of Human Resource Development to employees throughout the Group, both domestically Human resources supports the growth of the ITOCHU and in overseas blocs. Based on each employee's work Group. experience and abilities, we strive to help them develop Human resource development at ITOCHU Corporation into professionals who play an active role in their is centered on valuable job experience via on-the-job business field and to provide them with the skills training (OJT). To augment this, we help employees to necessary to manage business on a global level. cultivate the motivation and willingness to develop Through individual evaluations and feedback, centered themselves through individual evaluations and on valuable job experience via on-the-job training (OJT), feedback and provide them with skills and knowledge we help to cultivate the motivation and willingness of through training. Further, we provide them with employees to increase their career opportunities within opportunities to develop based on the aptitude and the Group. To further support employees' selfcareer of employee, becoming professional human development, we not only provide skills and knowledge resources in the industry that play an active role in through training but also actively support career their respective business fields, and then to the global development. We will continue to invest substantially in management human resources that play leading roles our human resources, while at the same time promoting in businesses in the world. human resources development which is proactively led by the front-lines. Our philosophy is at the core of our human resource development. We will fulfill our Infinite Missions by maintaining the spirit of sampo yoshi and Committed to the Global Good. Training System ITOCHU Corporation's training system consists of company-wide training structures and line training structures for each Division Company and administrative divisions, which are designed in light of industry characteristics, specialties, and other elements. We provide opportunities for human resources at all job levels to develop a wide range of capabilities. This includes not only Headquarters employees but also locally hired overseas staff and Group company employees. For overseas blocks, we have established original training systems for each block based on the characteristics of the business and market and reflecting the required skills and specialties. We combine these schemes with the training system of ITOCHU Corporation to facilitate the development of professionals who can manage business on a global level. 83 Employee Relations GEP: Global Executive Program, GLP: Global Leadership Program, GNP: Global Network Program, NS UTR: National Staff U-turn Rotation Training, GPP: Global Partnership Program for Subsidiary Staff Key Points of Human Resources Development As the key points of our human resources development, we focus on consolidation, overseas and front-line capabilities. First, from the viewpoint of consolidation, in FY2014 we built a structure for developing human resources who can play key roles in the business management of Group companies. Specifically, we introduced programs aimed at allowing employees to obtain further basic knowledge of business management and risk management methods. One example is an administrative intern program focused on enabling employees to acquire experience working in in-house administrative Global Development Program units, such as the Audit Division and the Legal Division, for a certain period of time. In FY2015, we also introduced a training program to enable accounting operations to be learned efficiently in a short period of time through hands-on exercises as an essential training program for junior staff. We continue to expand the lineup of training programs for employees of Group companies so that the employees of domestic Group companies will improve their skills and expand their network within the Group. Next, from the viewpoint of overseas, we provide training in such forms as global development programs (GEP, GLP, GNP and GPP*) and the dispatch of staff to business schools for short-term programs, with a view to nurturing the growth of global management human resources. In addition, in order to develop English language skills and an international perspective among junior staff at headquarters in Japan, we instituted a program for short-term dispatch overseas in 1999, ahead of other companies in our industry. At present, we are developing candidates for future growth into specialists in each market by dispatching our junior staff, in short term, to China and other emerging markets, for training in Chinese and other languages. 84 Employee Relations From the viewpoint of front-line capabilities, we provide diverse object-oriented training such as training to support career visions and independent training based on the human resources strategy of each Division Company and the headquarters administrative divisions, in order to produce professionals with diverse outlooks on value. * Global Executive Program (GEP): This core part of the global talent development program provides training to cultivate global executives. * Global Leadership Program (GLP): The purpose of this training is to cultivate organization managers who can be active in global business. * Global Network Program (GNP): The purpose of this trarining is to understand ITOCHU's corporate philosophy, history, business outline and to help create network among participating members. * Global Partnership Program (GPP): This training is for overseas group company employees. The purpose of this training is to understand ITOCHU's corporate philosophy, history, business outline, and to help createbuild a network amongof ITOCHU Group. Number of employees participated in major training programs Name of Training program FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Administrative intern program 111 115 121 Global development program 126 128 134 Organization manager workshops 426 417 403 Dispatch of staff to business 41 51 39 schools for short-term Junior staff overseas training for Chinese and Junior staff overseas 52 52 61 training for multi-language Chinese lesson 390 469 614 Career vision support training (the 2,097 2,108 2,075 total number of participants) Time and cost allotted for capability development training of employees FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total number of hours of training 193,839 200,195 217,734 in the year (Unit: hours) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Average length of time spent on education and training/human 45.3 46.72 50.81 resource development per regular employee* (Unit: hours) Average amount of expenses for education and training/human 266 359 334 resource development per regular employee (Unit: thousand yen) * Calculation formula: Total number of hours of training in the year / Number of employees as of the end of each fiscal year 85 Employee Relations Human Resources Synergies with CPG and CITIC In January 2015, ITOCHU Corporation entered into a strategic business alliance including capital participation with Charoen Pokphand Group Company Limited ( CPG ), one of Asian leading conglomerates and CITIC Limited ( CITIC ), one of Chinese largest conglomerates. Later, in January 2016, the three companies signed a memorandum of understanding towards enhanced human resources synergies as a basis for creating business synergies between them and increasing corporate value in the medium to long term. The memorandum of understanding is aimed at constructing a strong, consolidated human resources ITOCHU Assembly of 1,000 Chinese network between the three companies—through initiatives such as Speakers (Tokyo Headquarters), for short-to-long-term human resources dispatch and exchange, dispatch of which Chinese-speaking employees employees to participate in existing training programs at each company, gathered and the hosting of newly created combined training seminars—as the foundation that will underpin the strategic alliance. In May 2016, the three companies held the first combined training seminar in Tokyo. In FY2018, they held the second seminar in Beijing, where CITIC is based. ITOCHU head office section chief-level employees and employees with equivalent levels at CITIC and CPG are selected to participate in the seminar, which aims to create a strong human resources network as partners, with each participant working to gain sufficient mutual understanding of the management policies, values, history and main business operations, etc., of each company and holding thorough debating sessions with a view to the creation of business synergies. In FY2019, thecombined training seminar is planned to be held in Bangkok, where CPG is based. The three companies steadily implement the initiatives mentioned above — that is, the short-to-long-term human resource dispatch and exchange and the acceptance of employees to participate in existing training programs at each company. In addition, given the execution of the strategic business alliance with capital participation with CPG and CITIC, we launched a project in FY2016 for developing 1,000 Chinese-speaking human resources, which is one-third of all career-track employees. We have thus made tremendous efforts toward proceeding thoroughly with establishing the foundation of the language. At the end of FY2018, the target number of 1,000 human resources was achieved. On April 13, 2018, the ITOCHU Assembly of 1,000 Chinese Speakers was held simultaneously at three venues in Tokyo, Osaka, and Shanghai. On the day of this event, Chinese-speaking employees gathered at the venues and celebrated the achievement together via a video conferencing system. It served as an opportunity to further promote our business expansion in China and Asia. July 2015 March 2016 March 2017 March 2018 Number of Certified 361 430 793 1,043 Chinese Speakers ITOCHU Morning Activity Seminar In September 2016, as a measure for promoting the morning-focused working system, we began to hold the ITOCHU Morning Activity Seminar during the early-morning hours to deepen the knowledge of our employees, develop their capabilities, and increase their vitality. In FY2018, the seminar was held on ten different occasions with 1,895 participants and the themes of the seminars were various such as businesses in China, performance improvement, business efficiency improvement, cash flows, AI, sleeping, etc. Participants made comments such as, I attended a beneficial lecture before work, which made me feel very positive and I think this ITOCHU Morning Activity Seminar initiative is exactly what ITOCHU is expected to do. We plan to continue holding the seminars on a regular basis. 86 Employee Relations Major seminars Date Title Lecturer July 2017 Stress management taught by a brain scientist Mr. Kenichiro Mogi, a brain scientist Thoughts and decisions in the AI era: How humans Mr. Yoshiharu Habu, a professional February 2018 should co-exist with artificial intelligence shogi player Personnel Evaluation Systems Personnel evaluation systems are positioned as the foundation of a personnel system that helps employees realize their full potential with enthusiasm and drive. One of these systems is the management by objectives (MBO) structure, which functions as the driver of management strategy by dividing objectives among individual employees based on the company-wide management plan and verifying their execution. We have also established a human resources assessment system that takes a comprehensive look at the skills, expertise, past careers, aspirations and suitability of individual employees and utilizes this information for placement and transfer plans. We regard fair and equitable evaluations by supervisors and feedback through interviews with subordinates as critically important to ensure proper functioning of these personnel evaluation systems. We make use of evaluator training, multi-rater 180 assessment* and other activities to communicate the importance of encouraging employee growth and development to supervisors. * Multi-rater 180 assessment: A system aimed at reviewing daily personnel administration and management activities, which are difficult for the head of an organization to notice, through feedback on the results of observations by the head of the organization and their subordinates, to improve their activities and capabilities as necessary Overall picture of the personnel evaluation systems 87 Employee Relations Creating Environments that Bring Out the Best in Employees Promotion of Working-Style Reforms ITOCHU Corporation believes that employees are its greatest asset, and that the full exertion of each individual employee's capabilities will lead to an improvement in corporate value. Based on this belief, ITOCHU has pursued a range of initiatives to develop environments where all employees can utilize their respective characteristics and concentrate on work at ease. The morning-focused working style, which we introduced in October 2013 as a measure for working-style reforms, has greatly influenced the government and many companies. More than four years after its introduction, it continues to give the results steadily as the core element of the company's workingstyle reforms. For Health and Productivity Management, which we began to work on in full scale in FY2017, we promote a range of measures for improving the health of employees, based primarily on the ITOCHU Health Charter (established in June 2016). These include the introduction of the Health MyPage apps, via which all employees can manage their health statuses, individual programs for employees who have a high potential risk of suffering from lifestyle-related diseases (distribution of wearable terminals for health and diet and exercise instructions by experts), and enhanced support for smoking cessation (grants of aid money to reimburse the full amount of medical costs involved in smoking cessation). In addition, we opened a new health-focused integrated dormitory for unmarried employees in April 2018. As the leading company in working-style reforms and Health and Productivity Management, ITOCHU will continue to implement a range of initiatives in a pioneering manner to establish an environment where employees find it worthwhile to work for the company. See P97 for details of the morning-focused working style. See P99 for details of the Health and Productivity Management. Supporting the Activity of Diverse Human Resources Amid intensifying global economy, we at ITOCHU Corporation believe that diversity as an organization is indispensable for accurate response to diversifying needs in the global market as well as continuous creation of new business and additional value. Based on this belief, we formulated the Plan for Promotion of Human Resource Diversification in December 2003 and set about efforts to increase the number of diverse personnel and support their acclimation and activity. We are committed to continued efforts to prepare environments enabling each and every employee to exercise his or her unique talents to the fullest, and to strengthen our power on both the individual and organizational levels. By so doing, we are going to make ITOCHU an attractive company with attractive corporate culture. ITOCHU Corporation's measures for human resource diversification 88 Employee Relations (1) Supporting the career development of female employees Among its measures for human resource diversification, ITOCHU Corporation focuses primarily on supporting the career development of women. We have increased the number of female employees by promoting the Plan for Promotion of Human Resource Diversification. We have also expanded and upgraded systems far and above those required by law to help female employees succeed in both work and family life. At present, we are implementing a Gen Ko Tsu Reform (Gen for genba, or front line, ko for kobetsu, or individual, and tsu for tsunagari, or connection ). Under this reform, we promote individual support measures based on the life stages and careers of individual employees. At the same time, we focus our efforts on creating role models of women with successful careers, developing an environment that enables women to work with a sense of job satisfaction, and fostering candidates for future management, mainly through training programs for nurturing career consciousness among young female career-track employees and various forums. The number of female managements and career-track employees Year April 2016 April 2017 April 2018 FY2021 Target Female management 5.2% 5.9% 7.0% Over 10.0% Female management / All management 130/2,479 149/2,505 175/2,515 Female career-track employee 8.8% 9.1% 9.5% Over 10.0% Female career-track employee / All career-track employee 307/3,490 323/3,531 337/3,539 Measures for supporting female career-track employees 89 Employee Relations Gen Ko Tsu Reform Support for nurturing career consciousness among female career-track employees Support for career development by clerical staff In FY2016, ITOCHU Corporation began to organize the Clerical Staff Career Workshop for clerical staff members in the highest job grade. This training is aimed at fostering the mentality of a role model for core clerical human resources and improving skills for demonstrating leadership in the workplace, by giving trainees companywide roles. Around 20 people from among subject employees of the overall company participate in this training. Over the one-year period of this training, participants carry out missions including giving suggestions about important companywide issues to the General Manager of Human Resources & General Affairs Division, mentoring clerical staff in their sixth year, participation in activities for recruiting clerical staff, and playing a role on the frontline. (2) Supporting the utilization of senior human resources ITOCHU Corporation has been proactive in supporting the employment of aged workers. In light of factors such as the declining birth rate and aging population in Japan and support for the utilization of diverse human resources, we have introduced an employment extension system as a new option in addition to mandatory retirement at the age of sixty. This provides an environment in which willing employees can continue to play an active role so that their wealth of knowledge and experience can be utilized after they reach the mandatory retirement age. In addition, we give seminars on life planning and other topics to those who have reached the age of fifty-eight, thereby providing them with support in terms of work styles and financial planning following the employment extension. We will make further efforts to develop environments in which aged employees can continue to work with even greater drive and enthusiasm. 90 Employee Relations (3) Creating harassment-free workplaces ITOCHU Corporation aims to create workplaces where no employee suffers power harassment* or sexual harassment (including disadvantageous treatment or harassment of employees who are sexual minorities) and where employees with time constraints (employees who are pregnant or engage in childcare or nursing care) can work without hesitation. We use in-house training programs for organizational heads to raise employees' awareness of the importance of preventing and tackling harassment and informing employees of related systems and communicating with them. We take thoroughgoing measures to create a workplace environment where discriminatory remarks related to sexual preference or gender identity and comments based on unconscious sexual discrimination will never be tolerated. We have also set up a consultation desk for employees. For employees who have time constraints due to childcare or nursing care, their superiors encourage them to balance work and childcare or nursing care by utilizing the related systems appropriately, and we inform employees of the importance of reviewing the contents of work, division of duties, and ways of working in the overall workplace. * An act of causing emotional distress or physical pain to a person who works in the same workplace or of worsening the workplace environment beyond the appropriate boundaries for work, based on one's superior position in the workplace in terms of job rank or interpersonal relationship. Supporting the Participation in Society by People with Disability In 1987, ITOCHU Corporation established ITOCHU Uneedus Co., Ltd., the first special subsidiary in Yokohama in Kanagawa Prefecture for the purpose of giving people with disabilities, such as physical disabilities and intellectual disabilities, a desire to work and places where they find working worthwhile. This company handles cleaning, photography and printing services, mail services, laundry and cleaning services, Left: ITOCHU Uneedus Co., Ltd New office building and others under the motto of strict quality control and (Tsuzuki-ku, Yokohama) cordial service. In the cleaning division, people with Right: Employees of the cleaning division at work http://www.uneedus.co.jp/ disabilities and those without help each other perform all the cleaning-related processes. In November 2015, ITOCHU Uneedus Co., Ltd. was relocated to a new office building in Tsuzuki-ku, Yokohama that boasts a floor area that is 2.4 times wider than the old building and possesses the latest equipment. The purpose of this move was to provide a more comfortable work environment for staff members with various disabilities, as well as expand the business. As of March 2018, the proportion of our workforce with disabilities is 2.04%. ITOCHU Uneedus Co., Ltd. celebrated its 30th anniversary in 2017. We will continue to actively help people with disabilities participate in society. * Related Data︓Employment ratio of people with disabilities (P110) A good balance between Work and Childcare/Nursing care Systems for Providing Support for Work as well as Employees' Childcare and Nursing Care During the course of their working lives, most employees inevitably pass through life stages that require them to render childcare and nursing care. To enable them to continue working with peace of mind and demonstrate their fullest potential, ITOCHU has expanded and upgraded systems to help that are far and above those required by law. These systems are available to both male and female employees, and provide support for them to succeed in their work as well as child and / or nursing care duties. Concerning childcare leave for male employees, which had been taken only by a few employees, we began to implement a campaign in FY2016 to encourage male employees to take childcare leave by involving their supervisors as well. As a result, 168 male employees took childcare leave during the three years until FY2018. Also, in FY2016, we carried out a trial of a work-from-home system for those who need to stay home due to childcare or nursing care. In FY2017, we officially introduced the work from home system, which is applied based on specific criteria to employees who have time constraints due to childcare, nursing care, or similar reasons and those who have difficulty commuting for reasons such as pregnancy, injury, or illness. In response to the growing social importance of being prepared for nursing care, we hold an annual nursing care seminar and introduced online services for providing nursing care information and consultations in FY2018. 91 Employee Relations Support for Childcare Support for Nursing Care * Related Data︓ Acquisition of leave according to child care or nursing care related systems (P110) 92 Employee Relations ITOCHU Kids Day for Visiting Dad and Mom at Work Since 2014, we regularly invite elementary school boys and girls to ITOCHU Kids Day— an initiative where the sons and daughters of employees can visit their dads and moms at work. They visit their parents in the office and practice exchanging name cards with people at work, using their own cards printed especially for Kids Day. They also hold a mock conference in the Board of Directors conference room, and enjoy lunch in the employee cafeteria as virtual ITOCHU employees. Kids Day is very favorably received among the parents, who are grateful to see their children develop an interest in their parents' jobs at ITOCHU and have reported that their children said they wanted to work for ITOCHU in the future. The company also considers such measures for strengthening family ties and the understanding of ITOCHU to be very significant, and plans to continue holding ITOCHU Kids Day in the future. Career Support Career Counseling The Career Counseling Center offers a wide range of counseling and support for diverse career stages, ranging from new recruits to organization managers. All of the counselors in the Career Counseling Center have obtained the national career consultant certification. They provide consultations by discussing an array of topics fit for the circumstances of each individual seeking a consultation, including relationships with supervisors, junior staff and peers, approaches to work and considerations about one's own future. A system is in place for all young employees to receive career counseling when they reach certain milestones in their ITOCHU careers, as part of their training. Counseling is also available to mid-career employees as well as middle-aged employees looking to continue working. The number of visits to the Career Counseling Center to undergo counseling has exceeded 500. The Career Counseling Center aims to provide ITOCHU employees with the opportunity to discover something new about their career development by allowing them to have discussions with a sense of security from the thoroughgoing measures for maintaining confidentiality taken at the Center. Trial Implementation of the Challenge Career System This system was implemented twice on a trial-basis, or in FY2017 and FY2018, for career-track employees (excluding organizational manager) working in Japan as a measure for increasing the mobility of human resources. Under this system, an employee checks the list of job openings announced on the internal intranet in advance and makes a request to their supervisor for a transfer to their desired position. Once approval is obtained from the supervisor, the employee is introduced to the desired transfer destination, and if the department accepts the employee, a transfer beyond the boundaries of Division Companies and administrative divisions is carried out. This system is aimed at increasing employees' motivation by providing the opportunities for career options and enhancing the organizing ability by fostering career awareness among them. Under this system, three employees were transferred in FY2017 and informal decisions to transfer two employees were made in FY2018. We will consider future measures based on the results of the trial implementation in two years. Overall schedule 93 Employee Relations Working Environment/Style Dress-down Days In June 2017, ITOCHU introduced Dress-down Days as a new method of work-style reform with the aim of creating an environment that allows each employee to demonstrate their capabilities further and work vibrantly. Fridays are designated as Dress-down Days, when employees are allowed to dress down to a level below the previous Casual Fridays, instead of wearing business suits uniformly, based on the premise that what they wear are work clothes that are suitable for business settings. Employees are also allowed to wear jeans and sneakers and are encouraged to wear outfits more freely to express the characteristics of ITOCHU. This program aims to develop employees' ability to think flexibly and create a workplace environment that facilitates the creation of new ideas by having employees think about how to dress down while being conscious of their relationships with customers or the people around them. To raise employees' awareness of the program and spread it among them, the following key measures were implemented in FY2018. We will continue to plan programs that are appropriate for each season. A program under which around 10 employees have their own stylists to help them undergo a total makeover and experience new styles, with the cooperation of Isetan Shinjuku Store of Isetan Mitsukoshi Ltd., three times a year — that is in summer, autumn/ winter and spring. Internal events in which employees are recommended to wear a specific item — such as Jeans Day and Sneaker Day — and which involve a concurrently related event such as a sale with the cooperation of an ITOCHU Group company/associated company and a lecture on dressing given by a stylist. Cooldown Rooms In June 2012, ITOCHU Corporation introduced Cooldown Rooms, where summer heat is alleviated, on the first floor and first basement floor of the Tokyo Headquarters building. These rooms are aimed at keeping visitors comfortable in the building and providing employees with a comfortable working environment. As a measure for preventing global warming and saving electricity during summer, when power demand increases, ITOCHU ensures that the temperature setting of the air conditioners in the building is not lower than 28 degrees centigrade. However, the Cooldown Rooms have lower ceilings than other rooms for greater air-conditioning efficiency. Cool air of 15 degrees centigrade is supplied to the rooms to keep the temperature at 20 degrees centigrade or lower. The rooms thus cool down people who visit the building on hot summer days and employees who return from sales activities outside. In addition, in December 2016, we began to make effective use of the Cooldown Rooms in winter by raising the temperature setting to warm people up and established ITOCHU History, a section for history exhibitions, so that many people can experience the pioneering spirit of ITOCHU. Shower Lounge and Shower Room As a measure for creating a workplace environment that provides job satisfaction, ITOCHU introduced a shower lounge on the third floor and a shower room on the second basement floor of the Tokyo Headquarters building in the summer of 2016. Employees who returned from business trips by early morning flight would say that the airport shower rooms were crowded and that they had to use external facilities (such as gyms and saunas) on their way to work. In response to this feedback, ITOCHU established these facilities in the Headquarters building so that employees who have returned from business trips are able to start working in comfort. The facilities are equipped with overhead showers, which warm up the body immediately, even in winter, and amenities (towels, hair driers, shampoo, and conditioner). A total of 660 employees have used these facilities in a period of about 21 months since they were opened. The employees greatly appreciate the facilities, stating that they make it possible to work in comfort. In response to employee other requests, these facilities are now open for longer hours and are also available for employees who have exercised to improve their health. These facilities are also open to employees of affiliate companies. 94 Employee Relations The Hiyoshi Domitory In March 2018, ITOCHU Corporation established the Hiyoshi Dormitory (Kohoku-ku, Yokohama-shi, Kanagawa), a dormitory for unmarried employees with approx. 360 dwelling units, by integrating dormitories for unmarried male employees that were scattered in four locations in the Tokyo Metropolitan area. This dormitory was designed under the concept of under the same roof, instead of being positioned as a mere welfare facility. The dormitory is therefore equipped with a range of common utilities, which are designed to serve as gathering places for residents and deepen their communications beyond the boundaries of their ages and divisions. These include a dining room with a shared kitchen, a multi-purpose meeting room, a large bathroom with a sauna, and communication spaces on each floor (space for studying and an open terrace). From the viewpoint of initiatives such as Health and Productivity Management, the cafeteria in the dormitory provides dietary instructions by taking measures such as serving nutritionally balanced meals for breakfast and dinner. We also provide residents with exercise opportunities by tying up with a local fitness club. In addition, smoking is prohibited in the entire dormitory, including private rooms of residents, and is permitted only in designated areas. For those who wish to quit smoking, we provide a smoking cessation program using a smartphone application. These and other initiatives are taken to create an environment that encourages employees to reform their workstyles voluntarily and improve their health. As part of business continuity plan (BCP) for disasters, this dormitory is designed to function as a secondary office for the Tokyo Head Office. It has the same internet environment as that of the office and power supply equipment that is ready to supply electricity. Food, water, emergency supplies and other items are also stocked in the dormitory. Major Awards and Certifications ITOCHU Corporation's initiatives for creating environments that bring out the best in employees have earned high praise from various quarters. In FY2018, ITOCHU Corporation received the Award for Excellence from the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare in the Family-friendly Companies category, for Excellent Equal Opportunity/Work and Family-Life Balance Companies. ITOCHU was also selected a Best Practice Company in a program in which the Tokyo Labor Bureau selects companies that are proactive in reducing prolonged work. In addition, ITOCHU received the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare Prize in the 2017 Award for Companies Promoting Cancer Control in the Action Plan for Promotion of Cancer Control as a project commissioned by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. The award was granted in recognition of the Support Measure for Balancing Cancer Care and Work, which began in FY2018. We also won an award of excellence in the Tokyo Metropolitan Government award commending companies that implement excellent initiatives to help cancer patients balance cancer treatment and work. 95 Employee Relations 2017 award for Tokyo Excellence from Metropolitan Minister of Health, the Minister of Government Labour and Health, Labour award Welfare Prize in and Welfare for commending the Award for New Diversity Excellent Equal companies that Platinum Kurumin Companies Management Opportunity/Work implement Authorization Promoting Cancer Selection 100 and Family-Life excellent Control in the Balance initiatives to help Action Plan for Companies cancer patients Promotion of ( Family-friendly balance cancer Cancer Control Companies treatment and category) work Companies with A project for A program A project A program excellent initiatives selecting excellent recognizing recognizing recognizing for providing companies that companies that companies that are companies that employees with provide diverse promote exemplary proactive in taking implement excellent support at work as human resources programs with an cancer control initiatives to help well as with with opportunities equal emphasis on measures and which cancer patients childcare receive and an environment work and childcare/ take comprehensive, balance cancer approval to display for exercising their nursing care. advanced cancer treatment and work. the Platinum potential (Selected (Selected in control measures. (Recognized in Kurumin in March 2016/ November 2017/ (Selected in February 2018/ Authorization mark. Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Health, February 2018/ Tokyo Metropolitan (Received on 2016 / Trade and Industry) Labour and Welfare) Ministry of Health, Government) Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) Labour and Welfare) Related Data︓Figures concerning employees（P109） Proportion of female career-track employee, manager, and executive officer（P109） Number of hires by gender（P109） 96 Employee Relations Introduction of Morning-Focused Working System Taking Steps to Achieve a More-Effective Working Style On May 1, 2014, ITOCHU officially introduced a morning-focused working system to achieve a more-effective working style. With a focus on managing employee health and promoting effective operations, ITOCHU has long sought to reduce overtime work. To that end, we decided that it was necessary to implement decisive reforms by reevaluating the traditional working style, which is based on the assumption that employees will work overtime. This progressive approach has made an impact on not only the industrial world but also political and business establishments. It has grown into a big movement that is changing the way Japanese people work. ITOCHU believes that this initiative will help individual employees to reform their approach to their own working styles and to advance well-balanced operational reforms. In this way, the Company will strive to achieve a work environment that further strengthens the effectiveness of operations, supports the maintenance and improvement of employees' health, and helps diverse employees, including female employees, to make full use of their capabilities. Outline and Effects of Initiatives during Trial Period Outline of Initiatives (Continued after official introduction) Night work (10 p.m.-5 a.m.) is prohibited. Work after 8 p.m.-10 p.m. is, in principle, prohibited, though it is permitted upon prior application when such work needs to be performed due to unavoidable reasons. As an incentive for employees who work early in the morning (5 a.m.-8 a.m.), extra wages are provided at the same rate paid for night work (employees subject to time management: 150%; employees not subject to time management: 25%). * When an employee starts working at 7:50 a.m. or before, the extra wage rate is applied not only for 5 a.m.-8 a.m. but also for 8 a.m.-9 a.m. From the perspective of managing employees' health, the Company provides light meals to employees who begin work before 8 a.m. Diagram of Morning-Focused Working System Providing light meals to employees Effects of Initiatives Prior to First year after Five years after introduction introduction introduction (FY2013) (FY2014) (FY2018) 8:00 p.m. or after About 30% About 7% About 5％ Leaving (10:00 p.m. or after (within 8:00 (About 10％) (Nearly 0) (Nearly 0) p.m. or after)) Entering 8:00 a.m. or before About 20% About 34% About 44% Hours of overtime work per person – About ▲ 7% About ▲ 11% Electricity consumption (since introduction) – – About ▲ 7% Paid leave acquisition rate (since introduction) – – About ▲ 11% 97 Employee Relations Initiatives Aimed at Occupational Health and Safety and Health and Productivity Management that Support the Activity of Employees For ITOCHU Corporation, employees are assets, and ensuring the health and safety of employee workplaces is one of the vital responsibilities a company must fulfill so that its employees can reach their full potential. To ensure that ITOCHU Corporation employees stationed around the world and their families can enjoy a meaningful assignment in safety and good health, we have built a full system placing President and COO at the top, not only for incidents, accidents, disasters and other emergencies, but also for health management. In addition, in order to realize its mission, Committed to the Global Good, ITOCHU Corporation also discusses occupational health and safety with ITOCHU Labor Union, to which approx. 80% of its employees belong (see Labor Union and Employee Welfare (P103～106) ). Labor and management enter repeated and active discussions to build up a healthy relationship that enables both sides to recognize and share challenges currently surrounding the company and to study and implement improvement measures. See P111 for the number of employees who received training on health and safety standards. Overview of Itochu Corporation's Occupational Health and Safety Management Organization Employee Security Management ITOCHU Corporation maintains global business operations with roughly 800 rotational staffs stationed overseas, and sends a total of ten thousand staffs on overseas business travel from Headquarters in Japan each year. In terms of overseas security management, because a close communication between the overseas location and Japan is important, the specialist who are in charge of overseas safety have assigned security management to staff in charge of human resources and general affairs in each regional headquarters of eight blocs worldwide. Information concerning politics, economics, public safety and other factors is periodically collected and disseminated internally, at the safety measures meeting, public security seminars, etc. We have also established a system to cover regions where information is more difficult to obtain through contracts with international security consultant firms. We provide seminars regarding safety and medical practices to our employees and their family, before and after dispatch to overseas. To prepare for emergencies such as diseases or injuries, including preventative measures for infectious diseases in the dispatched area, we collaborate with a special medical service company and developed complete support systems for preventative and post-incident measures, such as providing advice in case of sickness and injuries, including emergency transportation. 98 Employee Relations We make it mandatory for employees to be assigned overseas to receive the vaccinations recommended by the national government for each region. Vaccination-related expenses are assumed by the company. Such employees receive vaccinations at the Health Administration Center of ITOCHU Corporation or at a nearby travel clinic. With regard to safety initiatives in Japan, we implement countermeasures against large-scale disasters, such as earthquakes. These include the creation of a business continuity plan (BCP), the preparation of disaster supplies such as drinking water, food, and toilets, emergency drills, and training on responses to the safety confirmation service. We encourage our employees and their family to prepare for large-scale disasters, such as securing means of communicating with their families, ensuring that they have walking shoes available, and checking the route for walking home. Health and Productivity Management Based on the idea that each individual employee can maximize outcomes, it is the cornerstone of strengthening human resources ability to fulfill the corporate message I am ONE with Infinite Missions together with the development of employees' capabilities, the company's policy for Health and Productivity Management was clarified in ITOCHU Health Charter (established in June 2016). With this ITOCHU Health Charter as the core policy, we have implemented diverse initiatives in our efforts to enhance health and productivity. The Health Administration Center at ITOCHU's Tokyo Headquarters, which also serves as a clinic, has more than 20 specialist physicians on staff, as well as an X-ray technician and a pharmacist. For more than 30 years, we have been operating a system, as it were a health concierge without borders. In this system, health maintenance professionals provide individualized healthcare guidance to employees all over the world adapted to their individual conditions by cooperating closely with physicians who specialize in individual lifestyle-related diseases. We thus encourage improved productivity and health at ITOCHU Corporation through the health management of each employee. In terms of specific services, in addition to the above specialized disease management, we offer general medicine (internal medicine, orthopedics, dental), medical checkups (regular medical checkups, half-day complete medical checkups, medical checkups for employees traveling overseas and those returning temporarily or permanently), various vaccinations, and examinations (VDT examination, adult-onset disease examinations). We also offer medical counseling and provide information. In FY2017, the rate of employees working in Japan who received regular medical checkups was nearly 100%. In addition, in April 2017, we introduced the Health MyPage apps, which allow medical checkup results to be viewed and permit the centralized management of lifestyle habit data, such as number of steps, weight, body fat percentage, and calorie intake via PC and smartphone in our efforts to raise the health awareness of each employee. For young employees who have a high potential risk of suffering from lifestyle-related diseases, we have introduced individual programs under which we distribute wearable terminals for health to collect data on exercise and sleeping and manage data on diet as well, and enable them to receive diet and exercise instructions online every day from a health coach and national registered dietitian. Over 240 employees have used these programs and made achievements. Our Health Insurance Union operates two domestic recreation centers, and also cooperates with the Health Administration Center to fully support the smoking cessation treatment expenses, etc. 99 Employee Relations Initiatives for Employees Living with Cancer In accordance with the ITOCHU Health Charter that was established in June 2016, we began to promote support measure for balancing cancer care and work in August 2017. It is said that, at present, one out of every two Japanese develop cancer in their lifetimes. Every year, 850,000 individuals are diagnosed with cancer, with working-age adults accounting for 30% of them. Typically, cancer needs intensive treatment for a certain period of time, with a careful, long-term follow-up. At ITOCHU, there are some employees who are receiving treatment for cancer while continuing to work, and some who have regrettably passed away from cancer. We have determined that providing a work environment where employees continue to work without fear about cancer or yielding to it leads to positive work on the part of employees and the activation of the organization. Consequently, we have decided to introduce this measure from the following three points of view. Establishment of an environment where employees can receive consultation and share information without concern Enhancement of a system under which the entire organization provides support for the prevention, early detection, and treatment of cancer Establishment of internal systems and programs which permit employees to continue working and playing active roles while receiving treatment ITOCHU has to date had in place a support system for long-term illness, including an enhanced health management system, subsidies for high-cost medical care, and a flexible work/leave system. In addition to this, we have decided to promote the following new initiative as a support measure for balancing cancer care and work from the three perspectives of prevention, treatment, and symbiosis. Cooperation with National Cancer Center Prevention: Add Cancer Special Medical Examination which supervised by cancer specialist as an item of regular medical checkup, to improve the early detection rate. Treatment: Where the result of screening is positive, detailed examination at the National Cancer Center is arranged. If cancer is detected, cooperation with a specialist physician from the National Cancer Center is arranged immediately to start state-of-the-art treatment. Establishment of a system for providing support measure for balancing cancer care and work (See the figure below.) A coordinator for balancing cancer care and work is assigned to establish a system and climate in which the head of the organization and other employees can help the employee with cancer to balance cancer care and work. After the initial report is received, a plan to support balancing cancer care and work is formulated by following handling procedure that is appropriate for the pathology. Creation of a handbook for supporting balancing cancer care and work and establishment of a leave system for providing the support. Enhancing financial support for receiving advanced cancer care The company purchases a blanket policy to provide financial support for receiving advanced medical treatment which is not covered by insurance at all. Enhancement of scholarship support for children and job search for them Increasing the amount of scholarship paid to bereaved children for receiving graduate school education at the highest, by approx. two to three times than before. Where a bereaved child or spouse desires to work for the ITOCHU Group, a job is searched from within the Group. By promoting this measure, ITOCHU aims to achieve a workplace in which all employees, regardless of whether they are suffering from diseases or not, can continue working to the fullest potential, without concern and without restraint, while maintaining motivation and finding their work worthwhile. At the same time, we aim to become a company that is challenging but that does work worth doing, and a company that is the strongest and best in Japan. 100 Employee Relations Support system for balancing cancer and work in ITOCHU Corporation * Consultation window for career by qualified counselor Mental Health Where mental health is concerned, we have established a stress management room in-house, and offer counseling given by a clinical psychologist. Employees can also seek counseling from a company physician as well as seeing a psychiatrist in-house. Through our Health Insurance Union, we have set up the Health & Mind Online health consultation website where employees can seek consultations over the website or telephone. The revised Industrial Safety and Health Act came into force on December 1, 2015, employers are required to conduct stress checks to workers once a year. With the Health Administration Center playing the leading role, ITOCHU Corporation introduced stress checks on a trial basis in October 2015, one year in advance, and began to implement stress checks on a full-scale basis in FY2017. Working Hours Management We focus our efforts on reducing the total number of working hours, not to mention observing legislation including the 36 Agreement. To achieve more effective working style, ITOCHU Corporation introduced a morning-focused working system in October 2013, ahead of other companies. Under this initiative, we reviewed the work style that assumes overtime work and shifted from a night-focused style to morning-focused work centered on the basic hours of 9 a.m. to 5:15 p.m. As a result, the total number of working hours has been decreasing year by year. We believe that this initiative will not only enable the maintenance and improvement of our employees' health, but that it will also help female employees demonstrate their abilities and help employees achieve a good balance between work and family life. We are pursuing a well-balanced reform of work awareness and style among all employees, in order to discharge our corporate mission of Committed to the Global Good by always viewing things from the customer's perspective. The above initiatives were highly regarded by the Development Bank of Japan (DBJ), and ITOCHU Corporation obtained the highest rank in the DBJ's Health Management Rating System in FY2016 for the first time as a sogo shosha. ITOCHU Corporation was also selected as a Health and Productivity Stock 2016 and 2017 in the health and productivity management program jointly carried out by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange in the two consecutive. We succeeded in these areas because we have positioned working style reforms and Health and Productivity Management ) as important management strategies, introducing a morning-focused working system ahead of other companies, and promoting aggressive health enhancement measures throughout the entire company by cooperating with industrial physicians and the Health Insurance Union. 101 Employee Relations Application of the Initiatives to Group Companies Because we promote consolidated management, our initiatives for occupational health and safety and safety management cover not only employees of ITOCHU Corporation (including contract employees) but also those of ITOCHU Group companies. Specifically, initiatives also taken at Group companies are stress checks, safety initiatives in Japan, provision of overseas security information, collaborations with overseas security companies and medical service companies, and seminars provided before overseas assignments. The morning-focused working system has also been increasingly introduced at Group companies, and the overall ITOCHU Group is striving to reduce the total number of working hours and promote health enhancement among employees. In addition, workshops for obtaining knowledge and expertise on personnel and labor and human resources and labor management assessments are conducted regularly to strengthen the labor management of the overall ITOCHU Group. <Contents of support for Group companies on personnel and labor that were provided in FY2018> 1. Workshops for labor management case studies These workshops are held in the form of case studies by picking up potential labor management cases including ones on mental health problems and working hours management. Participants thus learn how to handle those problems and acquire specialized knowledge. In FY2018, 45 employees from 27 companies participated in these workshops. 2. Workshops for labor management case studies (special edition) In these workshops, lectures are given to explain key points which are likely to cause troubles in human resource and labor management and countermeasures against those troubles. In FY2018, the workshop was held under the theme of the rules concerning conversion of limited-term employees to indefinite-term employees, and 93 employees from 61 companies participated in it. 3. ITOCHU Group Human Resources and General Affairs Liaison Council This council is aimed at allowing people in charge of human resources and general affairs from Group companies to exchange information and strengthen their relationships. Their activities include checking the latest trends related to human resources and general affairs, sharing information about measures and responses of ITOCHU Corporation, and updating themselves about contents of revisions to laws. A total of 121 employees from 73 companies participate in this council. 4. Human resources and labor management assessments These are health assessments aimed at checking whether rules, systems, and management related to the overall personnel and labor affairs, such as labor contracts, internal rules, occupational health and safety, and time management, are operated in appropriate manners or not. Assessments of 12 companies were made in FY2018. 102 Employee Relations Labor Union and Employee Welfare Dialogue Meetings with the President ITOCHU Corporation is proactive about offering employees opportunities for two-way discussions with the president. In FY2017, the president visited 6 domestic branches, which usually have limited opportunities for direct communication with the president, and held dialogue meetings. Along with these domestic meetings, the president also has dialogue meetings with our staff on overseas assignment, as well as local employees of each country when he visits one of our overseas bloc areas. In FY2018, the president held meetings at our business locations in the UK, Italy, France, South Korea, Indonesia, Singapore, and the United States. In these discussions, the president shared directly with employees, the company's management policies and his passion for their realization, while employees in turn could express their opinions to the president and ask questions directly. The meetings therefore provided extremely valuable opportunities for deepening two-way communication. Every meeting is held in a very spirited atmosphere, and touches on everything from management policies to more personal topics. Dialogue with the Labor Union At ITOCHU Corporation, a wide range of issues are discussed with the ITOCHU Labor Union in order to realize our corporate mission, Committed to the Global Good. In FY2018, we held five meetings, including management meetings with the President and similar meetings with Division Companies and the Administrative Headquarters. Labor and management enter repeated and active discussions to build up a healthy relationship that enables both sides to recognize and share challenges currently surrounding the company and to study and implement improvement measures. Organization of the ITOCHU Labor Union Objective of the Labor Union The objective of the Labor Union is to improve labor conditions and other economic concerns of its members. The Labor Union carries out all required operations to fulfill this objective. (Article 3, Rules of the ITOCHU Labor Union) Headquarters: General meeting of delegates/Officers of the headquarters (Secretariat: Liaison for labormanagement negotiations that consists of the president and secretary general) Branch: Seven branches (Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya, Hokkaido, Tohoku, Hokuriku and Kyushu) 103 Employee Relations The company is prohibited from the following: 1. Providing disadvantageous treatment to a worker because the worker is a union member or on similar grounds Example: Discharging or transferring a worker because the worker went on strike as a union member or on similar grounds 2. Refusing to bargain collectively without justifiable cause Example: Refusing to go to the bargaining table or having an unauthorized person attend a collective bargaining session as a person in charge 3. Interfering with or providing financial assistance for the organization or operation of a labor union Example: Interfering with or interrupting the union’s events or supporting operational expenses for the union 4. Providing disadvantageous treatment, such as dismissal, to a worker in response to an allegation made by the worker to the Labor Relations Commission Example: Providing treatment, such as dismissal or wage reduction, to a worker in response to an allegation made by the worker to the Labor Relations Commission or a similar action by the worker Ratio of ITOCHU Labor Union members as of April 1, 2018 Initiatives with the ITOCHU Labor Union in Activities by the Headquarters of the Labor FY2018 Union in FY2018 April 2017 to April and General Meeting of Delegates March 2018 May 2017 Health Committee (every Meeting attended by three topmonth) June 2017 ranking officers from each branch Settlement of accountings June 2017 September meeting General Meeting of Delegates 2017 August 2017 CFO management meeting October Sports Day Energy & Chemicals Company 2017 October 2017 management meeting November Lecture meeting held by inviting a December Machinery Company 2017 prominent person 2017 management meeting February General Meeting of Delegates August and 2018 December Labor-management committee Meeting attended by three top2017 and regarding time management March 2017 ranking officers from each branch January 2018 Labor Union event at Tokyo Management meeting with the March 2018 March 2018 Disneyland President Exchange of views with members March 2018 of other companies 104 Employee Relations Comments from the ITOCHU Labor Union President The ITOCHU Labor Union works under the following Philosophy, Vision, and Action Guidelines. 1. Philosophy: Under the philosophy Moving on Together To work actively together with enthusiasm and motivation, we create a work environment that allows employees with various characteristics, values and environmental conditions to be motivated, to actively and enthusiastically Shion Shinohara work together and to achieve the strongest individual performance. President, 2. Vision: We aim to achieve a virtuous circle of corporate management by ITOCHU Labor Union improving labor conditions and the economic status of members. The virtuous circle of corporate management means a positive circle of: improved work environment —> active participation of employees —> improved business performance of the company —> improved treatment —> improved morale —> improved work environment, and so on. 3. Action Guidelines: The overall union (members, worksite committee members, liaison officers, delegates, branch officers and headquarters' officers) make concerted efforts in activities, with the three key concepts of Stay ahead, Speak up, and Be reliable. Stay ahead: Always work on something new by thinking one step ahead. Think and move forward together. Be assertive: Each member should be assertive with leadership. Speak up: Each member should speak up on his/her own initiative. We will go one step further when engaging in activities, and having negotiations with and making proposals to the company, aiming for treatment and a work environment which is appropriate for a leading trading company. Improving the Infrastructure for Employee Communication ITOCHU Corporation works to revitalize communication between employees and provide opportunities for exchange through a range of welfare facilities and schemes. Revitalized communication helps to foster a sense of belonging and motivation to work in individual employees and also helps to invigorate the organization as a whole. Employee Cafeteria The employee cafeteria at the Tokyo Head Office underwent large-scale renovations in May 2013 and was transformed into a space that is brighter and a more comfortable meeting place than before We continued to take steps to make the cafeteria more attractive for employees. These include the introduction of menus created under the supervision of Kagawa Nutrition University*, which are offered under the name of Wellness Cafeteria, for helping employees improve their health. They also include the revision of menus and a change in the room layout, which were done in response to requests from employees. As a result, nearly 1,600 people use the employee cafeteria every day. The special cafeteria, which can also be used for eating meals with customers, is opened as a pub at night. It helps boost internal communication and communication with external people by regularly holding a Happy Hour, during which alcoholic beverages are offered for free or at bargain prices. In 2017, the menus were fully revised and the cafeteria underwent a major renovation. It therefore contributes to the interaction of employees over meals. *Kagawa Nutrition University is a pioneering force in nutrition education. The menu it helped create focuses on daily specials offering healthy dishes that fulfill different conditions, such as an energy value of around 600 kcal, sodium chloride equivalent of 3 g or less, and a vegetable serving of 140 g or more. 105 Employee Relations SOGO-KAI Associations SOGO-KAI associations are organizations in which fellow employees assemble and enjoy the same sports or cultural activities. More than forty such associations are active within the company and boast more than 800 employee members. The associations are not limited to current employees of ITOCHU Corporation. Many former employees and Group company employees also take part. Through sports and cultural activities, these associations promote exchanges and communication across different generations and organizations. 106 Employee Relations Sustainability Action Plan for Human Resources and General Affairs After the Materiality is identified, we reflect it in sustainability action plans in each business area as specific measures for contributing to the solution of social issues. We promote sustainability by defining the Commitment, which shows how we achieve mediumand long-term growth and provide value to society, and specific approach and performance indicators for achieving the Commitment. Cultivate a motivating workplace environment Risks Opportunities Improvement of labor productivity and health and motivation, Decline in labor productivity, loss of excellent human securing of excellent human resources, enhanced capability of resources, missed business opportunities, increase in healthresponding to changes and business opportunities, and other related expenses, and other events that would result from events that will result from the creation of a workplace that failure to take appropriate measures, and others. provides job satisfaction, and others. Performance SDGs Issues to Business Co Commitment Specific approach indicators Targets address area (Non-consolidated) <ITOCHU Corporation> FY2021: Reduce the Promote the morning annual average focused working system. overtime hours by at Conduct regular monitoring least 10% compared to of employees' work the period prior to the Improving situations. introduction of the operating Promote work automation morning-focused efficiency We will promote a with IT tools, including the working system. and well-balanced robotic process automation FY2021: Percentage of addressing working style and (RPA), as well as mobile employees who leave Human work. the office building at the issue reduce the total Headquarters Resources 20:00 or later at 5% or of longnumber of working Promote projects for Affairs fewer. working hours, aiming to improving the operating hours improve employee efficiency at each FY2021: Paid leave through engagement. organization. acquisition rate at 70% work style or higher. reform <ITOCHU Group> Rate of positive Efficient way of working, responses to the appropriate working hours employee management, and engagement item in educational and awarenessthe engagement raising activities at the survey: 70% or higher. ITOCHU Group. Keep the percentage of employees who receive We will improve regular medical checkups at the health of 100%. employees to Establish well-equipped inPercentage of create an house clinics and a system employees who receive environment that for supporting each regular medical will enable employee in receiving checkups: 100%. individual personalized medical care. FY2021: Improve employees to Promote measures for health indicators (such better helping employees create a as BMI) compared to Improving demonstrate their balance between cancer FY2017 values. Human the health capabilities. We treatment and work. FY2021: Percentage of Headquarters Resources of will build a system Offer healthy dishes in the employees who leave Affairs employees that helps employee cafeteria. work due to cancer or employees with long-term illness at Promote the program for cancer or long0%. supporting smoking term illness to cessation treatment FY2021: Rate of create a balance expenses. employees found to between have a high level of Utilize Re: Body, a health treatment and stress in the stress management website for work, thereby check at 5% or lower. employees, and continue to fostering a culture provide special programs for of mutual support. employees at risk for lifestyle-related diseases. 107 Employee Relations Performance SDGs Issues to Business Co Commitment Specific approach indicators Targets address area (Non-consolidated) FY2021: Annual E&D expenses exceeding one billion yen. Continue to develop and provide training programs at Rate of positive all jobs levels. responses to the education and We will develop Continue and enhance training item in the training programs overseas deployment of engagement survey: on a global basis interns and language 60% or higher. that respond to trainees. Sustainable FY2021: Percentage the changing Offer diverse career path development Human of career-track times and options and experience in of Headquarters Resources employees who business needs. diverse works through employees' Affairs acquire businessWe will also utilize regular rotation. level English skills in capabilities training programs Foster career awareness their first eight years to continuously among employees by at the company at produce excellent enhancing personnel 100%. human resources. assessment, career vision FY2021: Percentage training, career counselling of career-track systems and other employees who are programs/systems. deployed overseas in their first eight years at the company at 80% or higher. Continue fair and equitable recruitment and promotion. Create a work climate of We will prohibit all mutual respect and support. types of discrimination, Reasonable accommodations concerning the work including those FY2021: Percentage environment of people with based on age, of female careerdisabilities. gender and track employees Creating an nationality, and Respond to LGBT among all careerenvironment respect human considerations and provide track employees: employee training on LGBT. 10%. that allows rights. We will diverse Human create an Enhance on-site day-care FY2021: Percentage human Headquarters Resources environment that centers and nursing care of female careerresources to Affairs will permit the support services. track employees exercise active Enhance individual support among employees in their participation of for employees provided in leadership positions potential employees whose accordance with their life at 10%. work hours are stage and career. FY2021: Proportion of limited due to Promote flexible ways of our workforce with childcare, nursing working by making use of disabilities at 2.3%. care, diseases or mobile work. similar Support the active circumstances. participation of senior human resources over 65 years old. 108 Employee Relations Employee Data Figures concerning employees★ (As of March 31) Non-consolidated Consolidated Average Average Average Total number of Number of Male Female age of annual salary employees years of employees employees (JPY) service 2016 4,279 3,259 1,020 42 16.7 13,829,954 105,800 2017 4,285 3,269 1,016 42 16.9 13,838,699 95,944 2018 4,285 3,284 1,001 42 17.3 14,609,151 102,086 Number of employees by operating segments★ (As of March 31, 2018) (Unit: persons) General Others, Metals ICT & Energy & Products Adjustments Textile Machinery & Food Financial Total Chemicals & & Minerals Business Realty Eliminations Non412 441 198 335 422 272 179 990 3,249 consolidated Consolidated 9,879 13,603 530 12,785 30,105 17,058 15,421 2,705 102,086 Number of overseas bloc employees by region★ (As of March 31, 2018) (Unit: persons) North Latin Middle East Asia & Europe Africa CIS Total America America East Asia Oceania 128 141 217 53 134 635 629 81 2,018 Employees registered at overseas trading subsidiaries, branches and offices Number of hires by gender★ (Unit: persons) New-graduates Mid-career Total Male Female Total Male Female Total FY2017 124 29 153 6 6 12 165 FY2018 121 29 150 7 5 12 162 FY2019* 103 35 138 * The figures as of April 1st, 2018 Proportion of female career-track employee, manager, and executive officer★ (As of April 1) (Unit: persons) Career-track employee Manager Executive Officer Proportion Proportion Proportion Total Female Total Female Total Female of Female of Female of Female 2016 3,490 307 8.8% 2,479 130 5.2% 43 1 2.3% 2017 3,531 323 9.1% 2,505 149 5.9% 44 2 4.5% 2018 3,539 337 9.5% 2,515 175 7.0% 45 2 4.4% 109 Employee Relations Acquisition of leave according to child care or nursing care related systems★ (Unit: persons) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Childcare 59 71 130 55 71 126 57 76 133 Leave Leave to nurse sick 47 115 162 65 118 183 65 123 188 children Shorter working 0 73 73 0 76 76 0 79 79 Child hours for care child care Special parental 5 34 39 13 33 46 12 36 48 leave Return rate for employees 97% 82% 97% after taking childcare leave* Nursing care 0 0 0 2 0 2 1 0 1 leave Special nursing 0 1 1 2 3 5 2 4 6 care leave Nursing care Leave for 9 24 33 14 26 40 17 36 53 nursing care Shorter working 0 3 3 0 5 5 0 10 10 hours for nursing care Family support leave 109 88 197 122 102 224 122 108 230 * The return rate for employees after taking childcare leave is the ratio of the number of employees enrolled at the end of March 2018 to the number of employees who returned from childcare leave for FY2017. Employment ratio of people with disabilities★ (As of March 1) Employment ratio Legally stipulated ratio of people with disabilities 2016 2.14% 2.00% 2017 2.31% 2.00% 2018 2.04% 2.00% 110 Employee Relations Occupational health and safety★ (Employees of ITOCHU Corporation*1) (Unit: persons) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time employees employees employees employees employees employees Number of sufferers from ccupational accidents (of which the number of 8(5) 1(1) 5(4) 1(1) 7(5) 1(1) sufferers commuting Accicents)*2 Number of Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 OIFR*3 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of sufferers of Lost time 2 0 0 0 0 0 incident(LTI)*4 LTIFR*5 0 0 0 0 0 0 *1 Subject employees: Full-time employees…Career-track employees, clerical employees, employees in special positions Part-time employees…Contract employees *2 Number of people suffering from labor injuries: Total value of the number of sufferers of lost-time accidents and lost occupational accidents caused by labor and the number of sufferers of commuting injuries. *3 OIFR: The incidence rate of lost-time accidents corresponding to diseases and diseases per million hours (calculated as the number of people suffering from LTI caused by illness ÷ total working hours multiplied by one million hours) *4 Lost time incident (LTI) is a situation in which a work-related injury or illness causes the victim to be absent from work on the following day. (Labor accident) *5 LTIFR: Injury occurrence rate with labor loss per million hours (caluclated as the number of sufferers in LTI ÷ total working hours×1 million hours) Total number of participants in training on health and safety standards★ (Employees of ITOCHU Corporation) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Compulsory training*1 2,824 2,744 3,410 Non-compulsory training*2 14 48 61 *1 Training for new recruits (career-track employees and clerical employees), organization manager workshops, training prior to overseas assignments and training prior to JOT/JOT-M, Evacuation drills at Tokyo headquarters. *2 Career vision training (such as mindfulness classes and Mental health management) Turnover rate★ (Employees of ITOCHU Corporation*) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Voluntary turnover rate 1.1% 1.2% 1.6% * Subject employees: career-track employees, clerical employees and employees in special positions The retirement rate is calculated by the following method. Number of employees who voluntarily retired ÷ Number of employees at the end of each fiscal year ★Data assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd, an external assurance provider based on the international standard ISAE 3000. The figures are for non-consolidated unless otherwise indicated as consolidated. The number of oversea bloc employees by region is the total of employees registered at overseas trading subsidiaries, branches and offices. The figures of employment ratio of people with disabilities are the combined total of ITOCHU Corporation and the certified special-purpose subsidiary, ITOCHU Uneedus Co.,Ltd. 111 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Corporate Governance and Internal Control Steps Taken to Strengthen Corporate Governance Actions Taken Purpose To strengthen decision-making and supervisory functions 1999 • Introduction of a system of executive officers of the Board of Directors To increase the effectiveness of the supervision of manage2011 • Appointment of outside directors (two) ment and improve the transparency of decision-making • Response to Japan’s Corporate Governance Code • Establishment of a Nomination Committee and a Governance and To strengthen the Board of Directors’ supervision function 2015 Remuneration Committee and increase transparency • Revision of the Board of Directors’ Regulations • Increase in the number of outside directors (from two to three) • Reorganization of the Nomination Committee and the Governance and 2016 Remuneration Committee (appointing outside directors as chairmen, outside To strengthen the Board of Directors’ supervision function executives account for half or more of members) • Implemented Board of Directors’ effectiveness evaluation • Transition to a Board of Directors with a monitoring-focused structure • Increasing the ratio of outside directors to at least one-third Thorough separation of management execution and 2017 • No directors except one Division Company President appointed to concursupervision rent positions • Transition to a Management Structure with a Chairman & CEO and a President & COO • Improve diversity of outside directors Maintenance of the Board of Directors’ system in response 2018 to internal and external changes • Maintain an outside directors’ ratio of at least one-third. • Discontinue consultant and advisor system Transition to a Structure with a Chairman & CEO and a President & COO Before Structure in FYE 2018 We transitioned to a monitoring-focused Board of Directors by drastically reducing the number of executive directors and maintaining an outside directors’ ratio of at least one-third. CSO 5 4 CEO CIO CAO CFO P Executive directors Outside directors P: Division Company President After Structure in FYE 2019 We have transitioned to a structure with a Chairman & CEO and a President & COO to ensure management continuity and enable us to respond to changes in the world. CEO COO CAO 5 3 CIO CFO P Executive directors Outside directors In the Future Future Issues Based on the results of a Board of Directors’ evaluation in FYE 2018, we acknowledge the following as issues: • Operation of the Board of Directors based on the transition to a monitoring-focused structure • Enhance reporting of advisory committee deliberation contents to the Board of Directors Outside Director Changes At the 94th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, outside requirements established in its “Independence Criteria for directors Ichiro Fujisaki and Chikara Kawakita retired and Outside Directors and Outside Audit and Supervisory Board Masatoshi Kawana was newly appointed as an outside director. Members” and can be expected to contribute to its management This change was made because of a need to further diversify with deep insight cultivated through experience in various opinions in order to increase corporate value and accomplish the categories. In addition to experience and insight, we also regard goals laid out in the new medium-term management plan, character as important and in FYE 2019 only one additional “Brand-new Deal 2020,” which started in FYE 2019. Additionally, person was selected for appointment as an outside director. Mr. Fujisaki and Mr. Kawakita had both assumed their positions There has been no change to our policy of maintaining at least in 2013, already five years ago, and it was time to make a a one-third ratio of outside directors and we are discussing change in outside directors. increasing their numbers should appropriate candidates be In terms of outside directors, the Company has a policy of available. preferentially appointing people who fulfill independence 112 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Messages from Outside Directors Toward a More Energetic Board of Directors I assumed my role of outside director two years ago and have participated closely in the Company’s governance system as a member of the Governance and Renumeration Committee. In FYE 2018, we dramatically reconfigured the Board of Directors to separate the execution and supervision of management. We are transitioning to a structure with a Chairman & CEO and a President & COO in FYE 2019 to achieve management continuity and to respond to rapid changes in the world. This structure is the result of careful consideration of what our Company’s ideal form should be based on the business environments we found ourselves in during each of these two fiscal years. I believe this consideration provides the Outside Director foundation for us to accomplish the goals laid out in the new medium-term manAtsuko Muraki agement plan, “Brand-new Deal 2020,” which started in FYE 2019. The subtitle Ms. Muraki was appointed as a director of ITOCHU in June 2016, following positions of “Brand-new Deal 2020” is “ITOCHU : Infinite Missions : Innovation.” This subtiincluding the Vice Minister of Health, tle communicates the strong will of “merchants,” the symbol of our Company’s Labour and Welfare. She is a chairman of the Governance and Remuneration strength, to free themselves from the status quo and achieve major transformation Committee. In addition to work-style reforms, she proactively offers advice on in order to respond to new eras. It was decided that I would begin serving as chaircompliance issues and sustainability issues man of the Governance and Renumeration Committee after the end of the general in management plans. meeting of shareholders in FYE 2019; I plan to help the Company evolve and transform itself in my new roles. Aiming to Become the No. 1 Health Management Company Our human resources are a precious management resource and to further strengthen “individual capabilities, which are one of the Company’s strengths under the new medium-term management plan, “Brand-new Deal 2020,” we are advancing our goal of becoming the “No. 1 Health Management Company” as a basic policy. In addition to progressive measures the Company is already taking, such as its “Support Measures for Balancing Cancer Care and Work,” it is important to develop environments in which employees can actively work to their heart’s content while simultaneously feeling secure about their health and a sense of job satisfaction. We will adopt a variety of measures to this end in order to Outside Director become a Company that not employees but also their families can call the “best Masatoshi Kawana company in Japan.” I would like to greatly contribute to our progressive health Mr. Kawana has worked as a physician for management initiatives, which utilize the experience I have accumulated while Tokyo Women’s Medical University Hospital participating in the medical field for many years and also adopt a medical point of for many years and has also holds the position of associate director. He assumed a view. Additionally, at my current post as associate director at Tokyo Women’s position as a member of the Board of Directors at ITOCHU Corporation in June Medical University Hospital, I have participated in all aspects of hospital manage2018. He is also a member of the ment and, from a manager’s point of view, have actively worked to adapt a variety Company’s Governance and Remuneration Committee. of measures and improve profit structure. Based on this experience, I want to help out with the medical care business, which the Company is planning to expand in the future, and, while maintaining full awareness that my primary duty as an outside director is to function as the “public eye,” work to further increase sustainable corporate value. 113 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Overview of the Corporate Governance System Corporate Governance System Company with the Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Type of system (Audit & Supervisory Board) Number of directors (Of which, number of outside directors) 8 (3) Number of Audit & Supervisory Board Members 5 (3) (Of which, number of outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members) Term of office for directors 1 year (the same for outside directors) Adoption of an Executive Officer System Yes Organization to support COO decision-making HMC*1 deliberates on Companywide management policy and important issues Advisory committees to the Board of Directors Nomination Committee, Governance and Remuneration Committee Overview of ITOCHU’s Corporate Governance and Internal Control System (As of June 22, 2018) Election and dismissal Election and dismissal General Meeting of Shareholders Election and dismissal Audit & Supervisory Board Board of Directors Monitoring and auditing Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Members Monitoring and auditing Consultation Audit & Supervisory Nomination Committee Board Members’ Office Governance and Remuneration Committee Independent Auditors Appointment and supervision Financial audit Chairman & CEO*1 President & COO*1 HMC*1 CSO*1 Internal Control Committee CAO & CIO*1 Disclosure Committee CFO* 1 ALM*1 Committee Internal Audit Division Compliance Committee Sustainability Committee Division Companies Investment Consultative Committee Energy & General Products ICT & Financial Machinery Metals & Minerals Textile Company Chemicals Food Company & Realty Business Company Company Company Company Company *1 CEO: Chief Executive Officer, COO: Chief Operating Officer, CSO: Chief Strategy Officer, CAO & CIO: Chief Administrative & Information Officer, CFO: Chief Financial Officer, HMC: Headquarters Management Committee, ALM: Asset Liability Management *2 CAO & CIO is the chief officer for compliance. Also, each Division Company has a Division Company President. *3 Internal control systems and mechanisms have been implemented at every level of ITOCHU. Only the main internal control organization and committees are described herein. Composition of the Nomination Committee and the Governance and Remuneration Committee (As of June 22, 2018) Name Title Nomination Committee Governance and Remuneration Committee Masahiro Okafuji Chairman & CEO Yoshihisa Suzuki President & COO Fumihiko Kobayashi Director Atsuko Muraki Outside Director (Chair) Harufumi Mochizuki Outside Director (Chair) Masatoshi Kawana Outside Director Kiyoshi Yamaguchi Audit & Supervisory Board Member Shuzaburo Tsuchihashi Audit & Supervisory Board Member Shingo Majima Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Kentaro Uryu Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Kotaro Ohno Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member (8 members) (7 members) 114 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance A Highly Transparent Remuneration System Linked to Increases in Corporate Value Remuneration of Directors (Excluding Outside Directors) The total amount of (1) monthly remuneration is determined by the contriAnnual total Performance-linked and bution to ITOCHU of each director according to a base amount set by * excluding market capitalizationstock-based remuneration position, whereas the total amount of (2) performance-linked bonuses and linked bonuses (4) performance-linked and stock-based remuneration is determined based on consolidated net profit. (3) Market capitalization-linked bonuses were introduced in FYE 2019 as an incentive aimed at increasing corporate value. Furthermore, (4) performance-linked and stock-based remuPerformance-linked bonuses neration was introduced in FYE 2017 with the aim of heightening awareness toward making contributions to increasing corporate value over the medium and long term. Monthly remuneration 0 100 200 300 400 Consolidated net profit (Billions of Yen) Resolution of Type of Remuneration Content Remuneration Limit General Meeting of Shareholders Monthly remuneration determined by the ¥1.2 billion per year as total monthly remuneration (including (1) Monthly remuneration contribution to ITOCHU of each director ¥50 million per year as a portion to the outside directors) according to a base amount set by position Total amount paid is decided based on the (2) Performance-linked basis of consolidated net profit bonuses June 24, 2011 Refer to the formula (*1) below. ¥1.0 billion per year as total bonuses paid to all directors Total amount paid is decided based on the (excluding outside directors) Directors (3) Market capitalizationamount the Company’s market capitalization linked bonuses increased in comparison to the previous fiscal year Refer to the formula (*2) below. The following is the limit for a two-year period for directors and (4) Performance-linked Total amount paid is decided based on the executive officers (excluding outside directors) and stock-based basis of consolidated net profit Upper limit for contribution to trust from ITOCHU: ¥1.5 billion June 24, 2016 remuneration Refer to the formula (*1) below. Total points awarded to persons eligible for the plan: 1.3 m­ illion points (conversion at 1 point = 1 share) Audit & Only monthly Supervisory ¥13 million per month June 29, 2005 remuneration Board Members *1 Formulas for (2) Performance-Linked Bonuses and (4) Performance-Linked and Stock-Based Remuneration Total Amount Paid to All Directors Total amount paid to all directors = (A + B + C) x Sum of position points for all the eligible directors ÷ 55 A = (Of consolidated net profit for FYE 2019, the portion up to ¥200.0 billion) x 0.35% B = (Of consolidated net profit for FYE 2019, the portion exceeding ¥200.0 billion and up to ¥300.0 billion) x 0.525% C = (Of consolidated net profit for FYE 2019, the portion exceeding ¥300.0 billion) x 0.525% (of which, 0.175% as stock-based remuneration) * Remuneration limits exist on bonuses and stock-based remuneration. Amount Paid to an Individual Director Total amount paid to all directors × Assigned position points* Amount paid to an individual director = Sum of position points for all the eligible directors Of the amount paid to an individual director, the portion corresponding In regard to stock-based remuneration during the term of office, annual to A and B in the total amount paid to all directors is paid entirely in points are awarded (1 point = 1 share), and at the time of retirement cash. In regard to the portion corresponding to C, 0.175% is paid as stock-based remuneration is paid from the trust in correspondence with stock-based remuneration and the balance is paid in cash. Furthermore, accumulated points. the value of 70% of the portion paid in cash will increase or decrease * Points assigned by position depending on the rate by which the responsible organization meets its Senior Managing Managing projected targets. Chairman President Executive Executive Executive Vice President Officers Officers 10 7.5 5 4 3 *2 Calculation Formula for (3) Market Capitalization-Linked Bonuses Amount Paid to an Individual Director Amount paid to an individual director = (Average amount of daily stock market capitalization in FYE 2019 – Average amount of daily stock market ­capitalization in FYE 2018) × 0.1% × number of position points ÷ 108.8 Position points for Board of Directors’ members are the same points that are used to calculate performance-linked bonuses. 115 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Compliance ITOCHU Group’s Compliance System The ITOCHU Group is developing a system for compliance by having the Compliance Department of the Legal Division plan and suggest policies and measures to encourage compliance throughout the entire Group and appointing compliance officers in each organization within ITOCHU Corporation, overseas offices and major Group companies worldwide (including consolidated subsidiaries and some equity method associated companies; hereafter, the “companies subject to compliance management”). Incidents of compliance violations revealed in each organization within the Headquarters, overseas offices or companies subject to compliance management are reported to the Chief Officer for Compliance (CAO・CIO) and the Corporate Auditors, while incidences of serious compliance violations are reported to the Board of Directors as appropriate.The Compliance Committee is chaired by the CAO・CIO and consists of three external members and heads of relevant divisions as internal members. It deliberates on matters related to compliance as a permanent organization on business operations. The most recent Compliance Committee meeting was held on February 15, 2018. (The meeting is held two times a year, in principle.) The ITOCHU Group Compliance Program details the compliance system of the ITOCHU Group so that each organization within ITOCHU Corporation, its overseas offices, and companies subject to compliance management can ensure compliance by taking into account business characteristics, operational formats and local laws. Across the Group, we conduct Monitor & Review surveys once a year to check the status of compliance systems and operations of each organization. In addition, as for key organizations such as overseas offices and companies subject to compliance management, we are implementing activities with a focus on system operation, including onsite guidance with the objective of ascertaining actual front-line compliance conditions and identifying risks. Furthermore, based on trends in former incidences of compliance violations and the findings of the Monitor & Review surveys, we are formulating individual compliance reinforcement measures tailored to each Division Company, and these measures are steadily being implemented. In addition, to ensure compliance throughout the Group, at personal performance evaluations at the end of each fiscal year we ask all employees to confirm in writing that they have complied with laws, regulations, and other rules. 116 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Internal Information Reporting System (Hotlines) ITOCHU Corporation has formulated regulations on the Internal Information Reporting System (Hotlines) and instructed the installment of hotlines at companies subject to compliance management as well. In addition to protecting whistleblowers through these arrangements, we have defined mechanisms for proper disposal of cases. This initiative is reinforcing compliance management by supporting the prompt discovery and rectification of any incidents of corruption, including bribery. ITOCHU Corporation has established multiple whistleblowing contacts (including external whistleblowing contacts that utilize specialized company and external lawyers). It prohibits the unfavorable treatment of whistleblowers, such as retaliation, and allows whistleblowers to provide information anonymously. In addition, on its website, ITOCHU Corporation has established a system under which the appropriate divisions respond to public inquiries based on the content of each inquiry, as described below. Implementation of Compliance Training On-Site Compliance Training We conduct On-Site Compliance Training for all officers and employees of ITOCHU Corporation every year. This training, which is intended to raise compliance awareness and prevent the occurrence of any cases, uses actual incidents of compliance violations as teaching materials while also focusing on the following points. Raising awareness of compliance with laws that need to be observed in the course of business Raising awareness of prevention of any incidents of corruption, including bribery, insider trading, and money laundering Raising awareness of prevention of human rights violations such as power harassment and sexual harassment In addition, Group companies implemented their own compliance training programs for officers and employees as appropriate for their operational formats. In FY2017, on-site training was also provided by the Headquarters for officers and employees of major Group companies for a total of 7,000 people from 102 companies in Japan. Training was also provided to 34 group companies at major overseas blocs in FY2017. We also distribute the Compliance Handbook to all employees. This handbook provides advice on compliance for each potential work setting (in Q&A format) and advises what actions to take in order to prevent corruption. We also conduct separate programs of finely-tuned education and training for each employee layer that are based on actual cases, including training for new recruits, manager training, training for Group company officers and training prior to overseas assignments. Compliance Awareness Survey The ITOCHU Group implements a Compliance Awareness Survey every two years with all Group employees, including the level of understanding of the ITOCHU Mission, and assists the implementation of specific initiatives. In FY2018, we conducted the survey of about 44,000 Group employees, and received response from 41,215 of them (retrieval rate of 93.4%). The results of the analysis of the findings are presented as feedback to each organization and reflected in efforts to improve the compliance system. Bolstering Measures to Fight Corruption In the ITOCHU Mission and Values, as the corporate philosophy of the ITOCHU Group, we have specified Integrity as one of the Values, under which we declare that each one of us in the ITOCHU Group will never obstruct competition through illicit means nor develop inappropriate relationships, such as those with public officials, for our own interests. . In addition, the anti-bribery policy of the ITOCHU Group stipulates that money, goods, entertainment, and any other favors must not be granted to public officials or employees or officers of private organizations, either in Japan or overseas, for the purpose of obtaining illicit profit. 117 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance ITOCHU Group Anti-Corruption Policy 1. ITOCHU Group Anti-Corruption Policy ITOCHU Corporation traces its management philosophy back to that of its founder, Chubei Ito, who, as an Ohmi merchant, operated under the philosophy of sampō yoshi (good in three ways: good for the seller, good for the buyer, good for society). Reflecting this tradition, ITOCHU Group’s corporate philosophy is “Committed to the Global Good,” and in order to fulfill this philosophy, ITOCHU Group has adopted as one of its core values “integrity,” which includes keeping promises, acting without hypocrisy, and always maintaining strong ethics in all places and with respect to everyone, a concept analogous to adhering to compliance. ITOCHU Group recognizes that continuing to provide societal good requires obedience to laws and strict attention to compliance. ITOCHU Group does not need any profit, regardless of amount, if such profit is obtained through illicit means such as bribery. To address the risk of bribery and corruption, ITOCHU Group strictly observes its internal rules, including its “Regulations Concerning the Prohibition of Giving Illicit Benefit,” as well as four related guidelines relating to public officers, foreign public officers, business partners, and investment generally. Regarding high-risk activities such as entertainment, gifts, investment, and appointment of business partners, ITOCHU Group has established and requires strict adherence to rules governing approval, decision-making, and recordkeeping procedures. [ITOCHU Group Anti-Corruption Policy] No money, entertainment, gifts, or anything of value in order to obtain illicit gains shall be given to any public or quasi-public official inside or outside of Japan. No money, entertainment, gifts, or anything of value in order to obtain illicit gains shall be given to any director, officer or employee of any private entity. 2. Requests for All Partners In order for ITOCHU Group to implement the above anti-corruption policies, ITOCHU Group requires the cooperation of all of its business partners and investment partners. In connection with the business partners and the investment targets and investment partners (collectively “Partners”), ITOCHU Group will request itself conducting due diligence on Partners and entering into contracts containing anti-bribery provisions with Partners. ITOCHU Group thanks you for your understanding and cooperation. April 1, 2018 Masahiro Okafuji ITOCHU Corporation Chairman & Chief Executive Officer The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (U.S. FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 evidence the global trend toward the tightening of legislation against bribery. In keeping with this trend, ITOCHU Corporation has thus far determined and strictly operates the Regulation Concerning the Prohibition of Giving Illicit Profit and three related guidelines (regarding public officers, agents and consultants, and foreign public officers) to prohibit all employees from giving any improper advantage to Japanese or foreign civil servants or people in an equivalent position. In December 2015, we revised the guideline regarding agents and consultants to guideline regarding business partners, thereby expanding the scope of application of the guideline, and bolstered measures to fight corruption by establishing investment guideline, which is designed to carefully check investment projects for the risk of bribery. The Regulation Concerning the Prohibition of Giving Illicit Profit includes facility payments, or payments of small amounts of money that are aimed solely at facilitating ordinary administrative services, among the improper advantages it prohibits. It also prohibits commercial bribery, which falls under an improper advantage given to business partners in the private sector. In addition to banning bribery, our internal rules prohibit officers and employees from receiving improper advantages from business partners in the private sector, deeming such acts to be a mix of business with personal affairs (conflicts of interest, etc.). 118 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance The guidelines regarding public officers and foreign public officers include guides for decisions and judgments on business entertainment and gift-giving to public officers and foreign public officers, under which we review cases on an individual basis. The guideline regarding business partners clarifies the process for comprehensive checks and stipulates the process of concluding contracts on new appointments and renewals of contracts with business partners who will provide services to ITOCHU Corporation (including agents and consultants). Concerning overseas business partners, we use the Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) published by Transparency International as one of our risk identification criteria. In contracts where there is a possibility to contain a risk of bribery, including ones with business partners, we include an article prohibiting bribery, thereby prohibiting improper payments (bribery or the provision of improper advantages) and clearly state that the contracts may be cancelled immediately if the provisions of the article are violated. The investment guideline includes specific provisions on the implementation of due diligence and procedures for obtaining the confirmation letter from the viewpoint of preventing corruption, which are to be used for deliberations on investment projects. In the training provided to officers, employees and others, we strive to raise awareness and instill ITOCHU Group Anti-Corruption Policy, the Regulation Concerning the Prohibition of Giving Illicit Profit and four related guidelines. We make certain that the regulation and guidelines are reflected in their daily management work to prevent corruption, including the provision of improper advantages. We also provide training specializing in bribery for organizations where the risk of bribery is particularly high. We also manage our political contributions, charities, and sponsorship activities by referring to internal rules to ensure that they do not constitute corruption, and by following our internally specified routes of application for the approval of donations and sponsorship to ensure that such activities are socially just and meet ethical standards. The annual Monitor & Review surveys, which are mentioned in the ITOCHU Group’s Compliance System above, include a check on business entertainment and gift-giving to public officers and foreign public officers and on the appointments and renewals of contracts with agents and consultants by organizations within ITOCHU Corporation, overseas offices, and companies subject to compliance management. Where necessary, we hold a dialogue on the status with the compliance officer of each organization. Measures to Fight Collusive Bidding and Cartels In recent years, there have been many reports of suspected cartel activities in markets around the world. In response, to prevent involvement in any illicit transactions, ITOCHU Corporation established the Basic Regulations on the Compliance with the Antimonopoly Act, etc. and the Standard on Prevention of Cartels and Collusive Bidding on November 1, 2017. In addition, we regularly revise our Anti-Monopoly Law Manual and the document “A MustRead! 51 Q&A about the Antimonopoly Act,” which facilitates referral. (The last revision was made in August 2017.) Through various Monitor & Review surveys and education and training programs as well, we are making sure all employees are aware of requirements. Further, in July 2017, we set up the Antimonopoly Act Desk in the Legal Division as the consultation desk and created “The 29 Frequent Misunderstandings about the Antimonopoly Act” as a new educational material. ITOCHU Group Tax Policy 7th December, 2017 ITOCHU Corporation ITOCHU Corporation and the ITOCHU group companies (collectively, “the ITOCHU Group”) have established a Basic Policy: To comply with all applicable tax laws, rules, regulations, and tax treaties (collectively, “Tax Rules”) of each country and region where the ITOCHU Group conducts business. The ITOCHU Group is committed to respecting the interests of all stakeholders, including all of the countries and regions where the ITOCHU Group conducts business, as well as the ITOCHU Group’s shareholders, creditors, business partners, and employees. 119 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance 1. Basic Policy Compliance with Tax Rules The ITOCHU Group is committed to managing its business operations in full compliance with all applicable Tax Rules and not engaging in transactions that are intended to evade or avoid taxes. 2. Tax Cost Management In accordance with the Basic Policy, the ITOCHU Group strives to achieve effective tax cost management by eliminating double taxation and utilizing the favorable Tax Rules of each country or region. 3.Maintaining Relationships of Mutual Trust with Tax Authorities The ITOCHU Group strives to maintain a relationship of mutual trust with all tax authorities by engaging in constructive discussions and preparing documents in an accurate, timely and appropriate manner to ensure overall transparency of the ITOCHU Group’s tax matters. Measures for Intellectual Property To completely prevent infringements on intellectual property rights held by other parties in businesses related to such rights, as well as in the ordinary course of business, ITOCHU implements measures to call attention to the issue by holding seminars for employees and by establishing internal rules, regulations and manuals that conform to related laws and regulations. We also define and properly apply internal rules for employees’ inventions and work and rules for application, renewal, etc. of rights to properly manage and handle intellectual property rights that constitute property of the companies. Basic Policy on Product Safety ITOCHU Corporation has prepared a product safety manual for each internal company to assure safety. The manuals are based on its policy of observing obligations stipulated by laws related to the safety of the products it handles, and providing safe and secure products to its customers. We are going to continue with efforts to assure provision of safe and secure products through in-house education, institution of ad-hoc units assigned to product safety, establishment of information relay routes, and response in the event of product accidents, while revising arrangements in these aspects as necessary. Measures for Comprehensive Import and Export Control Japanese government maintains strict trade-security under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act in order to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and conventional weapons. We have implemented a strict internal comprehensive trade-security control program so as to observe laws and regulations. Our internal program covers not only Japanese laws and regulations but also global security risks such as U.S. sanctions to ensure that we do not take part in business transactions that threaten international peace and security. Accordingly ITOCHU recognizes that, as a responsible member of the global business community, we need to manage carefully potential risks associated with business operations in certain locations. In response to the growing importance of the corporate governance associated with global security risk, we have implemented corporate policies, procedures, and internal reporting structures to ensure that we perform rigorous, securityminded due diligence for global projects and transactions.. In addition, to properly conduct customs procedures for import and export, including import (payment of customs duty) declaration, we conduct internal customs examination (monitoring), provide training for clearing and customs valuation control, and take a host of other measures under the internal control/management provisions and regulations, thereby ensuring full compliance with customs procedures, etc. We have also begun to provide information needed for developing new businesses, by providing training on Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs), which will be used more widely by sales sections in the future. These measures have led to the director-general of Yokohama Customs certifying ITOCHU as an Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) (both Authorized Exporter and Authorized Importer), a title given to operators with outstanding compliance systems and security control. 120 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Basic Policy and Efforts against Antisocial Forces ITOCHU has set out basic policy to tackle antisocial forces and groups that threaten the order and safety of civic society, stipulating three basic principles plus one Don't fear, Don't pay, Don't use, and Don't associate in its stance against antisocial forces and 10-point guideline as a manual to disseminate this information among all employees. We have also established a special department with overall responsibility for countermeasures in relation to antisocial forces within the Human Resources & General Affairs Division. In addition, we are improving systems and promoting enlightenment education in hopes of preventing unintentional entry into transactional relationships with anti-social forces and groups. Insider Trading Regulations ITOCHU Corporation has an internal rule regarding the restriction of insider trading, and formulated the guideline regarding reporting and management of insider information in April 2014 in conjunction with the revision of the rule. The above guideline stipulates, for example, recommended handling in case of acknowledging the insider information of entity which ITOCHU has capital or contractual relationship, and we are taking action to assure that all employees know about them. Perspectives on Information Management ITOCHU Corporation has formulated “Information Security Policy” for all members of the board and employees to handle information with high security level. Also, in order to manage information required for business management activities properly, we also formulated “IT Security Management Policy” for all executives and employees, which is a code of conduct on information handling. More specifically, we have determined rules and standards on personal information management, document management, and IT security, and are striving to prevent the leakage of personal information and other confidential information. We have also established a management system for complying with the My Number Act. Monitor & Review Surveys on Personal Information Management The ITOCHU Group regularly conducts Monitor & Review surveys of ITOCHU Corporation and companies subject to compliance management under the auspices of the Corporate Planning & Administration Division, the IT Planning Division and the Legal Division. In the nine survey, which was conducted in FY2018, the personal information management systems of ITOCHU Corporation and 80 companies subject to compliance management were checked from September to November 2017. Based on the results of the checks, we have continued activities to encourage continued improvements at ITOCHU Corporation and Group companies. At the same time, we have established a system and provide support for the operation with advice from external lawyers. Response to Violations If an act in violation of the above policies or rules, including policies and rules designed to prevent corruption, should be confirmed, we take corrective action, including an investigation into the cause and education and training of those involved in the act, as well as related individuals. At ITOCHU Corporation, we consider disciplinary action against officers and employees who have been involved in any violation of laws, including bribery, with the aim of imposing harsh penalties when deemed appropriate as a result of internal investigations. 121 Evaluation by Society ITOCHU was included in the world-famous DJSI World and Asia Pacific index, and became Industry Leader Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) is a family of global ESG indices and ITOCHU is included in both DJSI World and Asia Pacific index for fiscal 2017. This year, ITOCHU achieved the best score in Trading Companies & Distributors Industry, and became an Industry Leader for the first time. DJSI is a global stock index developed jointly by Dow Jones & Company in the U.S. and RobecoSAM in Switzerland. It evaluates the corporate in terms of their social, environmental, and economic performance for composing DJSI. In the year of 2017, 320 companies (including 31 Japanese companies) were included in DJSI World among 3,484 targeted companies around the world, which was selection of the top 10-15% of the corporations among 60 Industry Sectors. (As of September 2017) ITOCHU won‘Gold Class’and was selected as an‘Industry Leader’in RobecoSAM Sustainability Award RobecoSAM Sustainability Award 2018, is an award provided to prominent companies conducting sustainable efforts in each industrial sector. ITOCHU Corporation won Gold Class, which is provided for the top scoring company in the Trading Companies & Distributors sector, three years in a row. （As of January, 2018） ※‘Industry Leader’ which was provided to the top scoring company in each sector, is integrated with Gold Class from 2017. Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) The Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) is the first socially responsible investment index in Japan. Morningstar Japan K.K. conducts questionnaire and screening quantitative data for approximately 4,000 listed companies in Japan and the MS-SRI is comprised of 150 leading socially responsible companies including ITOCHU Corporation. (as of July, 2017) 122 Evaluation by Society Evaluation by Stakeholders 2018 Feb. 1 ITOCHU wins Gold Class and Industry Leader at the RobecoSAM Sustainability Awards 2018 ITOCHU Corporation Wins Grand Award at WICI Japan Award for Excellence in Integrated Nov. 15 Reporting ITOCHU Corporation won the Grand Prize in the 66th Nikkei Advertising Awards for the Oct. 25 Corporate Message Advertising Series I am One with Infinite Missions 2017 ITOCHU Included in Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, a Global ESG Index Sep. 7 ITOCHU Announces its Selection as Noteworthy IT Strategy Companies in the 2017 May 31 Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock Selection. Apr. 13 ITOCHU Wins the Good Visual Award for Its IR Materials 123 124
