UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS DECEMBER 2018 Dear UN Global Compact & Stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that UBQ Materials Ltd. (UBQ) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. UBQ was founded in 2012, in humble and modest settings. We have since successfully grown in size and scale with a global focus on delivering technological solutions to municipal waste management systems and material recovery. While developing our revolutionary technology in new sectors and countries, we continue to strive for excellence and improve our ethical and sustainable efforts on all front of our company’s activities. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Jack (Tato) Bigio Chief Executive Officer UBQ Materials Ltd. This Communication on Progress (COP) covers the period spanning from January 2017 through December 2018. Description of Actions Vision UBQ’s support of human and labor rights is absolute. We endeavor to ensure the best employment conditions and fairness for all our business partners and practices promoting our values of transparency and integrity. UBQ is fully committed to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in full compliance with the Israeli legislation regarding Human Rights, Employment, and National Health Insurance policies. With UBQ’s focus on waste and its impact on both the environment and human health, we seek to motivate and advocate our partners to address human rights and social wellbeing in accordance with the UNGC principles. Progress We enforce all required safety standards and prevent potential risk factors from endangering our employees or our potential customers. UBQ has conducted several risk assessments of our production facilities and supporting business activities in compliance with the relevant authorities’ Fair & Equal Living Wages requirements. UBQ’s Code of Conduct ensures us the right to take proper action if any violation of Human Rights occur and a baseline as to how we select our suppliers with consideration to the underlying UNGC principles. Outcome UBQ has secured all permits, certifications, and licenses required to operate by the relevant local, regional, and national agencies including the Israeli Ministry of Environment as well as the Ministry of Trade and Commerce. UBQ has also passed all pursuant government audits, which amongst other issues, specifically pertain to human and labor rights. Description of Actions Vision Sustainability and environmental impact are at the heart of UBQ’s technological development since inception. At UBQ we seek to reuse finite resources infinitely and economically rather than rely on a linear economy based on fossil-derived alternatives. Our approach stems from a holistic and systemic perspective to develop a ‘target technology’, committed to introducing the most ‘circular materials’ in the marketplace. Progress UBQs production has been continually improved and scaled up over the last two years where today there is a production capacity of 5,000 tons output per year in our pilot commercial plant. Working with Quantis, SystemIQ, ETHOS, and Vireo Advisors we have completed a stringent health and safety analysis of our process and materials to ensure that the UBQ Material are safe for both human and environment from production stages through to final end-user as well as further recycling. Outcome Collaborating with Quantis, we have been able to measure that the impact of 1 ton of UBQ Material reduces/avoids 12 tons/CO2 eq. [up to 15ton/CO2eq.] emission to the environment. This benefit is highly significant in comparison to the impact of the other conventional market plastic materials available today. According to Quantis, ‘this positions the UBQ Material as the most climate positive thermoplastic material available today.” Description of Actions Vision UBQ has a zero-tolerance policy regarding bribery and corruption. We are committed to addressing and promoting anti-corruption and advocate our business integrity through our values, purpose driven code-of-conduct, and Zero-Tolerance policies. As a modern and value driven company we feel obligated to address Policy and investigate any unethical conduct and are duty-bound to take action toward any suspicion of ethical violations. Progress Internal & External Audits for Compliance UBQ is adding to anti-corruption efforts by leading with sound and transparent business dealings that are vetted by both shareholders and external advisors. We continue to develop impartial peer-reviewed scientific results and thought leadership messaging that are made public and open for Transparent & Vetted evaluation. Business Transactions UBQ’s Code of Conduct and Employee Handbook enables us the right to take proper action if any violation of corruption occur for both internal and external business transactions. We take pride in vetting our suppliers as part No Related Party of the selection criteria to ensure we comply with underlying UNGC Transactions principles while eliminating any unforeseen risks to our stake holders and partners. Outcome Audited & Approved Financial Standing We have, to the best of our knowledge and external audits, had no incidents to report and we continue to show a zero-tolerance towards bribery and corruption in all levels of business activities and operations. UBQ has also passed all pursuant government audits employer duties by the Israeli Ministry of Work & Welfare and the Internal Revenue Service ensuring the company’s financial standing is in good order dating back since incorporation. UBQ is audited by Ernst & Young. Measurement of Outcomes As a part of the UBQ ‘Proofs’, we have prioritized a number of different certifications that not only assess our technology, materials, and products, and also UBQ as a company. We do this to show [certify] how unique a company we are and join communities of other like-minded change makers who are actively pursuing similar objectives. B Corp UBQ is a Certified B Corporation meeting the highest standards of verified social and environmental performance, transparency, and accountability. World Alliance for Efficient Solutions UBQ has been approved as a member and expects to be certified in Jan. 2019 as one of the first 1,000 efficient solutions. Cradle to Cradle & Blue Angel Starting as an aspirational goal, UBQ has now developed several material formulations that should achieve C2C certification for products using the UBQ Material. We expect the final certification to come in early 2019. ISO 14001 & REACH UBQ has worked with consultants and standard institutes to showcase our compliance to industry standards for both our process and material. This has enabled UBQ to get special permits and licenses from local, regional, and national government and trade agencies. Measurement of Outcomes Following the framework developed by Quantis International, UBQ has dedicated 2 years in developing its Positioning working on Proofs that support our Purpose and values (3Ps). There are four core reports that develop this backbone of the UBQ solution and business as a force for good. Health, Safety, & Environment Report: Collaborating with ETHOS and Vireo Advisors we have tested and proved that both the UBQ waste conversion and bio-based material are 100% HSE certified. Radical Change & Sustainable Solutions Collaboration with SYSTEMIQ to assess UBQ’s Go-to-Market Strategy and showcase its unique commercial viability as a self sustaining system. Loopability Assessment Report: Collaboration with SYSTEMIQ to test and prove the UBQ Material is recyclable, using conventional recycling equipment, time and time again. Impact of MSW on the Environment: Collaborating with Quantis International and ESG Matters to measure the baseline emissions of waste disposal in landfills to showcase the UBQ emissions avoidance potential overlaid with a comprehensive LCA. Measurement of Outcomes Jobs in waste Women often bear Waste management Reduced methane collection and most of the impact is the world’s & CO2 from Waste management can have a powerful and positive impact on people’s well-being. recycling of bad waste mgt largest industry dumping & burning Solid waste management is a key utility service and a critical element of the infrastructure that underpins society. Despite being rated in the top three priorities faced by many cities in developing countries, it tends also to be ‘taken for granted’. This reality is both a global public health and environmental crisis, and a financial burden on society. The public health and environmental damage costs of uncollected waste, uncontrolled disposal, open burning and unsound resource recovery include additional health care costs, lost productivity, flood damage, damage to businesses and tourism and longer-term clean-up costs. Measuring these ‘intangible’ costs is Reduced food Better SWM goes The poorest are Less plastic notoriously difficult, but the evidence collected together suggests that the economic waste and more reuse hand in hand with harmed the most by pollution in the costs to society of inaction are 5-10 times greater than the financial costs of proper of organic waste better WASH poor waste mgmt oceans & sea life waste management. Helping communities and governments manage their waste properly is critical if we are to achieve 11 of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. With forty per cent of the world’s waste – from homes, businesses, agriculture, hospitals and industry – not collected or treated, the issues are reaching epidemic portions. Addressing the waste crisis has to be more emphasized within the SDGs. UBQ supports and is working towards the five Global Waste Management Goals, Less disease Bioenergy Better SWM vital for Less pollution on structure by ISWA, as well as the 10-point Global Call for Action to achieve them. caused by open opportunities from healthy & resilient the land, healthier SDG17: Partnerships underscores the collaboration and scale we require to address dumping & burning organic waste communities environments the challenges. Only together can we aspire to a Future-Fit® society protecting the possibility that humans and other life can flourish on Earth forever, by being environmentally restorative, socially just and economically inclusive. Drawing information and inspiration from ISWA, Waste Aid International, and Future-Fit Foundation, UBQ is thankful for their work providing companies like ours tangible tools and references with which to develop and pursue our SDG strategies. Environmental and Waste management Need to shift from Producer Working together: health training and is the world’s waste to resource responsibility and formal & informal, awareness largest industry management governance wealthy & poor Diverting waste from landfills and incineration Actively contributes Valorizes 3rd generation to a circular feedstocks as a economy renewable resource Enables carbon neutral Avoids significant and climate positive CO2 equivalent applications emissions Compatible to be UBQ process and materials compounded with other provide no human or market thermoplastics environmental health risk hello@ubqmaterials.com www.ubqmaterials.com Commercially viable bio-based composite @UBQMaterials @UBQ_Materials material These data points have been clearly documented by UBQ and reviewed by Quantis International, which means they may be publicly communicated in a credible manner.
