Page |1 ALPHA ASSOCIATES TANZANIA LIMITED COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (CoP) MARCH 2017 – MARCH 2018 Alpha Associates (T) Limited Page |2 Contents INTRODUCTION .......................................................................................................................................... 3 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT ................................................................................................. 3 DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS ....................................................................................................................... 4 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME ................................................................................................................. 7 GENERALIZED ............................................................................................................................................. 7 Alpha Associates (T) Limited Page |3 INTRODUCTION ALPHA ASSOCIATES has been always striving to conduct a fair and honesty business, while making sure the preservation of environment and being socially responsible. Transparency and deliverance has also been our fundamental core and primary codes of conduct. That’s why, we always aiming at having a strong CSR present embedded in the backbone of our business model. And that is also why we are truly proud to have signed and accepted as one of participants and members of the United Nations Global Compact. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 02nd May 2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that ALPHA ASSOCIATES (T) LIMITED reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dr. Alphonce D. Massaga Managing Director Alpha Associates (T) Limited Page |4 DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS HUMAN RIGHTS We; Alpha Associates believes that every company has human rights impacts and responsibilities. Realizing that every company can impact the entire range of human rights issues positively or negatively, including discrimination, sexual harassment, health & safety, freedom of association and to form unions, rape, torture, and freedom of expression, privacy, housing, food and water. The UN Human Rights Council endorsed the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights by consensus in 2011. Guiding Principle 11 states: Business enterprises should respect human rights. This means that they should avoid infringing on the human rights of others and should address adverse human rights impacts with which they are involved.” Noting with deep concern, without strong policies to protect human rights we cannot effectively make it to strong institution. Therefore; Alpha Associates T Limited, comply to the UN Global Compact ten principles, Human Rights in particular and SDGs number 16 (PEACE JUSTICE & STRONG INSTITUTIONS) and have developed and implement policies to promote and protect Human Right so as to make sure everyone is being treated equally and above all with respect, dignity and freedom to form unions, privacy freedom of expression. LABOUR Sustainable growth requires policies to mitigate the impact of rapid population ageing by increasing labour inputs from under-employed segments of the population, In particular female labour participation. We have developed policy to avoid any gender inequalities and make it clear that all employees are being employed according to their ability and capacity to deliver through the recruitment process. The Company as it ratifies to Ten UN Global Compact Principles, through codes and policies prohibits all forms of forced labour or compulsory labour, no one is or will be working without being paid. Alpha Associates (T) Limited Page |5 Alpha Associates is deeply disturbed by the child labour and insist through its policies on the abolition of hiring children’s in our company and our partners. We have initial start convincing our partners and customers to comply with our policies and treat employees with honesty, dignity, without any sort of abuse, thus; free of verbal abuse, threats, sabotage and bullying of any kind. We fulfil promises to our employees about pays, overtimes, benefits, and promotions to improve the quality of life of our workers and other legal rights. ENVIRONMENT Referring to SDGs goal number 13; Environmental challenges such as Climate change also threatens to erode human freedoms and limit choice, and gender inequality intersects with climate risks and vulnerabilities. Women in developing countries have limited access to resources; restricted rights, limited mobility and a muted voice in shaping decisions make them highly vulnerable to climate change (Gender & Climate Change, UNDP 2014). Reports indicate that 60% of the world's poorest and most vulnerable people are women who are dependent on their natural environment to earn a living and feed their families. 1 Noting the less number of companies addressing environmental issues. Alarmed by the increase of emissions of greenhouse gases. Bearing in mind, the current sources of energy, such as fossil fuels, being major causes of environmental pollution and climate change such as the depletion of the ozone layer which leads to global warming, Keeping in mind the commitments made to reduce greenhouse gases through the Kyoto protocol established in 1997 and which came into force in 2005, Taking into consideration, the climatic changes highlighted by irregular meteorological phenomena, that have become the new reality and which threaten the survival of many countries. 1 http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/ourwork/environmentandenergy/strategic_themes/climate_chan ge/focus_areas/gender_and_climatechange/ Alpha Associates (T) Limited Page |6 Therefore Alpha associates, in addressing environmental challenges; is currently organizing an initiative to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges including Climate Change. Alpha Associates expresses its hope on RISING AWARENESS ON ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES (climate change in particular) a call for the involvement and empowerment of our stuffs (as members and representative of societies they are from) in addressing the challenges posed by climate change is inevitable since they are the one affected. The addressing and adjusting to the challenge of climate change is certain to be a defining feature of the future of humanity hence development. It is therefore critical that everyone have to be educated and become more actively involved in combating this threat. And with the clear understanding and awareness on the issue, we have planned to reach out for our customers (Internal and external). Environmental awareness is an essential element of the ALPHA Associates response towards climate change, it will help our employees, partners, and customers understand and address the impact of global warming, encourage changes in their attitudes and behaviors and helps them adopt environment challenges, climate change in particular and all its related trends. Inadequate or absence of the deep environmental challenges education has led many people and companies to do not see their direct involvement in dealing with the climate change issues. This harden the work by the primary targets who are citizen excluding themselves from the matter. Thus the environmental challenges awareness program based on the trends and its impact towards sustainable development and ending poverty line which will complement the global compact and SDGs in general. ANTI CORRUPTION Alpha Associate has committed to conduct our business with honesty, integrity, trustworthiness and accountability. And we have developed policies to ensure compliances by all employees, officers, board of directors, branches and affiliates Our policies strictly prohibit offering or receiving bribes or corrupt payments in any form. The anti-corruption policy and professional growth approach is being envisaged to empower our staff to ensure that critical thinking is basis of the company output. Thus, an ethical approach to business has always been one of the fundamental cores at Alpha Associate. This goes to all our employees regardless their roles and also applies to our agent, vendors, clients, business Alpha Associates (T) Limited Page |7 parties, or other service providers and we have been doing well by doing that for nearly 10 years Our code of business conduct and ethics promotes honest and ethical conduct throughout the company as well as provides a mechanism to report unethical conduct direct to the ALPHA ASSOCIATES helpdesk mail, suggestion box and hotlines to help preserve the tendency of honesty and accountability throughout the company and partners. The company has an anti-corruption policy and professional growth approach is being envisaged to empower our staff to ensure that critical thinking is basis of the company output. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME Our employees has to abide by the policies imposed to guide the company, thus everything they do into their daily activities has to or must be based on the principles as philosophy of Alpha Associates. This includes: a) Abide by the laws. b) Uphold and maintain reputation with customers. c) Be truthful and fair in conducting business. d) Encourage mutual respect, openness and integrity in the workplace. As company a) Supports positive employee initiatives and freedom of association. b) No employee will be victimized by way of termination or reduction of his rate of remuneration or altering the terms or conditions of employment to less favorable terms or conditions or altering his/her position relative to other employees employed by the company to his/her disadvantage, by reason of the fact that he is suspected or believed to have implemented any provision of the Tanzania’s Occupational Safety and Health Act No.5 of 2003. c) WE consider the work rules and Code of Conduct, Ethics, anti-corruption fraud and risk policy as very important and necessary for guiding employees to conduct themselves in a manner designed to promote the interests, good image and wellbeing of the COMPANY and everyone in it. GENERALIZED HOW ALPHA ASSOCIATES PROMOTES THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT 1. In every presentation slide prepared by ALPHA Associates, contains one slide that speak of the global compact 10 principles and call upon customers to join the movements. Alpha Associates (T) Limited Page |8 2. Given the nature of our business, we have permanent customers and as we have taken initiative towards the global principles, we inspire them to adopt as we have. 3. We have shared the information on our website that we are part of the Global Compact movement and we call upon our partners to adopt the principles. 4. We have displayed the SDGs and Global compact on our office walls, printed materials such as envelopes alongside message as part of inspiring our customers to join the movement. 5. We are working on our new staff a uniform which carries a UN Global Compact logo and message. 6. On every service contact, there is a clause that emphasizes on 10 GLOBAL Principles. 7. As consultancy, every company that comes to us for consultancy is advised to set a budget to handle social responsibilities. 8. As we are dealing with growing companies at a medium level, we take advantage of the moment to create awareness and ask them to adopt the 10 global compact to avoid and further problems. Prepared By Approved By Mustafa Bushiri Dr. Alphonce D. Massaga UN Global Compact Coordinator Managing Director Alpha Associates Co. Limited Alpha Associates Co. Limited Alpha Associates (T) Limited
