CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Introduction N SWA ECO I am pleased to confirm that DEIF A/S reaffirms its support of the 10 principles of the United C DEIF Group and our core values 4 NOR LA Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour rights, safety & environment and DI BEL UN Global Compact 6 anti-corruption. DEIF Code of Conduct 7 DEIF is a socially responsible and environmentally This CSR report describes what we focus on in our CSR Printing house CSR organisation 8 5041 0751 conscious company. Based on UN’s general principles activities in general, achievements throughout 2017 along Ambitions, objectives & activities 10 related to how companies work with social responsibility with our aims for the coming period. Of course, we are CSR management 12 and sustainability, we have introduced a structured way of eager to share everything with all our stakeholders using CASE Danish working conditions in Asia 14 implementing our CSR activities and our Code of Conduct DEIF’s primary channels of communication. in DEIF’s entire global organisation. Human & labour rights 16 Yours sincerely, FOCUS Working environment 18 Second-best workplace of the year 19 PR I N T Safety & environment 20 AL ED TR FOCUS Energy & waste 22 C O2 N EU T TE R MA Anti-corruption 23 This printed matter is carbon compensated TOKE FOSS according to ClimateCalc. Offsets purchased from: South Pole Carbon. Group CEO Cert. no. CC-000033/DK 2 3 DEIF Group and our core values Established in Denmark in 1933, today DEIF is a global supplier of green, safe and reliable DEIF’s core values control solutions for decentralised power production on land or at sea. Since its inception, DEIF has acted socially responsible Our business approach is based on the presumpaiming to positively impact society on all levels – for examtion that culture, practice, ethics and moral standards Persp ple through the innovation of new products and services that differ from one country to the next. Despite the differec are beneficial to society and enterprises themselves – and ences, our actions and business practices are always t to minimise and prevent negative environmental impacts. based on DEIF’s values and Code of Conduct. We ive want to be recognised for our responsibility, honesty it Amb ion Acting not just in active compliance with the spirit of the law, and integrity in all markets and in everything we do. ethical standards, and international norms in our business dealings, DEIF’s goal is to move beyond compliance with a The overall goal of DEIF is to develop the company’s value particular emphasis on environmental concerns. in the long term, always based on high ethics in relation to our employees, business partners and society. To be the Exceeding 650 employees, preferred global supplier of green, safe and reliRe t ec the DEIF Group has 24 able energy control solutions is central sp sales/regional offices, “Our vision is to be the to the DEIF Vision. competence centres preferred global supplier of and training facilities in Our three values respect, green, safe and reliable Europe, Asia and the ambition and perspective energy control solutions.” Americas, and distribuhave been developed, tors in an additional 35 TOKE FOSS defined and implementcountries and territories. Group CEO ed in a process involving Re spect it Amb ion rspective Pe Due to the significant growth employees from all parts of the DEIF Group and the fact that of our global organisation. As DEIF operates in an increasing number of a result, the values represent the ► Respect the whole person ► Do it better than yesterday ► Show a holistic understanding Persp countries, we’re particularly focused on ensuring that core characteristics of DEIF globally and the ► Respect cultural differences ► Do it better than our rivals n ek ► Be open to possibilities bi tio ti ► Respect agreements ► Do it better than our customers expect us to ► Seek insight into customers’ and users’ situation DEIF conducts its business responsibly, globally. way we work and have been working for eight decades. This v ► Respect individual contributions to the entirety Am ► Show initiative and face challenges ► Focus on knowledge sharing is a strong foundation for our CSR approach and activities. 4 5 UN Global Compact DEIF Code of Conduct DEIF has fully adopted and works according to the 10 principles expressed in the UN Global Compact. To ensure a globally aligned perception of DEIF’s values and principles, we have laid them out in the “DEIF Code of Conduct”. A full-fledged member of the UN Global Compact program, In addition, we also expect our suppliers and their subThe DEIF Code of Conduct covers the areas of human DEIF has long defined where we want to make a differsuppliers to produce and deliver sustainable solutions that rights, labour rights, safety & environment, and antience within the natural context of our business: Employlive up to our principles for ethical business practices. We corruption fully in line with the 10 principles expressed in ees, business partners and the local & global community. continuously evaluate our own business and the business the UN Global Compact. »We want to be recognised of our partners on the principles of the UN Global Compact All employees are expected to understand the basic which establish and describe the ethical and legal standDEIF Code of Conduct is the fundamental document for for our responsibility, honesty and principles of UN Global Compact and to work towards ards we are committed to comply with. our CSR activities and it forms the basis for our guidance high integrity in all markets and in implementing sustainable solutions whenever possible. in advancing our CSR approach (ambitions and actions). everything we do.« DEIF’s Code of Conduct lays out our interpretation of the 10 principles of UN Global Compact. The document has been signed again in 2017 by DEIF’s international management group, and it has subsequently been implemented in all new employment contracts and in local employee handbooks in our subsidiaries. Human rights: Labour rights: Safety & environment: Anti-corruption: 1. We support and respect internationally proclaimed 3. We uphold the freedom of association and recognise 7. We support a precautionary approach to safety and 10. We work against corruption in all its forms, including human rights effectively the right to collective bargaining environmental challenges extortion and bribery 2. We ensure that we are not complicit in human rights 4. We support the elimination of all forms of forced and 8. We undertake initiatives to promote greater abuses compulsory labour environmental responsibility 5. We support the efforts to abolish child labour 9. We encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 6. We eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 6 7 CSR organisation DEIF’s Executive Management Forum has appointed a cross-functional CSR Steering Group responsible for planning, coordination, execution and follow-up on CSR activities in the DEIF Group. CSR management system integration CSR monitoring and follow-up To monitor our progress within the agreed initiatives, the Furthermore, all managers are responsible for continuous The DEIF Code of Conduct’s focus areas (human rights, Conducted on a regular basis, CSR self-assessments CSR Steering Group has created a governance overview follow-up and improvements on CSR within their area labour rights, safety & environment and anti-corruption) ensure continuously improvements of our CSR efforts, and of the person/function responsible for each action and of responsibility – among others based on structured will – to the extent possible – be managed under existthey also constitute an important tool for the subsequent the person/function responsible for following up on these discussions of CSR experiences and dilemmas. CSR ing organisational structures within the DEIF Group, e.g. selection of specific CSR objectives. actions. Consequently, in addition to the members of experiences, initiatives and improvements will be reported Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) and Human Resource the Steering Group, a number of employees have been annually to the CSR Steering Group. CSR dilemmas are Development. Correspondingly, we have trained our interThe CSR Steering Group has created the below CSR appointed and included in the governance overview, discussed on an ad hoc basis and when onboarding new nal audit team to also conduct audits within the CSR area. annual cycle of work as a tool to ensure that relevant CSR thus ensuring that all KPI’s and actions are defined, employees. activities are conducted in a structured and reoccurring monitored and reported back to the CSR Steering Group way. (part of the “CSR Governance”) on a regular basis. Executive Management Forum Toke Foss Group CEO Executive Boards, P&M and WPT Executive Management Forum CSR Steering Group Meeting Approval of next year’s CSR objectives? Planning CSR activities. Governance, goals and activities. Follow up on global CSR maturity. Final review – CSR report JAN. DEC. CSR Sterring Group Meeting FE V. Preparation and accumulation of material/data for external CSR reporting NO B. Executive Management Forum Legal Matters Safety & Environmental Mgmt. Approval of External Reporting. Anne Diness Chanette N. Oksborg General Counsil SVP Global Operation International Management Seminar . CSR Theme/Topics/workshops & Information OCT. MAR Reaffirming our commitment to Global Compact’s 10 principles Human & Labour Rights Marjanne Grønhøj CSR Steering Group Wind Power Technology Charlotte Stocklund SVP HR Marjanne Grønhøj VP Strategy & Administration . APR. Chairman Executive Management Forum SEPT External reporting Management Review CSR. Define strategic CSR External CSR report (Communication on Progress) published issues/intentions. Update DEIF Code of Conduct if needed. Communication & Reporting System Management Frank P. Overby G. M Lars Gravholt VP Strategy & Communication VP Business Processes & Systems AU AY CSR Steering Group Meeting CSR Steering Group Meeting JUNE CSR in Subsidairies Evaluation of CSR Status Report JULY Follow up on CSR initiatives and objectives Subsidiary Manager Preparation of Management Review + local CSR responsible Executive Management Forum Status on global CSR initiatives and objectives 8 9 Ambitions, objectives & activities In late 2017, the CSR Steering Group and Executive Management Forum identified a number of objectives within each of the following four CSR areas: Management, human & labour rights, safety & environment and anti-corruption. These are the primary objectives we will follow-up on during 2018. The following pages contain a brief presentation of our CSR ambitions, the activities conducted in 2017 and our plans for 2018 within the four CSR areas. 10 11 CSR management 1 To manage our global CSR performance and implement our Code of Conduct, we have Plans & main focus for 2018 3 conducted the following activities in 2017. Implementation of The primary focus in 2017 was the implementation of structured CSR risk assessment, structured communication structured risk-assessment Targeted supplier management of CSR activities, continuous self-assessments and targeted supplier management. We want to evaluate risks, opportunities and the impact We want to continue our structured evaluation approach of our decisions in a structured and methodical way to towards our suppliers in relation to our Code of Conduct Achievements & activities in 2017 secure that new initiatives are always assessed using our principles. We will continue to follow up on suppliers and Code of Conduct principles. Having mapped all the risk of conduct selected audits. In addition, we will make sure 100% • New risk assessment procedures have been imple• Ambition corruption on all markets, we must determine if deployment of all new suppliers to DEIF’s production line confirm that mented globally in all relevant business case evaluaWe want to ensure a high degree of of further CSR evaluation criteria is required based on they live up to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. awareness of and commitment to our Code of 4 tions, stipulating evaluation criteria and tools to be used discussions with the sales responsibles for markets with a for risk management. This ensures that new initiatives Conduct and CSR objectives throughout the global corruption perceptions index score of 40 or less (see www. are always assessed based on our Code of Conduct DEIF organisation. Moreover, we want to secure transparency.org for more). Based on discussions with the principles. continuous improvements within all CSR areas Governance sales responsibles for each partner rated below 5 (DEIF’s through a structured CSR approach. internal maximum score for Code of Conduct compliance), We want to evaluate and update the CSR governance and • Templates for all relevant contracts have been updated we must determine if further CSR evaluation criteria are to create a CSR cycle pinpointing expected 2018 deliveries. to include CSR requirements, so that commitment to be deployed. A list containing the countries with the highest This is to be communicated to the subsidiaries, specifying the UN Global Compact principles is a prerequisite CSR risk is to be created as well. the expected level of involvement. for contracts with DEIF representatives, suppliers 2 5 and consultants. A procedure for CSR assessment • 99% of the suppliers to DEIF’s production line have of candidates for DEIF representatives has also been confirmed that they live up to the 10 principles of the UN implemented. Global Compact. Communication of our CSR activities Continuous assessment • The compliance with DEIF’s Code of Conduct of all • Three non-EU suppliers have been subjected to a DEIF We want to ensure a structured internal and external We want to secure follow-up on the impact of our CSR DEIF representatives (agents, distributors, service CSR audit to ensure compliance with the 10 principles. communication of our CSR activities with the aim of activities via yearly self-assessments, which will also serve partners) worldwide has been evaluated by DEIF. On securing ongoing anchoring, transparency and focus. as input for our future CSR work. For 2018, self-assessa scale of 0 to 5 (0 indicates non-compliance and 5 • Governance overview linked to DEIF’s CSR objectives ments based on UN’s evaluation criteria will be conducted This includes publishing our external CSR report once a indicates full compliance), the average score for the 32 has been approved. The responsibilites have been in Denmark, China, Singapore, India and Brazil. An overall year and promoting it on social media platforms as well DEIF representatives was 4.6. distributed among the members of DEIF’s CSR Steerassessment report based on these will contain improveas communicating objectives and activities on an ongoing Group. ment suggestions and include the key findings in the activing basis using internal media platforms and information • DEIF’s first official CSR report was published meetings. This will be supported by a flow of internal CSR ity plan for the coming year. internally and externally in the spring of 2017 in • Self-assessments of the impact of our CSR activities have been conducted in Denmark, China and Singacase stories and best practices. In addition, we will ensure compliance with the UN guidelines ‘Communipore. Moreover, China and Singapore have been that all new employees are introduced to Code of Conduct cation on Progress’ to promote and communitrained to perform future self-assessments on their own. and we will follow up with a global survey to ensure it has cate our activities to all relevant stakeholders. been communicated. For customers, we will include CSR questions in DEIF’s bi-annual customer satisfaction survey. “99% of the suppliers to our production line have confirmed that they live up to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact.” JETTE-MARIE G. KRAGH Department Manager Sourcing & Purchase 12 13 Danish working conditions in Asia CASE In 2017, DEIF’s wind power division made a special CSR effort by implementing Danish working conditions for for the workers. The partnership with the supplier Tae Sung Phils was established on the basis of their willingness to Reflecting a healthy culture, the employees express satislocal Philippine employees. The effort improves sourccreate good working conditions for local employees. In faction towards the working environment and community. ing and competitiveness significantly. The highest quality addition, the innovative supplier is strongly committed to “The partnership with Tae Sung is achieved by moving part of a complex and expensive aspects such as quality, product finish and on-time delivA good community and work-relation is an important part Phils was established on the basis of production process of racks for DEIF’s Advanced Wind ery. Combined, these form the baseline required to fulfill of the cross cultural collaboration. “I have a very close relatheir willingness to create good work Turbine Controller, the AWC 500. our CSR efforts and make sourcing more efficient, while tion to management and colleagues. I think their approach conditions for local employees”. at the same time streamlining the production in Denmark. is highly professional and they share the work values and Producing part of the racks in the Philippines, DEIF Wind norms we have in our Danish company This is crucially FRANK J. AABY Power Technology remains focused on Corporate Social By carrying out various local audits, we make sure important to us”, says Frank J. Aaby, Project and Sourcing Project & Sourcing Manager Responsibility in order to give the local employees the Manager. DEIF Wind Power that the Danish working conditions are maintained same working conditions as in Denmark. For this purpose, at the Philippine workplace, for instance in relawe are willing to create healthy and safe working conditions tion to worker safety and environmental friendliness. 14 15 Human & labour rights 1 We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make Plans & main focus for 2018 sure that we do not in any way contribute to the violation of human rights. Women in leadership positions DEIF and our our suppliers must protect employees against to collective bargaining. We respect and comply with relevant The number of women in leadership positions must a workplace, and we want to increase our presence at relephysical, sexual or mental abuse of any kind. DEIF upholds labour regulation in the countries where we do business. increase towards 2020 at all management levels. A vant educational institutions through speeches and events. the right to freedom of association and recognises the right systematic approach towards the field of candidates will be We also want to enter into a dialogue with the municipality introduced to secure at least one female candidate among of Skive to better understand how we can maximise the Ambition 3 top 5 candidates for any specific leadership position. value we add to the local society. We strive for diversity in the DEIF organiAchievements & activities in 2017 We will also develop an interview guide, including managesation and therefore want to provide equal oppor• In 2017, we made the format and content of job adver•tunities for all people, regardless of race, gender, age, ment training for subsidiaries, to ensure that external Business and human rights 2 tisements more appealing to women, and we repeated religion and political conviction. We want to ensure candidates are not asked questions related to their gender. We want to ensure continued compliance with the UN’s our sponsorship and participation in an IT Camp for compliance with UN’s Guiding principles on guiding principles on business and human rights (UNGPs). women in cooperation with Aalborg University. Business and Human Rights (UNPGs). This includes identifying, planning and implementing The society improvements, among others based on annual evaluations • The total share of women in leadership positions in the In 2018, we want to define which role DEIF is to play in the of the guiding principles in a DEIF context by means of the DEIF Group reached 19.8% (17.2% in 2016). For the top local society, for instance how DEIF can act as an even UN Global Compact self-assessment tool and CSR quesmanagement, the share was 18.8% and in lower level • DEIF sponsored a range of sports clubs and culture more active contributor, who integrates particularly vulnertions in the ongoing Employee Satisfaction Survey (ESS). management the share was 20.3%. institutions both in Denmark and abroad in support of able groups in our company. For departments with a low workload ESS score, we will the local community. initiate special activities locally. • The share of trainees, apprentices and PhD students in The percentage of trainees, apprentices and Denmark increased from 4.5% in 2016 to 4.7% in 2017 • DEIF teams have participated in ‘Race agains cancer’ PhD students is to reach or exceed 4.5% in (6.2% including interns). runs in Singapore and Denmark. Denmark eventhough the total number of employ• DEIF participated in a range of educational institution • Seasonal greetings from DEIF to all customers are ees is expected to increase in the years to come. events and projects such as ‘Science Cup Denmark’ now sent 100% electronically. The saved postage was We want to use our website more actively to brand DEIF as and the ‘Youth Goodwill Ambassadors project’ to donated to “Médecins Sans Frontières”. further career opportunities for young people. “In 2017, we’ve focused on gender diversity at management level, cooperation with educational institutions and people with reduced ability to work, sponsorships, and global working conditions”. MARJANNE GRØNHØJ Senior Vice President Human Resource 16 17 Working environment Second-best workplace of the year FOCUS Working environment in 2017 • Results from the Employee Satisfaction Survey 2017 • We conduct annual employee development dialogues DEIF A/S came in second in the national competition to demonstrate a continued score well above industry with all employees. become best workplace in Denmark in 2017 at the 3F labour standards within well-being, satisfaction and loyalty. • In DEIF India, all employees have been introduced to Union’s business & growth conference ‘Vision Denmark’. • In the same survey the “balance between workload the local anti-sexual harassment act (POSH). 2017 The decision fell 30 November in the Danish Broadcasting and time available” scored 5.1 (1-7 scale). An increase Corporation’s concert hall in Copenhagen. • DEIF offers weekly workout sessions and free physifrom 4.9 since last survey in 2015. otherapy in Denmark, running and other sports events The jury was particularly focused • DEIF came in second in a national competition to in subsidiaries and much more in a quest to promote on corporate social become best workplace in Denmark in 2017. healthiness. DEIF is number one to me, responsibility. says warehouse employee Pia Kalms, who nominated DEIF. Loyalty and commitment Well-being and satisfaction 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 ‘I was very sick with severe body infections and had 5,9 DEIF 2017 5,7 DEIF 2017 actually been approved for early retirement benefits. 6,0 DEIF 2015 5,8 DEIF 2015 But in cooperation with DEIF and our health Not available External benchmark 5,3 External benchmark insurance we managed to fight it off & I now work full time’. I see myself still working for DEIF I look forward to coming PIA M. KALMS in two years to work Warehouse employee DEIF A/S 5,8 5,7 /7 /7 I recommend others I feel motivated External benchmark not available to apply for a job at DEIF External benchmark: 5,2 in my daily work Sponsorships DEIF supports a range of leisure activites, including the following sports clubs in the vicinity of DEIF’s headquarters: Skive fH Skive Atletikog Motionsklub Skive IK 5,5 (handball) (athletics) (football) 5,7 /7 /7 I make an extra effort Generally I am to help DEIF create satisfied with the desired results working at DEIF External benchmark: 5,3 External benchmark: 5,1 6,3 5,8 /7 /7 External benchmark: 5,5 External benchmark: 5,7 18 19 Safety & environment Aiming for zero work-related injuries, DEIF and our suppliers place the safety of employees Plans & main focus for 2018 before everything else. We expect our customers to provide a safe working environment that prevents accidents and do not expose our employees to health & safety risks when working at 1 customer sites. Safe workplace We want to increase the level of safety and environmental emissions and costly maintenance intervals. It is central We want to have zero work-related injuries in the global protection through continuous measurements and to DEIF’s green vision that new product developments, organisation. To increase the level of safety, we will update improvements, and our approach to all aspects of business specifications and designs meet and exceed a number of signposting and markings in and around DEIF’s production is ‘green’. As a result, DEIF develops energy-efficient strict self-imposed targets. facilities at the headquarters. In addition, we will work to products and solutions that reduce fuel consumption, cut increase focus on safety even more. 2 Ambition Green company We want to be a safe workplace for We want to further substantiate our participation in the everyone who work for or visit us. We want to global green transformation in 2018 through installation of be recognised for being a green company that charging stations for electric cars and reduction of outdoor delivers environmentally optimised solutions meeting salting during the winter time at DEIF’s headquarters. In customer expectations for performance, cost addition, we will evaluate our energy consumption during reductions and uptime. “idle running” at the headquarters to eliminate energy waste, and we will improve our incoming inspection of chemicals to make sure all labelling is correct. Achievements & activities in 2017 • The new HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) structure • DEIF joined ‘Greenlab Skive’ – a project aiming to create “We have increased focus on safety was implemented in remaining DEIF subsidiaries. new green solutions and growth in the region by means of through relationship building between the facilitating integration and storage of sustainable energy safety organisation and all employees and • Safety walks were conducted at all DEIF locations also enhanced internal communication, for in the national grid. around the world. The safety walks covered areas such instance by means of video promotionals”. as signage, labelling, safety and first aid equipment and • Internal and external environmental audits according to courses. ISO 14001 were conducted. CHANETTE N. O. PEDERSEN Senior VP • First-aid and fire-fighting training were carried out or • DEIF India was awarded the ‘Green City Certificate’ for Global Operations scheduled in all DEIF companies. the ability to scrap electronics environmentally correct. • Safety check and approval of DEIF China by local authori• Waste handling was improved in DEIF’s subsidiaries and ties. at the HQ. • New guidelines for correct handling of urgent sickness • LED lighting was introduced at a number of DEIF locaand accidents were implemented at DEIF’s HQ – they tions, including France and China. “DEIF will participate in Greenlab include a new system for quick defibrillator assistance. 27 • In general, all DEIF locations increased their focus on Skive’s planned biogas CHP test plant and employees have been trained in first aid and the use of defibrillators. reducing energy consumption as much as possible. also deliver the control solution for a local microgrid which will come to include a • The number of chemicals and harmful substances in use • Two minor work-related accidents causing absence were planned wind turbine park”. in products, production, buildings and cleaning activities registered. has been reduced from 174 late in 2016 to 154 at the end TOKE FOSS of 2017. Group CEO, DEIF Board member, Greenlab Skive 20 21 Energy & waste Anti-corruption FOCUS Heat usage per m2 Electricity usage per m2 Waste amounts generated DEIF refrains from corruption, bribery, extortion and use of other methods that may create conflicts of interest related to our business. 398 399,3 398 399,3 75,65 75 75 We request DEIF colleagues only to accept or give minor gifts and only to participate in meetings, events, etc. that are within 71,12 the scope of normal business practices. If in doubt about issues concerning gifts and entertainment, the individual employee is required to consult his/her manager for clarification. 6.250 5.775 50 50 50.000 Any decisions, actions or behavior compromising DEIF’s stance on anti-corruption will have consequences for the employee(s) involved. Our contracts are always prepared in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and we make sure our contracts with suppliers, consultants and other cooperation partners include sections on anti-corruption. DEIF has a zeroKWh/m2 KWh/m2 Kg 31.345 73,61 75,63 75,76 28.864 tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion of any kind. 67,00 25.000 25 25 Ambition We will not participate in any 22.085 20.531 kind of corruption. 0 kg 0 0 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Employees Household waste Employees Index heat Index Reusable Achievements & activities in 2017 Electricity KWh/m2 Other Heat KWh/m 2 • A corruption risk assessment of all countries and • In addition to the commitment to the UN Global markets where DEIF is active has been performed by Compact principles, templates for all relevant The DEIF Group’s headquarters in Skive, Denmark, boasts an advanced and comprehensive green energy DEIF’s Danish HQ, with DEIF subsidiaries contributcontracts with DEIF representatives and consultants system that includes a carbon neutral Aqua Thermal Storage System, a micro CHP plant and a comprehensive have been updated, allowing DEIF to terminate the ing with local evaluations of their markets in general Energy Optimisation System that spots and eliminates energy waste. and their key customers. The management in charge agreement without notice if DEIF’s contracting partof sales to any areas with questionable corruption ner commits a bribery offence or is subjected to an measures ensures that appropriate risk assessment investigation/prosecution related to an alleged act of is performed for new projects in these areas/markets, bribery. using the analysis tool mentioned under ”CSR • In 2018, we will continue our structured CSR risk Management”. assessment work, focusing especially on geographi• Based on a review of existing, relevant contracts, cal areas with an increased corruption risk. we have requested all contract partners to confirm in writing that their business practices comply with the 10 UN Global Compact principles. 1 Plans & main focus for 2018 Continuous avoidance of corruption We want to secure that all employees in the global accomplished the e-learning module before end of 2020. DEIF Group continuously refrain from engaging in any In the meantime, we want to develop a method/solution to corrupt activities. In order to do so, we want to develop ensure that relevant people know how to deal with dilemmas an e-learning course for relevant employees on antilinked to anti-corruption. corruption and ensure that all relevant employees have DEIF headquarters in Skive, Denmark 22 23 DEIF A/S Frisenborgvej 33, 7800 Skive, Denmark Tel. +45 9614 9614 DEIF.com/About/Corporate-Social-Responsibility
