Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2018 Vodafone Turkey Head Office Vodafone Turkey Head Office, İstanbul 41°6’47.23”N 29°1’28.13”E table og contents Economic Contribution Corporate Governance Stakeholder Engagement Innovation Equalmeter What will you be? 2025 Goals Diversity and Inclusion Vodafone Turkey's Women First in Coding Tomorrow IoT Solutions Employee Experience Material Issues Entrepreneurship Dreams Academy Environmental Performance Talent Management Contribution to the Easy Rescue Discover Young Talent Vodafone Volunteers Global Goals Vodafone Gold Club Programme Occupational Health and First6Years Mobile Global Columbus Talent Safety Application Exchange Programme Learn Technology From the Expert Supply Chain Memberships Independent Assurance Human Rights Environmental Performance Statement Mobiles, Masts and Public Indicators GRI Content Index Health Social Performance Information Security Indicators Message From CEO Digitalisation is positioned as a key trend that affects the future’s world and Youth Skills and Jobs, over 373,000 young people were directed to appropriate jobs and transforms our industry as well as the whole education via the mobile application. world. Innovative digital technologies which fulfil the requirements of the public and Prepared in compliance with the increasing access to these technologies transparency and accountability principles significantly contribute to the inclusive and covering the fiscal year of 1 April economic growth and social development. 2017 and 31 March 2018, the report We believe in the innovative and consists of economic, business, social and transformative power of digitalisation. environmental performance, good practices Sustainable success can only be achieved and future goals. This year, after a long time, through digitalisation. we carried out a widely-applied stakeholder analysis and materiality assessment process Vodafone connects its stakeholders to each in accordance with the international other to live a better today and build a better stakeholder engagement standard tomorrow; and has the goal to become the (AA1000 SES) to include the opinions leading company in global transformation and expectations of the stakeholders. focusing on Women’s Empowerment, Youth Furthermore, Vodafone Turkey has become Skills, Jobs and Energy Innovation in line the first company in telecommunication with the Vodafone Sustainable Business sector provided assurance for its materiality Strategy 2025. process. Colman Deegan CEO Vodafone Turkey Becoming the digital solution partner in Vodafone Turkey will keep considering the Turkey and investing in the achievement sustainability a part of its basic business of a sustainable success in the global strategy and communicating effectively transformation areas stand out among with its stakeholders. We will continue to the material issues determined. This year, get digitalised and invest in new-generation we have continued to contribute to the technologies to prepare Turkey to an exciting reduction of GHG emissions and increase future and partake in building a better and in energy efficiency through the smart sustainable future. • solutions we offer for individuals as well as companies in terms of Energy Innovation. We aim to become the leading company in We have raised awareness by the Equalmeter global transformation focusing on Women’s application, the artificial intelligence (AI) technology developed under the Women’s Empowerment, Youth Skills, Jobs and Energy Empowerment programme, to prevent Innovation in line with the “Vodafone the use of sexist language. Thanks to the Sustainable Business Strategy 2025”. Future Jobs Finder service developed under Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 03 About the Report In 2018 Sustainability Report, Vodafone Turkey1 shares its economic, corporate governance, environmental and social performance during the fiscal year between 1 April 2017 and 31 March 2018 and defines the goals that stand out in its future strategy. This year, in addition to the Scope 1 and 2 data, we have also provided assurance for the social data2 related to transformation goals. This report has been prepared according to the ‘core’ option of GRI Standards published by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The report covers widely-applied stakeholder analysis and material issues designated by a strategic approach and the progress in accordance with United Nations Global Compact signed by our company and includes our contributions to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of United Nations to be achieved by 2030. The years 2017/18 stands for the financial period of 1 April 2017 31 March 2018. Please contact surdurulebilirlik@vodafone.com for all your questions, comments and suggestions regarding the content of the report. • 102-45 102-46 1 The affiliations of Vodafone Turkey are Vodafone Telekomünikasyon A.Ş., Vodafone Dağıtım Hizmetleri A.Ş., Vodafone Teknoloji Hizmetleri A.Ş. (OKSİJEN), Vodafone Net İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş., Vodafone Holding A.Ş., Vodafone Turkey Foundation, Vodafone Bilgi ve İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş., Vodafone Elektronik Para ve Ödeme Hizmetleri A.Ş. and Vodafone Mobile Operations Limited. Vodafone Mobile Operations Limited (Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus) is only included in the financial performance data given in the report. 2 Independent Assurance Statement Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 04 Vodafone Turkey Vodafone Turkey in Figures 3 We provide fast, high-quality, simple and reliable services to our stakeholders. 3,172 540 1,189 Employees Vodafone Turkey Volunteers Stores Our Vision Leading the digital transformation in Turkey. Our Mission 23.3 Million 13 Million 697 Thousand Inspiring every individual in Turkey for Mobile Customers 4.5G Customers Fixed Broadband Customers a better future through communication technologies. Our Values We provide fast, high-quality, simple and reliable services while helping our customers enjoy opportunities in life and to realize their 74.7% 726 Petabytes full potentials. We are committed to be a Smart Phone Penetration Customer Data Usage customer-centric, innovative and competitive international company with local roots admired by its customers. In line with our vision to lead digitalisation in Turkey, we offer mobile voice, fixed voice, mobile Internet, fibre and DSL services to individuals as well as corporations. We TRY 9.2 Billion TRY 4.35 Million TRY 1.3 Billion continue our operations with 23.3 million Organic Service Revenue Social Investment Investment mobile customers, over 3,000 employees and over 1,100 stores. 3 The figure includes 2017/18 fiscal year data. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 05 Economic Contribution Employment Creation Hence, we put our efforts to: Corporate Governance Vodafone Turkey supports United Nations At Vodafone Turkey, we directly employ • Promote the development of policies We commit to establish a fair management Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 3,172 employees; while supporting the to contribute to the digital transformation structure for all stakeholders, business and promotes uninterrupted, inclusive and local economic development through our in Turkey; thus, increase global partners, employees and customers in a sustainable economic growth for all under operations carried out at various regions in competitiveness, fully transparent and accountable approach. Decent Work and Economic Growth goal to Turkey. Considering the indirect employment Vodafone Code of Conduct5 sets out the contribute to Turkish economy. generated through our suppliers, stores and • Raise awareness regarding the social and business principles, ethics, anti-bribery and outsourcing, the employment creation figure economic benefits of digitalisation, corruption issues and how every single person reaches 40,000 people in total. at Vodafone needs to apply these. • Improve efficiency and effectiveness The Youth in Statistics 2017 Report of4 by enabling the informatics and At Vodafone, the roles of chairman and CEO TurkStat (Turkish Statistical Institute) reveals telecommunications sectors to have an positions held by the different person in We a re a m o n g t h e l a rg es t that 21% of the youth population, which impact on every area of the economy and accordance with the principle of separation of i nte r nat i o na l i nves tor s i n is 16% of the total population in Turkey, facilitating the digitalisation of the economy, powers. Vodafone Turkey Board of Directors6 Tu r key w i t h a tot a l i nves t m e nt is unemployed. We plan our call centre consists of one woman board member with a of ove r T RY 20 bi ll i on . investments by considering the contribution • Overcome the legislative obstacles total of 5 board members; while the Executive to economic and social development and through mutual solutions to offer products Board consists of two women board members tries to generate employment opportunities and services facilitating the social welfare with a total of 9 board members.7 Vodafone Turkey is among the largest to the youth population. Thus, we provide and development, international direct investors in Turkey with a employment opportunities 4,066 people at At Vodafone Turkey, sustainablity strategy total investment of over TRY 20 billion. Carrying our call centres located in Istanbul, Ankara, • Apply competition policy effectively and is represented and managed by the Director out our activities with the goal to propagate Izmir, Samsun, Konya, Şanlıurfa, Afyon, oriented to our goals, of External Affairs. As part of sustainability digitalisation all over Turkey, we have delivered Malatya, Elazığ and Adana. function, activities are carried out within the our services to millions of people in 2017/18 • Review existing regulation approaches in the company in compliance with the Vodafone fiscal year with an investment of TRY 1.3 billion. Contributions to Public Policy market and define the best policies under the Group’s sustainable business strategy, as We continued our efforts to support Turkish We closely follow up on legislative changes guidance of international instances, well as international sustainability agenda is economy through the taxes (VAT, special in telecommunications sector both in followed and activities implemented to raise communication tax, etc.) paid by our customers. Turkey and global scale; and do our share • Take steps for the necessary legislation awareness in the company and improve the in developing public policies in accordance which will facilitate the new generation sustainability performance of the company. During the 2017/18 fiscal year, the organic with the technologic developments and technology to meet the consumers, service revenues increased 14.3% compared to create a competition environment. We to the previous year and reached TRY 9.2 exchange information with the regulating • Promote sustainable investments, R&D billion. During this period, earnings before authorities, public institutions, nonand innovation in the fixed and mobile interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation governmental organisations and public and broadband infrastructure, network and (EBITDA) reached approximately TRY 2.8 offer suggestions to create a healthy and services, 4 TurkStat The Youth in Statistics 2017 Report billion with an increase of 22.6%; while sustainable competition environment. 5 Vodafone Code of Conduct Operational Free Cash Flow was achieved as • Use limited resources, particularly 6 Vodafone Turkey Board of Directors TRY 1.4 billion. frequencies, effectively and efficiently. 7 Vodafone Turkey Executive Board Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 06 Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Corruption of Doing What’s Right programme. Among Our transparency principle is among the the aforementioned training, 90% of the main focuses of Vodafone’s Sustainable employees completed the training on antiBusiness Strategy. During our activities, we bribery and corruption. always comply with the provisions of the international laws and regulations, Turkish laws and legislation, the Vodafone Group In 2018 , w e w e re ce r t i f i e d policies and procedures on anti-bribery w i t h IS O 370 01 A nt i b r i b e r y and corruption. In compliance with our M a n a g e m e nt Sy s te m . Zero Tolerance approach for bribery and Vod afon e Tu r key is t h e f i r s t corruption, in 2018, we were certified with com pa ny i n t h e te ch n o log y ISO 37001 Anti-bribery Management System. a n d te le co m m u n i cat i o n Vodafone Turkey is the first company in the s e c tor, w h i ch g ot t h e s t a n d a rd technology and telecommunication sector in i n Tu r key. Turkey, which complies and is certified with ISO 37001 standard. Corporate Security Any violation of the Code of Conduct, antiAs part of Corporate Security Management, bribery and corruption and human rights we identify the threats and vulnerabilities that shall be regarded as cause for disciplinary may harm the image, brand and reputation action in line with the company rules. of Vodafone Turkey and take preventive Therefore, we have established hotlines, i.e. measures to minimize them. Our approach Speak Up and Red Line. All employees are to Corporate Security Management includes able to share their questions and comments identifying and preventing misconducts, antianonymously and report any violations bribery and corruption, preventing laundering they have witnessed and/or suspected of proceeds of crime, supplier due diligence, to the authorised personnel by phone or data protection, privacy, business continuity, online. We regularly review our anti-bribery physical safety and safety awareness. Vodafone Secure World Award 2017 and corruption principles and bring to the Corporate governance has been managed in compliance with ISO 22301 Business Continuity attention of our employees and business We included new interaction area to the Management System since 2010. Completed without a single customer complaint and any partners, particularly our suppliers and Sense of Security Programme, which is coverage problem, the real-time, live drills, of which the scenario of the drill was among the contractors. a Corporate Security Cultural Exchange rarest applied worldwide, conducted to transfer subscribers as part of Network Operation and Awareness Programme. Within this Business Continuity and Emergency Management Plan was supported by Vodafone Turkey Throughout the fiscal year 2017/18, framework we held two workshops on senior management team and consisted of approximately 200 employees from various online training regarding business ethics Business Continuity and Privacy of Personal departments. Network Operation Business Continuity Drill was presented the top prize of and anti-bribery was provided on Code Data. Each workshop was held with the Secure World Award 2017, which is organized every year by the Vodafone Group among the of Conduct, Health and Safety, Privacy, attendance of 80 employees from various Vodafone Corporate Security teams, among a total of 35 success stories. Security, Anti-bribery and Corruption as part departments and management levels. • Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 07 Vodafone Turkey Foundation Dreams Academy Dreams Academy, Kaş 36º14'5.46''N 29º39'56.64''E Country: Turkey City: Antalya Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 Image © 2018 DigitalGlobe 08 Sevda Baysal City: Antalya Title: Dreams Academy Volunteer The language we use at Dreams Academy is love. In the land of dreams, each day starts with warm good morning s and big smiles. Everybody likes you, smiles at you, and tries to accompany you. The one and only concern of the dreamers is to make each other happy. They always share what they have, i.e. their foods, their tents, their knowledge, their time, their love... Everybody loves to teach other party whatever they know. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 09 Vodafone Turkey Foundation Vodafone Turkey Foundation has been part of a network of 27 local Vodafone foundations and Economic Growth goals through works carried out regarding employment, decent worldwide, committed to support social work opportunities and entrepreneurships. development and lead change through In addition to all these efforts, we social investments, since 2007. support Gender Equality goal by enabling Working in collaboration with NGOs and the activation of the information and stakeholders, Vodafone Turkey Foundation communication technologies that support supports sustainable projects that are the protection of women from violence and focused on delivering social benefit in line empowerment of women through these with the sustainable business strategy of projects. Carrying out these activities in Vodafone Turkey. collaboration with the public institutions and NGOs at both local and national levels, we promote Partnerships for the Goals. • S o f a r, Vo d afo n e Tu r key Fo u n d at i o n h as i nves te d ove r T RY 37 m i l l i o n a n d to u ch e d 4 m i l l i o n p e o p le t h ro u g h t h e p roj e c t s . So far, Vodafone Turkey Foundation has invested over TRY 37 million and touched 4 million people through the projects carried out, which in overall have the purpose to fulfil the requirements of people and create new opportunities. We seek to contribute to building a more liveable world in the long term. We are committed to carry out technologybased projects for women, children and people with disabilities with a particular focus on education and entrepreneurship through benefitting from the transformative Please scan the QR code for more information on power of technology. We design these Vodafone Turkey Foundation projects to contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals. Thus, we are trying to reach sustainable solutions that create positive impacts. The Foundation contributes to the Quality Education and Decent Work Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 010 Sustainable Business Strategy Yalova İnkılap Park Yalova İnkılap Park 40°39'40.49 N 29°17'40.83 E Country: Turkey City: Yalova Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 Image © 2018 DigitalGlobe 011 Nesrin City: Yalova Profession: Architect In Yalova, we can easily access technologic solutions that facilitate our everyday life in the city. With the smart municipality applications and free Wi-Fi service, we experience and enjoy the city life at the Inkılap Park, where is the highest technology park in Yalova. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 012 Sustainable Business Strategy Our purpose is to connect everybody to live a better today and build a better tomorrow Telecommunication disseminates information, facilitates the use of information and enables disadvantaged groups to Transformation Areas access products and services. Moreover, it creates significant opportunities in various fields such as developing tools for effective environmental performance management, Women’s Energy Youth Skills facilitating daily life, improving the mobility Empowerment Innovation and Jobs of people, etc. At Vodafone Turkey, we have a direct and indirect impact and provide • Women First in Entrepreneurship significant leverage on the lives of individuals • Equalmeter and organisations; hence direct digital • Easy Rescue transformation. While preparing people to a • First 6 Years Mobile Application • Women Technology Education Centre better future, we focus on the areas where we • Women Farmer Entrepreneurship can most effectively use the potential of the • Vodafone Gold Club Our Transparency Areas sector we operate in creating value. • Women in Technology Internship • Women in Sales Internship The Sustainable Business Strategy • ReConnect developed by the Vodafone Group guides Tax and Total Supply Chain Mobiles, Digital Rights our sustainability performance improvement Economic Integrity Masts and Health and Freedoms areas, goals and activities. Our purpose is to Contribution and Safety connect our stakeholders to live a better today and build a better tomorrow. This year, we defined our material issues in Principles and Practice compliance with our sustainable business strategy through an extensive stakeholder engagement and materiality analysis. As a • What will you be? result of the analysis, we focus our resources • Discover Young Talent Programme to accurate areas with the purpose of • Global Columbus Talent Exchange Programme improving our performance and maximising • YouthCo & Digital Ninja the social and economic benefits. • Learn Technology From the Expert • Smart Cities • Coding Tomorrow • Smart Village • Dreams Academy Vo d a f o n e T ü r k i y e S ü r d ü r ü l e b i l i r l i k R a p o r u 2 0 18 013 Stakeholder Engagement international AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Vodafone Turkey’s Material Issues We attach importance to the impact of our Standard. We mapped and prioritised our The results of the widely-applied stakeholder analysis were evaluated considering the leading global activities on our stakeholders as well as the stakeholders and we received feedback of trends. This integrated approach enabled us to define the significant material issues considering local impact of our stakeholders on our activities. 24% of them. The opinion received from our and global dynamics. We consider stakeholder communication stakeholders significantly contributed to our and engagement important to get leverage materiality analysis. Our goal is to maintain our from this mutual interaction to turn into an effective stakeholder engagement mentality, opportunity-creating value. reach more stakeholders during the strategic activities to be carried out in the future and While defining the material issues of improve stakeholders’ rate of return. We While defining the materiality of the issues for the stakeholders; Vodafone Turkey, we consulted our internal carry out joint projects in collaboration with stakeholders, i.e. employees, and our external foundations, associations, initiatives and • We were able to include the views of all stakeholder groups within Vodafone Turkey stakeholders, who have both direct and platforms, which are operated in various fields. ecosystem to our report with the stakeholder analysis. indirect impacts on our business continuity, • We were able to include the indicative trends in the global agenda as well as our sector, about their expectations from Vodafone in You can find the list of organisations that we besides the issues set forth by the international organisations and global sustainability indices terms of sustainability. The analysis was led are subscribed in the Annexes section. with the global trend analysis. We took into account different international initiatives’, report by an independent consultancy according to and studies such as Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), United Nation Sustainable Development Solutions (UNSDSN), Shared Value Initiative. Stakeholder Groups Direct Economic Impact • Employees • Corporate customers • Suppliers Indirect Economic Impact • Government agencies and regulatory bodles While analysing the significance of the issues for Vodafone Turkey; • NGO’s and international organisations • Business partners and start ups • We were able to get the opinion and expectations of the management through face to face • Media and focus group meetings, evaluate the strategic areas guiding the company. • Universities • With the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) Four Factor Analysis, we evaluated financial impacts and risks, as well as the legal impacts. We considered whether the issues create an advantage in terms of competitiveness and the innovation opportunities. New Opportunities, Insights and Perception • Think tanks 102-40 102-42 102-43 102-44 102-49 Vo d a f o n e T ü r k i y e S ü r d ü r ü l e b i l i r l i k R a p o r u 2 0 18 014 As a result of the analysis, Vodafone Turkey’s accurate management of the skills of the working Importance to Stakeholders very important and extremely important youths. Climate Change and Energy, one of Stakeholder Analysis + External Trend Analysis material issues have been defined. The material the issues managed by the long-term goals of issues include: the Vodafone Group, is also among the material issues in Turkey. We aim to tackle climate change Important Very Important Extremely Important • Technological innovation through digital solutions. Occupational Health • Becoming a digital solution partner and Safety, which is among the material issues • Women’s empowerment of the Vodafone Group, is also an inevitable issue • Climate change and energy that Vodafone Turkey considers. Utmost attention Technological Innovation • Financial performance is placed to promote health and safety, which has • Digital customer and employee experience a direct impact on the performance. • Data privacy and security • Talent management Contribution to the Climate Change • Responsible products, services and Global Goals Risk and Crisis Data Security and and Energy accessibility Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Privacy Management Financial • Occupational health and safety are in parallel to our sustainable business Performance Becoming a Digital Solution Partner • Youth skills and jobs strategy and also in compliance with our Human Rights Youth Skills and Jobs Women's Empowerment • Equal opportunity and diversity motto ‘The future is exciting. Ready? We • Responsible supply chain management offer people new technologies that improve Equal Opportunity • Mobiles, masts and public health their quality of life and transform their way Mobile Devices, and Diversity Masts and Talent Digital Customer • Risks and crisis management of doing business; hence, we are preparing Waste Management Public Health Occupational Management and Employee Experience • Employee satisfaction them to an exciting future and focusing on Responsible Supply Health and areas that we can create positive impact. Chain Management Safety Responsible Products, Vodafone Group and Vodafone Turkey’s We use the transformative power of the Employee Services and Accessibility Water Digital Customer Management and Employee Satisfaction Material Issues sector, while serving for doing good. During Transparency Customer Satisfaction Experience and and Loyalty The most material issues defined following the the stakeholder analysis, our stakeholders Responsible Communication and Information materiality analysis are also in compliance with indicated the importance of the activities in Marketing of Products and Services Sharing the material issues defined by the sustainable the telecommunication sector carried out business strategy of the Vodafone Group. The in terms of sustainability, which improve the first one is Women’s Empowerment which satisfaction level of the customers; as well as is addressed under the equal opportunity and the brand value; hence stand out to achieve a diversity in Vodafone Group. As Vodafone Turkey, long-term and profitable growth. we promote women’s empowerment in terms of both economic and social areas. The lack In order to enable the most effective access to of talent in the labour market and thus talent information during the communication era we management is another material issue. Talent contribute to the Sustainable Development Importance to Vodafone management in Vodafone Turley includes youth Goals. You can review our contributions to the Management + Strategy + 4 Factor Impact Analysis skills and jobs, as well as development and SDGs under our Business Strategy section. • 102-44 102-46 102-47 102-49 Vo d a f o n e T ü r k i y e S ü r d ü r ü l e b i l i r l i k R a p o r u 2 0 18 015 Digitalisation Gaziantep Botanic Park Gaziantep Botanic Park, Şehitkamil 37°3'48.63 N 37°20'58.68 E Country: Turkey City: Gaziantep Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 Image © 2018 DigitalGlobe 016 Tarçın City: Gaziantep They say It is not safe for you out there . However, I want to run as fast as I can, meet my friends in the forest and experience new adventures. Before, my family would not let me out and would be concerned when they could not find me. Today, thanks to my smart tracker, they can track me. I am not afraid anymore. I always know I will be with my family. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 017 Digitalisation Digitalisation is the key trend that transforms our sector. From artificial intelligence to We put Turkey’s first digital play, The Fur Vodafone FreeZone Studio, the first digital the internet of things (IoT) digitalisation Coated Madonna (Kürk Mantolu Madonna), music studio in the world established in a transforms everyday life and plays an on stage, in which the latest digital staging stadium, provides the best equipment to the indicative role in the future world with its techniques such as projection, mapping, young talents, offers coaching opportunities innovative and transformative power. video art, audio-video plays, etc. were used from professional teams and record their to stage this cult and classic Turkish novel. music. Vodafone FreeZone Studio promotes Using innovative digital technologies which Using our communication power, we aim to young talents in music with the power of fulfil the needs of the society and increasing We consider digital transformation a valuable improve the digital experience, as well as the digitalisation. access to these technologies significantly tool for our sustainability strategy. We aim recognition and popularity of the theatre art contribute to the inclusive economic growth to enable automation and simplification in through digital theatres. and SDGs. Mobile technologies enable easier our operations, use the latest data analysis access to education, healthcare and financial techniques and offer digital customer services; hence, offer people a way out from experience. To achieve this, we collaborate the cycle of poverty. with various stakeholders and work together. Digitalisation and innovation have multiple We aim to understand the advantages including better customer needs of the individuals and experiences, reduction of costs and organisations , of fer products environmental and social benefits. A more that ease their lives and efficient and environmentally-friendly improve their qualit y of life and agricultural production, smart cities and develop solutions that provide buildings that facilitate the lives of people, economic, environmental and customized programs that offer better social benef its. analyses of employee performance are possible thanks to digital technologies. The digitalisation index informs the enterprises about their digital scores and what they can do to improve their scores. The As of April 2010, in the mobile area and August 2016 in the fixed area (Vodafone.Net), we have been Co m m u n i cat i o n te ch n o log i es technologies we offer, including 4G+ mobile, encouraging our customers using various promotions to use e-bills, which are legally valid as well, e na b le eas i e r a cces s to fibre-optic networks, cloud informatics instead of printed bills. The ratio of our post-paid customers who prefer to receive e-bills reached 90.3% e d u cat i o n , h ea lt h ca r e a n d and IoT, promote the digital transformation and 60% in the mobile and fixed areas, respectively. Thanks to our waste bills and e-bill application, f i n a n ci a l s e r v i ces ; h e n ce , of the enterprises. We lead the digital we were able to donate 13.4 tons of waste paper to Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion for of fe r i n d i v i d u a l s a w ay ou t transformation of large-, middle-, small-scale Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats (TEMA). Avoiding the use of 2 million tons of paper f ro m t h e c ycle of p ove r t y. enterprises, as well as cities. in total, we have saved approximately 34,000 trees from being cut down. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 018 Innovation • Together with Gebze Technical University, the digital transformation leader, we have the I T U Vo d afo n e Fu tu r e L A B w i l l The way to become a leading company in OKSIJEN successfully completed Developing goal to inspire the organisations by bringing h os t at leas t s i x p os tg r a d u ate developing innovative digital technologies Improved Positioning Algorithms for 4.5G the future’s digital innovations to today and p roj e c t s eve r y yea r a n d t h e is possible with innovation. Our innovation Networks project. make them a part of the digitalisation. r es ea rch e r s at t h e l a b w i l l b e capacity lies behind the new products and f u l ly f i n a n ce d by Vo d afo n e . services that improve customer satisfaction • On the other hand, the company continues ITU Vodafone Future Lab was designed to and ease life. to carry out an R&D project, Improving experience our innovative technologies and Customer Experience through Natural offer solutions to our customers. We develop Oksijen Language Processing Solutions by Learning remote management, operational perfection Methods, in collaboration with Istanbul and efficient work solutions in line with the Technical University (ITU). requirements of various sectors including energy, finance, health and retail. We will Including the aforementioned projects, carry out our R&D activities in collaboration Please scan the QR code for more information on ITU Vodafone Future Lab. Founded in 2000 under Vodafone Turkey, the number of R&D projects carried out in with the project groups of ITU students and OKSIJEN, one of the global innovation collaboration with the universities reached 10. continue to develop new technologies. ITU companies of the Vodafone Group, offers Vodafone Future LAB will host at least six significant employment opportunities in the post-graduate projects every year and the R&D field and develops and offers innovative researchers at the lab will be fully financed products and services for individual and by Vodafone. corporate customers together with its 250+ OKSIJEN, positioned as a global innovation engineers. OKSIJEN accelerates Vodafone company that can serve to the customers Vodafone Smart Tea Brewing Dispenser, Turkey’s digital transformation with its in 25 countries where Vodafone Group Augmented Reality Based Coffee Machine, innovation experience. So far, OKSIJEN had operates, exports technology to the world. Bluetooth Based Closet Solution, Reactive its signature on various innovative solutions, Energy Management System, Cold Chain which are applied for the very first time. Traction System, Smart Irrigation System, During 2017/18 period, OKSIJEN activated Smart Building Management System, Meter 25 out of 31 prototype products and services, İTÜ Vodafone Future Lab & Energy Consumption System, Smart applied for 60 patents and were granted 4 of Order Button, Narrow Band IoT Based Smart these patents. Lighting System and many more can be listed among the solutions offered at ITU Vodafone Priorities on innovation areas include locationFuture Lab. • based services, artificial intelligence, machine We aim to support our existing and learning, natural language processing, IoT and future business partners in their digital promotional campaign management. transformation journey by sharing our global experiences, innovative solutions and trends During 2017/18 fiscal year, we have of the future through ITU Vodafone Future initiated two new projects in collaboration Lab, which was established as part of Istanbul with the universities. Technical University Informatics Institute. As Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 019 Women’s Empowerment Women First in Entrepreneurship Kayseri Public Education Centre 38°43'19.40 N 35°28'37.59 E Country: Turkey City: Kayseri Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 Image © 2018 DigitalGlobe 020 Ayşe Şahinkaya City: Kayseri Title: Entrepreneur I decided to earn an income from what I produce while I was attending decorative handcrafts training; so I applied to the Women First in Entrepreneurship Project. I promoted my products to a large-scale of audiences through digital technologies. My orders increased significantly. I now have a wider social circle and a job to support myself financially. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 021 Women’s Empowerment articles published on the columns of Hürriyet newspaper will detect the sexist language Women First in Entrepreneurship uses in the articles and cross out the sexist Partnering with the Ministry of National Significant steps in every aspect of life, all words with red. Users are informed about the Education Directorate General of Lifelong around the world, has to be taken to reach sexist language use, which required editing, Learning and Turkish Informatics Foundation gender equality. Women face economic and through the section placed on top of the (TBV), we launched the Women First in social inequality in every field, including related page. Entrepreneurship project in 2015 with economic participation, accessing security, the aim to promote economic and social education and healthcare services. empowerment of women. The project leverages women entrepreneurs to market As Vodafone Turkey, we are aware that gender their hand-made products using today’s equality is among the most significant issues technological means. The goal is to integrate for us to achieve a better future, where healthy, women who are left outside the economic well-informed and educated generations are Equalmeter life into the economic life and empower raised. By fostering women’s empowerment via women to improve their lives and livelihoods. taking steps towards gender equality and equal So far, we have reached 26,500 women opportunities, we also contribute to the social trainees during training held at 179 Public development and economic growth. Through As Vodafone Turkey, we consider developing Education Centres and Advanced Technical practices that prevent discrimination against projects that benefit from new technologies Schools for Girls in 20 cities in Turkey. women and girls, enable full and effective and raise awareness very important. With participation of women in decision-making the Equalmeter project, we aim to rule processes of the economic and social life which out sexism in the media, which is the most highlight equal opportunities, we are committed significant tool in propagation of language, to Gender Equality Goal among the SDGs. and hence, disseminate the use of an equal We regard gender equality in each practice, language throughout the society. including employment and training within the company, as well as all our practices that target Considering the insight that violence and our customers and the society. This approach discrimination start with language, in also aligns with Quality Education and Decent collaboration with Hürriyet Newspaper, Work and Economic Growth Goals. we developed the Equalmeter application using artificial intelligence technology to Further details on our corporate strategy, prevent the use of sexist language. Utilizing goals and performance within the diversity the power of technology and media, we and inclusion framework can be found under aim to raise awareness of all media organs Our Employees section. and users regarding inequalities in the language and remove statements that make women invisible. As part of the application, the Equalmeter button integrated to the Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 022 Rea ch i n g ove r 26 , 50 0 wo m e n As part of the project, women w i t h t h e Wo m e n F i r s t i n entrepreneurs trained on technology and E nt re p re n e u r s h i p p roj e c t , w e entrepreneurship sell their products t r i g g e r t h e e nt r e p r e n e u r i a l online on www.oncekadin.gov.tr. s p i r i t of wo m e n , h e l p t h e m es t a b l is h t h e i r ow n b u s i n es s es During the Women First in Entrepreneurship In 2017, Vodafone Women First in Entrepreneurship a n d g e n e r ate e m p loy m e nt Competition, 10 finalists nominated from the project was awarded in the II. International o p p o r t u n i t i es . women trainees who signed up to oncekadin. Corporate Social Responsibility Awards organized by gov.tr and sell their products online according Junior Chamber International (JCI). The programme to the amount and number of their products, was also awarded in Felis Awards under Social present their products to a jury. As part of the Responsibility and Sustainability category. competition, we awarded TRY 26,500 and TRY 38,500 lifeline capital support in 2016 and 2017, respectively, to the five winning women entrepreneurs. Furthermore, the women entrepreneurs can nominate their products online through the Popular Vote Competition. Please scan the QR code for Women First in Entrepreneurship In wake of this competition, which was held for the first time 2017 and announced through the social media accounts, the winner was awarded TRY 15,000 lifeline capital support. Thus, we aim to pave the way for successful women entrepreneurs to develop themselves and inspire all women. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 02 3 Easy Rescue Vodafone Gold Club budget-friendly solutions. Available for all Vodafone Turkey Foundation developed We facilitate the lives of stay-at-home For stay-at-home women who are subscribers the Easy Rescue application in partnership women by improving their access to the of Vodafone, the platform will offer special with the Ministry of Family, Labour and communication technologies and empower experiences for women related to their Social Services to raise awareness in women by offering affordable products interests and requirements in addition combatting violence against women. Easy and services for women with the purpose to the advantages offered not related to Rescue application enables women to call of enabling approximately 15 million staycommunication through various brand emergency contact numbers via one button, at-home women meet the means of digital collaborations. secretly send the designated people their future. Hence, we offer stay-at-home women Please scan the QR code for more location via text message, contact the special promotions under Vodafone Gold Please scan the QR code for information on Early Rescue more information on Vodafone Gold Club closest Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Club to ease their loads. Services units and be informed about what they shall do in case they are subjected to Throughout the year, women members of violence. The application is free and can be Vodafone Gold Club are offered exclusive downloaded to smart mobile devices. discounts and advantages at the stores and in the brands, they choose and they Please scan the watch video on can also benefit from the information Vodafone Gold Club services regarding women and children’s health, etc. Enriching the Vodafone Gold Club with various content and advantages, we aim to serve as an end-to-end platform offering consumer-friendly internet and The Vodafone Easy Rescue project was awarded the Grand Prix, which is the most prestigious award in the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity. It was the first time a Turkish company was presented this award. The Vodafone Easy Rescue also brought the Grand Prize to Turkey for the first time during the CLIO Awards, which is another prestigious award in the advertisement and marketing world. The application was also nominated for the Grand Prize at the GSMA Global Mobile Awards, regarded as the Oscars in the GSM sector. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 024 First6Years Mobile Application Developed in collaboration with Mother Child Education Foundation (AÇEV), the application offers online information regarding the preschool ages of the children, which is of great significance in terms of children’s personality development to parents. Thanks to the First6Years application, which can be downloaded free of charge, At Vo d afo n e Tu r key, w e h ave v a r i o u s co m p r e h e ns i ve parents are offered access to a database of p ro g r a m m es co nt r i b u t i n g to wo m e n e m p loy m e nt 1,200 informative items enriched by photos, a n d wo m e n e m p ow e r m e nt . instructive videos and animations. Since the application was launched, it has reached over Please scan the QR code for 220,000 users. The content of the application more information on First6Years. is regularly updated and improved. The goal of the application is to reach 1,000,000 Projects for our employees Projects in Smart Village downloads with 200,000 active users. • • ReConnect • Women Technology Training Centre • Women in Technology Internship • Women Farmer Entrepreneurship • Women in Sales Internship Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 025 Youth Skills and Jobs Vodafone Spain Vodafone Spain, Madrid 41°23'21.37 N 2°10'26.54 E Country: Spain City: Madrid Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 Image © 2018 DigitalGlobe 026 Buse Kırmaz City: Madrid Title: Product Manager at Vodafone Spain While digitalisation becomes a part of our lives, I dream a world, where people are not estranged, communication is powerful and there are no boundaries. In pursuit of my dream, I attended Global Columbus Talent Exchange Programme for an exciting experience and came to Spain. Although working in a country with different language and culture is a great challenge, I have got significant opportunities to improve my skills. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 027 Youth Skills and Jobs High rates of youth unemployment result in negative impacts on the health, selfToday, although youth unemployment remains a significant challenge, demand confidence and self-respect of unemployed for digital skills already creates a talent gap young people, as well as causing problems across many sectors. Fostering improvement on economic growth. The Vodafone Group of youth skills and employment is among our commissioned an international research strategic priorities. We launch programs in company, YouGov, to conduct a survey line with our sustainable business strategy regarding the Status of Z-Generation in 15 and purpose to promote SDGs. Thus, with the countries, including Turkey, which revealed activities oriented to promote gender equality that even the Generation Z, aged 18-24, and prevent discrimination, we improve is ill-equipped to participate in the digital employment of young professionals who economy despite being the first generation have technical and professional skills; and to be born digital. Youth unemployment therefore, contribute to the Quality Education remains a challenge in many countries, and Decent Work and Economic Growth including the developed countries. In 2017, Goals. youth unemployment in Turkey increased 5.3, compared to the previous year, and reached 24.5%.8 We s u p p o r t yo u n g p e o p le We strengthen our programs launched to to i m p rove t h e i r s k i l l s a n d promote youth skills by giving priority to co m p ete n ci es r e q u i r e d by t h e employment of young people. Throughout d i g i t a l e co n o my. 2017/18 fiscal year, we provided digital workplace experience to 15 young people through the apprenticeship programs and Effects of transformation to digital 161 young people through the internship technologies are felt more and more each programs. During the same period, 226 young day in every aspect in life. Evolving at great people under age of 25, including interns, were speed, technologies such as robotics, AI and employed and 215 young employees joined IoT result in shrinkage, even in the longVodafone for their first job experience. established business lines in a very short time. However, they also create new business lines, developing in line with the future skills. T h ro u g h o u t 2017/18 f is ca l yea r, According to the European Commission, 161 yo u n g p e o p le e x p e r i e n ce d approximately 500,000 digital positions will t h e Vo d afo n e Tu r key ’s d i g i t a l be vacant in the European Union as of 2020. wo r k p l a ce t h ro u g h i nte r ns h i p. 8 TurkStat Workforce Statistics Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 028 What will you be? The Vodafone Group also aims to boost Future Jobs Finder Users are evaluated under three categories, i.e. Launched to help young people develop the opportunities offered to young people As part of What will you be? programme, new skills, activity and behaviours to understand their digital skills and to expand our under its own organisation. Thus, we will solutions that promote the access of youth to their interests and skills. The outputs of the contribution to the learning and employment double the opportunities and reach 100,000 new skills and opportunities required to find jobs test are matched with the most suitable opportunities in this area, our What will young people by 2022, as part of supporting in the digital economy are designed. Developed professions offered by the digital economy. you be? programme’s goal is to make youth under the age of 25 experiencing the within the scope of this programme, Future According to the test results, the users are Vodafone Group rank among world’s top 100 business life aim. Jobs Finder service offers young people career matched to available digital jobs, including job employers in youth employment and, to do support with advices on suitable professions opportunities at Vodafone, and access training so, to support 10 million young people in 18 and digital training through an online test opportunities and specific courses, many of countries to access digital contents as well as developed in collaboration with psychologists, which are free, to improve their digital skills giving career advices on digital economy. HR professionals and training providers. through online channels. S o f a r, t h e n u m b e r of u s e r s w h o co m p lete d t h e tes t o n t h e Fu tu r e J o bs F i n d e r h as e xce e d e d 37 3,0 0 0. During the reporting period, as Vodafone Turkey we have localised the service and launched the programme for young talents in Turkey. In the following periods, we will introduce e-training companies based in Turkey to the platform and increase the options provided in e-training. Please scan the QR code for more information on Future Jobs Finder. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 029 Coding Tomorrow programme, the ratio of Rea ch i n g m o r e t h a n 12,0 0 0 children who want to be software developers ch i ld r e n i n 30 ci t i es , Co d i n g increased from 24% to 51%.9 49% of the To m o r row p ro g r a m m e w i l l Coding Tomorrow participants consist of girls. r ea ch 20,0 0 0 m o r e ch i ld r e n , In 2017, we included the children of Vodafone i n clu d i n g t h e o n es w h o l i ve i n Turkey employees in the programme and t h e v i l l a g es a n d tow ns , t h u s , promoted the introduction of coding to w i l l i nt ro d u ce co d i n g to m o r e additional 200 children. t h a n 30,0 0 0 ch i ld r e n i n 6 0 ci t i es by t h e e n d of t h e s e co n d In 2017, we included Syrian children living in q u a r te r of 2019. our country to our programme and provided coding training to nearly 750 refugee children in Şanlıurfa, Kilis and Istanbul. Please scan the QR code to watch the video on Coding Tomorrow To be able to extent the scope of Coding Tomorrow and offer equal training Coding Tomorrow the most prestigious technical universities opportunities, we have begun to access to Contributing to raise a technology producing of the world. Thus, children can build their the children living at disadvantaged areas generation, who are highly skilled at fantasy world and design their own games and in terms of socio-economic conditions in information technologies and who have the animations in an environment, where they can collaboration with the Ministry of Family, skills of the future is part of our business foster their creativity. Labour and Social Services. By the end of strategy. As part of the Coding Tomorrow 2018, Coding Tomorrow Training Truck Please scan the QR code to watch the project, launched in partnership with the aims to provide coding training to 2,500 video on Coding Tomorrow Habitat Foundation, Vodafone Turkey 49% of t h e Cod i n g Tom or row children in 12 cities and towns. Foundation has been providing coding and pa r t i ci pa nt s cons is t of g i r l s . robotics training to children aged between 7-14 across Turkey since 2016. After the Scratch training, children are provided the introductory training on Carried out with an inclusive approach, robotics programs and learn the basics of the project’s goal is to give children an electronics and circuit systems through understanding of the four core values of Do Makey Makey applications. Following the In 2017, Coding Tomorrow Project was presented It Yourself culture: imagine, design, do and training, Hackathon’s are organised to apply awards in Felis Awards in the category of Social share. Throughout the training programme, what is provided during the training. We gave Responsibility and Sustainability. we use a program called Scratch that enables 750 children the opportunity to experience children to transform their imaginations robotics through the 6 hackathons we have into designs, and is developed by MIT, one of hosted since the beginning of the project. With 9 Measured in 2016/17 fiscal year. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 030 Dreams Academy The centres established in Istanbul In 2008, Vodafone Turkey Foundation Ataşehir and Antalya Kaş has been offering partnered with United Nations Development workshops on vocal training, rhythm, dance, Programme (UNDP) and Alternative Life film, photography, musical instruments, Association (AYDER) to launch the Dreams painting and design as well as workshops for Academy project with the aim to support promoting self-development and motivation people with disabilities in overcoming social to enable the integration of individuals who exclusion and becoming active and productive are suffering from social exclusion. Located members of the society through arts. in Kaş district of Antalya, Dreams Academy Kaş, which is the largest accessible living centre in Turkey for people with disabilities and the largest outdoor camping area in Europe, also stands out as a sustainable village and a recreational area within nature. The centre features social and art training, as well as a wide range of activities from water Since the project was launched, it has sports to ecological agriculture. touched the lives of 20,000 volunteers and 6,000 young people by providing a free and As part of the events organised within disability-friendly education environment Dreams Academy, individuals with disabilities where young people are enabled to build are supported by various revenue models their skills including sharing, recognizing and instead of fundraising, to foster their social embracing diversity, adapting to the diversity, inclusion. The workshops held in Dreams problem-solving, productivity and creativity. Academy Ataşehir, in Istanbul, also offer a professional career in art for its graduates. Social Inclusion Band Social Inclusion Band, a music production of S o f a r, t h e p roj e c t has Dreams Academy, gives concerts at various to u ch e d t h e l i ves of 20,0 0 0 venues during the winter season and takes vo lu nte e r s a n d 6 ,0 0 0 you n g the stage together with prominent artists. p e o p le to create a n e d u cat i on Dreams Kitchen, another revenue model, e nv i ro n m e nt to d eve lop t h e provides catering service to the meetings s o ci a l s k i l l s of you n g p e op le of several organisations; whilst D-Film Please scan the QR code for Please scan the QR code watch w i t h d is a bi l i t i es . shoots videos, movie clips and photos for more information on Dreams Academy the video on Dreams Academy businesses. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 031 Discover Young Talent Since the Discover Young Talent Programme Programme was launched in 2008, Vodafone Turkey has In line with our goal to raise young talents employed more than 300 young talents, to lead the technologies of the future, we where 50% of these talents were women. place utmost importance to employ new Throughout 2017/18 fiscal year, 41 young graduates with potentials in our company. talents were employed full time as part of the To be able to support the skill development Discover Young Talent Programme. of young employees, we manage the transition period from the university life to business life by adopting an inclusive and systematic approach. Since 2008, Vodafone Turkey has been running Discover Young Talent Programme, which is an exclusive, end-to-end career programme designed to include employment stages, orientation, training-development processes and global opportunities. The programme runs in all countries that the Vodafone Group operates. Joining the Vodafone family with Discover Young Talent Programme, which covers a two-year process, the young talents go under a rotation programme in two different departments to get the opportunity to know the sector and Vodafone Turkey better and begin their careers with more conscious choices. The young talents employed as part of the Discover Young Talent Programme go through the orientation programme and get detailed theoretical and practical information on various fields, from sales at Vodafone stores to installation of masts. At the end of Please scan the QR code watch the video on the first year, young talents are included to a Discover Young Talent Programme 12-month special development programme, which includes group works, seminars, workshops and training. During this time, young talents get the opportunity to benefit from the mentoring programme. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 032 Global Columbus Talent Exchange Programme Global Columbus Talent Exchange Programme is among our programs that focus on reveal the potentials of young talents and help them get prepared for leadership roles. Applied in more than 20 countries, the programme that we have partaken under the Vodafone Group since 2011 offers young talents to get one of the most popular opportunities of having a project-based work experience abroad. Evaluated under the Discover Young Talents Programme according to their performances and potentials, the successful employees get the opportunity to be employed in various countries for two years where Vodafone operates. During 2017/18 fiscal year, 2 of our employees were assigned to positions abroad as part of the programme. Since the beginning of the programme, 24 employees have benefitted from these opportunities. Learn Technology From the Expert We benefit from the programs designed based on master-apprentice relationship to employ young talents that we need in the transition to digital economy. We have launched the digitalisation and technology-oriented apprenticeship programme of the Vodafone Group under Learn Technology from the Expert in Turkey. During 2017/18, 15 sophomore students from the Technical Vocational High Schools were offered internship in Vodafone Turkey for one year. We plan to introduce new students to the programme during 2018/19 fiscal year. • Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 033 Energy Innovation Vodafone Wind and Solar Energy Systems Vodafone Wind and Solar Energy Systems, Kiraz 38°13'44.08 N 28°16'41.13 E Country: Turkey City: İzmir Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 Image © 2018 DigitalGlobe 034 Talip Akgül City: İzmir Title: Rollout & Field Operations Support Senior Specialist I was contributing to reduce GHG emissions and provide uninterrupted service to our subscribers even at geographies that do not have access to power network during the wind turbine and solar energy projects that I had been assigned at Vodafone. I dream about the future when clean and renewable energy is a part of daily life and we leave a sustainable life to future generations. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 035 Energy Innovation 2025 Goals As part of its commitments to reduce impacts 2025 Goals of climate change, Vodafone targets to reduce Telecommunication sector plays a efficiency increase in production processes. the GHG emissions by 40%, compared to the significant role in monitoring data that have With the newest technology applications, 2016/17 fiscal year’s emissions and consume critical importance in tackling the climate we offer to our customers, we enable our 100% renewable energy in its operations to change and facilitating traceability; and, customers to improve their environmental keep global warming around or below 2°C by as a result, strengthening the institutions performances; and therefore, help them 2025. and individuals against floods, droughts, support the SDGs. extraordinary natural phenomena and Throughout the fiscal year 2018/19, Vodafone natural disasters. With the use of updated As a result of the opportunities provided by Turkey will continue to put efforts to infrastructure and technologies, greenhouse gases (GHGs) emissions are reduced and Internet of Things (IoT) technologies and digital transformation in the sector, the optimise cooling systems, replace the energy infrastructure systems and network equipment 100% 40% energy efficiency is increased; thereby, the total global GHG emissions are estimated with more efficient ones, use energy from Renewable Reduction in GHG Electricity Supply Emissions importance of digital solutions increases day to reduce by 20% by 2030.10 We develop renewable energy resources, remotely monitor by day to enable higher production using tools for a more sustainable future the energy and infrastructure equipment fewer resources. Vodafone Turkey offers using new technologies, IoT and smart by M2M11 solutions and get them operated technological solutions to increase the applications. We do not only monitor the with optimum energy consumption at the efficiency of the operations of our companies environmental impacts of our operations, base stations within its network and follow and customers, while minimising the but also promote our customers to technological and innovative opportunities. environmental impacts. improve their environmental performances through innovative applications. Hence, we Our commitments to reduce our GHG contribute to the solution of the problems emissions, increase the use of renewable that the global agenda faces in terms of energy and improve our energy efficiency energy management and pioneer the support Affordable and Clean Energy, transformation. We deliver smart solutions Responsible Consumption and Production for different sections of society in various Non-Governmental Organisation and Climate Action goals among SDGs. fields such as finance, urbanisation, art, “It is of great importance to use the means of technology for the Furthermore, the solutions we offer sports, healthcare, agriculture, energy, etc. solutions of environmental issues. Hence, Vodafone is among the support the goal of Sustainable Cities and pioneering companies in tackling climate change. Being a leader in Communities as well. We promote raising delivering innovative solutions in today’s world, I believe Vodafone social awareness through our policies that will maintain its leading position in the future with its contributions to encourage responsible consumption and energy and waste management.” production, as well as our projects which have been developed for public to facilitate 11 M2M is the technology that establishes wireless communication 10 ICT Solutions for 21st Century Challenges, http://smarter2030.gesi.org/downloads/Full_report2.pdf between data centres of the companies and machines. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 036 IoT Solutions Energy We believe Internet of Things (IoT) is a With the automatic meter reading solution, driving force in the development journey electric, natural gas and water meters of the enterprises. We offer a wide range can be accessed and read remotely and in of solutions to various sectors including real-time. The system enables the energy products for smart vehicles, energy suppliers to analyse the consumptions at management, agriculture, healthcare and the municipalities and businesses, minimise urbanisation solutions; and take a part in the losses and leakages and save from manual transformation of the enterprises. meter reading costs. Energy and gas consumption can be reduced between 3% With the solutions we deliver, enterprises and 15% using the system. can instantaneously monitor connected objects, machines and equipment, manage Healthcare work processes more efficiently and reduce Vodafone Chronic Disease Tracker solution energy use and carbon emissions. enables monitoring the patients remotely and V Yaşam için in real-time. In the event of an emergency QR kodu okutunuz or risk, healthcare units contact the patient. Thanks to this technology, response times are reduced, the number of visits to the hospitals are decreased; so, customers save time and avoid fuel consumption. Memorial Healthcare Group can remotely V-Life and instantaneously monitor the insulin We have launched V-Life Project to make levels of their diabetic patients through IoT a difference in the lives of our individual technologies. The distance between patients customers by delivering them the IoT solutions and doctors disappears with this technology. we offer to companies. With the Digital Patients are not required to go to hospital Life tariff used with Smart Kid Watches, we and their quality of life increases. introduced the IoT world to our individual customers. With the V-Life brand, we aim to Smart Building offer a user-friendly, integrated IoT platform by Heating, ventilation and lighting systems expanding our product portfolio with goods, result in high energy consumption at houses pet and vehicle tracker devices. With this and offices. With smart building applications, platform we will offer our customers to manage integrated systems can be used according to and get support for their IoT devices from a daytime and weekday usage requirements. single application; and therefore, enable them As part of the system, customers are offered to save energy and time. natural ventilation, optimum heating and V-Yaşam ailesi: V-Çocuk Saati, V-Pati, V-Araba ve V-Çanta Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 037 cooling and smart lighting systems. As a transition to smart cities with the solutions result, customers can effectively manage we offer. In collaboration with Diyarbakır, energy consumption of the buildings. Patnos and Yalova municipalities, we delivered smart and practical technological Smart Cities solutions in line with the needs of the cities. As one of the leading companies in The first Smart Cities Online Platform in Turkey, telecommunications sector, we support our • We successfully apply Love Microchips, www.sehirsizin.com aims to receive feedbacks from customers throughout the transformation Smart Push to Talk, Excavation Traction residents while establishing smart cities. As a result required to use energy efficiently and reduce and Vehicle Tracking system and put into of the platform, which increased the communication their carbon emissions. The technologies operation smart city solutions that will between the residents and the municipality, the we develop support them to manage their facilitate and accelerate the lives of people needs and expectations of the people can be followed environmental impacts more efficiently and living in Bursa. more systematically, and people can share their ideas save energy. related to the cities they live in. The Smart Cities • We installed an advanced fibre Online Platform, www.sehirsizin.com, received In the era of rapid urbanisation and increasing infrastructure to provide uninterrupted awards from the Horizon Interactive Awards and population density, cities should develop internet access to the key locations in Interactive Media Awards, the most prestigious solutions for rapid growth; and hence, smart Diyarbakır province in collaboration with interactive media awards in the world. cities become significantly important. Digital Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality. technologies, which enable public services to Furthermore, Diyarbakır Municipality can now be provided more efficiently with less cost, are access and track their public transportation considered as the key to sustainable life in cities. vehicles instantaneously with the Vodafone infrastructure and solutions; hence, enable As part of smart city solutions, we offer efficiency and fuel savings. various IoT solutions including buses, timed light switches, elevators, building lighting • Patnos Municipality can track its 100 vehicles, and ventilation systems, services carried with Vehicle Tracking System (VTS) which out by municipalities, security systems, etc. provides instantaneous tracking of vehicles In 2016, with the goal of playing a leading by satellite. The locations of the municipality role in the sustainability journey of cities vehicles can be tracked by VTS, which results in we published the Smart Cities Road Map an average of 20% fuel saving. Report in collaboration with 23 metropolitan municipalities. According to the report, when • The smart solutions delivered in Yalova 30 metropolitan municipalities across Turkey includes remote control of irrigation at the become smart cities, TRY 30 billion will be parks with Smart Irrigation, remote control of saved per year. the lights in the park with Smart Lighting and remote tracking of garbage bins with Smart In line with our vision to lead digitalisation Waste solutions. in Turkey, we continue accelerating the Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 038 Smart City Solutions Smart Waste Management solutions can The application which offers mobile track the fill-levels of the waste bins and payment, security and mobility advantages their locations instantaneously; and result in for taxis in Istanbul with the iTaksi brand optimised route planning for waste collection is supported by Vodafone Turkey IoT trucks. The solution enables reduction of technologies. IoT technology enables to fuel consumption by 30%. Furthermore, access the locations of the taxis and the the fill-levels of the waste bins located at closest available taxi can be seen using the different points in the city can be monitored mobile application. Taxi is directed to the in real-time. closest customer. The application enables 25% fuel saving per taxi. Smart Lighting solutions control the lighting remotely. Reporting energy We offered Narrow Band Internet of Things consumption, the solution enables energy, (NB-IoT) technology for the first time in time and workforce savings. Turkey. Vodafone NB-IoT technology enables efficient communication of all things that Smart Parking solutions enable the realrequire long battery life and is geographically time tracking of the occupancy rates of dispersed by connecting them to the Internet car parks remotely and users can book a through mobile access. The technology paves parking space for a particular time frame. the way for developing new solutions for The solution enables car owners to save smart cities. Used in smart parking solutions time and reduce their carbon emissions. IoT delivered to various municipalities, NB-IoT technology can also track details including technology users can benefit from consuming the location of the vehicle, fuel consumption, less energy; and hence, less battery use and idle use, distance travelled, driver reduced energy consumption and carbon behaviours, etc., which can be beneficial to emissions. Turkey is the second country within take necessary measures to reduce carbon the Vodafone Group to offer NB-IoT service. emissions. Smart Junctions IoT solutions enable the real-time management of traffic lights, instantaneous change of lights at the junctions based on vehicle intensity, which Please scan the QR code for prevent unnecessary start/stop of vehicles more information on Smart Cities. and result in an average of 6% fuel saving. Smart Irrigation enables remote control of irrigation processes, and therefore reduces water consumption. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 039 Smart Village expect to access 642,000 farmers in 5 years Vodafone Smart Village project, designed and create an economic value of TRY 15 as the new generation rural life model, billion. Furthermore, we estimate to save combines traditional agricultural methods 22% in the vegetative production expenses, with advanced technology and develops 20% in the animal production expenses and models to increase the revenues of the at least 20% in the agricultural irrigation with farmers through agricultural technologies. the smart models applied. With IoT applications, use of drones, smart sensors, tracking of the data measured by In partnership with Agricultural Informatics these sensors from the tablets and smart and Communication Technologies (TABİT), phones, automatic irrigation methods, we launched the pilot Smart Village project meteorological observation stations in the Kasaplar Village, Koçarlı, Aydın. As and early warning systems, we lay the part of the new technologies that calculate foundations of a new rural model with the humidity of the soil, instant weather increased efficiency and profitability. conditions and regular requirements of the vegetables, the change in the production is analysed and monitored. As a result of the We es t i m ate to s ave 22 % i n project, crop harvest started in the village t h e ve g et at i ve p rod u c t i o n and efficiency increase is achieved. e x p e ns es , 20 % i n t h e a n i m a l p ro d u c t i on e x p e ns es a n d at Agricultural Monitoring Centre: As part leas t 20 % i n t h e a g r i cu ltu r a l of modern greenhouse automation, the i r r i g at i o n w i t h t h e q u a l i f i e d greenhouse sensors installed and activated i nfo r m at i o n a n d te ch n o log i es can track the air, humidity, water and vitamin a p p l i e d i n t h e S m a r t V i ll a g e . conditions to make necessary adjustments accordingly. On the other hand, all data arriving from the IoT applications used in the The purpose of Smart Village Project is Vodafone Smart Village can be monitored to increase efficiency and revenues by at the agricultural monitoring centre. expanding the use of digital technologies, After installing Big Data systems, the data increase environmental performance by collected through the smart applications decreasing water use and use of pesticides will be able to be stored and interpreted at Please scan the QR code for Please scan the QR code to and herbicides, set an exemplary model and the Big Data systems. All data collected, more information on Vodafone Smart Village watch the video on Vodafone Smart Village expand across Turkey. The goal of the project including daily milk production, weight of is to promote developing the socioeconomic eggs, weather conditions, fuel levels of the conditions of the farmers and directing the agricultural machinery will be able to be young generation to farming and decrease displayed by smart devices. immigration and unemployment rates. We Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 040 Animal Tracking by Smart Collar: Housing of irrigation according to the humidity in the first Smart Meadow System in Turkey, the soil, the system enables production the Smart Village automatically determines to increase while decreasing the water where the animals will graze on with the consumption. smart gates that have a particular recognition system. When it is time for milking, the cow Owning Smart Phones: Taking significant passes through the smart gates and directly steps towards digitalisation, we have goes into the milking automation where the increased the smart phone use among cow is milked automatically. Furthermore, farmers to 65% in last year by increasing 8%. smart collars worn to the feet of the cattle, We also increased the monthly average use of which are also called pedometers, analyse internet to 3.9 GB by increasing 80%. the motions of the cattle and informs the user about the health and oestrus times of Women Technology Training Centre in the animals. the Smart Village has the goal to increase the technological literacy rate of women Single Button Irrigation From Mobile in the village. With the Women Farmer Phones: Smart Irrigation Automation Entrepreneurship Project, we aim to promote enables farmers to remotely control the women farmers to increase the efficiency irrigation of their corps. Irrigation process of their productions by digitalisation and can be controlled and monitored by a single empower economically. Carried out in Kasaplar button on the mobile phones with the Village of Koçarlı sub-province in Aydın, the system installed. Determining the frequency project supports both agricultural production and social development to provide a versatile transformation. As part of the project, 10 women farmers grew 30,000 lettuces in the training greenhouses allocated to them and earned additional revenue of approximately TRY 25,000 in total. Vodafone Farmers’ Club At Vodafone Farmers’ Club, we aim farmers to carry out more efficient and effective farming activities through mobile Please scan the QR code for technologies. Established in 2009 in Vodafone Farmers’ Club partnership with TABİT, The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock and Agricultural Credit Cooperatives in Turkey, Vodafone Farmers’ Club, so far, has reached to 1.4 million farmers in Turkey. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 0 41 Following the success of Vodafone Turkey, screens, 2,200+ screens in seats, smart phone Environmental Performance Energy Team is in charge of development and the platform has been established in 6 other application which interactively communicates In order to manage our environmental strategic management of Energy Management countries, as well. Location-based information with the audience, high energy efficient performance effectively, we monitor our System (EnMS) policy. All Vodafone Turkey (weather forecasts, initiative news, prices in lighting and cooling systems, Vodafone Park energy consumption, GHG emissions, water employees are liable to act in compliance the market/stock exchange) can be shared saves 2 million kWh energy per year. Vodafone and waste amounts and develop applications with this policy. In charge of continuous through the programme to make the lives of Park, which is a smart stadium with the use IoT to use our resources more efficiently and avoid improvement of EnMS, Energy Team regularly farmers easier. We have the goal to expand applications and smart systems, prevents 1,100 losses. Hence, we follow up the environmental reports on energy performance. The main our coverage area and reach 3 million farmers tons of GHG emissions per annum, which can performance of our 13 technology centres tasks and responsibilities of the Energy Team through Farmers’ Club project. be achieved by 40,000 grown up trees. and 22,700 mobile base stations through include defining the criteria and methods advanced metrics. required for the operation and control of EnMS Vodafone Park effectively and raising awareness on the goals Please scan the QR code for Vodafone Park, which is the first smart stadium Vodafone Park vir tual tour We apply energy management in compliance and energy policies at every level. in Turkey, has been designed and built with with our company policies, as well as the smart stadium infrastructure, which international standards. In line with our goal enables audience to be in interaction with the to achieve energy efficiency and get concrete broadcasting system and mobile applications. progress in the issue, we regularly increase the With its broadcast system, high bandwidth Wi-Fi, number of operations managed in compliance 2G, 3G and 4.5G connections, 700+ interactive with ISO 50001 certification requirements. We have an opinion sharing platform to raise in-house awareness among the employees and carry out efficiency increasing Energy Management System Policy application for the effective management Our goal is to use energy in the most efficient, of our environmental performance. The less costly and environmentally responsible Energy Team activities are ongoing to put way possible. In line with this policy, energy the ideas generated into practice. Consisting management has a significant role in of employees from various departments, achieving our goals to offer our customers the highest quality products, strengthen our competitive position and attain financial profitability and energy efficiency. A s of t h is yea r, w e h ave 5 Furthermore, our efforts to reduce energy te ch n o lo g y ce nt r es ce r t i f i e d consumption strengthen our commitment w i t h IS O 50 0 01 E n e rg y to our employees, the environment and M a n a g e m e nt Sy s te ms St a n d a rd . the communities we operate in. Therefore, T h e g o a l is to a l s o g et o u r Vodafone Turkey continues with its efforts to b as e s t at i o ns ce r t i f i e d i n t h e improve the energy performance as part of its fo l low i n g p e r i o d . EnMS Policy. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 0 42 Climate Change and Energy Management and remote control of energy infrastructure We regularly monitor the consumption figures systems, extending renewable energy use at at the technology centres and base stations, the masts. We continue with our investments where the highest energy consumptions in renewable energy with 66 installed wind occur. Whilst the total data transferred was turbines and 9 fully renewable energy 396.218 petabytes during the 2016/17 fiscal powered masts. We generate resource year; the figure increased 83% and reached diversity in our energy consumptions and 726.385 petabytes during the 2017/18 increase the clean energy amount we use. fiscal year. On the other hand, total energy consumed at the technology centres and base In line with our energy efficiency approach, station masts increased only 1% in the fiscal our supply processes are based on financial year 2017/18, compared to the previous year. gain, saving from time and efficient use of Emerging means of technology and our efforts resources. Electric-driven machines are in energy efficiency played a significant role in preferred during technological purchases and achieving this performance. LED lighting is preferred at the warehouses to save energy. Some of the activities carried out to attain energy efficiency are as follow: updating the existing technologies with the newest ones, renewing lighting systems, modernisation and optimisation of the cooling systems, using natural ventilation systems, replacing Energy Consumption (GJ) 2,000,000 Total 1,800,000 Base 1,600,000 Stations 1,400,000 Technology 1,200,000 Centres 1,000,000 800,000 600,000 400,000 200,000 0 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 0 43 We consider alternative energy use options We ca r r i e d ou t ef f i ci e n c y Waste and Water Management As part of water management, we reduced during site leasing processes with the Supply wo r k s i n clu d i n g t h e re n e w a l We reduce our negative impacts on the our water consumption by 16% compared to Chain Management Power (SCM Power). All a n d re p l a ce m e nt of s y s te ms environment by generating less waste and the fiscal year 2015/16. The goal is to save supplier contracts are delivered digitally, at t h e Te ch n o log y Ce nt res a n d using natural resources less and we recycle more water through various efficiency works. which enables us to save 800 kg paper. M as t s w i t h h i g h ef f i ci e n c y the waste we generate. Hence, we saved 13,200 cubic metres of e q u i p m e nt . water throughout the fiscal year 2017/18. • As a result of our energy efficiency, we save Throughout the fiscal year 2017/18, we 78,000 GJ energy which leads to a significant generated 1,444 tons hazardous, 814 tons reduction of GHG emissions. The equivalent this year we achieved a 6% decrease in our non-hazardous waste, which adds to a total amount of GHG emissions can only be offset GHG emissions, compared to the fiscal year waste generation of 2,258 tons. We recycled by planting 42,000 trees. This amount of 2015/16. 15 tons of paper, plastic and domestic waste. saved energy is also worth of almost TRY 10 Our network-generated wastes are recycled million financial saving. 99% by licensed recycling companies. In addition to our energy consumption performance, we also monitor our GHG emission figures. Even though our GHG emissions increased only 5%, despite the 82% increase in the transferred data amount, GHG Emissions (tons CO2e) Water Consumption 310,000 52.00 49.6 50.00 299,277.80 300,000 48.00 290,000 46.00 280,910.2 280,000 44.00 45.8 41.7 42.00 270,000 40.00 267,178.40 260,000 38.00 250,000 36.00 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 044 Our Employees Vodafone Turkey Foundation Vodafone Turkey Foundation, Maslak 41°6'47.23 N 29°1'28.13 E Country: Turkey City: İstanbul Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 Image © 2018 DigitalGlobe 0 45 Ayşegül Ertok City: İstanbul Title: Manager of Vodafone Turkey Foundation ReConnect creates a significant impact for women to empower their existence in business life. Getting back into the business life after a career break triggered my desire to start each day with excitement and to achieve better. I enjoy my life, in which I feed my team with the same enthusiasm and become a role model for my children with my motivation to work. As long as women get more active in every field of life, tomorrows will be more empowered! Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 0 46 Our Employees During the digitalisation journey, we place our Sustainable Development Goals and achieve focus to the development of our employees, an uninterrupted, inclusive and sustainable support their skills, which is our most valuable economic growth thanks to our human asset, effectively and get prepared for the resources approach. We promote Decent future. At Vodafone, we offer an inclusive work Work and Economic Growth, which aims full environment where skills development is and productive employment and decent work appreciated, employees can feel themselves for all; Quality Education with the activities independent, digitalisation is integrated in all performed for the youth skills and jobs; Gender work processes and health and safety is pursued. Equality with the projects and practices carried out in terms of women’s empowerment. In line with our talent management approach, Diversity and Inclusion we introduce practices for the employees At Vodafone, we have the goal to build an Employees by Gender to realise their potentials and to promote inclusive corporate culture that respects the their continuous development, as well as varieties of the employees with our mentality giving importance to employ new talents, regarding diversity and inclusion. We manage who will add value to our company, in our our business processes with this approach. 42% 58% team. We develop projects to promote the inclusion of youth and women to business During the 2017/18 fiscal year, whilst the total 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% life in compliance with the Vodafone Group number of employees was 3,172 in total, the 2012 Equal Opportunities Model (EOM) strategy, in particular, and our material areas. percentage of women employees was around Certification 42%. Furthermore the percentage of women We build agile teams that will keep up with and 2014 Great Place to Work Diversity in senior manager and higher level executive support the digital transformation process, Special Award positions reached 34% by an increase of 4%, Executives by Gender simplify the work processes and thereby, compared to the 2015/16 fiscal year, and the 2015 Great Place to Work Collaboration of increase efficiency. The first step is to expand number of woman executive12 reached 59. Different Generations Special Award this new work method, of which we have begun 34% 66% to apply and achieved successful results in the 2016 United Nation Women’s Empowerment IT processes. We will expand this method to our Principles (WEPs) signatory Vodafone Turkey places commercial teams. importance to employment of 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 2018 Great Place to Work Digital women. The percentage of women Transformation and Diversity in Human The practices applied for our employees employees in our company is 42%; Resources Special Award Female Male also contribute significantly to the solution while the percentage of women in of the problems that the global agenda Silver Award with the Lifestages in the senior manager and higher level tackles with. We support United Nations International Business Awards executive positions reached 34%. 12 Senior manager and higher (F level and over) Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 0 47 Women in Technology Internship Women in Technology Internship Programme targets women, who are in the fourth year of the related departments of the universities’ engineering faculties and would like to have a career in technology and telecommunications field. As part of the programme, we offer two six-month long internship positions at the related departments before they graduate. During the 2017/18 fiscal year, 12 students joined the programme and 4 of them joined the Discover Young Talents Programme. Our goal is to include 10 women students to the programme in the 2018/19 fiscal year and give priority in the Discover Young Talents Programme to the ones who successfully completed the internship programme. The project won the top prize in the ConnectedSheCan Awards, in which projects regarding diversity and inclusion are evaluated. The project was also included to the Good Practices Handbook of the Business Council for Sustainable Development Turkey. Irmak Kar tal Women in Sales Internship Par ticipant Women in Sales Internship Women in Sales Internship Programme targets women, who are in the fourth year of the related faculties of the universities, would like to work in sales and telecommunications field and have potential. This year, 9 students joined the internship programme, which was initiated in 2016. 4 successful students among the interns joined Discover Young Talents Programme and are included in the talents of Vodafone Turkey. Our goal is to include 10 women students to the programme in the fiscal year of 2018/19 and give priority in the Discover Young Talents Programme to the ones who successfully completed the internship programme. Further details on the Discover Young Talent Programme can be found under Youth Skills and Jobs section. Duru Coşkun Women in Technology Internship Par ticipant Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 048 Lifestages processes. We develop practices that ease candidates to reply the questions asked by Agile Teams While designing our human resources the adaptation of employees to the change. shooting a video and upload it to the system; To keep ahead of the competition and keep practices, we give priority to develop We provide a work experience that provides and we also conduct the required tests up with the rapidly-changing customer inclusive practices towards our employees. all works to be carried out by mobile devices online. In the following period, we will get requirements in recent years, we have We want all employees, without exception, to independent of time and location. more digitalised; so that employees will be developed a new method to shorten the develop their work experiences at Vodafone able to see the car park occupancy, turn on project delivery periods of the IT process of Turkey, feel comfortable at their workplace We care about the views of our employees and turn off the lights in their offices, adjust our projects. Agile work method, which divides and feel the sense of belonging. Considering and want to hear about their demands to the air conditioning before they arrive at the bulk processes into smaller parts enabling us that expectations and requirements differ by improve and develop our human resources office, monitor the queue at the cafeteria to proceed and get results swiftly, has been age, we designed Lifestages project. As part practices. All Vodafone employees, during lunch time and use the printers in the launched to be applied in the IT processes in of the project, we assess the requirements regardless of their countries, can contact building through their smart phones. the beginning. We are now aiming to expand and expectations of the employees Expolink, a global and independent hotline, this method by including the company’s other considering the life stages they are in via 0850 2101901 or https://wrs.expolink. Thanks to the flexibility offered as a result of departments. and we diversify and enrich our practices co.uk/vodafone to submit any kind of digitalisation, employees can decide on their accordingly. The purpose is to have happier comments and feedbacks. working hours and work anywhere out of With the agile work approach, which employees working more efficiently thanks office one day per week. The project enables encourages collaborations and enables to our customised practices. DijitalSen (DigitalYou) employees to hold video conferences with flexibility and speed during the progress, we During the digitalisation process, we place multiple participants and communicate at have increased the quality of products and In line with the Lifestages approach, we great significance for our employees to wherever they want through their laptops or shortened the time of delivery of the products have initiated Discover the Power Inside You experience a perfect digital experience. mobile devices. to the market. Initiated in 2013 as a pilot programme to support women working in The goal of the DijitalSen (DigitalYou) project, the process has resulted in building sales and technology areas, besides flexible programme is to examine the career journeys up approximately 58 agile teams and 810 working hours and flexible locations, inof the employees from the recruitment Vodafone employees were provided training on house coaching programmes, mother health to retirement, as well as one working day agile work method. and child care seminars, additional leaves experiences of the employees; and digitalise for the parents. We have also launched and yet simplify at the same time. Corporate Athlete programme regarding healthy diet, sports and mental health for our Vodafone employees can manage their employees to have well-balanced lives. requirements, including entrance, exit, order food from the cafeteria, etc. in the YouthCo & Digital Ninja Employee Experience company by phone. With the digitalisation To be able to achieve our vision to lead of the manual approval processes, manager YouthCo is a committee composed of 9 young people, who offers innovative business ideas to digitalisation in Turkey, we need employees approvals can be obtained through smart Vodafone Turkey Executive Board and develops them, representing each function. Launched by the who share our vision and can facilitate our phones. Thanks to digitalised approval Vodafone Group in all countries Vodafone operates, Digital Ninja Project gathers senior executives and achievement by their talents. Hence, we processes, we have eliminated print-out Y-Generation employees with a particular focus on digitalisation. Designed as a reverse mentoring carry out an in-house digitalisation process and wet signature requirements for the inprocess, the project supports senior executives during the digitalisation journey and enables young to offer Vodafone Turkey employees a work house assignments. During the preliminary employees to share their point of views and expectations related to digitalisation with the senior environment with fully digitalised work job interview process, we request the management of the company. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 0 49 International Development Programme International Development Programme offers our employees international career opportunities for talent management. The employees included in the programme can be assigned to a position in any countries where Vodafone operates for 4-10 weeks. The main goals of the programme include the employees to share the experiences they acquired at Vodafone Turkey in a different country, advance their know-hows, achieve personal and professional development by observing different roles and build up professional relationships with colleagues working at similar positions in other countries. Since the beginning of the International Development Programme, 12 employees from 6 different countries have been assigned in Turkey; while 6 Vodafone Turkey employees have been assigned in 5 other countries. We have the goal to welcome 2 employees from other countries to work in Turkey and 2 Vodafone Turkey employees to be assigned to work in other countries for a short period of time by the end of the 2018/19 fiscal year. Talent Management within the company to begin with, and thanks Talent management enables Vodafone to to Red Experience, employees are encouraged hire people with potentials and also prepares to contribute to different departments with the current employees with potentials to the experiences they have acquired; and leadership roles. Throughout the process, hence, advance their careers inside Vodafone. we conduct the talent analysis of Vodafone Throughout the 2017/18 fiscal year, 70% of Turkey, review the development of employees the positions were fulfilled by the existing at the management levels, designate employees. employees with high performances and potentials and evaluate them for the global We have ev a lu ate d t h e e x is t i n g talent programs. e m p loye es as ca n d i d ates for v a ca nt p os i t i ons a n d h i re d ou r We place importance that the talents, whom ow n e m p loye es i n 70 % of t h e we invest in, are involved in practices that cas es . ReConnect take the company to a further level and contribute to our success continuously. We The Vodafone Group launched ReConnect, a global employment initiative covering 26 countries, with believe that it is important to raise leaders With the Refer-A-Friend System, the goal to bring approximately 1,000 qualified women back into the workplace after a career break. within the Group and therefore manage the employees can refer people whom they Throughout the 2017/18 fiscal year, 7 women employees started working at Vodafone Turkey as part of career plans accordingly. The Red Experience think can adapt Vodafone culture for vacant ReConnect programme. The programme supports the returners to re-adapt the business life with the help application guides us to give priority to our positions. Launched in 2012, the system has of a buddy system, coaching and mentoring programs. In the fiscal year of 2018/19, we will continue to own employees in the event of a vacant enabled the employment of 262 people until hire women under the ReConnect Programme according to the qualifications of the applicants and the position. The vacant position is announced the end of the 2017/18 fiscal year. requirements of the vacant positions. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 050 Performance Management System development and performance coaching. Vodafone Performance Management System, Vodafone Performance Management System the globally applied practice of the Vodafone is composed of three core stages including Group, focuses on the development of the target setting, mid-year evaluation and endemployees to create a high-performance of-year evaluation. Focusing on innovative organisation culture, achieve business goals, we simplify our target process. goals, provide profitability to investors Employees and managers periodically get and encourage competitive workforce. together and review the strengths and Performance Management System also weaknesses of the employees. During these supports main human resources processes meetings, personal development plans such as training, remuneration, etc. are determined in line with the long-term career goals and personal performances and As part of our performance evaluation potentials are evaluated in parallel to targets approach, we focus on continuous set at the beginning of the year. improvement via coaching and develop tailor-made practices. As part of Performance In line with the new performance Management System 2020, we defined management approach, we determine the Vodafone Red Academy employees, employees of the distributors and following four main principles: Innovative employees with high-performance and highOur goal is to become a global brand that business partners, university students and goals, effective feedback, supporting potential and prepare development plans adds value to the business world with the customers to use new technologies effectively. development opportunities we offer to our We reach 3,172 Vodafone, 9,500 distributor, employees, stakeholders and people in line 20,000 sub-distributor, 3,800 Call Centre with the awareness that investing in people is employees, which amount to 35,000+ people, Target Mid-Year End-of-Year Performance Setting Evaluation Evaluation Evaluation System the most valuable investment. through these projects. Throughout 2017/18, we have provided 104,792 hours of training in As the mobile communication technologies total and 33 hours per employee in average. were integrated into our lives so fast, Red In addition to this, we have provided 14,280 to support them in advancing their careers. benefits such as annual premium, sales Academy, the development centre of hours of training in total and 13.34 hours per Besides, all employees are still evaluated premium, customer services premium, health Vodafone Turkey, continues its activities employee of our distributors and external exclusive to each employee; and we share insurance, life insurance, etc. in line with the with the principle of enabling all Vodafone business partners. their strengths and weaknesses with the roles and responsibilities of the employees to stakeholders to use these technologies. As an employees through face-to-face feedbacks. maintain the existing employee satisfaction agile organisation with a particular focus on As a result of these evaluations, training and attract highly skilled talents. With the digital transformation, we update the training We h ave p rov i d e d 33 h o u r s requirements and supportive development flexible fringe benefits, we offer employees solutions we offer according to the new of t r a i n i n g p e r e m p loye e i n practices are determined. the option to bend the existing benefits trends and future competences and continue ave r a g e; a n d 13. 34 h o u r s p e r and replace the less-required ones with to increase the number of digital training e m p loye e of d is t r i b u to r s a n d As part of Remuneration and Fringe Benefits benefits satisfying the employees’ personal solutions and their effectiveness each day. We e x te r n a l b u s i n es s p a r t n e r s of policy, we apply a fair and competitive requirements. have our signature on the projects to enable t r a i n i n g p e r d is t r i b u to r s a n d remuneration policy and offer fringe our target groups including Vodafone Turkey b u s i n es s p a r t n e r s’ e m p loye e . Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 051 We offer each employee, who carries our various foundations, universities and high Vodafone Volunteers and helping donation campaigns to support corporate brand that we have created schools. Vodafone Turkey Foundation attaches us in achieving our goal to build a better with our corporate values based on importance to include employees to the tomorrow. speed, simplicity and reliance principles, In 2017, we launched the in-house projects launched and to develop the subject The number of employees participating in development opportunities to realise coaching programme for our employees projects with the ideas and suggestions the volunteering activities has increased their potentials and support them during to broaden their horizons and enable them of the employees. Vodafone Volunteers and reached 540. Our long-term goal is to the digital transformation journey; and to benefit from the experiences of experts programme encourages employee hence, develop practices that will carry our in their fields. Thus, we provided coaching development and create value for people. company’s performance to higher levels. programme for more employees. A s p a r t of t h e Vo d afo n e As part of the programme, employees are Vo lu nte e r s p ro g r a m m e , We provide service with modern training In 2014, we established a development entitled to two days paid volunteering e m p loye es a r e e nt i t le d to t wo methods in compliance with our company platform for all employees to benefit leave each year to volunteer for our nond ay s p a i d vo lu nte e r i n g leave strategies and requirements of our regardless of age, experience, department profit projects. Vodafone employees get ea ch yea r to vo lu nte e r fo r o u r employees; thus, proceed confidently with the Corporate Mentoring Programme. the opportunity to actively partake in n o n p rof i t p roj e c t s . to become a corporate university. We 404 mentor and mentees have been involved various project such as providing training collaborate with 136 in-house trainers and in the programme by the end of the 2017/18 at the youth workshops organised under encourage all employees to participate in several strategic development partners, fiscal year. Moreover, we are also carrying out Dreams Academy, mentoring women as the Vodafone Volunteers programme and which are essential parts of being a learning mentoring programme for women employees part of Women First in Entrepreneurship experience volunteering. organisation, orient our new employees as working in sales as part of Women Power in programme, giving coding training to fast as we can and focus on the development Sales Discover the Power in You Programme; children as part of Coding Tomorrow project of specialties and competences of our mentoring programme for women students – existing employees. We invest in our talents, employees and/or interns– as part of Women main elements in our business continuity, in Technology Programme; mentoring and raise our own leaders. As part of and reverse mentoring programme with corporate social responsibility projects, we a particular focus on digitalisation for support different platforms with training and Y-Generation employees with our executives development activities in collaboration with as part of Digital Ninja Programme. Employee “The awareness of the employees on sustainability can be raised through in-house training and reward mechanisms.” Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 052 Occupational Health and Safety On-Site Audits at encourage subcontractors to work safely. We are committed to become a leader in Base Stations As of the end of 2017, we have presented telecommunications sector in terms of rewards amounting TRY 75,500 to a total of 82 health, occupational safety and wellbeing to people, including team leaders and members, protect health and safety of the employees 2,000 following our evaluations for working in and create an ideal work environment. compliance with health and safety rules. 1,500 1,387 We follow Vodafone Health and Safety 1,350 1,316 Management System and apply practices In case of detecting any on-site OHS violation, we beyond legal requirements in line with our 1,000 apply financial and/or administrative penalties; zero accident goal. and we terminate the contract of the company if 500 they continue violation or do not take corrective At Vodafone, health and safety issue is 0 actions. Hence, the number of health and safety managed at the senior management level. 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 violations decreases every year. We define our As part of Vodafone Group Health and Safety goals considering various factors, including Principles, health, safety, environment and seasonal changes, adaptation period for new well-being (HSE-W) issues are not considered We assess our contractors in detail in terms contractors, etc. Thanks to our health and safety as additional works to perform but managed of health and safety before we bid at a management system, this year, the number as the most critical and inevitable part of the tender and conduct an impact analysis. This Contractors and OHS of contractors’ violations decreased 34%, works. Our goal is to establish a robust health year, we have assessed 22 main contractor compared to the fiscal year of 2016/17. and safety culture, of which all employees, companies in terms of health and safety as contractors and suppliers abide Health part of projects bearing high-risk works. We 500 435 and Safety Principles while contributing to are awarded a contract following the tender the application and development of these period, we include Vodafone Health and Safety 400 Emergency Management principles. Vodafone’s 7 Absolute Rules on procedures, training standards, health and We carry out activities to raise awareness Health and Safety, established to minimise the safety department requirement, sanctions 300 262 to mobilise quickly and in time and help risks in telecommunications sector and provide regarding health and safety non-conformances 192 the community when a natural disaster or a safe work environment, shall be abided during and on-site health and safety audits to our 200 emergency occurs. We have defined natural all work processes. contracts. Accordingly, we have held 1,316 82 disaster and emergency management site audits at the sites under the responsibility 100 47 procedures and built up teams in compliance 22 of our contractors throughout the fiscal year with ISO 22301 standards. We have initiated a 2017/18 and the number of audits held since 0 programme on emergency management with We p rov i d e h ea lt h a n d 2009 has reached 11,125. All of these audits 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Solo Institute. We have continued to prepare s afet y t r a i n i n g to e m p loye es were conducted while the employees were risk analysis considering the headquarter and a n d cont r a c tor s r e g u l a r ly. actively working at the site and employees were call centre buildings. In addition to the general Number of Contractor OHS Violations T h rou g h ou t t h e f is ca l yea r of communicated one by one to raise awareness. evacuation drills, we also organised case2017/18 , w e have p rov i d e d Furthermore, in 2015, we launched a reward specific evacuation drills at these buildings tot a l ly 93, 847 p e r s on*h ou r system called Team Leaders Incentive Scheme Number of Contractors Audited in by creating various emergency scenarios like h ea lt h a n d s afet y t r a i n i n g . for our Maintenance Solution Partners to terms of OHS epidemic, fire, etc. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 053 Value Chain Vodafone Esenyurt Data Merkezi Vodafone Esenyurt Data Center 41°2'54.70 N 28°40'56.08 E Country: Turkey City: İstanbul Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 054 Value Chain in a responsible manner and offer safe and We s u p p o r t t h e d eve lo p m e nt fair work conditions. As part of our Energy of o u r s u p p l i e r s t h ro u g h t h e Our products and services reach out to Management System Policy, which plays a key Vo d afo n e S u p p l i e r Pe r fo r m a n ce diverse stakeholder ecosystems. In this role in our plan to maximise our profitability, M a n a g e m e nt P ro g r a m m e fo r diverse ecosystem, our value chain approach strengthen our competitiveness and offer our t h e m to m e et t h e o p e r at i o n is based on managing the impacts of our customers the highest quality products, we s t a n d a rd s of Vo d afo n e i n operations in the light of environmental, Supply Chain monitor our product and service purchases v a r i o u s f i e ld s . social and ethical issues. Hence, human Our work processes are carried out together considering the environmental impacts. We rights and public health issues, which are also with several suppliers. We develop a robust organise informative activities to embed the of great concern to the sector we operate in, supply chain management to maintain the awareness of our suppliers on health and stand out. high standards we have adopted. Whilst the safety and ethical rules. rules and regulations that we defined enable We are committed to respect to the rights of us to manage the risks regarding the supply employees, customers and the individuals chain effectively, they also improve the quality who are within our area of impact because of products and services offered; hence, of the supply chain, from production to increase competitiveness. management of processes through our value chain. We carry out our operations in We adopt a mentality to develop and grow line with this mentality and promote the together with our suppliers. We support the The Supplier Day goal of Decent Work and Economic Growth development of our suppliers through the that covers preventing the illegal working Vodafone Supplier Performance Management Since 2013, we have been organising The Supplier Day each year and host senior managements of conditions as child labour, violation of human Programme for them to meet the standards 100+ main suppliers. During the event, we provide training on various issues such as Anti-corruption rights, etc. of Vodafone in health and safety, quality, and Ethics, Commercial and Network Operations, Health and Safety, etc. The Supplier Day also helps us information security and technology. As part receive feedbacks from our suppliers on our company policies and practices. We are aware that the possible negative of the programme, we define development impacts of mobiles and masts on areas of the suppliers and encourage them to human health must be managed in the improve their performances on these areas. telecommunications sector; and hence, we carry out informative activities on this We expect our suppliers to comply issue. Furthermore, we attach importance with Vodafone Code of Conduct, adopt to receive the views of local people Vodafone Code of Ethical Purchasing and and authorities through stakeholder hold their own suppliers accountable to engagement. Our approach aligns with the the same high standards. We carry out site Supplier Safety Forum goal of Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions assessments to monitor the compliance of which aims building effective, accountable suppliers with these codes. We provide full Every year, we organize Supplier Safety Forum with the suppliers that we have listed in the high-risk and inclusive institutions at all levels. support to all our suppliers to enable them group. We share key information on health and safety during the Forum, where we also improve our manage environmental and social issues dialogue with the suppliers during the interactive sessions. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 055 At Vodafone, all suppliers are integrated asks documents to validate the information, Human Rights scientific researches.13 to the Vodafone system (onboarding) if required. Then, a scoring process is We integrate respect for human rights We address the possible negative impacts if the qualifications criteria set by the initiated in line with the information throughout all our operations in the scope of the telecommunications sector on the Global Supplier Onboarding Team are provided and the onboarding team approves of Guiding Principles on Business and health of the public, including our customers, fulfilled. Vodafone Turkey team works in the supplier considering their score, if not Human Rights that we are committed to. employees, local people residing at the collaboration with Vodafone India team deemed high risk. The onboarding process is We respect the rights of individuals included areas we operate in, subcontractors, as part throughout the onboarding process. As part completed when the supplier’s information in our supply chain and consider it our of our corporate strategy. We developed a of the process, Vodafone India contacts the is integrated to the system and once a responsibility to prevent any violation of policy and plan regarding the EMF, which is supplier company to get information on supplier is onboarded, it is available in all human rights. managed by an expert team. It is our vision the number of related personnel, services Vodafone countries. in this matter to respond to the concerns of offered, previous similar work experiences, We have developed our employment policy our stakeholders about mobiles and masts company’s organisational structure, etc. and as part of Vodafone Code of Conduct and and to demonstrate leading-edge practices based on UN International Bill of Human regarding EMF. We provide training to our Rights and International Labour Organisation employees and suppliers and transfer our fundamental conventions. Therefore, we information on EMF and strive to raise consider it an inevitable part of our way awareness of customers and stakeholders of doing business to offer our employees on the issue through various means of a healthy and safe work environment and communications. We publish scientific With the supply processes carried out in the fiscal year of 2017/18, Vodafone Turkey was presented an respect their rights and freedoms. All our information regarding EMF on our website, award as the top country in using the digital tools and that applies the best supply chain management suppliers are required to commit that they erect information signs and boards at our practices in terms of health and safety during the Global Vodafone Supply Chain Management Summit operate in compliance with the human rights, sites regarding EMF and carry out site audits attended by approximately 30 countries; and ranked the 15th in the list of top 50 Procurement Leader in health and safety, ethics and environmental according to our EMF policy. Turkey, published by the Economist magazine. protection standards according to Vodafone Code of Ethical Purchasing. We closely Wo r ld H ea lt h O rg a n is at i o n monitor whether our suppliers fulfil these ( W HO) : S ci e nt i f i c s tu d i es s t ate commitments. t h at to d ate , n o a d ve r s e h ea lt h ef fe c t s h ave b e e n es t a b l is h e d Mobiles, Masts and as b e i n g ca u s e d by m o bi le Public Health phone use. Management of issues derived from our operations including public health is Vodafone Turkey participated in the Tomorrow Street event, organised by Vodafone Procurement Company, an important part of our sustainability of which the headquarters located in Luxembourg. Tomorrow Street hosts and supports suppliers under the management approach. Therefore, we adopt categories of smalland medium-sized enterprises or start-ups to enable them to deliver their innovative an open and transparent attitude for public ideas and products to the global arena. The event is attended by the senior public authorities and Vodafone concerns. World Health Organisation (WHO) senior executives. We have participated in the event with our supplier producing environmentally-friendly states that to date, no adverse health effects and energy-efficient cooling systems that we install to our masts; so that our supplier took the opportunity have been established as being caused to globally introduce its products to all Vodafone countries. by mobile phone use based on several 13 World Health Organisation Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 056 Information Security As part of information security, we Information security and privacy is among established Vodafone Turkey Corporate the prominent risks in digitalisation. As a Access Management structure to administer company operating in telecommunications the authorisations on critical systems and technology sector, management of more efficiently and integrate business information security risks is among the units other than the technical teams to the significant issues considered in our value process. Therefore, authorisation requests/ chain. Thus, we take inclusive steps in authorisation review processes of some compliance with the international standards. applications, databases and operation systems were transferred to this structure. We protect personal information, mobile Thanks to this structure, the roles were communication information and credit card assigned and review periods were defined information in compliance with the ISO/IEC for managers to review the authorisations 27001 Information Security Management of the employees reporting to them and the System and PCI-DSS security standards set principles of Separation of Duties (SoD) were out by PCI Security Standards Council. defined and applied. Our goal is to increase the areas of use with new integrations.• We continue our operations initiated in 2016 as part of Law on Protection of Personal Data. We inform our customers related to privacy through our website, sales channels and customer relations services and offer them channels to apply at Vodafone to get informed and apply regarding personal data. We provide awareness training to our employees, sales channels and customer channels on protection of personal data. We develop new products considering the privacy principles at the design phase. We do not only follow up our operations in terms of information security and privacy, but also the performance of our suppliers and inform them how they should improve themselves. We informed our business partners and included Data Processing Addendum (DPA) to their contracts and received their privacy controls during the audits. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 057 Annexes Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 058 Memberships Association of Intelligent Transport Systems (AUSDER) TEGEP Association of Accumulator and Recycling Industrialists (AKÜDER) Turkish Competitive TELCO Operators Association (TELKODER) Information Security Association Association of Businessmen of Satellite Electronic and Communication Sector (TUYAD) United Brands Association (BMD) TOBB Young Entrepreneurs Committee (TOBB GGK) United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) TOBB Telecommunication Council Call Centres Association (ÇMD) Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSİAD) ÇEVKO Foundation Informatics Association for Turkey Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEİK) Turkish Informatics Association (TBV) Foreign Economic Relations Board, Turkish-British Business Council (DEİK TİİK) Turkish Public Relations Association (TÜHİD) GSM Association (GSMA) Turkish Business Women's Association (TİKAD) Endeavor Turkey Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey (KAGİDER) The Union of Access Providers (ESB) Turkish Quality Association (KALDER) Global Relations Forum (GRF) Third Sector Foundation of Turkey (TÜSEV) IAB Turkey The British Chamber of Commerce of Turkey (BCCT) Istanbul Chamber of Commerce (İTO) Women Corporate Directors (WCD) World Business Council for Sustainable Development (SKD/TBCSD) YASED International Investors Association Chain Stores Association (KMD) Mobile Telecommunications Operators Association (MTOD) Payment and Electronic Money Institutions Association (ÖDED) Private Sector and Volunteers Association (ÖSGD) PERYÖN People Management Association of Turkey Turkish Advertisers Association (RVD) Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 059 Environmental Performance Indicators Greenhouse Gas Emissions *** Energy Consumption 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 (tons CO2-equivalent) Total Energy Consumption (GJ) 254,358 272,387 272,376 Scope 1 17,348.7 15,686.8 18,128.9 Technology Centres Total Energy Consumption (GJ) 1,541,628 1,554,385 1,571,225 Vehicles 3,820.3 3,747.4 3,873.1 Masts Office buildings (GJ) 57,877 58,685 56,657 F-Gases 10,191.3 7,444.7 9,589.6 Vehicles fuel (GJ) 50,780 49,872 51,519 Fuels Used Inside the Buildings 307.3 316.5 370.9 Generators Total (GJ) 1,904,643 1,935,328 1,951,777 3,029.8 4,178.2 4,295.3 (diesel+ gasoline-powered) Scope 2 276,791.8 248,518.1 260,143.1 Water Consumption 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Power Consumption at the Masts 230,479.2 204,945.1 215,268.0 Total Water Consumption 49.577 45.792 41.659 Power Consumption at the Telephone Network Water (m 3) 38,405.7 36,479.3 37,944.2 Exchange and Data Centres Power Consumption at the 7,906.9 7,093.6 6,930.8 Waste Amount 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Office Buildings Total Non-Hazardous Waste Amount Scope 3 5,137.3 2,973.5 2,638.2 1,067 965 814 (tons) Service Vehicles 3,981.3 1,412.1 1,238.9 Total Hazardous Waste Amount (tons) 1,095 1,995 1,444 Travels by Planes 1,156.0 1,561.4 1,399.3 Total (tons) 2,162 2,960 2,258 Total 299,277.8 267,178.4 280,910.2 Recycled Waste Amount (kg) 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 * The 2015/16 and 2016/17 domestic waste data could not be verified due to the change of contractor and thus relevant data is not given. Paper 18,650 11,353 12,029 ** The 2017/18 other waste data could not be verified due to the change of contractor and thus relevant data is not given. *** Principles on Reporting Plastics 6,645 2,267 3,188 Our greenhouse gas emissions are calculated according to WRI / WBCSD’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology. In the calculations, CO2 Domestic Waste* 230,00 equivalent factors consisting of CO 2, CH 4, N 2O and HFCs (refrigerant gas) emissions were used. Global warming potential (GWP) coefficients are taken from the IPCC 5th Assessment Report. The sub-thermal values and TOE conversion coefficients of the energy resources used are taken from the tables in the regulation on “Increasing the Efficiency of Energy Resources and Energy in the Use of Energy”, published in the Official Gazette Other (glass, metal etc.)** 6,475 100 dated 27 October 2011 and numbered 28097. 1 kcal = 4.184 kJ, 1 GJ = 0.2777 MWh. Total (kg) 31,770 13,720 15,447 For the calculation of the greenhouse gas resulting from electricity consumption, the updated TEİAŞ (Turkish Electricity Transmission Corporation) data are used. Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 060 Social Performance Indicators 4 Years of University 756 1,186 823 1,253 811 1,225 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Master Degree 93 153 98 146 94 148 Number of Employees by Gender Female Male Female Male Female Male Post Graduate 3 4 4 Number of Employees 1,374 1,942 1,397 1,901 1,324 1,848 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Number of Employees on Parental Number of Employees by Term of Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Leave by Gender Employment Number of Employees at 79 85 79 84 68 89 0-5 Years 753 928 767 878 714 874 Parental Leave Number of Employees Returning to 79 85 77 84 68 89 5-10 Years 250 426 251 442 253 410 Work After Parental Leave ≥10 Years 371 588 379 581 357 564 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Employee Turnover by Gender and Age Female Male Female Male Female Male 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Number of Employees at the Senior <30 Years Old 75 90 96 56 86 61 Female Male Female Male Female Male Management by Gender and Age 31-49 Years Old 56 92 58 92 59 129 <30 Years Old 6 2 6 3 6 4 >50 Years Old 6 5 3 3 3149 Years Old 197 455 212 451 229 439 Total Number of Employees Left 131 188 154 153 148 193 >50 Years Old 12 2 18 1 22 Throughout the Year 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Employee Distribution by Number of New Recruits by Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Educational Background Gender and Age Elementary School 1 1 1 1 <30 Years Old 187 121 215 101 126 117 Secondary School 1 31-49 Years Old 120 188 92 146 81 128 High School 296 416 264 333 235 314 >50 Years Old 1 1 1 2 and 3 Years of Vocational High-School 229 183 212 164 182 156 Total Number of New Recruits 307 310 307 248 207 246 Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 0 61 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Number of Employees subject to Female Male Female Male Female Male Performance Evaluation by Gender and Age Number of Employees subject to 1,412 1,991 1,389 1,882 1,369 1,889 Performance Evaluation 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Number of Employees with Female Male Female Male Female Male Disabilities by Gender Total Number of 13 41 11 40 15 49 Employees with Disabilities Employee Training 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Total Training Hours 137,456 130,760 104,792 Training Hour per Employee 35.5 35 33 Total OHS Training 95,626 Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 0 62 Independent Assurance Statement Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 0 63 Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 064 Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 0 65 Appendix 1 Appendix I Turkey's Material Issues section on pages 27-29. Total number of women The number of female employees working at 1324 This section is the guidelines applied for the indicators in scope of limited assurance as explained in employees Vodafone as of 31 March 2018. the table below. The data reported for each indicator is for the year ended March 31, 2018. The Number of women employees on The number of female employees on F band 59 reporting covers Vodafone Turkey’s operations in Turkey. F band and above and above working at Vodafone as of 31 March 2018. Underlying Subject Matter Reporting Guidelines The selected Number of employees in the Number of women employees in the Women in 12 information Women in Technology Internship Technology Internship Program, who are Vodafone GHG Emissions: Scope Vodafone’s gas emissions are calculated Scope1: 18.129 Program studying at the universities' engineering 1 Direct GHG Emissions and according to WRI / WBCSD's Greenhouse Gas Scope 2: 260.143 faculties and working in technology related Scope 2 Indirect GHG Emissions Protocol methodology. In the calculations, CO2 departments. (tons CO2-equivalent) equivalent factors consisting of CO2, CH4, N2O Number of employees in the Number of women employees in the Women in 9 and HFCs (refrigerant gas) emissions were used. Women in Sales Internship Sales Internship Program, who are studying at Global warming potential (GWP) coefficients Program the universities' related faculties and working in are taken from the IPCC 5th Assessment Report. sales related departments. The sub-thermal values and TOE conversion Number of employees under Number of women employees under 7 coefficients of the energy resources used are ReConnect recruitment ReConnect recruitment which includes the taken from the tables in the regulation on women who had a break in their career for at “Increasing the Efficiency of Energy Resources least 1 year due to special reasons such as and Energy in the Use of Energy”, published in marriage, maternity leave, education etc. the Official Gazette dated 27 October 2011 and Number of young people gaining Number of employees who gained experience 15 numbered 28097. experience of Vodafone’s digital in apprenticeship program. workplace through Distribution from sources causing greenhouse apprenticeships gas emissions are as follows: Number of young people gaining The number of interns at Vodafone between 1 161 Scope 1: Leased vehicles, F-gases used in air experience of Vodafone’s digital April 2017 and 31 March 2018. conditioners, fuel used in buildings, diesel and workplace through internships gasoline generators used in base stations in emergencies. Scope 2: Electricity consumption. Number of young professionals Number of new graduates who have no work 215 Energy consumption of all buildings, switching participating in Vodafone for the experience other than internship. sites and data centers, base stations, vehicle first work experience fleets, and generators under the control of Number of employees covered by The number of employees under the new 41 Vodafone is monitored regularly. These data Discover Young Talent Program graduation recruitment program designed for are also included in the energy consumption young graduates or young people with data given in the report. maximum 1 year experience. Materiality Analysis (AA1000 AS) We included the views of all stakeholder groups Number of young people (under Number of young people including interns 226 to our report through the stakeholder analysis. 25) directly hired by Vodafone (under 25) directly hired by Vodafone. We were able to get the opinion and Number of participants of Global The number of participants in the Global 2 expectations of the management through face Columbus Exchange Program Columbus Exchange Program between April 1, to face and focus group meetings, evaluate the 2017 and March 31, 2018. strategic areas guiding the company. We also included the indicative trends in the global agenda as well as our sector, besides the issues set forth by the international organizations such as Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), United Nation Sustainable Development Solutions (UNSDSN), Shared Value Initiative and global sustainability indices with the global trend analysis. AA1000SE Stakeholder Engagement Standard was used as a reference to conduct the stakeholder engagement process. For details, please see Vodafone Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 0 66 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/ Link Strategy GRI 101: Foundation 2016 102-14 3 General Indicators 102-15 6, 7, 57 Organizational Profile Ethics and Integrity 102-1 4 102-16 7, 56 102-2 4, 5 102-17 7 Vodafone Plaza, Büyükdere Cad. Governance 102-3 No: 251, Maslak 34398, Istanbul 102-18 6 102-4 4 102-19 6 GRI 102: All shares of Vodafone Turkey General Disclosures 2016 102-5 Group of Companies are owned 102-20 6 by Vodafone Group Plc. Stakeholder Engagement 102-6 4 GRI 102: 102-40 14 General Disclosures 2016 102-7 5, 6 Although Vodafone Turkey emp102-8 5, 47, 61, 62 loyees are not unionized, we 102-41 respect the right of collective 102-9 55-57 bargaining. During 2017/18 fiscal year, there 102-42 14 were no significant changes 102-10 regarding size, structure, owner102-43 14 ship, or supply chain. 102-44 14, 15 102-11 6, 7 102-12 59 102-13 59 Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 0 67 Reporting Practice Market Presence 102-45 4 103-1 47 GRI 103: 102-46 4, 15 103-2 47 Management Approach 2016 102-47 15 103-3 47 102-48 There were no restatements. GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 202-1 47 102-49 14, 15 Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 102: 102-50 4 103-1 6, 13, 15 General Disclosures 2016 GRI 103: 102-51 1 April 2016 31 March 2017 103-2 6, 13, 15 Management Approach 2016 Sustainability Report is 103-3 6, 13, 15 102-52 published annually. 203-1 55-57 GRI 203: 102-53 4 Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-2 6, 56, 57 102-54 4 Anti-corruption 102-55 67-71 103-1 6, 7 102-56 63-66 GRI 103: 103-2 6, 7 Management Approach 2016 GRI 200: Economic Standard Series 2016 103-3 6, 7 Economic Performance 205-1 6, 7 GRI 205: 103-1 5 Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 6, 7 GRI 103: 103-2 5 Management Approach 2016 103-3 5 GRI 201: 202-1 47 Economic Performance 2016 Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 068 GRI 300: Environmental Standards Series Supplier Environmental Assessment Energy 103-1 55, 56 GRI 103: 103-1 15, 36-44 103-2 55, 56 Management Approach 2016 GRI 103: 103-2 15, 36-44 103-3 55, 56 Management Approach 2016 103-3 36-44 GGRI 308: 308-1 55, 56 Supplier Environmental 302-1 43, 44, 60 Assessment 2016 308-2 55, 56 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 43, 44, 60 GRI 400: Social Standards Series 302-4 43, 44, 60 Employment Water and Effluents 103-1 47 GRI 103: 103-1 44 103-2 47 Management Approach 2016 GRI 103: 103-2 44 103-3 47, 61, 62 Management Approach 2016 103-3 44, 60 401-1 61 GRI 401: 303-3 60 401-2 51 GRI 303: Employment 2016 Water and Effluents 2018 303-5 44, 60 401-3 61 Emissions Labour/Management Relations 103-1 15, 43, 44 103-1 47 GRI 103: GRI 103: 103-2 43, 44 103-2 47 Management Approach 2016 Management Approach 2016 103-3 43, 44, 60 103-3 47 305-1 60 GRI 402: Minimum legal notice Labour/Management Relations 402-1 periods are applied regarding GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-2 60 2016 operational changes. 305-3 60 Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 0 69 Occupational Health and Safety Diversity and Equality Opportunity 103-1 53 103-1 47-49 GRI 103: GRI 103: 103-2 53 103-2 47-49 Management Approach 2016 Management Approach 2016 103-3 53, 62 103-3 47-49, 61 403-1 53 405-1 6, 47-49, 61 GRI 405: 403-2 53 Diversity and Equality There is no gender based Opportunity 2016 405-2 discrimination in renumeration. 403-3 53 GRI 403: Occupational 403-4 53 Supplier Social Assessment Health and Safety 2018 403-5 62 103-1 55, 56 GRI 103: 403-7 53 103-2 55, 56 Management Approach 2016 403-8 53 103-3 55, 56 Training and Education GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-1 55, 56 103-1 50-52 Assessment 2016 GRI 103: 103-2 50-52 Management Approach 2016 Customer Health and Safety 103-3 50-52 103-1 56 404-1 50-52, 62 GRI 103: 103-2 56 Management Approach 2016 GRI 404: 404-2 50-52, 62 Training and Education 2016 103-3 56 404-3 51, 62 GRI 416: Customer Health and 416-1 56 Safety 2016 Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 070 Customer Privacy 103-1 57 GRI 103: 103-2 57 Management Approach 2016 103-3 57 GRI 416: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 57 Material Topics That Are Not Covered by the GRI Standards Technological Innovation 103-1 18, 19, 37-41 GRI 103: 103-2 18, 19, 37-41 Management Approach 2016 103-3 18, 19, 37-41 Digital Customer and Employee Experience 103-1 18, 19, 37-41 GRI 103: 103-2 18, 19, 37-41 Management Approach 2016 103-3 18, 19, 37-41 Women's Empowerment 103-1 13, 15, 22-25 GRI 103: 103-2 13, 15, 22-25 Management Approach 2016 103-3 13, 15, 22-25 Youth Skills and Jobs 103-1 13, 28-33 GRI 103: 103-2 13, 28-33 Management Approach 2016 103-3 13, 28-33 Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 18 071 Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2018 Contact Vodafone Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. Vodafone Plaza, Büyükdere Caddesi, No: 251, Maslak 34398, Istanbul T: 0850 542 00 00 (Vodafone Headquarters) T: 0542 542 00 00 (Vodafone Customer Services) or 542 (Vodafone Customers) www.vodafone.com.tr For more information on the Sustainability Report: surdurulebilirlik@vodafone.com Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report was prepared solely for informative purposes. All content and information in this Report are prepared using the information and sources deemed to be accurate and reliable in the period the Report was written. None of the information and content in this Report can be interpreted as a statement, warranty and/or commitment; nor is it guaranteed that the information and content in this Report is complete and unchangeable. Reporting Consultancy S360 Yeşilce Mahallesi, Yunus Emre Caddesi, Nil Ticaret Merkezi, No: 8 Kat: 1, 4. Levent 34418, Istanbul www.s360.com.tr Report Design Daniska Contemporary Advertising and Design Agency Asmalımescit Mahallesi, Meşrutiyet Caddesi, No: 27 Kat: 6, Beyoğlu 34430, Istanbul www.daniska.com.tr/en All rights reserved. Vodafone Turkey
