COP FOR YEAR 2017 POLARIS INDUSTRIAL PARKS – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS STATEMENT OF CONTINU OUS SUPPORT: Polaris International is pleased to confirm and reiterate its support of all United Nations Global Compact principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and antiCorruption. Polaris International with its policies and strategies, is promoting industrial development and economic performance while adopting the highest standards of environmental protection and improving the quality of broad Egyptian industrial community through dedicated development initiatives. *In year 2018 Polaris International has started supporting SME by launching its new project Bosla , that is establishing new product “small factories and enterprises” . It is the first project implemented in an environmental park . Stakeholders are strictly selected to have friendly environmental product and operation . SDG13 *Polaris International is aware of the importance of creating an environmentally developed industrial area to assist in the global battle against climate change SDG 13. In this spirit, Polaris International environmental protection is main key of its corporate pillars is using advanced Solar system to reduce carbon print . * In year 2017 , Polaris International is continuing exhorting extra implementations and investments for irrigation system in the park for water consumptions SDG 12 . * A quality and facility personnel is responsible to monitor environmental facilities and assure its accurate operation (Water measuring – electrical consumptions – maintenance ….) . * Polaris is still supporting Gender equality promoting SDG 5 within its internal operation and its supply chain . * Talent Development department is still creating advance systems to handle all aspects related employees taking into considerations the main 2 principles human rights and labor practice (complaints – fair evaluation – working conditions – training and development ) * For fourth year the employee evaluation system has been implemented that works in depth with transparency taking into consideration new monitoring aspects that commit to UNGC principles and moreover with motivation system to protect the labor rights. *Polaris International is providing to its employees and stakeholders a formal framework – guidelines, actions to be taken , monitoring its operations to ensure the business as a whole complies with all applicable antitrust laws. Finally, as we are totally supporting the UNGC, Polaris has been selected as steering committee member in UNGC Egypt. As being in UNGC Egypt network Polaris is always supporting UNGC Egypt network. Communication on Progress 2017 2 Communication on Progress: UNGC principles Scope of Policies and ACTIONS TAKEN SDGs Business Governance Influence Human Rights Principle1 Employees – Internal Training and Investorspolicies and awareness for staff Businesses contractorscode of and stakeholders should support ethics on human rights and respect aspects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Employees – Investorscontractors Principle 2: Employees – Internal HR policies and Human Rights Investorspolicies and procedures contractors code of declared and Business should ethics developed . make sure they are not Talent development department created complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Employees – Internal Training to Labor Investorspolicies and employees for labor contractorscode of aspects then Follow ethics up with monitoring and assessment Communication on Progress 2017 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Employees , Internal No The elimination investorspolicies and Case of contractors code of of all forms of ethics forced or forced and compulsory compulsory labor in Polaris labor Principle 5 EmployeesInternal No case of child Investorspolicies and labor abolition in The effective Contractors code of Polaris as it is clearly abolition of child ethics declared from the labour beginning Principle 6 Employees – Internal Clearly declared Investors policies and with updated The elimination contractors code of agreement with of discrimination ethics recruitment in agencies respect of Updated interview employment and system for occupation employment Communication on Progress 2017 4 Environment Internal policies and code of ethics Principle 7 Employees – Internal As we are first Businesses Investors – policies and environmental should support a contractorscode of industrial park an precautionary Governmental ethics ongoing approach to university (Cairo environmental environmental University policies is applied challenge Water consumption Quality and monitoring system is applied Principle 8 and EmployeesInternal Continuous Principle 9 Investorspolicies and approaches and communities code of advices supplied to Undertake ethics develop more initiatives to industrial areas . promote greater environmental responsibility Anti-corruption Principle 10 Employees – Internal Give training on investorspolicies and ethical behaviors to Businesses contractorscode of its stakeholders and should work communities ethics promoting for against importance of corruption in all integrity on its forms, economic and SR including Communication on Progress 2017 5 extortion and bribery POLARIS PROJECTS Polaris is keen on ensuring that all of our project are sustainable and that they aren’t just for profit but they’re also creating sustainable communities. All of our business projects are not just for profit but they are also sustainable and that the neighboring communities are being improved. Polaris International Industrial Parks : PIIP has established and signed the 1st licensing agreement with the Industrial Development Authority (IDA) on 02/10/2007 with an area of 2 Million m². PIIP is the first and foremost industrial development companies not only in Egypt but also in the region partnered by SIAC Holding and Mr. Mohamad Kassem with Polaris Dis Yatirimlar of Turkey. PIIP aiming to benefit the experience of the Public – Privet partnership to enable Egyptian economy play a stronger role in global markets. PIIP offers outstanding infrastructure, supported with quality services through professional teams and continuous support to manage customer needs. This first project, on an area of 2.000.000 m² of land, was completed and successfully sold out to multinational and local investors within 3 years from its inception. Numerous reputable local and multinational companies, such as Procter&Gamble, General Motors-Mansour Automotive, Scip, Juhayna, Edita and Holdipharma & many other investor invested in the park. Communication on Progress 2017 6 Polaris Al Zamil Industrial Park PZIP Company is a joint venture between Polaris International Industrial Parks which is a Turkish-Egyptian shareholder structure and Zamil-Holding which is a global investment company based in Saudi Arabia. The project reflects the same quality in terms of planning, infra structure, available facilities and general services, yet enhanced with the experience of PIIP. Since the signature date until today, PZIP has successfully managed to develop one of the most functional private industrial park developments in Egypt. Suez Canal Zone Project Polaris International signed a contract with the Chairman & the Board of Directors of Suez Canal Economic Authority Admiral / Mohaab Mameesh in attandance of H.E Abdul Fattah Al Sisi, Egypt President in the World Youth Forum in Sharm El Sheikh to develop 5.5 SQM. The overall project aims to boost Egypt’s economy by creating jobs and better working environments. In addition to that, the area allocated will be utilized for businesses to expand there as well as work on bettering the neighboring areas. Communication on Progress 2017 7 Bosla Project: Bosla is an SME incubator we are the go to place for any SME to scale up and lay its ground work. Bosla provided and array of services that range from Legal establishment, Government interference, Administrative advice to locations, infrastructure services and management capability. Bosla also offers SME a wide range of business suits that cater to all SMEs be it a newly established one to an already existing SME looking to scale up. Bosla is about creating a business community where people can enjoy where they work and who they work with & giving a positive impact on your clients, uses clustering of work areas around a common core, creates a pleasant working environment, facilitates efficient work flow, we provides efficient, productive work areas. COMMUNICATION ON ENGAGEMENT Communication on Progress 2017 8 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Dear Mr. Secretary General, Polaris International Parks is pleased and honored to confirm and reiterate its support of all United Nations Global Compact principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and anti-Corruption. We also confirm our pledge towards participating in the UNGC activities, specialized initiatives as well as partnership projects Sincerely , Osman Arikan General Secretary Communication on Progress 2017 9 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) How Applies the 10 Principles:  Training and awareness for staff on UNGC principles  Internal policies and code of ethics are announced and monitored.  Participating with a third party medical insurance company to provide employees on all levels with applicable medical benefits(no discrimination).  Child labor is prohibited.  Recruitment at is neutral, and open for all with no discrimination of Gender ,sex, religion and depends only on competencies and efficiency.  Evaluation system is applied with no favoritism or discrimination .  Water consumptions is cleaned with water usage only 2 days / week instead of daily (keeping its hygiene).  main activities is to train and make full awareness on ethical behaviors to be a life style accordingly it is a full support of anti-corruption .  chooses it is stakeholders carefully while operating (bids – tendering ) requirements HOW ENGAGES WITH THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT NETWO RK EGYPT: o Has been working on attracting new participants to the UN Global Compact through our outreach efforts and awareness raising by: o By adding slides in our presentation to promote UNGC principles . o Promoting UNGC through our stakeholders and projects. o Participating in Global Compact events. Communication on Progress 2017 10 Communication on Progress 2017 11
