REPORT OF COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SNF(RUDONG) CHEMICALS CO.,LTD 发展报告 爱森（如东）化工有限公司 2018.12 Slide 1 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 CATALOGUE 目录 Contents Page A. Statement of continued support 支持申明 3 B. Continuous improvement 持续性改进 4 C. Top management commitment 管理层承诺 5 D. Employee engagement 员工参与 6 E. Social ability 社会责任 9 F. Healthy Safety & Environment Policy 健康安全和环保方针 10 G. Safety 安全 11 H. Environment 环境保护 18 I. Anti-Corruption 反贪腐 23 Slide 2 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 持续支持申明 Statement of continued support 持续支持声明 Dec 2018 To our stakeholders: 致本公司利益相关者： I am pleased to confirm that SNF (Rudong)Chemicals Co., Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. 我很高兴地确认爱森（如东）化工有限公司重申支持《联合国全球契约》在 人权、劳工、环境和反腐败领域的十项原则。 In this annual communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. 在年度进展报告中，我们描述了我们为不断更好地在我们的商业战略、文化 和日常运营中融入《全球契约》及其原则而采取的行动。我们也承诺通过我 们的主要沟通渠道与我们的利益相关者分享这个信息。 Bruno Michel General Manager of SNF Rudong Slide 3 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT 持续性改进 • EHS and QA team daily inspection EHS和质量的日常检查 Daily • Production team self-inspection 生产部门的自检 Weekl • Gemba observation-Engineer level 工程师级别的现场观察 y S • Gemba observation-Manager level 经理级别现场观察 Month • Monthly management review 月度管理评审 afety ly E • Internal audit plan 内部审核 Yearly • Management review 管理评审 nv. • External audit by BV certification 外部审核 Q uality Yearly • External audit by Government or interested parties 相关方审 核 • Set the objectives according to the output of Management Yearly • 根据管理系统的输出设定目标 Maintain management system Slide 4 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 “alive”！ TOP MANAGEMENT COMMITMENT 管理层承诺 COMMITMENTS 承诺 E OH&S Q -Fulfill the current and future -Create a safe plant -Focusing on customer’s obligation and expectations 创建一个安全的工厂 satisfaction 关注客户满意 -Establish a safe work -Search for continuous 履行当前或未来的环境保护职 environment improvement of our 责 -Comply with existing local 营造一个安全的工作环境 performance(products & service) legislation and environmental -Realize safe operator 追求业绩持续改进 regulations 实现工作人员安全 准守现有的法律法规及要求 Slide 5 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 5 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 员工参与 • We always to encourage our employees to participants in the following activities: 我们一直鼓励员工参与以下活动： • Meanwhile, we create many ways to realize employee engagement: 同时，我们建立了多种渠道实现员工参与： 1. Training 参与培训 2. QEHS System 参与ISO管理体系运行 3. ERPs Drilling 参与应急演练 4. SOPs Drafting & Updating 参与作业指导书制定和更新 5. Incidents & NCs Investigation 参与事件和不符合调查 6. Near Miss Identification 参与隐患排查 Slide 6 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 员工参与 Training: Value and develop everyone’s skill 培训：重视和发展每个人的技能 • In Y2018,we’ve organized 65 kinds of training for our employees covered all departments or functions, such as E&OHS, QA, QC, Production, Warehouse and logistics etc. 19197.5 Hours • In Y2018,the total training hours we organized were 19197.5.Among then,34% were E&OHS training. • Average acceptance of training hours per each employee were 88 hours. Slide 7 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 员工参与 Social policy: retain employees and develop quality company 社会政策：留住员工，发展素质公司 China, 20.6%* Remark: the turnover rate of China national is from Aon Hewitt. • In Y2018,the turnover rate of SNF RUDONG was about 33.4%.The value is very higher compared with national. • We will take many actions to make improvement on it. Slide 8 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 SOCIAL ABILITY 社会责任 • We are also actively engaged in social ability while developing our business. • 在发展业务的同时，我们还积极履行社 会责任。 • In 2018,we’ve 10,000 RMB to Rudong charity federation. • 2018年，我们向如东县慈善总会捐款1万元。 Slide 9 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 EHSQ POLICIES 环境、职业健康安全和质量方针 Health and Safety Quality • Involvement and responsible behavior of every • Understand the demands and the needs of our employee customers • Permanent evaluation of professional risks • Supply the right product fitting with the need of • Proximity Management and follow up our customers in term of performance, quality and • Risk detection and preventive measures timing • Dysfunctions / Incidents / Accidents analysis and • Answer in real time customer’s questioning corrective actions • Bring the simplest and fastest solution to • Follow-up of Performance Indicators customers’ issues • Follow-up of the improvement of accident prevention guidelines Environmental • Enhancement of environmental performance • Fulfilment of compliance obligations • Achievement of environmental objectives Slide 10 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 SAFETY MANAGEMENT 安全管理 SAFE PLANT Ensure plant is safe for use • Focus Area 1:Detailed plant hazard assessment Safe Plant • Focus Area 2:Safety Precautions • Focus Area 3:Standard Safe Operating Procedure(SOP) • Focus Area 4:Daily inspection and fault rectification process • Focus Area 4: Ensure site and task hazards are Safe Safe SAFE ENVIRONMENT Identified, assessed and controlled Operator Environment • Focus Area 1:Site review by EHS committee monthly • Focus Area 2:Project task review • Focus Area 3:Zone management Our plant safety management was • Focus Area 4:Labels or Signs on site executed according to Chinese Ensure the operator is competent to operate SAFE OPERATOR the plant and perform the task required Local Requirements,ISO45001 • Focus Area 1:Operator Training and Competency Assessment and SNF’s internal policy. • Focus Area 2:General Safety System Knowledge • Focus Area 3:Site Specific Procedures and Knowledge Slide 11 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 SAFETY MANAGEMENT 安全管理  Hazards identify and assess on plant: Detailed • Major risk areas Plant Hazard • General risk areas Assessment • Low risk areas  We equip the safety precautions on plant according to hazard assessment: Safety • Gas detectors Precautions • Fire preventive system • CO2 Gas Suppression Systems  For high risk works or facilities, we draft “standard safe Standard Safe Operating operating procedures(SOPs)” to guide the operators: Procedure(SOP) • Special works, such as hot work, height work, Lifting work etc..  To make sure the above actions were running well, EHS team Daily inspection and fault would do daily inspection on site. rectification process At the same time, we have a fault rectification process to do the remove NCs which were found on daily inspection. Ensure Plant Is Safe for Use Slide 12 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 SAFETY MANAGEMENT 安全管理 Site  Top management would participate in Site Review: • EHS committee would do site review monthly review • Each manager shall do Gemba monthly  We outline the process for ensuring site and task risks are Project task managed on a construction project: • Contractor management; review • Special work permitting procedure; • JHA review;  Zone management is very important on site: Zone management • Different safety management level for different zones;  To create a safe environment, we set a Labels or Signs on site labels and signs on site to remind operators. Create A Safe Environment Slide 13 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 SAFETY MANAGEMENT 安全管理  We have a training and competency assessment system: Training and • 3 levels safety training(plant, departmental and shift team) Competency • Each new comer shall take the 3 level safety training and pass the Assessment assessment before hold the work on site.  We did many actions to make our operators to acquire the General safety system knowledge: General Safety • ISO 45001 system training on orientation; System Knowledge • Shift team safety activities; • 5 minutes safety talk; • JHAs etc..  For each specific procedures on site, we would add Site Specific Procedures and the relevant contents about safety requirements, such as PPEs, checklists etc.. Knowledge • Each new comer shall take the course about site specific procedures within 1 month after he/she is aboard the plant. Operators Safety Training Slide 14 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 SAFETY MANAGEMENT 安全管理 Ex Zone Management Gas Detector CO2 Gas Suppression Systems Safety Precautions:  Integrated fire protection system  Fully enclosed production process system  Open fire and gas detection network  Strict safety control standards (personal fire protection/zoning/work permit system, etc.) Slide 15 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 SAFETY MANAGEMENT 安全管理 To enhance our treat ability for emergency situations, we organize our Plant Part-time Emergency Rescue Team (PERT).  Plant Part-time Emergency Rescue Team (PERT) has been built and training is being carried out every month.  Team members learns to know how to deal with fire accident and know clearly the fire-fighting system (spray system, valve location, etc.) of the plant and how to use it. Slide 16 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 SAFETY MANAGEMENT 安全管理  Emergency Drill for Y2018  To validate our ERP system, we hold emergency drill periodically: • Special drill, such as chemicals leakage; Half-yearly • Full-scale exercise; -Yearly Slide 17 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 环境保护 Environment protection facilities:  Plant is equipped with chemical and treatment and biodegradable comprehensive sewage treatment system.  Real-time on-line detection system for sewage treatment  Cryo system to recycle the CS2 in waste gas from workshop. WWT System SNF On-line Monitoring EPA online monitoring Cryo system System system Slide 18 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 环境保护 Environment protection facilities : Exhaust Gas:  RTO system Solid Waste:  Solid wastes were treated as classified management on site;  Strict pretreatment procedures were eventually carried out by a qualified third party; Slide 19 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 环境保护 • Compared with last year, the quantity of water consumption per ton of finished goods was reduced. • 与去年相比，每吨成品的耗水量有所下降。 • The average value for Y2017 is 9.41 m3/ton, about 2 times compared with average value of Y2018. • 2017年，每吨成品的耗水量为9.41m3，约为 2018年平均用量的两倍。 • In Y2019,we will continue to control the water consumption by the following actions: 在2019年，我们将采取以下措施持续控制水 的消耗：  Optimize the production process to minimize the IBC waste water generation and water consumption.  优化生产工艺，减少IBC桶废水的产生 Remark:备注 及水的消耗。 -Bar chart means the quantity of water consumption; Unit m3  Use an intermittent water supply 条形图表示水的消耗量，单位：立方米 system in bathroom to reduce the -Line chart meant the quantity of water consumption per ton of finished goods; Unit m3/ton water consumption. 直线图表示每生产1吨成品，水的消耗量；单位：立方米/吨  在浴室内使用间断供水系统，以降低水 的消耗。 Slide 20 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 环境保护 • Before Aug. of Y2018,the consumption of electric increase significantly due to new production line launched. • 2018年8月份之前，由于新产线的投入使用， 电的消耗量明显提高。 • The quantity of electric consumption per ton of finished goods went up and then went down; Finally, it was kept within a relatively stable range. • 单位成品的电消耗量先增加，然后开始下降； 最后维持在一个相对稳定的范围内。 • For Y2019,we shall begin to manage our electric consumption to improve emerge management performance. The following actions would be done: • 2019年，我们将开始管理我们的电消耗来提 高我们的能源管理绩效。将采取以下措施：  Draft some procedures to manage Remark:备注 electric using; -Bar chart means the quantity of electric consumption; Unit kwh  起草一些用电管理的程序； 条形图表示电的消耗量，单位：立方米  Introduce ISO50001 energy -Line chart meant the quantity of electric consumption per ton of finished goods; Unit kwh/ton management system; 直线图表示每生产1吨成品，电的消耗量；单位：千瓦时/吨  导入ISO50001 能源管理体系。 Slide 21 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 环境保护 • After Apr. of Y2018,the quantity of natural gas increase significantly due to PAM production line launched. • 2018年4月后，由于聚丙烯酰胺产线的启动， 天然气的消耗量明显增加。 • Meanwhile, the quantity of natural gas consumption per ton of finished goods has increased too. • 与此同时，单位产出的天然气消耗量也有 所增加。 • Some actions shall be done in Y2019 to manage the natural gas consumption: • 2019年，我们将采取一些措施对天然气消 耗进行管理：  Recruit a person who leads the energy management works.  招聘一名人员专门负责能源管理工作。 Remark:备注  Introduce ISO50001 energy -Bar chart means the quantity of natural gas consumption; Unit Nm2 management system on our plant to improve energy management 条形图表示天然气的消耗量，单位：标准立方 -Line chart meant the quantity of natural gas consumption per ton of finished goods; Unit performance. Nm2/ton  导入ISO50001 能源管理体系，提高 直线图表示每生产1吨成品，天然气的消耗量；单位：标方/吨 能源管理绩效。 Slide 22 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 ANTI-CORRUPTION 反贪腐 -For our employees, everyone who joined the company need to sign the SNF Company Business Ethics Rules and do the work according to this rule. -SNF does its utmost to choose reliable and ethical commercial partners. Every supplier shall sign the Charter on Suppliers’ Ethics. Employee 员工 Commercial Partners 商业伙伴 Slide 23 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 But Continual Improvement will NEVER SNF (Rudong) Chemicals Co., Ltd. 爱森（如东）化工有限公司 Crossroads of Zhongxin Road and Jingsi Road, YOCO Economic Development Zone, End… Lingang Industry Park, Rudong, Nantong, CHINA 中国，江苏省，南通市如东洋口港经济开发区经四路与中心路交叉口 Slide 24 CONFIDENTIAL 2018 Tel: 0513-69881001
