R E P O R T CSR Corporate Social Responsibility 2 0 1 7 2 0 1 7 R E P O R T F I C O S A 2 CSR C S R R E P O R T 01 02 03 Letter from the president About our report Ficosa at a glance 04 05 06 How do we work? CSR in the company Compliance and business ethics 07 08 09 Living the values at Ficosa Information security Commitment to quality 3 10 Commitment to our people 11 Commitment to health and safety 12 Commitment to environment 13 Responsible sourcing 14 Commitment to 15 Innovation in our products society 16 Appendix 1 OHSQE Policy 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Letter from the president Dear Sirs, I am pleased to share with you our fourth CSR report, which attempts to offer the reader an overview of Ficosa’s performance to face the CSR challenges of the automobile sector and describe our actions to integrate the United Nations Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. In our company, we continually strive to 4 ensure the excellence in our products and, therefore, we continue to work on providing the most innovative solutions, developing and manufacturing products with high added value and high quality standards. The automotive industry is going through an amazing technological transformation in which electronics and the electromobility are going to boost sales in the future. We are entering a new era in which the car is no longer just a means of transport but become a Smart Car, a connected device that will be the central axis of the Internet of things. Connected car will totally transform our lives to make them safer, more comfortable and more informed with endless entertainment opportunities. The car will become the most powerful multiplatform source of communication in which the interconnection between people, objects and infrastructures have no limits. At the same time, one of Ficosa’s future visions is the venture into the efficiency of new energy vehicles. Ficosa develops software and hardware solutions for the operation of hybrid, electric, and hydrogen vehicles. These products impress with their quality, reliability, innovative technology, and compliance with the Photo by Edu Ferrer. IESE Alumni Magazine strictest requirements. C S R R E P O R T In this regard, at Ficosa, we underwent synergies in three areas: Technology, want to make sure that all the employees a profound technological transformation Customers and Geography. New milestones have the best working conditions they during the last years by focusing on three have been achieved. Products like Smart deserve. Ficosa´s commitment with its areas of growth: connectivity, safety and Connectivity Module are a good example of employees is materialized through a strong energy efficiency. This year, we have the potential offered by the integration of our employee management program, based on achieved the following technological technology with Panasonic. maximizing the potential of our employees. product sales: In this profound technological transformation, We do maintain a solid commitment • Ficosa has been awarded with new the customer is the focal point of all our towards integrity, one example of this is programs in connectivity, increasing at management. That is why we strengthen our the fact that we reaffirm our support for the seven the number of OEMs we work quality standards by implementing stricter Ten Principles of the United Nations Global with. rules in the 3Q3 audits for manufacturing Compact in the areas of Human Rights, plant and supplier management. Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. • Ficosa has been nominated for five Moreover, a new release of the Corporate new projects for Battery Management I would like also to highlight the strong Code of Ethics was approved by our Board Systems for Premium and Luxury Ficosa worldwide presence and its new of Directors in 2017. 5 Brands for China including BEV and sites. During 2017, the company began the PHEV platforms. process of implantation in two new markets, Our Code of Ethics defines the standards Morocco (Rabat) and Malaysia (Kuala and responsible behaviors expected of all • Ficosa has been successfully awarded Lumpur). those related to the company and with which an Intelligent Rearview Mirror for a light they must comply. We are all responsible for commercial vehicle and a park camera With an investment up to €50 million, complying with these reference standards, business. Ficosa’s new facility in Rabat will become which are essential guidelines in order to the Centre of Excellence in Automobile • After last year first contract awarding for guarantee our management model. Cameras for the whole group, bolstering a Laser-scanner Cleaning System for a the company’s hub for new technologies The Code is an extension of our values, premium OEM brand, new additional in vision, connectivity, safety and efficiency which convey the essence of our company, volumes have been contracted. in Viladecavalls (Barcelona, Spain). The how we think and believe we should act. I • Ficosa closed its first contract for rotary plant will employ 700 people and post an believe that the real value of a company is shift-by-wire system for an Asian OEM. estimated yearly turnover of €150 million on its employees. This new shifter systems bring new by 2022. The new facilities in Rabat will be I encourage you to explore all the details of efficiency and safety features versus inaugurated on March 2018. our activities through this Corporate Social the conventional ones and expand our At the same time, a new technical center Responsibility Report that strongly reflects portfolio of products. in India (Hyderabad) gave its first steps to the commitment and dedication of Ficosa. • Ficosa has been awarded for replacing become a software development center for Sincerely yours, ATX Automatic Gearshift by a Shift by our Ficosa’s New Tech Business Units. Wire with Japanese OEMs. Josep Maria Pujol The path of internationalization of Ficosa Furthermore, we are committed to intensely is remarkable for its pioneering spirit, the President innovating to stay on the cutting edge of complexity of its operations abroad and for the sector, 6.9% of revenue was invested opening a market with global customers in R&D in 2017. In the future, we expect to at the highest level. Nevertheless, it will keep R&D growing with higher rates. bring new challenges for the company as competition for specialists is growing in the Ficosa has been actively working with global labor markets. For that reason, we Panasonic during 2017 to materialize 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A About our report 6 C S R R E P O R T The Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 attempts to offer the reader a transparent and balanced overview of Ficosa’s performance in relation to the CSR challenges that the company has faced in 2017. Objective of the Scope and CSR Report boundary In this report, Ficosa wants to explain how The 2017 CSR report covers from the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) period 1 January 2017 to 31 December challenges are approached, and the 2017. Unless indicated otherwise, the performance of Ficosa’s activities in 2017, quantitative information reported in this for the purpose of offering stakeholders document shows the performance of the 7 complete and reliable information. The company at global level and includes 100% company focuses its reporting on explaining of the facilities and sites where Ficosa how the company is taking into consideration holds a majority stake and, consequently, environmental, ethical and social aspects responsibility for operation and control. during the daily activities of the company. Thus, the report includes information from Likewise, it describes the annual progress our operations in Asia, Africa, Europe, North made by the company in implementing the America and South America. Ten Principles of the United Nations Global To provide a better understanding of the Compact in terms of human and labor company’s performance, previous years’ rights, the environment and the fight against data if available have also been included. corruption. Furthermore, the CSR report describes how our company is advancing in The report focuses on the main business each of the Sustainable Development Goals lines of the company: research, (SDGs). Our core business determines development, production and sales of highwhich of the global sustainability goals Ficosa technology vision, safety, efficiency and supports first and foremost. In particular, our connectivity solutions (connected cars, activities focus on health and safety (SDG3) driverless vehicles, assisted driving and and combating climate change (SDG 13). e-mobility). In addition to this, our commitment to sustainable practices includes decent work and economic growth (SDG 8), responsible consumption and production (SDG 12), and promoting peace and justice (SDG 16). In determining the content to be included in this report, we consider the pertinent developments and initiatives, and the related performance indicators that are material for the company. 2 0 1 7 7 F I C O S A Ficosa at a glance · Barcelona The company, with headquarters in €1,190 million sales · Soria Barcelona (Spain), generated sales of €1,190 million in 2017 and has a team · Sant Guim of more than 10,000 employees, with manufacturing plants, technological centers Production plants, and commercial offices located throughout technical centers 19 countries in Europe, North America, or trade offices in South America, Africa and Asia. Ficosa has 19 countries, in 4 been expanding its international presence with the strategy to be located near the continents. decision and production centers of the 8 majors OEMs in order to be able to offer a Established in 1949 more competitive and global service. in Barcelona (Spain) The alliance with Panasonic, signed in 2015, has boosted regional synergies and international activity of the company. 10,239 employees Ficosa has entered in new customers · Detroit (Mi) and obtained new programs in all regions, · Cookeville (TN) mainly in Asia. In addition to boosting its Pioneers in high· Shelbyville (KY) global presence, Panasonic and Ficosa are technology vision, combining their respective technologies to safety, connectivity jointly develop products such as electronic mirror systems, next-generation cockpit and efficiency systems and Advanced Driver Assistance systems for the · Salinas-Victoria Systems (ADAS), which will facilitate automotive and · Escobedo business expansion in fields where future mobility sectors growth is anticipated. With this transaction, Ficosa will accelerate the commercialization of products jointly developed by both 21 manufacturing companies. plants · Sao Paulo Ficosa is now one of the top-tier global providers devoted to the research, development, manufacturing and 14 R&D and marketing of high-technology vision, safety, technical centers connectivity and efficiency systems for the · Porto automotive and mobility sectors. C S R R E P O R T Plants Technical Center Commercial Office Research · Dieuze · Rüsselsheim · Dabrowa Gornicza (Licence agreement) (Licence agreement) · Le Neobourg · Köln · Lindau · Wolfenbüttel · Taicang · Chongqing · Shenyang 9 · Gyeongsangbuk-do (Joint-venture) · Tokyo (office) · Kuala Lumpur · Sala Al Jadida ·Venaria Reale · Bursa (Licence · Pune (two plants) agreement) (Joint-venture) · Morcone · Gemlik · Pant Nagar (Jointventure) · Hyderabad 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Ficosa finished 2017 with sales far above 1 billion euros for the year. The solid growth experienced by the company since 2012 is due to a clear commitment to globalization, operational efficiency, innovation and activity diversification, aiming its activities at new sectors aside from the automotive industry. Ficosa’s internationalization strategy In 2017, the region where Ficosa has in Detroit (Michigan); a manufacturing plants responds to Ficosa strong commitment to registered a greater increase in sales in Shelbyville (Kentucky) and Cookeville stay close to its clients to offer the better volume have been Europe, mainly due to a (Tennessee), which replaced the Crossville service. For this purpose, the company is higher market volume and the new products factory (Tennessee) at the end of 2016. This strengthening its international presence. launched on New Technologies. facility, in which the company has invested During 2017, the company began the more than $50 million, is equipped with the Nevertheless, North America has become, process of implantation in two new markets, latest technology, making it the group’s most after Europe, the most important market with the manufacturing plants of Morocco advanced plant in the world and boosting for Ficosa, which began operations in this 1 0 (Rabat) and Malaysia (Kuala Lumpur). At the overall efficiency, operating capacity and region in 1994 and where it produces same time, a new technical center in India competitiveness. Besides, the two Ficosa mirrors, gearboxes and brake systems. In (Hyderabad) gave its first steps to become plants in Mexico, located in Salinas Victoria the United States, Ficosa currently has a a software development center for Ficosa’s (Nuevo León) and Escobedo (Nuevo León), commercial office and a development center New Tech Business Units on 2018. where the company also has a R&D plant, reinforce Ficosa’s activity in the North American region. Sales (€ million) Sales per region 2017 (% sales, € million) 1.190 902 925 939 1.100 1.153 20 % 13 % North America > 236.3 Asia> 151.9 2012* 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2 % South America > 28.5 65 % * 828€ million of sales, excluding the temporary contracts with Sony Europe> 773.3 C S R R E P O R T In 2017, Ficosa has closed its first contract In Brazil, Ficosa implemented a factory for rotary shift-by-wire system for an Asian in Jandira (Sao Paulo) in 2016. The new automobile manufacturer and also closed plant is equipped with the latest-generation contracts with others renowned Asian car technology that meets the highest standards manufacturers to produce shift-by-wire of energy efficiency, demonstrating Ficosa’s levers. These contracts strengthen Ficosa’s commitment to sustainability and respect for solid position in China, a key market in the environment. The facilities at Jandira has which the company is present in Taicang, also a R&D center that develops solutions 1 1 Chongqing and Shenyang. for the Mercosur region. Distribution of employees per region 2017 (% employee, No.) 17 % Asia> 1772 64 % Europe> 6,545 %3 South America> 294 16% North America> 1,628 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Structure of Ficosa International 05 At present, Ficosa is a conglomerate of companies Commercial vehicle: formed by engineering centers, manufacturing plants and commercial offices, distributed all over the world. The Develops, produces and commercializes all group is organized into different Business Units, most of Ficosa’s product portfolio for buses, trucks and them are showed below. industrial and commercial vehicles. 01 Rear-view systems: Develops, produces and commercializes rearview mirrors and vision systems -forward, backward and lateralfor vehicles. 06 Doors and seat systems: Develops, produces and commercializes systems and parts for seats and vehicle doors, such as actuators, cables, and lumbar systems. 1 2 02 Command and control systems: Develops, produces and commercializes systems 07 Ficosa solutions: Sells technical services such as auditing, designing, manufacturing and financing in the following areas: energy efficiency, communication machine to which interact between the driver and the vehicle, machine, smart cities and internet of things. such as shifters, parking brakes and drive cables. 03 Under hood systems: Develops, produces and commercializes fluid and ventilation systems installed at the vehicles’ underhood. 08 Advanced Driver Assistance systems: Develops, produces and commercializes systems that help the drivers in its driving process. 04 Advanced communications: Develops, produces and commercializes antenna systems for vehicles, communication modules and antennas for navigation systems. 09 E-mobility: Develops, produces and commercializes electric powertrain technologies and connected infrastructures to enable the electric propulsion of vehicles and fleets. C S R R E P O R T Sales by division – 2017 (% of sales, € million) 5% 15 % Under hood Command and systems > 60.5 Control system > 176.5 5% Advanced Communications > 57.5 4% Commercial vehicle > 45.0 Ficosa solutions > 3.8 5% eMobility > 5.7 Doors & Seat Systems > 62.2 5% Adas > 15.0 Others > 65.4 Aftermarkets > 19.3 1 3 61 % Idneo > 21.5 Rear View System > 722.9 Ficosa is composed by two groups of business: In connectivity, Ficosa got significant customers orders as Traditional products and New Tech products. Inside a consequence of the collaboration with Panasonic. The traditional products we highlight the rear-view systems capital and business alliance with Panasonic has helped which represent around the 61% of total sales. Ficosa the company to accelerate the development of new is one of three global leading companies in this area. In products with high added value, by allowing the integration 2016, Ficosa hit an all-time record, with €181.6 M in new of both companies’ know how in the field of image and contracts for rear-view mirrors with the main automobile automotive technology. manufacturers (OEMs) in the world. As a result, Ficosa will increase production to an all-time high of 27.3 million units in 2021. In that sense, the companies are already working In terms of product, the major increase in sales has together on new products linked to active safety occurred on the new technological products focused on (advanced mirrors), electric cars and communication safety and comfort systems (ADAS) and e-Mobility. systems (connected car). 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A New manufacturing plant in Morocco Ficosa has established itself in Africa for With an investment of €50 million, the the first time, opening a new production new plant will be inaugurated in 2018 center in Rabat (in the Technopolis free and will employ roughly 700 people and zone), Morocco. post an estimated yearly turnover of €150 million by 2022. 1 4 C S R R E P O R T 1 5 At this new plant, which has a total surface area of 12,000 square meters that can be expanded to 17,000, Ficosa is inaugurating its Centre of Excellence in Cameras for the whole group, where the company will develop and produce highly complex vision systems that are crucial for the car of the future. These facilities will also produce electric cable sets. In addition, they will manufacture traditional products for the local market, such as rear-view mirrors, shifter systems and washer systems, with the goal of providing a better service. 2 0 1 7 15 F I C O S A How do we work? 1 6 Mission Vision In particular, our mission is to innovate, develop and Our strength comes from our commitment. For us, create high added value products that contribute towards success is not measured by size, but by flexibility, speed improving mobility in key aspects of progress such as and creativity and in understanding that being the best safety, comfort, communications and the environment, means meeting the needs of our employees, customers, exceeding market and customer expectations. community and shareholders alike. Values At Ficosa, we believe that success depends on how we live our Vision and the Values on which it is based. Our Values reflect the spirit of our company, the way we think and how we believe we should act and have become the mainstay of our Code of Ethics. We are convinced that if we act in accordance with our values, we can achieve our Vision. The company values are posted in the different company sites and every new employee receives an explanatory leaflet informing them about our values when joining the company. C S R R E P O R T The values that guide our conduct and identify us as a company are as follows: Caring for People: Teamwork /Learning People are a key part of our together corporate project. Learning and Sharing knowledge, openly training, respect, diversity, concern, communicating, learning from friendly and informal relationships mistakes, cooperating, and should reflect the very essence of understanding that personal success us as a company. is the company’s overall success. Commitment & Innovation & Creativity Passion for Work All our employees have the capacity Enthusiasm for the corporate project, to exhibit and create; therefore, we knowing how to live our values. have to enable their ideas to emerge Feeling part of the fulfilment of our through our leadership. Brave the 1 7 vision, persevering with hard work, market by being bold and assuming enjoying work and a job well-done. risks, but always with sound Everybody’s work is equally important. judgement. Customer Focus Honesty & Integrity Helping our customers achieve Being honest and acting with integrity success is key to us achieving in all our actions and behaviors. ours. We should be able to build Ethical principles and our values relationships based on trust with should guide us in our day-to-day them, understanding and anticipating decisions. their needs. Leadership Modesty, not taking center stage, understanding that everybody’s work is equally important, is essential in Ficosa’s leadership style. Lead by example and showing appreciation for people. Delegate, decentralize, and trust in the ability of people. Live the values that constitute the essence of the company. 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A CSR in the company 1 8 C S R R E P O R T The company’s strengths come from its commitment and introduced in 2016, are an ambitious plan of action its understanding that being the best means being able defining sustainable development priorities at a global to respond to the needs of our employees, customers, level for 2030, with the aim of eradicating poverty and community and shareholders in equal manner. In this promoting decent lives with opportunities for all. regard, Ficosa continues its efforts to generate shared value among its stakeholders and add sustainability There are 17 goals and 169 universal targets that are practices in its business strategy and culture. CSR inter-connected, applicable to all nations and peoples, makes our company more sustainable and innovative, and that represent a call to action for governments, civil which contributes to a more sustainable economy. society and the private sector. The Chief Executive Officer is the last responsible for The company reviews all the SDGs to identify areas implementing our commitment to CSR. Any new CSR where we can maximize our positive contributions. We initiatives and programs are reported to the Executive focused our sustainability-related activities on those Committee. The integration of CSR into daily activities SDGs which greatly influence our business model and is promoted through a cross-functional organization that value chain and help us bring about real change. This involves different business functions and countries. mainly affects the following SDGs and the associated sustainability activities: As member of the United Nations Global Compact since 1 9 2002, we have embraced the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), SDG 3 — Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages According to the World Health Organization (WHO), car accidents kill approximately 1.2 million people worldwide each year that is one fourth of all deaths caused by injury. Also about 50 million people are injured in traffic accidents. If preventive measures are not taken, road traffic death is likely to become the third-leading cause of death in 2020 from ninth place in 1990. By collaborating with national and international programs to accelerate the development and standardization of connected cars and autonomous vehicles and by developing new emergency systems or new tools and products to improve the vision of the driver, help prevent collision or estimate the degree of attentiveness of the driver, Ficosa is contributing to the Health Goal to reduce road traffic fatalities by 50% by 2020. Learn more: Innovation in our products. 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A SDG 13 — Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts The transportation sector is responsible for 14% of global greenhouse gas emissions. Reducing emissions from transport is therefore an important part of any strategy to combat climate change and its impacts, in line with Sustainable Development Goal 13. The widespread electrification of transport through the adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) is one strategy to reduce GHG emissions. If EVs are charged with electricity from emission-free sources, their adoption can also increase the share of renewables in the global energy mix (target 7.2 – Affordable and clean energy), and contribute to reducing air pollution and related health impacts (target 3.9 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages and target 11.6 Reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities). By investing in research and development to improve efficiency, reducing the complexity of electric vehicles and developing new generations of Battery Management Systems or On-Board Chargers (OBC), Ficosa is contributing to combating climate change and its impact. Furthermore, the company is using less-carbon intensive manufacturing processes to mitigate the effects of climate change. Learn more: Innovation in our products; commitment to environment. 2 0 SDG 12 – Responsible Consumption and Production Ficosa is designing and manufacturing products through the responsible use of raw materials and natural resources. For example, the company is working to reduce its waste generation throughout the companies’ life cycle. For example, Ficosa is working in all its operational facilities to increase the recovery of cleaning solvents and other chemicals and to reduce the amounts of these substances emitted from its plants. Furthermore, one of the company’s main goals is to keep at bottom level the number of defective parts and improve both its processes and its employees’ skills, using problem-solving and analysis tools with the aim of reaching zero defects. Learn more: commitment to environment; commitment to quality. C S R R E P O R T SDG 16 – Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels Ficosa is working to ensure that conflict-free minerals are used in the manufacture of its automotive components. Ficosa implemented an annual supplier inquiry to collect from all its suppliers the Standard Survey (EICC/Gesi template) on conflict minerals. The collected information is internally processed and provides useful information to ensure procurement that is free from conflict minerals originating in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. Learn more: Conflict minerals. 2 1 SDG 8 – Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all The company has a team of more than 10,000 employees, with manufacturing plants, technological centers and commercial offices located throughout 19 countries in Europe, North America, South America, Africa and Asia. In all the countries where Ficosa operates, the company is building a safe and secure workplace where employees feel valued, where their rights are respected, and where they can do meaningful work. Learn more: commitment to our people; commitment to health and safety. 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A 2 2 C S R R E P O R T Compliance and business ethics At Ficosa, we are committed to meeting high ethical activities performed in the day-to-day operative of Ficosa. standards and complying with all applicable local, Controls have been implemented to monitor compliance national, and international laws wherever we do business. with these procedures and are evaluated regularly to Behaving ethically is fundamental to establishing and ensure its effectiveness. Periodical audits are carried out. sustaining legitimate and productive relationships between organizations. In Ficosa, we are convinced that emphasizing the compliance culture makes a significant contribution to In this direction, a new release of the Ficosa’s Code of securing the sustainable success of our company. In this Ethics was approved by the Board of Directors on 2017. regard, the company decided to define a Crime Prevention Model. Our Code of Ethics defines the standards and responsible behaviors expected of all those related to the company The goal was to adopt and effectively implement the and with which they must comply. appropriate measures to prevent and detect criminal risks and ensure ethical practices within the company. We are all responsible for complying with these reference standards, which are essential guidelines in order to This compliance aspires to be integrated as part of a guarantee our management model. The Code is available corporate culture whose hallmark has always been the for all employees in the Ficosa intranet and it is included in promotion of ethical values at all levels. the welcome package given to new employees. Several regulations, procedures and protocols have been 2 3 Starting in 2018, Ficosa will organize online training and implemented to support the crime prevention in areas such awareness campaign to ensure that all the employees are as money laundering, antitrust, corruption in business, aware of the new commitments of Ficosa and confirm their treasury and social security and subsidy fraud, fraudulent compliance with the Code of Ethics. and unfair behavior, gifts and hospitality, intellectual and industrial property, the transportation of persons, goods In order to guarantee the effective application of the and other related activities. regulations and the guidelines of this Code, the company has established a whistleblowing channel to notify any All the different regulations, procedures and protocols breach of the Code of Ethics. focus on company and sector-specific risks and priorities and cover the facilities and sites where Ficosa holds On the other hand, Ficosa policies and procedures, a majority stake and, consequently, responsibility for available worldwide, ensure compliance with J-SOX in all operation and control. Living the values at Ficosa The values of Ficosa underpin everything we do and must Every year the manufacturing plant in Mexico organizes be reflected in our day-to-day behaviors. To make sure workshops and different campaigns to make sure that its every employee understands and truly lives the corporate employees embrace the company values. In Shelbyville values of Ficosa, the company turned value into specific (USA), each quarter, the operational facility focuses on one operating principles and communicate often about them. value. Team members are nominated based on how well they exemplify this value. An office-wide voting determines In all sites, the values are displayed in the factories and who best embodies the values of Ficosa. The team offices to state clearly what we care about. Mexico has member is announced, awarded and recognized for their implemented a specific program for ensuring that all outstanding commitment at the next quarterly meeting. employees understand and “live” by the values of Ficosa. 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Human Rights Ficosa wants to be responsible not only for its own social responsibility duties and especially the requirements decisions and activities, but also wants to make sure that based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights its suppliers and business partners operate in line with (UDHR) and the International Labor Organizations (ILO) the company’s CSR principles and respect the Universal conventions proclaimed to respect employees’ rights, age Declaration of Human Rights and environmental protection. and working-hours limits, etc. The purchase orders sent Following the General Purchasing Conditions, in addition by any company of Ficosa or any of its subsidiaries must to all applicable laws and regulations to be observed by include the terms and clauses of the General Purchasing the supplier, it is also the supplier’s obligation to respect Conditions. Information security In 2017, Ficosa strengthened its Information Security The ISMS includes the implementation of risk assessment Management System (ISMS onwards) based on ISO/IEC and management scenarios based on the methodology 27001:2013 standard. A Security Committee was formally MAGERIT (Version 3). 2 4 appointed and holds the proper authority from the Board of Directors to govern the ISMS. Ficosa has also implemented zoning (S1-S2-S3) where S3 zones are related to confidential and secret classified The Committee is responsible for defining and establishing projects. Each zone has been provided with its own the information security strategy and management system. security criteria, controls, alarms, cameras, procedures, ISMS current scope includes the Engineering, Prototypes training, etc. and Testing Business functions. As part of the ISMS project, Ficosa has developed and Currently the scope of the ISMS considers the areas dealing enhanced a training and awareness program. More of 600 with most highly sensitive information, shared sensitive employees have attended the training cycles, including information with customers and contract, intellectual and management. industrial property law protected information. Furthermore, the company has implemented an incident ISMS aims, among other internal goals, to improve the management procedure to enable any employees and confidence of the interested parties about information stakeholders to report information security concerns and management and the security of its information systems. prevent recurrences. C S R R E P O R T 2 5 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Commitment to quality 2 6 C S R R E P O R T Policies The rating of a car and the value of an auto manufacturer’s In 2015, the company has implemented stricter rules in the brand are dependent on the customer’s appraisal of 3Q3 audits for supplier management, project management quality. In these context, Ficosa believes that auto part and technical centers, using the same criteria as for and equipment industry have an important responsibility Ficosa manufacturing plants. In 2016, the company has and constantly provides top-level quality to customers at implemented a new internal 3Q3 Process Design Audit to every stage, from the planning of new products, through certify the design of the production process at Ficosa sites development, manufacturing, distribution and sales to (plastic & metal injection, injection tooling, paint shop). The after-sales service. new internal audit will be applicable to all the Company’s technical centers and manufacturing plants. Since 2009, Ficosa has implemented the Corporate Quality 3Q3 program, which aimed to improve quality Furthermore, the company has added three new checklists thrice within three years’ time, thus elevating the business in the 3Q3 Plant Audit to make sure that each site is to the top of the automotive sector. following the Ficosa standard for proactive management of warranties. Finally, the company has implemented stricter The 3Q3 program is updated every three years and is rules in the 3Q3 audits for technical centers. The main accompanied with a specific roadmap and quality targets goals of the new checklist is to certify that any software to make sure that all the regions are following the best developed by Ficosa is aligned with the ISO/IEC 15504 practices in this regard. guidelines. Furthermore, these stricter rules have been 2 7 Through the 3Q3 program, the company performs more implemented to guarantee that the design and production than 100 audits per year to ensure that all the sites comply of safety products comply with the highest standards of with the quality requirements of the company. the automotive industry. Quality Managemennt Operational facilities certified ISO/TS Customer satisfaction (%) 16949 and ISO 9001 (%) 100% 87 93 94 94 98 ISO/TS 16949:2009 defines the quality management system requirements for the design and development, production and, when relevant, installation and service of automotive-related products. It is specific to the automotive industry and based on the ISO 9001 standard. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A R&D Governance Due to the increasing complexity of our products, • R&D Quality works on continuous improvement Ficosa decided to create a new department called R&D of Ficosa’s development processes, keeping Governance in 2017. special focus on the increasingly demanding software development requirements. The main The purpose of this area is to bring together all the needs goal is to have a global approach to Quality, within the development phases in terms of IT infrastructure, starting from the very first steps in the development Education and Quality, in order to come up with the best process throughout the product’s lifecycle. Quality development processes that are useful and sufficient to Assurance (QA) organization across the different make developments more efficient, with improved quality Ficosa Business Units is defined in a consistent and according to automotive standards. way and uses a common evaluation criteria which R&D Governance is divided into 3 main areas: helps to have an operative escalation process involving development and quality teams at all • R&D Productivity’s mission is to manage the levels of authority. The output of an improved QA specific R&D main tools and platforms to support process within the development phase is a set of effective deployment of key processes and world KPI to support business decision making. class design methodologies on the fields of interest. It must also ensure the R&D data integrity and security. • R&D Governance also includes two specific areas, Software Platform and Functional Safety. The • R&D Education & Methods goal is to define the 2 8 Software Platform’s mission is to ensure the correct right training materials and engineering career paths, definition, qualification and deployment of the to promote innovation, productivity and talent retention software development platform within Ficosa. The within the Ficosa engineering community. The correct Functional Safety area must create and deploy the implementation of these activities enables Ficosa to specific functional safety processes within Ficosa, have a stable, talented and highly trained engineering aligned with R&D Quality, to fulfill the automotive team that ensures top quality product development. standards.The creation of R&D Governance is a clear commitment of Ficosa to improve the development of safe and qualified products for the automotive industry. Main Challenges In 2017, the company focused on improving both our not have to wait for the official notification of defective processes and our employees’ skills, using problemparts to be received to take action. We will continuously solving and analysis tools and techniques with the aim of monitor any possible warranty incidents thanks to a better reaching zero defects. monitoring of our customer portals. Furthermore, we will use statistical tools to predict any future trends and One of the main challenge for the company will be to contrast the effectiveness of our actions. In addition, the reduce by 62% the number of repetitive complaints in company will focus its effort on implementing the Lean 2021 (base year: 2016). To achieve it, the companies will Six Sigma methodology in all the manufacturing plants assign a team per each problem to work with it and will and technical centers and improving the communication elaborate processes and handbook to standardize the between operation and product design. solutions and share the lesson learns. At last, the company will improve its development system Furthermore, the company will focus its effort on improving to ensure top-level quality in the design and development the management of warranties. We will monitor the of new technology products. customer portals to reduce response time, as we do C S R R E P O R T Key results Company quality is managed through the monitoring of KPIs. EAQF, and ISO/TS 16949) and must provide Ficosa with The company has defined a balanced scorecard system written evidence of the most recent certification renewal. that offers the site’s monthly values versus target figures. This monthly reporting enables the company to pinpoint Ficosa conducts some periodic supplier assessments areas were improvement is needed. to ensure that the suppliers’ quality meets the standards established. Since 2015, the supplier’s audits have been In the last three years, Ficosa has reduced their defective using the same criteria that the ones used for Ficosa’s parts indicators by 44% (Customer ppm) and by 41% manufacturing plants. (Supplier assembly ppm). In line with this improvement, the company has reduced its customer claims by 17% since Furthermore, Ficosa reviewed the criteria used to select its 2015. supplier for its Purchasing Optimum Panel (POP). In 2017, the company has implemented a strong program to reduce The quality management goes beyond Ficosa activities. The the impact of suppliers on customers by imposing stringent company wants to make sure that its suppliers also operate rules and consolidate the supplier audit in the countries in line with the company’s commitment to excellence. All the where the company operates. suppliers must have a quality certification (ISO 9001, VDA, Ficosa objectives 2016 2017 Target 2017 2 9 Customer satisfaction (%) 94 98 93 Reduction of the number of OEM QCR due to suppliers 65 56 66 Warranty cost vs sales (%) 0.36 0.27 0.29 Reduction of the number of recurrent complaints 229 195 185 Reduction of the number of customer claims 356 315 334 Reduction of the number of defective parts per million delivered (ppm) – Customer 4.4 4.4 8 Reduction of the number of defective parts per million delivered (ppm) Supplier assembly 32 32 55 Over sales from Non-Quality Costs (NQC) (%). 0.75 0.46 0.5 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Awards and recognition In 2017, Ficosa has been recognized by Toyota Motor Europe with the Achievement Award in the Project Management category. With this award, the Japanese multinational corporation has recognized Ficosa’s 3 0 noteworthy capacity in managing the projects carried out by the company in 2016. Among these projects is the Toyota Hybrid crossover CH-R, for which Ficosa has developed washer systems, manual shifter, manual and automatic shifter cables and brake cables. Ficosa has received awards from Toyota Motor Europe on many occasions, a fact that highlights the multinational corporation’s policy with all clients of quality, excellence, service, flexibility and continuous improvement. C S R R E P O R T Continuous improvement (FIT Program) Within the aim of consolidating its market positions near automobile To ensure structured support of continuous improvement a Ficosa manufacturers and strengthening its presence on all markets, Ficosa Improvement Transformation (FIT) Program was launched at the end bases its strategy on continuous improvement concerning both of 2016. This Continuous Improvement (CI) program is supported by products and all processes around them. top management and will be implemented in all the operational facilities of Ficosa. Ficosa understands that continuous improvement is any change of direction to improve processes by eliminating any inefficiency and The project is supported by an action plan aimed at having selfmaintaining consistent quality. All Ficosa employees are responsible for sufficient CI teams in all the countries where Ficosa operates. The first continuous improvement, from the first operator to the last manager of year of the program has been divided into 4 main pillars: the company. Continuous improvement affects the Departments related to Production as well as the Financial-Administrative, Purchasing, Commercial and R&D departments. MAIN GOALS WHAT DID WE DO IN 2017? Continuous improvement structure in every Plant: CI Managers and experts (YB, GB, BB) in all the facilities, Making sure any site has Regional CI Directors and Corporate CI Director responsible for implementing Local CI Steering Committees held every month CI Structures More than 500 employees trained (over 13.000 hours invested in training) the FIT program FICOSA IMPROVEMENT TRANSFORMATION Using self-f developed Ficosa training materials for YB and GB sessions. 3 1 Implementing and running More than 1.300 Six Sigma projects, lean workshops and kaizens. Fighting waste projects and CI activities Quick Kaizen standardized Implementation of new Six Sigma methodology in all plants and variation Developing a suggestion system that can be used to collect, analyze Ideas and Gathering suggestion and and track any suggestion. Building a Yokoten culture to share best practices within plants opportunities sharing best practices The company achieved 0,5 suggestions per employee. Standardization of a new 5S system to make sure that all the plants are following the same standards and criteria. Transparency Gathering data to detect any Big Pic: Implementation of diagnosis tools to find opportunities (ie. and Focus issues VSM, yamazumi). MES: Deployment of Manufacturing Execution System. The program involves the use of continuous improvement levels: White, Yellow, Green and Black Belts, sharing a common goal methodologies, such as Lean Six Sigma, as well as soft skills that of everyday improvements. The new FIT program of the company is support employees in their everyday quest for better products and not only about optimization of the manufacturing process, but also processes. Ficosa allows development of human resources in its changing the culture of the company and developing people to make broadest sense, by adapting organization structures to globalization sure they can make the right decisions every day. process needs. We have active experts (called Belts) of different 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Commitment to our people 3 2 C S R R E P O R T Ficosa’s commitment to people is the foundation of the company’s culture. Policies For Ficosa, being a responsible employer recruitment, career management and talent involves a number of challenges: train development. Furthermore, the company has employees, advance their careers, provide defined an employee handbook available for them with fair salaries, look after their wellall the employees. being at work, combine operational excellence and personal development and encourage a The handbook includes information about full social dialogue. fair business practices at work, Health & Safety, training, performance development, Ficosa has numerous internal guidelines, prevention of discrimination and promotion of policies and procedures to ensure that all diversity, etc. the sites are following the best practices in 3 3 Governance The Chief Human Resources Officer, member above guidelines, policies and procedures. of the Executive Committee, is the highest Every site has a human resources manager, responsible person for labor practices in the who is responsible for implementing the workplace. The Corporate Human Resource policies defined at corporate level in every department is responsible for defining the country where the company operates. Main Challenges Ficosa develops its activity in a very competitive some areas of the global labor markets. and demanding industry. Since 2008, the company has tapped into new business areas Therefore, we are implementing all the and international markets and integrated them necessary mechanisms to get the best out of into the corporation. In this regard, Ficosa has our teams and recruit the best professionals firmly banked on creating high value jobs. to maintain our competitive advantage in the long term. This is shown by the fact that the number of engineers working in the headquarters The following have been identified as the most in Viladecavalls (Spain) has risen by more significant areas of our labor impact: than 70% from 2013 to 2017. Moreover, • Diversity and integration the company is hiring worldwide hundreds of employees with a wide variety of skill sets • Development, training and knowledge and educational backgrounds for its new management automotive manufacturing facilities, such as • Dialogue and communication the newest one in Rabat (Morocco). • Health promotion and well-being The need to hire new staff is bringing new challenges for the company as competition for • Safe and healthy working conditions (see specialist and managerial staff is increasing in “Commitment to Health and Safety”) 2 0 1 7 33 F I C O S A Key results Variance from 2015 2016 2017 previous year Workforce 9,084 9,855 10,239 4% Turnover (%) 2.61% 2.57% 2.38% -0,2% Female staff in total (%) 47% 46% 42% -4% Female staff in top executive positions (%) 14% 14% 14% 3 4 Workforce (No.) Turnover (%) 9,855 10,239 2.61 2.57 9,084 2.38 1.59 8,424 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 C S R R E P O R T Diversity and Integration In Ficosa, the criteria and procedures for the recruitment of human In Shelbyville (USA), new hires have a mandatory training concerning resources take into account the principle of equality and nonDiversity, Harassment and Proper Workplace Communication. discrimination based on the grounds of sex, race, national or social Employees are instructed in how to report any violations. Furthermore, origin, social class, birth, religion, disability, sexual orientation, union the employees of the site have multiple channels and ways to report association, political opinion, age or any other condition. Furthermore, any violations. all worker agencies that work with us must guarantee the equality of the sexes, origin, ethnicity, political affiliation or religious option in the In 2015, Dabrowa Gornicza (Poland) received a special prize candidates who are pre-selected for our company. All the managers “Icebreaker” for its commitment to promoting inclusion of people and middle management are responsible for ensuring treatment without with disabilities by the Foundation for Vocational Activation of People discrimination to employees and collaborators. with Disabilities and the Polish Organization of Employers of Disabled Persons. One of the main goals of the site is to have six percent of In 2018, the training catalogue will include two specific training actions employees with disabilities. Since 2010, the site has defined a specific focused on equality at work and generational diversity. In Soria (Spain), program for promoting the employment of disabled people. Every all managers have already received training in equality and harassment disabled employee in the site received a special treatment with external in the workplace. In Turkey, the manufacturing plants have defined local doctors. Furthermore, the company regularly checks workstations or gender equality training for their employees. job positions to make sure that working conditions are adapted to disabled people needs. 3 5 2 0 1 7 35 F I C O S A Soria (Spain) collaborates with correctional institutions for fostering the participated in an awareness training conducted by Social Inclusion rehabilitation of former prisoners. In 2015, the company received a Academy (SIA) and Inclusion Advisory Group. The Social Inclusion special prize “Empresa Socialmente Responsable” (Socially Responsible Academy training program is a cooperation between the Inclusion Company) by FADESS (Fundación de Ayuda al Discapacitado y Enfermo Factory and the German Chamber of Commerce to promote a Psíquico de Soria) that recognizes its commitment to hiring, training successful integration of people with disabilities in a variety of positions and reinserting released or former prisoners of Soria penitentiaries. in cross-sectoral environment. In 2017, the plant hired three new The company collaborates with FADESS and ASOVICA (Asociación employees with a disability. The plant has defined a new action plan in Virgen del Camino de Familiares de Personas con Enfermedad Mental) 2018 to hire 20 new employees with disabilities in the next years. to promote the social inclusion of physically and intellectually disabled people. Furthermore, the site, in collaboration with the Red Cross, has Brazil has made workplace adjustments and provided new implemented a program for promoting the integration of disadvantaged infrastructures in the assembly line to accommodate deaf or hard of groups. hearing (HOH) employees. Furthermore, the company updates its emergency process and visualization to properly alert its deaf or HOH In Taicang (China), the company has defined an action plan to improve employees in an emergency situation. the employment of people with disabilities. The action plan included interviews and on-site visits to various local manufacturing plants to In different countries such as France, Brazil and Spain the company has share best practices and review different examples of infrastructure conducted surveys to measure the potential impact of psychosocial adaptation to accommodate employees with disabilities with the risks and work-related stress experienced by its workers. The surveys collaboration of the Rotary Club of Shanghai. Furthermore, employees included questions regarding discrimination and harassment. from the Human Resources, Quality and Operating departments Employee development 3 6 Employee development is a priority for Ficosa. Since 2011, Ficosa The technical and soft competencies associated to each position are has adopted a system-wide performance which focuses on setting assessed, generating development opportunities for each person. performance goals for employees according to their responsibilities Finally, it is important to highlight the informal mutual feedback that is and area objectives. generated between employees and managers throughout the year, A complementary mid-year review has also been implemented to which is at the base of the main dynamics of people development update the existing objectives with new information that may have generated in Ficosa. happened during the first half of the year. Every site decides the performance goals at the beginning of the year, taking into account process implementation and local conditions and sharing this decision with corporate development. Variance from 2015 2016 2017 previous year No. of employees with access to performance and 2,026 2,286 2,646 16% career development review (target) Employees that fulfilled the performance and career 73% 82% 87% 5% development reviews (%) Workforce across all locations who received regular 16% 22% 26% 4% performance and career development reviews (% of the total) C S R R E P O R T Growing @Ficosa In 2014, Ficosa launched a Competency Development Program with This is a global long-term program, not only because it lasts two years, the aim of identifying and maximizing the potential of key employees. aiming at 101 participants in 2016-2018, but also because each year This program implies, as a starting point, an external Development there is a new group joining the program. From 2017 to 2019, 22 new Center that enables each one of the participants to better understand participants coming from different functional, levels of responsibility and their behaviors and to map their strengths and development areas. This countries areas joined the program. analysis is the foundation of Growing@Ficosa, a program that provides the resources and support for accelerated development adapted to Growing@Ficosa is helping to create a homogeneous people each one of the participants. development culture across the organization. It involves participants Ficosa is committed to increasing the number of participants with the with different backgrounds working together with the Human Resources goal of becoming an ongoing process to develop key people. team and the managers and top lines of the Company worldwide. The program is based on a 3-band commitment and is structured around: 01 An Individual Development Plan (IDP): An ad-hoc plan resulting from one-to-one interviews 02 A Corporate Program: With training on areas such as Leadership, Teamwork, People Development, Impact and Influence, and supported by coaching, with the participants and their managers to better mentoring and specific metrics, as 360º or understand and define their main expectations and other behavioral KPIs. development. This is a blended program based on the 70-20-10 model with a strong focus on learning 3 7 on-the job and social learning. Experimental Social Formal 10 learning learning 70 learning Work-related collaboration On-the-job performance support 20 Peer learning and coaching Mentoring Learning program support High potential development Successfactors Until 2015, the company had different Human Resource (HR) systems and tools that supported personnel administration processes and that needed a global and integrated solution. To improve the efficiency, Ficosa has implemented a new Human Resources Information System named SuccessFactors. This new tool is an employee-centric system and enables each employee to complete HR tasks more quickly and perform strategic HR activities more frequently such as its annual goals, performance program, training program, etc. Successfactors will include the learning program of the company, linking the competency gaps with the training needs that are part of the annual training plan of each site. 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Training and knowledge management Variance from 2015 2016 2017 previous year Total number of training hours provided to employees 157,518 165,871 194,787 17% Training investment (€) 1,292,808 1,413,932 1,924,471 36% Average cost training per employee1 142 143 214 50% Average training hours per employee1 19 19 22 16% 1 To measure the average training hours and cost, the company uses the workforce at the end of the year. At Ficosa, we understand that the best way to learn is to build on than 50% of the training sessions are related with manufacturing, previous knowledge and experience, and to put into practice what quality, health & safety or engineering contents. our employees learn in their job positions. Thus, working along with In order to ensure that all employees have the technical knowledge some of our best professionals is the most valuable and direct way required to perform their duties successfully and are familiar with to improve our employees’ knowledge. This hands-on experience is Ficosa’s tools and methodologies in the operations area, Ficosa complemented in each case with specific training programs given 3 8 implemented a robust learning system for plant positions that includes by professionals in our company, as well as business and training diverse training modules related to assembly and injection process, institutes. OHSE, quality, supply chain, painting process, lean manufacturing, etc. Each year, each site defines a quantified and budgeted annual training First of all, the company prioritizes the technical knowledge needed plan and submits it to a formal approval by the corresponding Plant by job position in new business and technologies. Secondly, Ficosa Manager, Country General Manager or Region/Business Unit Director. selects the Corporate Knowledge Owners and Local Knowledge The company collects the annual training data of each site to detect Owners to generate, disseminate and improve knowledge in the plants, improvement areas in the training activity achieved worldwide. More technical & development centers. Key figure to generate, Key figure to spread Knowledge Corporate Local disseminate and improve in his/her site and provide knowledge owner Knowledge of the FICOSA knowledge owner feedback to Corporate C S R R E P O R T Ficosa has 22 Corporate Knowledge Owners who meet them to their manufacturing plant. The Local Knowledge regularly to work on specific training materials & contents Owner is responsible for adapting the corporate training adapted to Ficosa standards and processes (e.g. case materials to train employees in his/her site. This learning studies, practical exercises & evaluation). The training system has been implemented in the manufacturing plant materials focus on error prevention, practical cases & of Cookeville and in 2018, the company is planning to activities that ensure learning through close-to-reality implement this new learning system in the manufacturing situations and evaluation tools. For example, the Corporate plant of Morocco, so in 2019, this new learning system OHSE department has developed and taught six specific will be implemented in all the plants where the company on-site courses: operates. OHSE Introduction, Emergency Response, Waste Furthermore, the company is developing e-learning management, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), solutions available to all employees. In 2017, several “5S” method, Lockout/TagOut (LOTO) and Handling of e-learning solutions have been defined, regarding Ficosa Chemicals. These training courses serve as a basis for Development System, Intellectual Property, test design each site’s OHSE Specialists, who will have to adapt techniques, etc. Employee communication and satisfaction 3 9 Ficosa wants to foster a strong and effective communication At local level, some sites, such as Cookeville (USA), with its employees to make sure they understand where Shelbyville (USA), Dabrowa Gornicza (Poland), Dieuze the organization is heading and are up-to-date with key (France), Taicang (China), Salinas and Escobedo (Mexico), information about the company. In this regard, the company Porto (Portugal), Bursa and Gemlik (Turkey) have developed has developed different channels to communicate with its an employee survey in the past three years. The results employees, such as intranet, suggestion box, employee were presented to the top management and were followed newsletter, round table meeting with plant manager, oneby an action plan. on-one interviews, town hall meeting, etc. 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A International assignments · Official measures to promote work life balance One of our aims as a company consists of promoting the development · Full acceptation for part-time of our people through the creation of a dynamic and attractive working requests for parents with environment where opportunities for lateral, vertical, functional children under 12 years old and geographical movements exist. In this sense, international · Time flexibility for employees and assignments are a key part of people development at Ficosa. subcontractors Employees benefit by gaining international experience, growing personally and professionally; Ficosa also benefits by expanding the · Partnership with the Chamber distribution of knowledge and skills, increasing technical expertise of Commerce for priority nursery and promoting a consistent global culture. services Ficosa has defined a specific International Assignments Management · Sport promotion procedure to guarantee the application of homogeneous practices · Physiotherapy service for within all the sites of the company. The company guarantees in any employees case that employees coming back to their home country have a job position with the same level of classification than they had before the international assignment and a salary level in the home country 4 0 equivalent to the level of the last position developed in the destination of expatriation · Welfare campaigns (health week, breast cancer campaign) · Well being total program (program Workplace health offered to our employees through psychologist) promotion & work-life balance Ficosa is working to make sure that the entire workforce receives an annual medical examination in all the countries where it operates. Mostly all the sites have a specific health care program for employees. The workplace health promotion and work-life balance initiatives depend · Welfare campaigns (responsible on each site and are led by the Human Resources department. The consumption, healthy lifestyle) company is defining a specific program to make sure that all the sites implement measures related to workplace health promotion, including formal objectives for the stress prevention. In Dieuze (France), the members of the Health & Safety Committee and the HR department have received specific training on psychosocial risks. Every year, the site conducts a survey to identify and assess psychosocial risks. The results were presented to the top management and were followed by an action plan. In Morcone (Italy), the company has conducted a · Psychology service for all specific study to identify any improvement in its company’s workplace employees ergonomics process. · Welfare campaigns (responsible consumption, healthy lifestyle). · Sport promotion C S R R E P O R T · Time flexibility for employees · Welfare campaigns · Welfare campaigns · Sport promotion · Sport promotion 4 1 · Full acceptation for part-time working · Time flexibility for employees requests for parents and subcontractors · Sport promotion 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Commitment to health and safety 4 2 C S R R E P O R T Policies At Ficosa, we believe that all injuries, occupational illnesses • Providing appropriate OHS training to employees and and incidents can be prevented, and we will strive for zero contractors harm by: • Investigating incidents and sharing the experiences • Complying with the laws, regulations and Ficosa learnings to prevent them operational policies and standards We adopted a common approach across the company • Establishing measurable OHS objectives and targets, to manage health & safety. In addition to strict compliance recognizing and celebrating their achievement with legal regulations, we carry out our own OHSE policy and implement stringent OHS procedures that includes • Identifying, assessing and controlling hazards and hazards identification and risk assessment, workers impacts, and adopting an approach that will strive to health control, risk control planning, chemical products eliminate or reduce the risk to an acceptable level management, PPE management for employees as well as • Informing employees, contractors, visitors and the contractors, etc. public of these hazards and impacts • Identifying, implementing, monitoring and reinforcing the safe behaviors we expect in our business to eliminate unsafe acts and practices Operational facilities certified OHSAS 18001 (%) 4 3 88% In 2017, 88% of operational facilities were certified in Since 2016, the corporate quality audit “3Q3” accordance with OHSAS 18001 – the international questionnaire has included OHS questions regarding standard for Occupational Health and Safety (OHS). In safe behavior and safety of equipment. In 2018, the 2017, the manufacturing plants of Rabat (Morocco), corporate OHS department will strengthen the OHSE Chongqing (China), Shenyang (China) and Cookeville internal audit governance and procedure by making sure (USA) were not OHSAS 18001 certified. Nevertheless, that all operational facilities in Europe are following the all operational facilities have conducted an employee same standard for ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. The health & safety risk assessment and carry out internal corporate OHS department will lead and assume the OHS audits on a regular basis. In 2018, the company is OHSAS 18001 internal audits in Europe. For that purpose, planning to implement the OHSAS 18001 managements an internal audit check list has been implemented to system in all the manufacturing facilities where the perform the internal OHS audits. The check list has more company operates and obtain the OHSAS 18001 than 300 questions and gives a global scoring of the certification for Chongqing (China), Shenyang (China) and OHSAS 18001 implementation system status of each Cookeville (USA). Furthermore, the OHS department will site. In 2018, each site will have a local auditor who will work to make the transition from OHSAS 18001 to ISO be trained by the corporate OHSE department regarding 45001:2018 in 2019. internal audit procedures and processes. 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Governance The corporate OHSE team is responsible for formulating any new OHS In 2017, the company held an H&S forum with the aim of sharing best standards and procedures. Furthermore, the department is responsible practices that contribute to a safer workplace. The company organized for establishing a global system for collecting the main OHS data from 4 on-line sessions where each plant was able to share experiences all the countries and ensuring that each subsidiary complies with and best practices on health and safety matters. In 2018, the company the internal standards and procedures. Each plant has specialists in will organize a global forum on OHSE in Viladecavalls that will bring charge of implementing the company’s health & safety standards and together all the OHSE managers of each Ficosa manufacturing plant procedures. to share experiences and explore common issues focusing principally on the environmental, health and safety dimension. The forum will Plant managers are held accountable for the OHS performance of each recognize the efforts in OHSE management made by overseas Group plant, and all employees are expected to take personal responsibility companies. for their actions, and to get involved in improvement initiatives and developing and setting standards. Most manufacturing plants have health and safety committees in operation with the aim of promoting safety activities and sharing with Creating the right safety culture at our sites is important. It takes strong management the responsibilities for implementing and monitoring leadership and an active commitment to safe operating from our Ficosa’s safety program. workforce. Main Challenges The main incidents that could face our employees are related with 4 4 ergonomics and bump-cut and occurred mainly during the injection and assembly process. Key results Target 2016 2017 2017 Corporate – ORIR 1.22 1.17 1.25 ORIR South Europe 1.98 1.87 1.78 ORIR North Europe 0.76 1.02 0.91 ORIR Asia 0.49 0.12 0.59 ORIR NAFTA 0.72 0.72 0.82 ORIR South America 2.50 2.15 1.85 C S R R E P O R T Because OHSAS Recordable Incident Rate (ORIR) is one of the primary continue to focus our efforts on safety to reduce incidents, mostly due safety measures, we have defined a specific annual performance goal to ergonomic issues, possible bum-cuts and burns in the injection or in our ORIR at corporate level and for each manufacturing plant. Each assembly process. plant manager is responsible for successfully achieving our annual goals. ORIR is a measure widely used in the U.S. industry to track Every month, we analyze the ORIR of each site to track not only what on-the-job injuries. The ORIR in the tables represents the number of types of injuries tend to be recurring, but also in which production Ficosa employee and contractor injuries (apart from minor first aid process. This monitoring allows us to target our OSH training and cases) per 200,000 hours worked. The lower the number, the closer action plan. In 2018, the main goal will be to maintain a corporate ORIR we are to achieving our no injuries vision. Our corporate ORIR has been below 1.20. reduced between 2016 and 2017. Although this is encouraging, we Variance from 2016 2017 previous year Corporate Lost time severity rate1 0.57 0.67 18% Corporate – Injury frequency rate2 0.61 0.59 -3% Number of fatalities 0 0 4 5 OHSA training (hours) 25,186 30,179 20% Nº OHSA improvement actions 2,288 2,399 5% 1 No. of days lost due to injuries*1,000/total number of hours worked 2 Incidence rate of over-1-day absence injury per 100.000 workers The company is investing in training to make every employee aware for effective emergency management and civil protection nationwide of the OHS risk associated with their duties. In recent years, corporate in Turkey. Furthermore, the manufacturing plant, in collaboration with development has designed different learning modules that will be AFAD, carried out an awareness campaign to prepare the employees implemented in each site next year. The main goal is to ensure a skilled and their families for an earthquake. OHS team and prepare them for any changes within the company. Furthermore, every manufacturing plant launches an annual awareness A similar campaign has been implemented in the manufacturing facility campaign on OHS aimed at promoting safety in the workplace. of Gemlik (Turkey). The campaign included training to employees and their families, the preparation of a handbook, and the implementation During the National Safety Week in July 2017, the manufacturing of earthquake umbrellas in the manufacturing facilities to protect the plant of Bursa (Turkey) organized an OHS event in collaboration with employees during the earthquake. In the manufacturing plant of Soria the Automotive High School. Some students had the opportunity to (Spain), the company made workplace adjustments and provided new participate in a technical visit to Bursa plant facilities to learn about infrastructures to ensure a safer workplace. First of all, a pneumatic manufacturing processes. Furthermore, 17 voluntary employees have manipulator has been implemented in paint warehouse for handling worked together to produce a play based on the Occupational Health paint drums. This was done manually before, moving paint drums from & Safety at work. The purpose of this activity was to ensure good the pallets to the shelves. With this new system, overexertion is avoided awareness of all risks within the workplace. In addition, the AFAD gave and the workplace is more ergonomic. Furthermore, the company has a training in CBRN (chemical-biological-radiological-nuclear disaster) for implemented a new robot for hot cutting of plastic burr of die casting employees who are potentially exposed to chemical hazards. AFAD is parts at blinkers section. This was done manually before, and presented an institution that was established in 2009 to take necessary measures a high risk of bump cut. 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Commitment to enviroment 4 6 C S R R E P O R T Policies The increasing global population and the rapid growth of from R&D product design to acquiring raw materials and world economy have complex and diverse connections with manufacturing and the use and disposal of our products. the global environment. They also affect the environment in numerous ways. At Ficosa, we are committed to bringing In addition to strict compliance with legal regulations, and offering safer, more connected and efficient systems we carry out our own OHSQE policy1, which ensures for the automotive and mobility sectors, and to reducing prevention of the environment, energy efficiency, the our environmental impact as we do so. Our commitment mitigation and adaptation to climate change and a to the environment extends to our whole activity cycle responsible resource and waste management. Operational facilities certified OHSAS 14001 (%) 94% 4 7 The Group’s commitment to environmental protection OHSE department implemented a new methodology for is clearly integrated into our activities through the all plants in order to identify the main environmental risks implementation of an integrated management system in and opportunities related to Ficosa environmental aspects, the different sites where the company operates. Ficosa’s compliance obligations and other issues. In 2018, the environmental management model is based on the corporate environmental department will strengthen international ISO 14001:2015 standard. In 2017, the the OHSE internal audit governance and procedure by manufacturing plants in Shenyang (China) and Rabat making sure that all operational facilities are following (Morocco) were not ISO 14001 certified. The site of Rabat the same standard for ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. has started its activity in 2017 and the company will start to The corporate department will lead and assume the ISO implement the ISO 14001 managements system in 2019. 14001 internal audits in Europe. For that purpose, an Furthermore, the manufacturing plant of Shenyang will be internal audit check list has been implemented to perform ISO 14001 certified in 2018. the internal environmental audits. The check list has 228 scored questions and gives a global scoring of the ISO Since 2016, the corporate quality audit “3Q3” questionnaire 14001 implementation system status for each site. Some has included environmental questions regarding waste sites will have a local auditor who will be trained by the disposal, waste storage, environmental emergency corporate department regarding internal audit standards means, prevention of spills, industrial hygienic protection and processes. of equipment and machines, etc. In 2017, the corporate 1 For more information, see Appendix 1 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Governance The corporate OHSE team is responsible for formulating any new environment. The company organized 4 on-line sessions where environmental standards and procedures. Furthermore, the department each plant was able to share experiences and best practices on is responsible for establishing a global system for collecting the main environmental matters. In 2018, the company will organize a global environmental data from all the countries and ensuring that each forum on OHSE in Viladecavalls that will bring together all the OHSE subsidiary complies with the internal standards and procedures. Each managers of each Ficosa manufacturing plant to share experiences plant has managers or technicians in charge of implementing the and explore common issues focusing principally on the environmental, company’s environmental instructions and systems. health and safety dimension. In 2017, the company held an environmental forum with the aim of sharing best practices that contribute to the protection of the Main Challenges At Ficosa, we perform our activities paying special attention to In 2017, our main activities focus on reducing our CO2 emissions in protecting the environment and an efficient use of natural resources. our chain value, mainly by improving our energy efficiency activities Each manufacturing plant evaluates and maps its environmental and waste management. Furthermore, we are working on reducing our impacts every year. The painting and injection processes account Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions. for the largest share of environmental impact during the manufacture of Ficosa products in terms of air pollution, energy consumption and Since 2016, all manufacturing plants have implemented individual reduction targets to reduce their GHG emissions, electric consumption 4 8 waste generation. The paint shop is a manufacturing area that causes concern because of VOC emissions. Furthermore, the injection and water and waste generation, and specific action plans for achieving process is a large energy consumer and contributes to carbon dioxide them. Furthermore, each plant establishes its own objectives based emissions. In this context, the technology used in the paint application on the significant environmental aspects detected in the environmental and injection machines must meet high expectations of quality and impact assessment. cost efficiency while remaining environmentally responsible. Key results Reducing local pollution A current challenge is to reduce volatile organic compounds (VOCs), of the air on spray booths. In 2017, thanks to the implementation of new which readily evaporate and become gaseous in the atmosphere. racks design and application tools in the painting process of Cookeville, VOCs are carbon-based materials that can be toxic and create adverse the painting process for clearcoat can be done by one robot. This health and environmental impacts. The company has implemented improvement in the painting process enables the company to reduce different system and control standards in its manufacturing plant with its paint consumption and VOC emissions. Besides, the automation painting process to monitor and reduce the amount of air pollutants of the painting process with robots will improve OHS conditions for emitted during their operation. operators. For example, the manufacturing plant in Cookeville (USA) has reached In Taicang (China) and Dabrowa Gornicza (Poland), the company an agreement with the State of Tennessee, as part of a plant operating installed a catalytic burner (RTO) to reduce volatile organic compounds permit, to reduce VOC emissions from 231 tons per rolling 12-month (VOC) contained in the paint shops. The RTO destroys VOC emissions period to 11.84 tons per rolling 12-month period. The site is building a by creating a chemical reaction within the air pollutant and oxygen at new paint shop in order to close an inefficient installation. Through this replacement, the site will reduce its energy consumption associated elevated temperatures. This reaction destroys VOC emissions in the to the painting process by 41%. The new painting process emits less air stream by converting them to gas, water and heat. The recovered Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) and enables less consumption of heat is used in processes carried out at the plant. It enables the plant to fresh air due to RTO (Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer) and recirculation reduce its consumption of natural gas needed for heating. C S R R E P O R T 4 9 Soria (Spain) is also planning to implement a RTO system in their 1. Consolidation of maritime containers: Shipments to the USA from painting process. The implementation of the new system will enable Barcelona are consolidated in the port and no shipment is made the companies to reduce their VOC emissions. Furthermore, the until the container is full. Ficosa has a similar initiative in Mexico manufacturing plant has implemented a new process aspiration for its and China. In China containers have to be full as well before injection machines with the aim of reducing any pollutants emissions sending them to the manufacturing plants of Viladecavalls and to the atmosphere. Soria (Spain). In Gemlik (Turkey), the company is implementing refrigerants R410 2. In the manufacturing plant of Dabrowa Gornicza (Poland), all and R407 instead of R22 for its air conditioning system. In all the imports from Shanghai are made by container trains. manufacturing plants with sanding room, the room is located outside of 3. Most Ficosa manufacturing plants have implemented a milk run the paint shop area and includes a dust collection system. Furthermore, delivery method. Instead of each supplier sending a vehicle every the company is working on three main initiatives to optimize the week to meet Ficosa’s needs, one vehicle visits each supplier on transportation and distribution of purchased products or product sold a weekly basis and picks up the purchased products for Ficosa. by the company: This way, each vehicle load delivers the full weekly requirements of Ficosa from each supplier. Addressing Climate Change Since 2016, we have defined a guideline to reduce our greenhouse by implementing more robust internal tools that ensure that each gas (GHG) emissions annually at site levels. Each site has to reduce operational facility reports the data in accordance with the standards its GHG emission intensity by 3%. Each plant manager is responsible and criteria used by Ficosa. The tool will enable the company to for successfully achieving the goal. In 2017, the company worked increase the reporting on GHG emissions along its value chain and to improve the gathering and consolidation of carbon footprint, products (Scope 3 emissions). 2 0 1 7 49 F I C O S A Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by type of source Since 2014, we have been conducting an inventory of our GHG emissions, using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Variance from In t of CO2e 2016 2017 previous year Scope 1, direct GHG emissions 9,250 7,911 -14% From fossil fuels 8,397 7,178 -15% From owned/leased vehicles 853 733 -14% Scope 2, indirect GHG emissions Location-based emissions from electricity consumption2 N/A 65,055 N/A Market-based emissions from electricity consumption2 57,311 60,547 6% Scope 3, other indirect GHG emissions 1,729 1,961 13% Waste generated in operation3 1,729 1,961 13% 5 0 Total GHG emissions1 Total market-based GHG emissions 68,290 70,419 3% Total location-based GHG emissions N/A 74,927 N/A Total market-based GHG emissions per sales (tCO2e/MEUR) 59.25 59.17 -0,1% 1 Total emissions are based on actual or estimated data. The most consumption, emission factors from each supplier were used for the appropriate emission factors have been used for each activity data countries where Ficosa operates (for countries where the information type, from internationally recognized (EIA 2017) and regional (Oficina were not available, Ficosa uses the emission factors from EIA). Catalana del Cambio Climático 2017) sources or if more relevant, from country or contract specific sources. The factors include all GHGs 3 This category includes emission from the transportation and disposal where possible and the gases’ Global Warming Potential as per the treatment of the following solid waste: glass, lightweight packaging, IPCC assessments. food scrap, paper, paperboard and remaining fraction. This category includes also the emissions from disposal of wastewater. 2 For the location-based emissions from electricity consumption, emission factors from EIA (2017) were used for the countries where Ficosa operates. For the market-based emissions from electricity C S R R E P O R T Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by region In t of CO2e Asia Nafta North Europe South America South Europe Total Market-based GHG 15,435 19,563 17,751 1,519 16,151 emissions Scope 1, direct GHG emissions 62 922 2,817 18 4,092 From fossil fuels 62 824 2,554 1 3,737 From owned/leased vehicles 98 263 17 355 Scope 2, indirect GHG emissions Market-based emissions from 15,338 18,190 14,075 1,497 11,447 electricity consumption Scope 3, other indirect GHG emissions From waste management 35 451 859 4 612 Each site has to reduce its market-based GHG emission per sales by 3%. Almost 50% of our manufacturing 5 1 plants achieved their annual goals: Market-based GHG emissions by sites (tCO2eq/ MEUR) 80,00 70,00 52,57 60,00 50,00 40,00 2017 30,00 27,46 Target 18,33 20,00 14,23 11,39 10,00 4.16 2.75 12,7 3,46 in) in) in) y) y) a) )) ) pa pa rke an ly) hin SA ico pa (Ita ,U éx (S (S (S (Tu er m E (C (M C RI A UI M A (G ON G (TN AS LD RS E AN LE V SO G U ILK C NY VIL LIN A S NT -B OR E SA OS OR SA RS W -M SH KE & FIC R RR O OR S O DO IR I CO M M IR R BE M CO ES The manufacturing plant of Dieuze (France) has been able to reduce 10% in one year, which represents an estimate reduction of 200,502 its natural gas consumption by installing a new compressor with heat kg of CO2e. Furthermore, the manufacturing plants in Taicang (China) recovery technology. The manufacturing plant of Bursa (Turkey) also has implemented a new servomotor system in its injection section with implemented a new compressor with waste heat recovery. This new the aim of reducing its carbon emission. compressor enabled the plant to reduce its electricity consumption by 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Energy efficiency and renewable energy Reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in Ficosa is mainly For that purpose, the different sites organize regular employee meetings about reducing energy consumption. In this regard, the company is and energy awareness campaigns. In its manufacturing process, committed to mitigating its impact on climate change by defining a Ficosa engages in a variety of energy saving activities to reach the strong energy strategy based on energy efficiency, increased use of lowest energy consumption by introducing highly efficient equipment, renewable energy and process optimization. In 2017, the OHSE policy improving manufacturing techniques and adopting energy saving has been updated to include the responsibility of each employee for lighting or sensor with presence detector. the energy saving strategy of the company. Variance from 2016 2017 previous year Electricity consumption (MWh) 121,887 129,503 6% Electricity from renewables in Spain (MWh) 24,004 34,000 42% Electricity consumption in kWh per sales 106 109 3% (kWh/MEUR) Increased use of renewable energy is critical to the transition to a lowmanufacturing plant of Wolfenbüttel (Germany) is buying energy that carbon economy. The company is striving to reduce emissions by comes from hydroelectric power. In 2017, the manufacturing plant of using renewable energy. From March 2016, 100% of the electricity in Taicang (China) set up solar panels on its roof. The plant estimates 5 2 Viladecavalls (Spain), Soria (Spain) and Sant Guim (Spain) come from to reduce its CO2 emission by 20.5% in 2018 thanks to this new renewable sources or high-efficiency cogeneration. Furthermore, the installation. Each site has to reduce its energy intensity by 3%. Most of our sites achieved their annual goals: Reduction of electric consumption by sites (% of reduction) ) ico ) ly) éx y y) (Ita (M rke ke A) AS (Tu (Tu r NE US LIN CO a) N, in) SA LIX y) hin (T SA pa R an OR (C & (S BU EM m M LE O S-G Ge r SNG VI L ED UI M R ES R YA E B G RO BL E RO EN OK CO NT IR ILK IR M CA W M SH CO ES SA 0,00% -5,00% -10,00% 2017 -15,00% Target -20,00% -25,00% -30,00% C S R R E P O R T The manufacturing plant of Chongqing (China) has defined a specific 74% of electricity consumption at the manufacturing plant in employee-focused energy reduction plan. The OHSE department Bursa (Turkey) comes from the injection area. For this reason, the was responsible for developing an energy management plan and manufacturing plant of Bursa (Turkey) implemented a new system monitoring its implementation in each department. All department for monitoring its electrical consumption in the injection unit. The managers are the new “energy champions”, responsible for improving new system enables the plant to identify the injection machines awareness of energy efficiency around the business. They are in that consume more electricity. The plant implemented heat jacket charge of all aspects of energy improvement around the workplace. in these machines and saved more than 74,000 Kwh in electricity consumption. The other manufacturing plant in Gemlik (Turkey) has The Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) and the European country implemented an automatic system that turns off the lighting and regulations that transpose it is a driver across our global operation to electricity system after 5 minutes without production in 13 assembly undertake energy audits and implement mitigation projects ahead of lines. In 2017, the plant implemented the same system in the other global regulation. The manufacturing plants in Poland, Portugal, Italy, assembly lines and standardized the implementation of the system France and Spain have already audited their energy consumption and for new projects. This improvement in the manufacturing process are now defining an action plan to reduce it. enables the plant to save 9.19 kWh of electric consumption per shift. Italy has implemented new frequency inverters to improve energy The manufacturing plants of Wolfenbüttel (Germany), Bursa (Turkey), efficiency in injections machines. Thanks to this new technique, the Maia (Portugal) and Morcone (Italy) implemented led lighting systems. company is saving up to 30% electricity consumption, by avoiding The manufacturing plant of Soria (Spain) has implemented an consuming electricity during the cooling time of the parts and only automatic downtimes database in the paint shop area. It will allow it to spending electricity when the machine uses the hydraulic pumps to reduce all inefficiencies generated by waste of energy and production make movements or inject. The company is planning to implement time. In 2018, the company will implement this new technology in the the new system in other manufacturing plants. manufacturing plants of Taicang (China), Dabrowa Gornicza (Poland) The manufacturing plant in Brazil renovated 4 injection machines and Cookeville (USA). to reduce its energy consumption. Furthermore, the manufacturing plants in Taicang (China) and Cookeville (USA) bought new machines for blinkers and technical parts with 40% of energy savings compared to the old machines. In Dabrowa Gornicza (Poland), the company has reduced its energy consumption by installing more efficient heat 5 3 exchanges in paint shop. Water management Variance from 2016 2017 previous year Water consumption in m3 234,069 237,838 2% Water consumption in m3 per sales 203 200 -2% (m3/MEUR) Most Ficosa manufacturing plants do not use water for industrial The new technology enables the plant to reduce its water usage process. Nevertheless, all the plants have to reduce its water for industrial process, from 242 m3 in 2016 to 161 m3 in 2017. In consumption intensity (m3/ net sales) by 3%. Around 30% of the Soria (Spain), the company is distilling used paint in order to obtain manufacturing plants are using water in cooling towers or for the pure solvent, which can be used as cleaning agent or can be sold. painting process. In most cases, the manufacturing plants are using The manufacturing plant of Taicang (China) implemented a new closed cooling systems. The company is committed to employing new biochemical wastewater treatment, which allows it to increase water technology to reduce its water consumption and increase the amount quality and conservation by eliminating the need for biocides, reduce of recycled water in the painting process. In Poland, the manufacturing the amount of sludge by 17% and yearly costs of coagulants by 25%. plant has implemented a new leakage monitoring water system that In Viladecavalls (Spain), 40% of the water is reused. In Dieuze (France), enables the plant to measure the water consumption in each section the manufacturing plant implemented a new oil collector to reduce the and identify any leak that may occur in the site. In Bursa (Turkey), the treatment of wastewater coming from the compressor. manufacturing plant has decreased its water consumption in the paint shop by using a new coagulant. Furthermore, the manufacturing plant of Bursa implemented a new dry filter painting system. 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Waste management Variance from 2016 2017 previous year Total waste generated in tonnes1 5,277 5,690 8% Total waste generated in tonnes per sales 4,6 4,8 4% (Kg/EURM)1 1 At corporate level, the company gathers the following categories of waste: glass, lightweight packaging, food scrap, paper, paperboard and remaining fraction. These categories of waste are used to measure the GHG emissions from the waste disposal. Ficosa plants have different waste containers in all areas (production At corporate level and site level, Ficosa has indicators for monitoring and otherwise) in order to perform the collection of waste by type waste generation: and character, facilitating specific future treatment. Ficosa is working in all its operational facilities to increase the recovery of cleaning • Reduction of oily sludge solvents and other chemicals and to reduce the amounts of these • Reduction of cardboard packaging substances emitted from its plants. Furthermore, all the manufacturing plants organized awareness campaign for workers aimed at reducing • Reduction of waste included in the Carbon footprint packaging waste and sorting at source. Ficosa considers that the Regarding the last indicator, each site has to reduce its waste generation involvement of its employees is essential to reduce waste generation. intensity (Kg/ net sales) by 3%. Some sites exceeded the current goal of the company: 5 4 Reduction of waste generation by sites (% de reduction) ) ico ) éx l) ey ey) ) ) (M ga rk rk SA SA AS a) in) tu (Tu (Tu U U LN il) hin pa or A y) N, Y, as (C (S (P S LIK an (T (K SA r DC IA UR EM E E & (B NG A SB er m ILL LL DO LO UI VL -M -G VI SA ES OR ES E (G KEV BY BE PA U NGQ L R L L O CO AB IR AB ILK OO HE SC AO HO FI C M C W C S E S C 0,00% -5,00% -10,00% -15,00% -20,00% -25,00% -30,00% 2017 Target C S R R E P O R T 5 5 In 2016, 93% of waste generated in the manufacturing plant of very popular because it was light and clean, prevented scratching, Viladecavalls was recycled. In 2017, the percentage increased to and allowed more parts to be placed in a container than traditional 95.3%. In Dabrowa Gornicza (Poland), the company invested in new dunnage. Nevertheless, foam, which is not biodegradable, was going spray booths, which allowed to increase the capacity by 24% while into the trash to be landfilled. In 2016, the plant decided to define a reducing the usage of chemical components and paint waste. With specific target to reduce the use of foam by 25% by 2017. In 2016, this investment, the company succeeds in reducing its injection waste the plant has already succeeded in reducing the use of foam by 50%. by 30%. Furthermore, the company was using dividers for a client washer bottle packaging. Through the A4 Continuous Improvement program, some The manufacturing plant in Bursa (Turkey) managed to reduce 50 employees had the idea to utilize used cardboard to separate the tonnes of cardboard by promoting the use of recycled packaging layers of washer bottles in the container instead of purchasing dividers. among its local suppliers. The manufacturing plant of Gemlik (Turkey) is using reusable plastic boxes instead of cardboard. All plants are working to reduce the generation of scraps in the injection molding process, by reducing or eliminating the cold runners, through The manufacturing plant in Shelbyville (USA) implemented the the implementation of hot runner valve gate systems. Furthermore, A4 Continuous Improvement Program. All areas of the plant are the manufacturing plants of Dieuze (France), Cookeville (USA) and challenged to come up with ideas to make improvements. The ideas Taicang (China) are working to increase the recycling of scraps to can come from anyone. A team works on the project and presents it more materials. The manufacturing plant of Salinas (Mexico) is using to management. Improvements can be anything improving quality, a new sequential injection molding technique to improve quality and cutting costs, making a job easier. These concepts also apply to safety reinforce the control process. This new technology enables the plant to and environment not just production. In the last two years, the plant has reduce the rejection of parts. This technique will be exported to all the implemented two practices to improve reduction of waste generation. manufacturing plants with injection molding processes. First of all, the manufacturing plant was using a lot of foam. It was 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Responsible sourcing 5 6 C S R R E P O R T Policies Ficosa works with two types of suppliers: or related to the production, labeling, transportation, importation, exportation, approval and certification of • Productive Suppliers: suppliers that are essential to the performance of the company operations. Ficosa’s products or services, including but not limited to those purchases are oriented towards a specialization related to environmental issues Directive of ELV, REACH in product families, which are divided into three (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction large areas: Electrics and Electronics (Batteries, of Chemicals), CLP/GHS (Classification, labeling and connectors, semiconductors, PCA, glass mirrors, packaging of substances and mixtures) and the Doddpumps, etc.), Chemicals (painted parts, chromed Frank-Act in respect to Conflict Minerals (gold, tin, parts, blow molding, etc.) and Metals Commodity tantalum and tungsten sourced from conflict regions (zamak, aluminum parts, tubes, wire rope, etc.). as the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjacent • Indirect Suppliers: Suppliers that supply products and countries), labor laws in general, working hours and services of a general nature, not directly related to the employment conditions, workers’ rights, employment business, such as office materials, paper, computer benefits, subcontractor selection, safety of vehicles and consumables, maintenance, supplies, travel, training, installations, etc. temporary employment agencies, consulting, legal services, insurance, investment, etc. In addition to all applicable laws and regulations to be 5 7 observed by the suppliers, it is also their obligation to Our production processes demand the achievement of respect social responsibilities and duties, especially but optimum quality and service levels, as well as competitive not limited to the requirements based on the Universal prices when buying the materials used to supply our Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor production line. In these context, the company has Organization (ILO) conventions proclaimed to respect developed its own standards and quality process that employees’ rights, age and working hours limits, etc. regulate the purchase activity of the company. Furthermore, the company has developed a Supplier The Ficosa Purchasing Policy and Procedures and the Quality Manual that details the main procedures and segregation of duties ensure compliance with J-SOX and systems used for supplier selection, business assignment, with all applicable laws. As well, the General Purchasing component approval, performance follow up and supplier Conditions establish the relationship between Ficosa development. The supplier quality manual specifies and its suppliers. The purchase orders sent to suppliers that all suppliers that want to be included in the Ficosa by any Ficosa company or any of its subsidiaries or Supplier Panel should work in the 10 principles of the affiliates have to be accepted in accordance with these United Nations (Global Compact). Lastly, the company terms and conditions. The Supplier and any products has developed other standards and procedures in order or services supplied by it shall comply with all laws and to improve the communication and simplify processes for regulations applicable to the destination countries where a better logistic. the product is going to be produced and/or used, 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Governance The Corporate Team consists of the Purchasing Director, Commodities and Project Managers, as well as support and consultancy teams such as Quality, Human Resources, Logistics, and Control functions who coordinate all purchasing activities worldwide. Every country has a Local Purchasing team led by an LPD (Local Purchasing Director), who is managed by both the Purchasing and Regional Directors. The LPD coordinates the country’s purchasing functions (Commodity Buyers, Purchasing Project Leaders, and STAs). Key results To become a Ficosa Supplier it is compulsory to have ISO/TS IATF 16949 certification and all the suppliers must provide Ficosa with written evidence of the most recent certification renewal. Ficosa specially appreciates and promotes IATF 16949, OSHAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certifications from their suppliers. 5 8 2015 2016 2017 Variance from previous year Suppliers certified ISO 9001 (%) 100% 100% 100% Suppliers certified ISO/TS 16949 (%) 40% 45% 49% 4% In addition, any new supplier has to fulfill a specific company selfFicosa has developed an internet platform for suppliers called FPSS assessment and be approved by the Ficosa audit process. The aim (Ficosa Purchasing System Software) that is used for the different here is to examine the supplier’s suitability to provide over the term by purchasing Processes: Supplier Registration, Offers, Assignments, using specific indicators, including financial and quality criteria as well Quality and Service incidents management and Suppliers Development. as general corporate aspects. The platform includes all the relevant documents from each supplier Ficosa regularly monitors the performance of its suppliers and evaluates (REACH declaration, conflict minerals declaration, certifications, etc.). them to confirm its performance versus the defined targets. These This platform is a quick, unique, and clear communication channel assessments enable the company to track the improvement of its linked to the Purchasing Department, allowing Ficosa to manage suppliers and determine the potential support that they may need from the purchases of all materials. All the productive suppliers must be Ficosa. In the last years, the 3Q3 supplier audit also include question registered in the FPSS and the company expects to increase the about the compliance with REACH Authorization and Conflict Minerals scope and includes also the indirect suppliers. regulation. C S R R E P O R T Conflict Minerals In the last years, there has been an increasing international focus on that the US Secretary of State may designate in the future (Dodd–Frank “conflict minerals” emanating from mining operations in the Democratic Section 1502). Republic of the Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. Armed groups engaged in mining operations in this region are believed to subject Tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold (3TG) are used in some auto-parts and workers and indigenous people to serious human rights abuses and components of Ficosa, such as circuit boards or heater terminals. We are using proceeds from the sale of conflict minerals to finance regional conduct due diligence to investigate the origin of the conflict minerals conflicts. in our products. Our goal is to work with DRC conflict-free suppliers. For that purpose, Ficosa implemented an annual supplier’s inquiry and On August 22, 2012, in response to these concerns, the US Securities collect from all its suppliers the Standard Survey (EICC/Gesi template) and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted a final rule to implement on conflict minerals. The collected information is internally processed reporting and disclosure requirements related to “conflict minerals”. The and provides useful information to monitor suppliers and report to “conflict minerals” are cassiterite (tin), columbite-tantalite (coltan), gold clients about the company use of minerals for each plant. and wolframite (tungsten), as well as their derivatives and other minerals 2015 2016 2017 % of suppliers and materials for which conflict mineral 100% 100% 100% information is available 5 9 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Commitment to society 6 0 C S R R E P O R T Visits to the factory Every year, the manufacturing plants in Dieuze (France), Salinas y Escobedo (Mexico), Poland,Taicang (China), Sao Paulo (Brazil), Gemlik (Turkey), Maia (Portugal) and Soria (Spain) organize visits to the factory for students, employee family members or local businesses to explain the main characteristics of the production process. These visits enable the company to attract new joiners and demonstrate the strength of their manufacturing capabilities. In Viladecavalls (Spain), Ficosa organizes visits to the factory with Educaweb, an organization that provide guidance and training for the most vulnerable groups. During this visits, the company offers them tools that facilitate the search for a first job or help them to conduct a job interview. Furthermore, Ficosa organizes visits to the manufacturing plant of Viladecavalls for students from international universities and business schools, such as Cleveland State University, IESE, UIC, etc. Ficosa and the Polytechnic University of Catalonia (UPC) FICOSA/UPC Course on Automotive Embedded Systems 6 1 Ficosa, in collaboration with research groups from different departments of the UPC and working groups of leading companies in the electronics sector for the automotive industry, has designed the “Automotive Embedded Systems” course for engineers interested in a professional career related to electronic communication systems. 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A The decentralized locations are responsible for charitable projects, donations and other social initiatives. Soria: The social initiatives depend on the · Partnersihp and collaborations with entities who site-specific challenge and are led by promote the employment of disabled people (Asamis, the Human Resources department. Ilunion), National Asociation againts cancer (AECC), Examples of Ficosa social initiatives in National Ligue Againts Cancer in Children (LINCECI) locations where the company operates: · Sponsorship of sports activities · Blood donations campaigns. · Collaboration with correctional institutions for fostering the rehabilitation of prisoners. Viladecavalls: · Blood donations campaigns. · Volunteering program · Partnership and collaborations with entities who · Food and cleaning supplies drive promote the employment of disabled people · Farm and warehouse distribution center collaboration (Specialisterne). · Soup kitchen for the homeless · Collaboration with the Fundació Esclerosis Multiple. · Adopting a family for Christmas · Sponsorship of student activities (FIRST® LEGO® LEAGUE, UNIRAID Project). · Senior Center volunteering · Financial donations to the Red Cross, Prodis and · Walk for kidney disease other social entities through a profit sharing vending 6 2 machines agreement. · Blood donation campaigns · In-kind donations for people affected by the earthquake in Mexico City. · Fico Jugueton” Donation of toys for children of low income families · Collaboration with the Red Cross · Visiting to nursing home · Program “Adopt a tree” for promoting reforestation · Small citizen program (training program to elementary students) · Collaboration with the municipality of Itapevi to donate clothes for people in a situation of social vulnerability C S R R E P O R T · In-kind and financial donations to several institutions, · Sponsorship of sports activities such as the Holy House of Mercy of Maia, · Donation to children’s villages “Rarissímas” (an institution that supports children with rare diseases), “National League Child HopeRenaissance”, “House of the People of Vermoim”, “Institute of Social Support A Life A Smile”. · Collaboration in several initiatives with the City Hall of Maia (culture, sport). · In-kind and financial donations for · Supporting found for employee who has a son with a several institutions (Noble Pack, serious illness. Great Orchestra of Christmas Help) · Awareness campaign to support children and young people with intellectual disabilities and/or multideficiency. · In-kind and financial donations (book and toys) · Collaboration with the training institution ISKUR 6 3 · Sponsorship of sports activities 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Innovation in our products 6 4 C S R R E P O R T Ficosa vision of innovation is based on a commitment to the most advanced technology. In this regard, the company invests in the research and development of products and solutions based on the fields of connectivity, safety and efficiency to maintain its position of leadership and anticipate the needs of the mobility industry. The company is now a technological partner of a vast majority of automotive companies from all over the world and seeks new ways to bring about further optimization and contribute to sustainable mobility. 6 5 2 0 1 7 65 F I C O S A Research centers R&D Capabilities · Viladecavalls With great dedication to innovation and a clearly global · Wolfenbüttel / Lindau focus, we have created a solid network of R&D centers in Europe, North America, South America and Asia. They · Dieuze are divided into centers of expertise focused on specific product families and local engineering centers closely · Porto located to customers’ design centers. · Bursa R&D Capacities (No.) This strong commitment to innovation has also resulted in high added value job creation. Ficosa is convinced that · Sao Paulo 6 6 the company needs an excellent and experienced team of engineering talent on board to face the new challenges of the company. · Detroit 1,008 · Salinas Victoria 135 833 873 135 640 550 698 110 135 530 · Waseong-Gun 415 · Tokyo · Taicang · Hyderabad / Pune 2014 2015 2016 2017 Laboratory & Prototypes Product Engineering C S R R E P O R T The Technology Centre in Viladecavalls (Spain) acts as the driving force for the group’s global research efforts and fuels the 14 development centers we have around the world. The Viladecavalls Technology Centre employs 670 of the 1,000 engineers that work for the company worldwide. This facility is a benchmark in electronics, SW development and electromechanics technology for developing new solutions in safety, connectivity and energy efficiency as well as world class testing and prototyping laboratories. 6 7 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Partnerships R&D Expenditure (thousand €) 82,431 We also collaborate, both nationally and internationally, with other companies, engineering firms, universities and technical centers on studies, training, advisory services, technology transfer, validations, tests, etc., that allow us to meet more demanding time to market and complex systems requirements. New technologies require a much higher level of open innovation than traditional electromechanical products. In 2017, Ficosa spent more than 82 million euros in R&D to provide its clients with the most innovative solutions that anticipate the challenges of a constantly changing industry. 82,431 64,315 60,000 56,088 49,551 44,897 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 In 2017, the company has invested nearly 6.9% of its annual revenue in R&D in order to give its customers the most innovative solutions 6 8 possible. Ficosa currently holds 685 active patents and it is one of the most active Spanish holding companies in Spain in terms of patenting. C S R R E P O R T Innovation in high-value products Ficosa is convinced that its success and future are founded on innovative products that benefit people and help them to have safer more efficient ways of driving. SAFETY The Challenge According to the World Health Organization (WHO), car accidents kill approximately 1.2 million people worldwide every year, which is one fourth of all deaths caused by injury. Also about 50 million people are injured in traffic accidents. If preventive measures are not taken road traffic death is likely to become the third-leading cause of 6 9 death in 2020 from ninth place in 1990. A study from the American Automobile Association (AAA) concluded that car crashes cost the United States $300 billion per year. There has been a significant rise in the use of electronics in vehicles. Vehicles today have shifted from being conventional vehicles to intelligent vehicles and are equipped with communication systems that alert or assist the driver in a potential accident. Nevertheless, there is still work to do to achieve the ambitious road safety target of halving the global number of deaths and injuries from road traffic crashes by 2020 (Source: 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development). Collaboration with national and international program RobustSENSE (ECSEL) • The main objective of RobustSENSE is to improve the reliability of automated driving covering all driving conditions. RobustSENSE gives Ficosa the opportunity to prove the capability of such systems to inter-operate in any kind of condition with other systems and then make its products available to a broader range of applications, with particular regard to automatic driving, thus widening its market opportunities. • Ficosa is participating in the deployment of a Camera Monitoring System with features of Lane Change Assist, Soil Detection and a Driver Monitoring system that analyze the respiratory signal and records it on video with the objective of estimating the degree of attentiveness of the driver. 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A SOMNOADAS (IBEROEKA) • The project consists in the development of a system of cameras integrated on a vehicle for the detection of the respiratory rhythm of the driver in order to know the state of drowsiness. The main objective of this project is to design and manufacture a contactless drowsiness detection system using camera technology that allows the analysis of the involuntary movement of the subject caused by breathing. The system consists of a high-resolution camera integrated in the vehicle’s interior and focused on the upper part of the thorax. Video recordings are analyzed in real time in order to estimate the degree of drowsiness of the driver from the extraction of the respiratory signal from the video signal. V-RECON (EUREKA!) • The project consists in producing a CMS system (Camera Monitoring System) for the replacement of exterior mirrors (Class III-traditional) for vehicles. The system developed during this project will initially be for passenger vehicles but may be extended to other types of vehicles (cargo, industrial, etc.). In order to achieve the final objective, the necessary research and development activities must be carried out to design a demonstrator with the 3 main elements that make up the integrated system. To be considered: 7 0 1Wing outside or mechanical camera support to capture the rear view 2the camera itself 3an electronic unit or ECU that will also contain the display on which the images will be projected (I_HeEro) Harmonized eCall Europen Deployment • Ficosa is participating in the deployment of eCall service in Europe. In these projects, 14 EU participating Member States and 1 associated country analyzed the feasibility and robustness of the eCall service with pilot installations on both the PSAP and vehicle side. After March 2018, the eCall system will be installed in all new car models and light vans sold in the European Union. • Ficosa has developed an in-vehicle telematics control unit that is able to perform Next Generation 112 emergency calls (NG112 eCall), which is the next paradigm to be supported for this life saving technology. This Next Generation eCall supports LTE and newer networks, based on IP Communications, and provides a future-proof solution for the regulatory eCall, which was originally designed for voice circuit-switching networks like 2G and 3G. Also, moving to an IP-based solution has extra benefits, i.e. leveraging existing standards such as SIP, and enhancing communication by sending extra data or video feeds. C S R R E P O R T ESCAPE (European Safety Critical Applications Positioning Engine) • ESCAPE (European Safety Critical Applications Positioning Engine) is a threeyear project funded under the Fundamental Elements program of the GSA (European GNSS Agency). Its aim is to exploit the services offered by Galileo, the European satellite navigation system, by designing a dedicated reliable and accurate engine natively targeted for the automotive safety-critical applications. • The project, kicked-off in October 2016, is led by Ficosa in collaboration with Renault, GMV, ST Microelectronics, IFSTTAR and ISMB. • The in-vehicle unit that will be produced by Ficosa during the ESCAPE project will be shown during Mobile World Congress 2018. This board is an electronic PCB capable to know precisely the position of the car with an innovative GNSS receiver developed by our partner STMicroelectronics. The exhibited prototype will show all the communication interfaces that allow the system to interact with vehicle, GNSS satellites and LTE network. C2C-CC (Car to Car Communication Consortium) • The CAR 2 CAR Communication Consortium (C2C-CC) is a nonprofit, industry driven organization initiated by European vehicle manufacturers and supported by equipment suppliers, research organizations and other partners. The C2C-CC is dedicated to the objective of further increasing road traffic safety and efficiency by means of cooperative Intelligent Transport Systems 7 1 (C-ITS) with Vehicle-to-Vehicle Communication (V2V) supported by Vehicle-toInfrastructure Communication (V2I). • It supports the creation of European standards for communicating vehicles spanning all brands. As a key contributor, the C2C-CC works in close cooperation with the European and international standardization organizations. In cooperation with infrastructure stakeholders the C2C-CC promotes the joint deployment of cooperative ITS. 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A 5G Automotive Association • Ficosa has become the first Spanish company to join the 5G Automotive Association (5GAA). The mission of this association is to accelerate development, standardisation and marketing of solutions for connected cars and autonomous vehicles and their integration into Smart Cities, as well as laying the groundwork for implementing 5G technology in the automotive sector. SECREDAS • Ficosa will provide to the project a full-fledged V2X HW platform designed for security which will include secure storage and signing environment. These HW mechanisms will prevent cybersecurity attacks for stealing private key, and damages for impersonating a legitimate vehicle. Ficosa’s platform will be capable of integrating SW technologies from third-parties such as V2X Firewall and V2X misbehaviour detection. Ficosa will also provide DSRC High-performance antennas to achieve best platform performance. 7 2 C S R R E P O R T What we are offering our customers ERA GLONASS SYSTEM • For the first time, the company has manufactured telematic modules certified for ERA GLONASS. The ERA GLONASS system is the Russian equivalent to the European eCall system. The emergency system inside the vehicle consists of a telematic unit (In Vehicle Telematic Unit, iVTU) that incorporates a special SIM card as well as a user interface module. The safety systems and emergency services are fundamental to save lives on the road. Getting an immediate alert in the event of an accident and knowing the exact location of the crash site cuts emergency services’ response time by 50% in rural areas and 40% in urban areas. V2X (VEHICLE-TO-X) UNITS • Vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communication is the passing of information from a vehicle to any entity that may affect the vehicle, and vice versa. The main motivation for vehicular communication systems is safety and eliminating the excessive cost of traffic collisions. It can be used for automated traffic intersection control. In addition, V2X technology offers a range of everyday convenience benefits. For example, V2X systems will integrate in the future automatic payments for tolls, parking, and similar fees. In a traditional vehicle, V2X systems can convey important information to the driver regarding inclement weather, nearby accidents and road conditions, and the dangerous activities of nearby vehicles. Similarly, in autonomous vehicles, V2X provides extra information beyond the reach of 7 3 the vehicle’s existing sensor system. As V2X use expands, its advantages will become more apparent. • Ficosa has been granted a patent on a V2X high performance antenna. This fact remarks the interest of Ficosa in supplying the OEM with fully working system solutions instead of separate parts. Intelligent Rearview Monitor System (IRMS) • During 2017, Ficosa has co-developed with Panasonic a new Intelligent Rearview Monitor Display version dedicated to LCV’s and Vans, in which currently the drivers get no central rear vision due the lack of rear windows. In this case, IRMS is bringing full rear vision to the driver, improving driving safety, providing a large horizontal and vertical field of vision for such vehicles that gets very tough and intense driving conditions in all traffic configurations. This product got immediate success in the market, Ficosa is already working with several LCV’s vehicle manufacturers, mass production being planned by 2020. Sensors and Cameras Cleaning • During 2017 Ficosa has been upgrading its product portfolio of Sensor Cleaning devices, expanding the capability to clean LIDARs and more generally all kind of sensors. This is ensuring detection systems function quality and integrity during driving. This Sensor Cleaning went into mass production during 2017 for some premium car manufacturers and will be expanded to market during coming years. 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Driver Monitoring Systems • In 2017, the company developed a driver monitoring system in order to estimate the capability of the driver in adverse situations, as fatigue. Today Ficosa has two different lines of products that detect any unsafe behavior of driver: • Somnoalert ® Driver Behavior The algorithm located in a ECU analyses existing data in CAN bus and data provided by a Lane Recognition System in order to identify inadequate driving states related with its driving quality. The system studies the driver’s degradation during a predetermined time period. • Somnoalert ® Contactless The system comprises a mono camera recording the upper body of the driver, a laptop, a respiration extraction from video algorithm and a drowsiness detection algorithm. The system analyses respiratory data in real time to estimate the driver’s degree of awareness. 7 4 Camera Monitor System (CMS) • In 2015, the company developed an electronic mirror composed of cameras and displays which implies an alternative option to the exterior rear-view mirrors of the car. This pioneering system, also known as CMS, means an authentic revolution for the automotive industry as well as an important progress towards the autonomous car. The electronic mirror offers a new safer and more comfortable driving experience through the inclusion in the vision systems of Advanced Systems Driver Assistance (ADAS), such as the traffic detection function, which provides information to the driver about the vehicles around it. Currently, Ficosa is working with an Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) on the integration of CMS, customizing it according to its requirements. Vehicle cameras and expertise in vision systems and machine vision • Ficosa offers to their customers a wide exterior and interior small size cameras covering vehicle 360 degrees, parking, mirror substitution and driver monitor. Stand-alone or in-system cameras, with low power dissipation, EMC robustness and cost optimized, covering both entry level and high performance systems and offering state of the art technology for next generation machine vision systems. These vision systems are also provided by the company through exterior and interior mirror substitution using high performance cameras optimizing video path and image quality, offering the most advanced display and ECU performance for machine vision integration with the most advanced 2D and 3D machine vision software developments. Rotary shift-by-wire system • In 2017, the company closed its first contract for rotary shift-by-wire system. The order, comes from an Asian automobile manufacturer and allows the company to add a new product to its portfolio. The company is not only providing the rotary shifter selector but the whole system, which includes the electronic control unit (ECU) and the gearbox actuator (GBA). This rotary shift-by-wire system stands out for being lightweight, just 1.35 kg, eliminating transmission vibrations and being highly intuitive for users. Plus, it provides extra safety: if the driver leaves the vehicle with the gear shift in D (Drive), the system’s ECU activates the gearbox actuator (GBA) to automatically put the transmission into P (Park). C S R R E P O R T COMMUNICATION & CONNECTIVITY The Challenge The automotive industry is undergoing a series of transition, the industry moving towards digitalization and connected mobility. While automotive digital technology has traditionally focused on optimizing the vehicle’s internal functions, attention is now being drawn to developing the car’s ability to connect with the outside world and make the care experience safer, more comfortable and more informed. In this context, Ficosa is working to create a more interconnected world. Collaboration with national and international programs ERTICO ITS Europe • The ERTICO Partnership is a public/private Partnership consisting of over a hundred companies and institutions involved in the production of Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS). Together, ERTICO Partners conduct a range of 7 5 activities to develop and deploy ITS to save lives, protect the environment and sustain mobility in the most costeffective way. What we are offering our customers Smart Connectivity Module (SCM) • Ficosa presented the latest technological developments in automobile connectivity carried out by its Advanced Communications Business Unit at the Mobile World Congress 2017 in Barcelona. The company has developed a pioneering system that allows all passengers to have connectivity simultaneously and independently. This innovative solution was created to merge Smart Connectivity Module (SCM) designed by Ficosa with one of its telematic 4G LTE connectivity modules. The new product called SCM is able to integrate into a single device the following features: 4G internet connection, Wi-Fi hotspot, Bluetooth, GPS positioning for each specific market, analogue radio services (AM/FM), digital radio (DAB) and satellite radio (SDARS). It also incorporates the mandatory emergency call in Europe (eCall) and Russia (ERA GLONASS), as well as optionally the V2X service (for communication vehicle-to-vehicle or vehicle-to-infrastructure). Rearview mirror that incorporate electronic toll function • In September 2016, Ficosa and Panasonic signed the first contract for co-developing a product. Both companies will produce an interior rearview mirror for a major European manufacturer (OEM), which will incorporate an electronic toll function that allows the automatic payment of motorway tolls without having to stop the vehicle. The project, which will last for seven years, is valued at 50 million euros and will be produced in Ficosa’s plant in Viladecavalls (Barcelona). 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A EFFICIENCY The Challenge One of the toughest environmental challenges of our time is managing the mobility of people and goods. By 2030, passenger traffic will exceed 80,000 billion passenger-kilometers—a fifty percent increase—and freight volume will grow by 70 percent globally. Globally, the number of vehicles on the road is expected to double by 2050. The reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, the progress on decarbonization economy and the expected growth in mobility in the upcoming years highlight the need for efficient and environmentally sustainable vehicle technologies. The widespread electrification of transport through the adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) is one strategy to reduce GHG emissions. Collaboration with national and international programs Electromobility hub • The company wants to turn Viladecavalls Technological Centre into a Technological Electromobility Hub where the different components needed by the Hybrid and Electric vehicles can be developed and validated. The objective of this Hub is to develop and validate products for the European market as well as for the emerging Chinese market. • The deployment of all these products are part of a long-term strategy of Ficosa. For this reason, the development 7 6 will be carried out in different phases. During the first phase, Ficosa will be focused on three products: Battery Management Controllers: Devices to control the HV Battery and the energy flow from it. HV Junction Box : Safety device that disconnects the HV battery from the rest of the vehicle system On board charger: Charger integrated into the vehicle that transforms the alternating current of the electrical grid into direct current to charge the HV Battery. Alise Consortium • Ficosa is participating in the ALISE consortium. ALISE is a pan European collaboration focused on the development and commercial scale-up of new materials and on the understanding of the electrochemical processes involved in the lithium sulphur technology. In this collaboration, Ficosa is working on the development of the full Battery Pack, using the Li-Ion modules developed. The Battery will include a Battery Management System (BMS) adapted to the new LiS chemistry developed during the project. 3Ccar • Ficosa participates in the European collaborative project 3Ccar founded by the ECSEL Joint Undertaking. The 3CCar solution brings together a consortium of 50 partners from 11 countries covering the complete value chain from the semiconductor supplier up to the vehicle manufacturer. The main goals are improving the efficiency and reducing the complexity of the electric vehicles control architecture and its subsystems. In this project, Ficosa is working on a new concept of On-Board-Charger (OBC) for optimizing the manufacturing and materials costs, while improving volume, weight and reliability. C S R R E P O R T RIS3CAT (Research and Innovation Strategies for Smart Specialization) • Through the Notecar project, Ficosa is working on a new concept of OBC for high-voltage electric and hybrid vehicles batteries. The main objective is to minimize the device and simplify its industrialization. The new concept will be offered to manufacturers who are interested in improving the current technology, and will serve as a basis for the development of new devices for different sectors, such as the renewable energies. This project is in line with the Greentronics project and the working group called Eco-mobility created through the RIS3CAT R&D Strategy and leaded by Ficosa. CAR-NET (Cooperative Automotive Research Network) • The Cooperative Automotive Research Network, initiated by SEAT, Volkswagen Group Research and Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya (UPC), is an open hub for industrial and academic partners from the areas of automotive and mobility research & innovation. Ficosa is a member of this knowledge hub for automotive science and technology, focused on urban mobility, and based in Barcelona. Its ambition is to become a benchmark in this 7 7 area, in close alliance with European counterparts. CARNET is a cooperation platform for the mobility industry, local universities and institutional partners that has the following strategic goals: a) Organizing urban mobility activities in Barcelona b) Contributing to strengthening the automotive sector in Spain, and Catalonia in particular c) Recruiting proactively for the automotive industry d) Networking to seek international research funding (in cooperation with international partners) What we are offering our customers Battery Management System • Ficosa has been developing jointly with german OEM’s the new generation of Battery Management System. The focus areas of the e-mobility lay mainly in efficient and reliable high-voltage energy control. On-Board Charger System • The company is working on the promotion of a new integrated concept of On-Board Charger (OBC) with Panasonic. The OBC is a system that is able to provide energy to charge Electric/Hybrid vehicles batteries, such as cars, buses or motorbikes. The technology under development fits on AC network as well as DC infrastructure. 2 0 1 7 F I C O S A Appendix 1 – OHSQE policy The policy of integrated management of the company is based on With this aim, the Direction affirms the compromise and responsibility the compromise of Upper Management and the participation of all with the implementation, maintenance and continuous improvement the staff in order to ensure the continuous improvement of their of an integrated system of management, based on: labor. It must be communicated and understood by all the Company and reviewed periodically. It must be of interested parties domain. It must be appropriate to the nature of our Company (activities, products and services). 1. The values and philosophy of operations of the organization, established clearly in the MISSION, are the guidelines 7 8 for each member of Ficosa. 2. Ficosa permanently believes that each product and project developed for our customers shall fulfil and exceed their expectations of time, quality, safety and cost. 3. The company firmly believes that the excellence in each project and product are achieved with the participation of all the people that constitutes Ficosa. The maintenance of the daily enthusiasm and the imposition of challenges of permanent improvement are clues for this purpose and a responsibility for each leader. 4. Occupational health and safety is a fundamental part of our work; that is the reason why we compromise to support and fulfil the policies and regulations related to the preservation of our personnel health. 5. The development of our Company must be guided toward the continual improvement of our work (in occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy efficiency). It is our obligation to improve every day the effectiveness of our Integrated System. 6. The respect for nature and the observance of the universally declared principles of pollution prevention and control shall be kept as a frame of reference for the development of our activities. The development of our organization can and must walk alongside the preservation of the environment and the mitigation and adaptation to climate change, as well as towards energy management. 7. The environmental questions are a common problematic, therefore, each of the internal members (workers and collaborators) and external members (suppliers and subcontractors) have the right and the moral obligation to participate in their implantation and to collaborate in their maintenance. 8. Ficosa has a framework where the establishment of objectives and goals for occupational health and safety, quality and environment, as well as the availability of information, resources, acquisition of efficient products and services. The review of these objectives is a high priority function in the development of our Company. These objectives must be based on the requirements of the interested parts, established in the MISSION. 9. The fulfilment of the current legislation and regulation regarding occupational health and safety, quality, environment and energy for Ficosa. We include in this section any other requirement. C S R R E P O R T Ficosa reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this third CSR report, Ficosa describes its actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into its business strategy, culture and daily operations. 7 9 2 0 1 7 Grupo FICOSA Gran Vía Carlos III, 98 08028 Barcelona (Spain) Tel + 34 93 216 34 00 Fax + 34 93 490 10 63 www.ficosa.com
