Our Contribution To Social, Environmental & Economic Sustainability 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Table of Contents Message from the CEO .......................................................... 3 About GLOBAL CSR ................................................................ 4 Social Sustainability ............................................................... 6 Environmental Sustainability ............................................... 12 Economic Sustainability ....................................................... 14 2 performance in 2017. The report also includes our objectives M ESSAGE FROM THE CEO for the future. Our purpose is to promote sustainable development. It is important to GLOBAL CSR that we continuously As a given, we act in accordance with the principles contribute to, whilst managing adverse impacts on, we advise clients to apply. We believe that the internationally agreed principles for sustainable social, internationally agreed upon principles for sustainable environmental and economic development. We continue to development add needed quality to the field of CSR. use the UN Global Compact (UNGC) framework, the UN The Principles-Based Approach to CSR enables us to Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) address impacts in areas essential to sustainable and the OECD Guidelines to provide for a consistent and social, environmental and economic development. The transparent system for managing adverse CSR impacts. We management system designed by the UN Guiding seek to influence the UNGC to maintain focus on the Principles from 2011 provides for cost-efficient and minimum standard as an essential part UNGC’s efforts to scalable approaches to manage adverse impacts on promote the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). the internationally agreed principles. We intend to Whereas the latter goals are important, however, they cannot maintain our leadership position in the field ensuring be used for holding businesses accountable. that fulfilling our purpose is also profitable. To put the principles into practice, we rely on the enthusiasm, It is my pleasure to present our 7 th Corporate Social creativity and inspiration of our clients, associates and Responsibility (CSR) report on our efforts during 2017. relationships inspiring other businesses to implement the GLOBAL CSR was established as a consultancy in 1998. As UNGPs / OECD Guidelines in a practical one of the first professional advisors on CSR worldwide we and pragmatic manner. continue to optimise the social, environmental and economic impacts of our business. The report describes our top Sune Skadegaard Thorsen, CEO priorities for action and provides information on our 3 A BOUT GLOBAL CSR O U R W ORK GLOBAL CSR is a privately owned consultancy firm located in GLOBAL CSR assists and advises corporations in developing Copenhagen, Denmark. As a leading Corporate Social and implementing strategies in line with internationally Responsibility (CSR) consultancy firm, we specialise in recognised principles covering the triple bottom line. We creating sustainable solutions for private companies, public named this “the Principles-Based Approach to CSR”. authorities and organisations in a range of countries and We have more than 20 years of practice in CSR and have industries. Since 1998, GLOBAL CSR has carried out advised many of the leading corporations in the world on assignments in all parts of the world. CSR. GLOBAL CSR is recognised as leading experts on the Our goal is to continue to develop innovative and costapplication of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and effective solutions and tools to address impacts on Human Rights, referencing the International Bill of Human sustainability, enabling our customers to fully benefit from Rights, as the basis of CSR activities in relation to social their investments in CSR. Our primary goal in these years is sustainability. to leverage best practices in meeting the globally agreed minimum standard for managing adverse impact on social Integrity is pivotal to the way we do business. We offer advice sustainability – i.e. the UNGPs. that leads to long term sustainable solutions for our customers and society. Furthermore, we only support CSR GLOBAL CSR has experience working with the full cycle of activities that genuinely manage their adverse impacts on CSR implementation from pre-assessment, impact sustainable development. assessments, risk & opportunity analyses, vision statements, strategies, policies (policy commitment), capacity development, project design, action planning, implementation (prevention, mitigation and remediation), responsible sourcing, responsible investments, responsible distribution and accounting (both on the ground in form of 4 tracking performance and communicating and annual GLOBAL CSR will run a profitable business by: reporting). In addition, our team has vast experience in • Performing work for sustainable development based on evaluating both corporate and public programmes. the Triple Bottom Line: social, environmental and Our comprehensive understanding of business realities in economic sustainability. most sectors and for all sizes of businesses allows us to fully • Inspiring and assisting corporations, governments and address the needs and wishes of our clients. organisations in developing and implementing responsible business conduct and thereby creating shared value O UR V I SI ON qualified by international principles. • Maintaining high professional integrity while delivering We envision a world of social, environmental and economic innovative, cost-effective and simple solutions, which abundance and sustainability; in which all human beings create value for our customers. enjoy the full realisation of their human rights in appreciation of their diversity. A world where businesses live by principles essential to co-creating a brighter future for our planet, for humanity – and for economic development. O UR M I S SI ON GLOBAL CSR’s mission is to be a catalyst for positive social development. We enjoy the ability to function as a preferred partner in advising corporations, governments, multilateral organisations and non-governmental organisations on how to make core international principles for sustainable development operational and manageable. 5 S OCIAL S USTAINABILITY New Practices on Human Rights Impact Assessment With the UNGPs, new practices around Human Rights Impact With the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Assessments need to be developed. To our knowledge no pre-2011 endorsed in June 2011, the world’s businesses received an practices or tools were aligned with the UNGPs. GLOBAL CSR has conducted extensive research in the area since 1998. The UNGPs authoritative globally recognized reference point for require companies to assess impacts on all 48 human rights from the respecting human rights, including the core labour rights. International Bill of Human Rights (UNGP 12). When conducting the assessment on all 48 rights in all business units, we are expected to engage – as a minimum – with affected stakeholders (UNGP 18). The UNGPs describe what should be expected from any GLOBAL CSR reviewed the few publicly available assessments. It appears that companies seek to meet the new requirements by business in the world in terms of managing adverse impacts applying pre-2011 approaches. As an example, some assessments on human rights, i.e. the rights that are also referenced in seek to predetermine the scope to a few human rights only (typically labour rights, thereby addressing impacts on max. 8-12 human the first 6 principles of the UN Global Compact. rights). Some assessments combine limiting the scope of rights with a preconceived notion of typical human rights impacts from a certain ‘business function’, in addition to assessing impacts from a limited This Communication on Progress (CoP) demonstrates how number of business functions only. Finally, some assessments focus GLOBAL CSR implements the UNGPs, thus ensuring respect attention to pre-defined issues involving human rights aspects, such as migration, land issues, etc., rather than adopting a rights-based for human rights in the organisation. We hope to inspire other approach. businesses that are about to do the same. Also GLOBAL CSR is concerned that very large corporations appear to outsource the entire assessment to experts like us. Considering that In addition we will outline where we work beyond compliance, assessments have to take place in all operational units and with regular intervals, such practice will not be sustainable. Focus should contributing to fulfilling specific human rights principles. be oriented towards local capacity development to conduct assessments. Companies need to develop capacity locally, empowering local management to take responsibility and ownership of the process. To support this purpose, GLOBAL CSR developed a Human Rights Impact Assesment tool in 2014 that companies can use to conduct assessments of their own and this year we went further by developning a new Human Rights Due Diligence (HRDD) tool. The updated version of the tool will be launched in 2018. Thus, local capacity can be developed using this tool ensuring sustainability in corporate practices. www.csrCloud.com 6 CSR C OMPLI A NCE in 2016 and will be a step towards more companies meeting the process requirements in the UNGPs. Basic human rights principles are essential for the dignity, GLOBAL CSR also implements the UNGPs. We have well-being and development of all people, which are essential embedded a commitment to respect all human rights for conducting and expanding business. Ensuring respect for throughout our organization, and we continuously work with human rights is good for business. ‘Respecting human rights’ our customers and other relationships to enable them to do for business is now defined by having in place a management the same. We did not cause or contribute to any severe system that, as a minimum, meets the standard outlined by adverse impacts in 2017. the UNGPs. In short, the UNGPs enable all businesses to know their potential and actual adverse impacts and to show what We are advising several large companies around the world. they are doing to address such impacts. Thus, we are directly linked to severe potential and actual adverse impacts on human rights. We are using our leverage All companies regardless of where they operate will have both as advisors to establish solid systems implementing the potential and actual adverse human rights impacts. UNGPs, and whenever we identify severe human rights Additionally, all companies have experiences managing such impacts through our work or such impacts are otherwise impacts; e.g. efforts to create safe and healthy working brought to our knowledge, we provide – confidential advice conditions. We are now expected to identify potential and addressing such impacts. Our legal privilege, as registered actual impacts, and show what we do to manage such attorney, enables us to keep such information confidential. impacts this in relation to all human rights; not just the right to safe and healthy working conditions. In addition we have identified less severe potential adverse impacts on 25 human rights – of 48 human rights where we During 2014-2017 GLOBAL CSR created the Human Rights take action to prevent and mitigate such adverse impacts. Impact Assessment (HRIA) tool based on the feedback provided by our clients using the tool. The tool was launched 7 Policy Commitment Due Diligence Process In all our activities we seek to identify potential and actual The first step of the due diligence process is identification of adverse impacts on all 48 human rights included in the potential and actual adverse impacts. We are continuously in International Bill of Human Rights. In addition we dialogue with all our employees and our clients for the continuously seek to influence our relationships, primarily our identification process. The list below provides an overview of clients, to respect human rights as well. rights where potential adverse impacts were identified by our firm. Whenever actual adverse impacts are identified in our value chains, where we did not cause or contribute to such impacts, • 2. Right to non-discrimination • 8.b Right to adequate clothing • 3. Right to work • 9. Right to health we intend to use our leverage to make the party or parties • 4.a Right to equal pay for • 11.a Right to take part in equal work cultural life that are causing or contributing to such impacts act in • 4.b Right to a living wage • 11.b Right to benefit from accordance with the UNGPs. • 4.c Right to safe and healthy scientific progress working conditions • 11.c Right to material gains • 4.d Right to equal from inventions opportunities for everyone to • 11.d Moral rights of authors Our commitment to human rights is evident throughout the be promoted • 12. Right to life • 4.e Right to rest, leisure, and • 23. Right to privacy organisation. On a daily basis we communicate to our paid holidays • 24. Right to freedom of employees and assist business relations on how to respect • 5. Right to form and join trade thought, conscience and unions and the right to strike religion human rights in alignment with the UNGPs. The publication • 6. Right to social security, • 25.a Right to freedom of including social insurance opinion “Human Rights Explained for business” provides an • 7.a Right to protection of • 25.b Right to freedom of mothers before and after expression accessible way to understand the 48 human rights from the childbirth • 29. Right to protection of the • 7.b Right to children's and family and the right to marry International Bill of Human Rights in a business context. The young people's protection from • 31. Right to participate in book is now used in all of our client relations and meetings to exploitation public affairs • 8.a Right to adequate food and improve their general understanding of the full range of its fair distribution human rights that need to be addressed when implementing the UNGPs. 8 GLOBAL CSR regularly conducts Human Rights Impact Remediation Assessments. This is achieved by engaging our employees In 2017 GLOBAL CSR experienced no legal or professional while accommodating the UNGPs criteria of meaningful conduct actions. participation of the potentially affected stakeholders in identifying adverse impacts. The assessments also serve as B E YOND CSR C OMPLI A NCE a way to further develop employees’ capacities on the UNGPs and human rights. Where potential adverse impacts are We recognise that knowledge is our primary resource. The identified employees are asked to present ideas for success of our business depends on our knowledge and addressing such impacts effectively. competencies and our abilities to communicate this knowledge. It is important for GLOBAL CSR to continuously The exercise of identifying and assessing was executed using improve our competencies on CSR and sustainable GLOBAL CSR’s own Human Rights Due Diligence tool – development in theory as well as in practice. It is also www.csrCloud.com. Fully aligned with the UNGPs, the tool important for us to share our knowledge, support the enables us to conduct and update our Human Rights Impact development of the CSR field to find better, more costAssessments across the organisation. The identified potential efficient and innovative ways to address global challenges in and actual adverse impacts on 25 different human rights are relation to social sustainability. Two key principles of social continuously addressed and we measure the effectiveness of sustainability, which we promote through our know-how and our efforts. We have not received complaints on adverse products are: (i) The right to education and (ii) freedom of impacts in 2017. information. ” We are experts in identifying both challenges and opportunities through direct application of the globally agreed principles for sustainable development.” 9 As a consultancy firm we assist corporations that are both remains to be awareness and capacity development. Because experienced within the field of CSR as well as corporations of our competencies and position in the field, we recognise that have only just begun addressing their societal impacts the important role GLOBAL CSR can play in addressing this in a structured manner. Our services also span across global challenge. borders, when we provide services to international The greatest global challenge in implementing the UNGPs corporations. “Limited capacity is a far greater obstacle to rapid progress in We advise clients to address CSR with their business business and human rights than we tend to acknowledge; it’s much easier to blame someone. Limited capacity affects the relations; both upstream (supply chain), downstream ability of all stakeholder groups, including governments, (distribution) and in investments. By assisting our clients to businesses, NGOs and the UN system to play their necessary strategically focus on contributions, while complying with the roles.” John Ruggie, December 4th, 2012, UN Forum, Geneva globally agreed minimum standard for social sustainability, we ensure that CSR efforts optimise shared value in the best way possible. We are experts in identifying both challenges In 2017 GLOBAL CSR gave presentations at numerous and opportunities through direct application of the globally national as well as international seminars, workshops, agreed principles for sustainable development. trainings and debates on CSR with a special emphasis on In an effort to contribute to sustainable development, we developing capacity and awareness on the UNGPs. In addition share our knowledge by teaching and by advising GLOBAL CSR continues to invest and focus heavily on organisations and initiatives that are key players in the developing tools for businesses: continued development of CSR. • GLOBAL CSR has concentrated its resources on capacity Capacity development on UNGPs and human rights development and training in the UNGPs and human rights; while targeting corporations, we also engage government civil society, academia and CSR experts. During 2017, we One of the greatest challenges ahead in globally scaling up informed and trained more than 500 individuals in the the responsibility to respect human rights among businesses 10 UNGPs, including app. 60 corporate representatives that and to manage its business relationships; e.g. suppliers in received in-depth training. collaboration with corporate relationships. See • The guide “Constructive Campaigning” continues to www.csrCloud.com. provide information to clients and is used within the NGO • GLOBAL CSR continues to offer its three capacity community, who also contribute by distributing the guide developing one day workshops: ‘UNGPs Compliance Lab’, to others to help spread our message further. ‘Human Rights Impact Assessment Lab’ and ‘Responsible • GLOBAL CSR’s e-learning platform, learnCSR, has Supply Chain Management Lab’ in alignment with the continued to receive great feedback and has in 2017 been UNGPs. a popular tool for its ability to train many people in an GLOBAL CSR regularly participates in public debates on effective, flexible and cost-efficient manner; see business and human rights and on principles-based approach www.learncsr.com. to CSR. We regularly publish articles and participate in • GLOBAL CSR continues to promote and sell our booklet, national and international working groups related to the 10 “Human Rights Explained – for business”. The booklet UNGC principles, the UNGPs and CSR. We devote time to provides employees and managers with basic engage in debates as we believe this brings added value to understanding of all 48 human rights contained in the our clients and to society. International Bill of Human Rights. Concrete scenarios on adverse impacts, the application of the UNGPs and positive Thus, continuing to promote social sustainability, and in contributions demonstrate the relevance of all rights in a particular, the UNGPs is an ongoing objective for GLOBAL business context. “Human Rights Explained – for CSR and an area where we can make a difference. business” is an important tool for businesses seeking to respect human rights and can be purchased from GLOBAL CSR. • GLOBAL CSR has in 2014-2017 developed an online Human Rights Impact Assessment Tool. The tool enables business to assess own adverse impacts on human rights 11 E NVIRONMENTAL S USTAINABILITY Due diligence We continuously seek to reduce our environmental impacts Companies of every size and type have adverse impacts on by always using the most environmentally friendly means of the environment through their business operations and transportation. All our executives and employees cycle, use activities. When preventing and mitigating our adverse public transportation, or carpool as the predominant means impacts on the environment we address the subject areas of transportation. When possible we have meetings through covered by UN Global Compact’s principles 7-9. video and teleconferences, to minimise our use of air travel. CSR C OMPLI A NCE Our e-learning platform, learnCSR has allowed us to decrease the environmental impact of our company and our “All our executives and employees cycle, use public clients. Our consultants and course participants can avoid transportation, or carpool as the predominant travelling to specific locations to participate in lessons, and means of transportation.” they can enjoy the latest learning technology and knowledge regarding social sustainability and anti-corruption regardless Policy of time or space. Several thousand employees have already been trained through learnCSR constituting a significant GLOBAL CSR supports and strives to demonstrate CO2 abatement. environmental responsibility through our work, as well as internally in our business. We aim to minimise our negative Nonetheless, being a consultancy that serves clients around environmental impacts and where possible enhance our the world, we cannot eliminate air travel. Our physical positive environmental impacts. Our external contribution to presence is often needed as part of our work. Ensuring high environmental sustainability stems from assisting businesses quality service often requires that we perform onsite in minimising their negative environmental impacts on the assessments of clients’ operations and branches. Change planet. management and capacity development are essential 12 components of our work and both require interpersonal In 2017, we assisted our clients in meeting the growing communication and presence. environmental challenges, requirements and expectations that they face today. We endeavour to maintain and expand our position as frontrunners in the field of CSR. This requires that we We work in cooperation with strategic partners that are participate in debates to develop the field, which often leading experts on environmental sustainability. We have involves presenting at international conferences. Thus, the advised clients to perform environmental impact bulk of our CO2 emissions stems from international air travel. assessments, life cycle assessments, carbon and water footprint assessments. Remediation In addition, we have participated in seminars and workshops, as well as facilitated and held several seminars and GLOBAL CSR will collaborate with public authorities and other workshops on, for instance, the cradle to cradle and circular partners, if we identify any major adverse impacts on the economy concepts, as part of raising public awareness and environment. No such events were identified in 2017. meeting the growing need for education on CSR and the B E YOND CSR C OMPLI A NCE business case for being environmentally responsible. GLOBAL CSR works to promote environmental sustainability T H E F U TU RE C H A LLE NG E S A ND W ORK W I TH with our clients. In 2017, GLOBAL CSR assessed and advised E NV I RONME NTA L S U S TA I NA BI LI TY several Danish and international clients on principles 7-9 of the UNGC into their core business operations. These three It is our goal for 2018-2019 to expand our Human Rights Due principles serve to support precautionary approaches to Diligence tool to include both environmental and economic environmental challenges, to undertake new initiatives on sustainability. environmental responsibility and to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 13 E CONOMIC S USTAINABILITY Due diligence Corporations seek to incorporate their contributions to GLOBAL CSR is a value based company and we are proactive sustainable development into their core business strategies, in encouraging positive norms and values amongst our while ensuring that no functions have adverse impacts. employees and business relations. We are also a financially Besides focusing on making a profitable business, economic transparent company and seek to foster an open and sustainability also means ensuring that we do not have transparent culture internally in the organisation. In addition negative impacts on the economy particularly in relation to to having an external accountant, we communicate about our corruption and bribery. budget internally amongst all employees. We consider these practices to be proportionate to our size and the risks that CSR C OMPLI A NCE the company faces. We are aware that we run higher risks when operating abroad “GLOBAL CSR is a value based company and we are in markets where bribery is commonplace, compared to proactive in encouraging positive norms and values Denmark. Thus we are diligent in communicating our values amongst our employees and business relations.” as the basis for doing business; and making sure to build business relationships based on trust and common Policy commitment understanding. GLOBAL CSR has a zero tolerance stance on bribery and corruption in the business and in relations with our clients and partners. In line with UN Global Compact’s principle 10, we work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and facilitation payments. We are committed to apply definitions from internationally recognised instruments, such as the UN Convention referenced by the Global Compact’s principle 10. 14 Remediation T H E F U TU RE C H A LLE NG E S A ND W ORK W I TH The risks of being involved with corruption and bribery vary E CONOMI C S U S TA I NA BI LI TY from one business culture to the next. GLOBAL CSR has developed two e-learning modules on anti-corruption, ‘AntiGLOBAL CSR intends to continue to participate in and corruption for employees’ and ‘Anti-corruption for managers’, contribute to both national and international debates on the as tools to build capacity with businesses and employees in establishment of viable international principles for business achieving a corruption free business environment; see to apply when planning and executing tax payments for www.learnCSR.com. international operations. B E YOND CSR C OMPLI A NCE Also, GLOBAL CSR continues to develop practical solutions for applying the UN Guiding Principles in Socially Responsible Whereas corporate economic responsibility initiatives need Investments (SRI). We screen companies before only to address the international principles on antiinvestments, and, moreover, we assist corporations that corruption, we also advise our clients in relation to good invest in businesses to ensure that their acquired companies corporate governance and the up-coming issue of sustainable meet the minimum standard for responsible business tax payments. conduct. The UNGPs provide a standardised reference point, thus reducing costs for investors while contributing to scaling Through our work we contribute to the elimination of up the corporate responsibility to respect human rights. corruption, as we advise clients on corporate economic responsibilities and opportunities. In cooperation with our ‘Our contribution’ is published in English only and will be strategic partners we help our clients implement the 10th permanently available for download on unglobalcompact.org. For principle of the UNGC strategically into their businesses. feedback or further information, please contact us at info@globalcsr.net or +45 44 99 55 06. 15
