UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Period covered 1 January to 31 December 2017 Date submitted to UN Global Compact website 3 May 2018 UN Global Compact 1 Communication on Progress About us Statement from the Chief Executive We are a UK financial services provider with around 27 million Our strategy is to be the best bank for customers, colleagues customers and a presence in nearly every community. and shareholders. As a UK focused bank, our success is Our main business activities are retail and commercial banking, inextricably linked to the UK economy, which is why we remain general insurance and long-term savings, provided under well committed to our purpose to help Britain prosper. Operating recognised brands including Lloyds Bank, Halifax, Bank of Scotland sustainably and responsibly is integral to creating long-term and Scottish Widows. value and helping people, businesses and communities across Our active supply base comprises approximately 4,000 suppliers, the UK. the majority of which are in professional services sectors and are located in the UK, other European countries or North America. I am pleased to reaffirm Lloyds Banking Group’s support More information about the Group and our strategy is available of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the 2017 Annual Report. in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. This second Communication on Progress shares Our purpose an update on the progress we have made in integrating the principles into our business strategy, culture and Our purpose is to help Britain prosper. We are creating a responsible daily operations. business that better meets our customers’ needs and a culture where our colleagues put customers first. This is key to our long-term success I look forward to providing you with a further update on our and to fulfilling our aim to become the best bank for customers, progress in 2019. colleagues and shareholders. Yours sincerely,  Find it fast Human Rights Page 2 António Horta-Osório Labour Page 6 Group Chief Executive Environment Page 12 Anti-Corruption Page 16 2 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 3 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress 1. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 4 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 5 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress Our approach to human rights We aspire to conduct business in a way that values and We aim to align our activities and policies with Our Code of Responsibility provides clear guidelines respects the human rights of our colleagues, customers, international best practice and recognised standards. for doing business fairly and responsibly, in line with Outcomes suppliers and those of the communities in which we We adhere to the United Nations (‘UN’)Declaration of our Group Values: putting customers first; making a operate. We understand that the financial system has Human Rights as well as the rules and regulations of each difference together; and keeping it simple. The Code ➔➔ During 2017, colleagues reported 372 a unique interaction with human rights and we have country in which we operate. As signatories to the UN encourages colleagues to report, through Speak Up or Speak Up concerns, of which 181 were policies and governance processes in place to mitigate Global Compact, we align with its ten principles and also to the Group’s Colleague Conduct Management team, progressed to investigation. 57% of the associated risks. support the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and any actions that are unsafe, unethical, unlawful, or not in Human Rights which we use as a framework to understand concerns investigated were upheld and line with Group Policies. We revised the Code in 2017 In 2015, we welcomed the UK Modern Slavery Act and our human rights impacts, to define our responsibility and remedial action taken where appropriate and it will be subject to a further annual review in 2018. are committed to doing business responsibly and taking approach to respect human rights, and to guide the All employees are required to review the Code and meaningful steps to ensure that workers’ fundamental development of our Human Rights Policy Statement. complete Speak Up (whistleblowing) training every year ➔➔ Zero cases identified of human rights rights and freedoms are respected. We have a zero In addition, we support the UN’s wider development as part of the mandatory training curriculum. After abuses in 2017 tolerance approach to slavery, trafficking or forced labour agenda through the UN Sustainable Development Goals. training they are expected to understand their ➔➔ No reported incidents of human rights in any part of our business or supply chain. You can read For information on the more specific labour standards responsibilities and to adhere to them every day. more about our approach in our 2017 Anti-Slavery and that we comply with, please refer to the Labour section breaches, slavery or trafficking from our Trafficking Statement. in this report. Our Code of Supplier Responsibility highlights the suppliers in 2017 importance we place on respect for human rights across “We have a zero tolerance approach We understand that human rights encompass more than all our business relationships. We expect our suppliers to ➔➔ Annual Anti-Money Laundering mandatory just the individual and take into account social, ethical have their own whistleblowing policy and facility but training completed by 98% of colleagues to slavery, trafficking or forced and environmental issues in our investment, lending and suppliers and their workers can also report any incidents in 2017. This training included references to service operations. Our corporate governance structure through our confidential Speak Up line. labour in any part of our business ensures that colleagues are supported to work human trafficking as a predicate crime and or supply chain.” responsibly and manage risk effectively. This structure An independent supplier, Expolink, manages the Speak provided a specific modern slavery case includes our Board and our Board-level Responsible Up line and we have worked with Expolink to ensure that, if instances of modern slavery or other human rights study as an example Business Committee. It extends to every part of our abuses are reported, they would be identified, and business through our Group Executive Committee effectively and sensitively investigated. ➔➔ Introductory training was rolled out to and Executive-level Committees. We have a number all Group Sourcing colleagues on the of internal policies and procedures that reflect our commitment to operating responsibly and ethically requirements of the Modern Slavery both at a business and an individual level. These include Act and the risks of slavery and human our Group Policies including our Ethics and Responsible trafficking. The content from this training Business, Colleague, Sourcing, Speak Up and Anti-Bribery is also available for colleagues to replay Policies, and our Code of Responsibility and Code of Supplier Responsibility. and to download for future reference ➔➔ A mandatory e-learning course for Supplier Managers, which includes content on modern slavery and human trafficking ➔➔ Modern slavery and human trafficking masterclass sessions were delivered to specialist Financial Crime colleagues and Lloyds, Halifax and Bank of Scotland branch colleagues 6 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 7 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress 2. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 8 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 9 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress Our approach to labour At Lloyds Banking Group, our efforts to be a responsible business require building a culture on integrity and “We do not tolerate discrimination The Code addresses seven specific issues, including Our suppliers are also asked to comply with specific human rights and labour issues, and details the Third Party Supplier Policies, where applicable to the respect. We have a zero tolerance policy approach to in respect to employment and expectations we place on our suppliers and those in their services they provide to the Group. We include our all forms of discrimination, slavery, trafficking or forced labour in any part of our business or supply chain and occupation. We recognise that supply chains. Our expectations are that suppliers: standard modern slavery clauses in our supplier contracts and purchase orders’ standard terms and conditions. our commitment to respect labour rights is guided by the everyone is different and we are ➔➔ Respect the human rights of their employees and We go through an escalation and sign off process with United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation’s Core Labour working hard to build an inclusive comply with all relevant legislation, regulations and the business to consider the risks of any particular supply directives in the countries and communities where contract from which these are removed. These clauses Standards and its Tripartite Declaration of Principles. bank that reflects the diversity of they operate seek to manage modern slavery risks and ensure that As outlined in the human rights section of this report, modern Britain.” we receive appropriate information on suppliers’ supply ➔➔ Prohibit forced labour (slavery) and human trafficking chains and organisations, including copies of their we have a number of internal policies and procedures in their supply chain and give their employees the Building on our risk assessments undertaken in 2016, modern slavery statements, if applicable. that reflect our commitment to operating responsibly right and ability to leave employment if they choose and ethically. Our Code of Responsibility applies to all where we sought to understand the level of risk in our Our suppliers have a contractual obligation under our colleagues, contractors and temporary employees and supply chain and found that the majority of our direct ➔➔ Prohibit child labour standard modern slavery clauses to ensure compliance provides an overarching framework to ensure the highest suppliers represent a low risk for modern slavery and with all applicable laws that apply to their supply of possible standards of behaviour each and every day, human rights abuses, in 2017 we mapped our supply ➔➔ Ensure that wages meet legally mandated minimums without unauthorised deductions goods and services to us, regardless of the jurisdiction including in relation to diversity and inclusion. They chains to assess risk in particular geographies and in which they operate. This includes the Modern Slavery also set out the Group’s commitment to colleague sectors. Over 70% cent of our external supplier spend is in ➔➔ Allow their employees to exercise their legal right to Act and any local legislation that is aimed at combating remuneration, and health and wellbeing. low risk sectors, such as management consultancy, legal, organise and join associations (such as trade unions) modern slavery. HR, IT, marketing and communication. The remaining We do not tolerate discrimination in respect of spend is in operations, property and travel, and customer ➔➔ Provide clear and uniformly applied disciplinary and In 2017, to raise employees’ awareness of this priority employment and occupation. We recognise that everyone products. 94% of our direct suppliers are located in the grievance procedures including prohibiting mental, area for our business, we developed and delivered the is different and we are working hard to build an inclusive UK, 4% in other European countries, 1% in North America physical or verbal abuse four training courses described in the outcomes section bank that reflects the diversity of modern Britain. Our and the remaining 1% in other countries, including India, on pages 4 and 5. In addition, we delivered: Group Inclusion & Diversity strategy is focused on the Israel and Hong Kong. According to the Global Slavery ➔➔ Ensure working hours are in accordance with local areas of gender, ethnicity, disability, LGBT and agility regulation and industry practice and voluntary Index 2016, 99% of our suppliers are in geographies that ➔➔ Guidance on modern slavery risks which is available with each area sponsored by individual Group Executive overtime is at a manageable level are considered low risk for modern slavery. Whilst we through our online supplier management portal Committee members. recognise that we are not immune to the risks of human rights abuse, we consider the risks to be considerably less ➔➔ Through our membership of Transparency In our internal operations, our Pre-employment Vetting International (TI), and in order to raise external than if these suppliers were located in other jurisdictions policy and Group Wide Vetting Standards, apply to all awareness of the links between tackling modern or sectors. permanent and non-permanent employees that we slavery and anti-bribery, colleagues from our Financial recruit, including temporary staff and contractors. The In 2017 we amended our Code of Supplier Responsibility, Crime team delivered a presentation in November Pre-employment Vetting process upholds our respect for which defines what we expect from our suppliers in order 2017 to fellow TI members labour rights. It includes the review of individuals’ proof of to ensure responsible sourcing is integral to the way we identity, address, and right to work in the UK. do business. We simplified the format of the Code and revised the content to distinguish more clearly between what is expected from suppliers and what they are encouraged to do. We expect all suppliers to conform to the Code and provide us with evidence to demonstrate their approach to responsible business issues. 10 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 11 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress We want to ensure that every colleague feels valued As a founder member of a group of leading employers We offer a guaranteed interview scheme for candidates and empowered to thrive. The Group has approximately supporting workforce agility in the UK, we have been who declare a disability and meet the minimum 68,000 employees and recognition agreements with looking closely at ways to become more agile as an requirements of the role. We continue to run a Disability two trade unions, Accord and Unite, which collectively organisation over the past two years. In 2017 we made Work Experience Programme in partnership with negotiate on behalf of 98% of our UK employees and further progress in this area and launched a workforce Remploy. This is one of the largest disability‑focused approximately 95% of employees worldwide. The Living agility Line Manager toolkit to help teams implement work experience initiatives in the financial services sector; Wage Foundation has accredited the Group as a Living new ways of working. At the end of 2017, approximately we have increased our number of candidates from 96 in Wage Employer and we review our pay rates annually to 41% of colleagues were working in a flexible way, 2016 to 392 in 2017. ensure minimum rates are above statutory minimum wage compared to 33% two years before. requirements. We have worked, and continue to work with Outcomes third-party contractors and suppliers to ensure that they We are committed to being a more disability confident operate in line with our commitments. We expect our employer, with 2.6% of colleagues disclosing a disability in our 2017 colleague survey. The Department for Work and ➔➔ 34% of senior roles held by women, suppliers to ensure that the wages they pay meet legally mandated minimums without unauthorised deductions. Pensions designated the Group as a Disability Confident meaning we are on track to achieve Leader for our inclusive recruitment process and in our target of 40% by 2020 We seek to enable colleagues to achieve a positive balance November, we won a ‘Nothing about us without us’ between their work and their lives outside of work and Disability Smart Award, recognising the way we gather ➔➔ Zero fines, investigations, and legal cases provide a number of opportunities, such as flexible insights about disability from colleagues, customers and connected to forced or child labour in 2017 working, to help them do this. We work to safeguard charities, and then use them to inform our decisions. As a and promote colleague wellbeing, by ensuring a member of the Business Disability Forum, we are proud to ➔➔ Rated number 1 in the Stonewall Top 100 psychologically sound working environment to help have retained our Gold accreditation in the Disability 2017 LGBT employers, and included in the prevent work-related illness and by providing support Standard. Our colleague disability network, Access, ran a Stonewall inaugural list of Transgender and health advice in times of need. We are committed to successful national event, while more than 2,300 achieving the highest standards of health and safety and colleagues completed our industry leading workplace Inclusive Employers 2018 fire protection for our colleagues, customers and anyone adjustment process. who visits our premises. ➔➔ Named the best bank in the world for We offer bespoke development programmes and diversity and inclusion by Euromoney; In 2016 we became the first UK company to include recruitment processes for colleagues and job applicants and once again, a Top 10 Employer for gender dysphoria in our Private Medical Benefit provision. with disabilities. We aim to appoint the best candidate into any role and give full and fair consideration to job Working Families, and Times Top 50 applications from those with disabilities, and we are Employer for Women unbiased in the way we assess, select, appoint, train and promote people. ➔➔ Approximately 41% of colleagues now working in a flexible way ➔➔ 89% of colleagues believe the Group is committed to being a responsible business 12 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 13 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress 3. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 14 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 15 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress Our approach to the environment As a leading provider of financial services to individual We continue to develop products and services to support We welcome the recommendations of the Financial Stakeholder engagement is fundamental to creating and business customers in the UK, we have an important customers’ transition to a lower-carbon, more resource Stability Board Taskforce on Climate-related Financial lasting environmental change. In 2017 we issued role to play in facilitating and financing the transition to efficient economy. We are helping more of our Disclosures (TCFD) and have mapped our approach to communications to colleagues on our progress and a more sustainable, low-carbon, resource efficient commercial clients to understand and manage their them. We are developing a strategy and implementing to encourage environmental good practice inside economy. Our success is linked to our environmental sustainability risks and we complete an environmental risk processes to: and outside the workplace. performance and how we respond to challenges such assessment at the start of every new client relationship. as resource scarcity, population growth and security of We have a range of responsible sourcing initiatives Key work: ➔➔ Assess the materiality of climate risk across our in place including a focus on reducing environmental energy supply. We exercise the precautionary principle business to environmental challenges which is supported by a impact in our supply chain. As a minimum, we expect range of activities to promote greater environmental ➔➔ Following the launch of the Green Loan Initiative in ➔➔ Identify and define a range of scenarios, suppliers to: responsibility and environmentally friendly products 2016, which provides clients with loans at discounted including relevant physical and transition risk and services, such as renewable technology. margins to help incentivise energy efficiency and finance investment in green buildings, the Group has ➔➔ Evaluate the business impacts ➔➔ Have a written environmental policy or statement We seek to comply with the spirit, as well as the letter in place that addresses CO2 emissions, waste provided in excess of £0.5 billion of green lending, of applicable environmental laws and regulations with improving the energy efficiency of over 5 million ➔➔ Identify potential responses to manage the risks and energy and opportunities regards to the environment. Where none exist, we set square feet of real estate. Our target is to fund ➔➔ Abide by all rules and regulations related to the ourselves appropriately high standards. We take account 5 million square feet of commercial real estate protection of the environment, the handling of More information is available on page 26 and 27 of the of environmental risks in our lending and investment to become more energy efficient by 2020, the dangerous and hazardous materials and any 2017 Annual Report and Accounts activity and actively seek to provide finance to enable equivalent of five London Shards mandatory GHG emissions reporting the transition to a more environmentally sustainable economy. Our environmental standards apply to ➔➔ At the end of 2017, our UK team had financed “Our success is linked to our ➔➔ Keep dangerous and hazardous materials to a all locations and aspects of our business. renewable projects with a combined capacity of over minimum and make Material Safety Data Sheets 2.75GW (2016: 1.78GW) and internationally our environmental performance and how available for all hazardous materials as required As a lender and pension provider we play an important existing investments in renewables exceed 8.9GW role in promoting responsible lending and investment (2016: 7.4GW). Together, the projects have a total we respond to challenges such as We also encourage suppliers to have an environmental decisions that take into account a broad range of capacity of approximately 2.4GW, which is enough to resource scarcity, population growth management system in place. environmental, social and governance factors. The power over 1.7 million homes and they will support a Group remains a signatory to the Equator Principles, the significant number of jobs across the UK through the and security of energy supply.” Stewardship Code and the UN Principles of Responsible supply chain and maintenance of the wind farms Outcomes Investment. As an active and responsible asset owner, Delivering the science-based carbon reduction and we consider our obligations during the selection, climate resilience targets set out in the Paris Agreement ➔➔ 14% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions appointment, monitoring and retention of our fund will have significant structural implications for the since 2016 managers. The management of risk for investment funds economy and the businesses and communities we serve. offered to customers by Scottish Widows is effected That is why we are evolving our Groupwide sustainability ➔➔ 4.6% reduction in energy consumption through a robust and comprehensive process, including strategy. We state publicly in our Group Environmental since 2016 our Responsible Investment Governance Framework. Statement that we will work with stakeholders to ensure In 2017 we completed an initial assessment of the we run our operations in an efficient and responsible ➔➔ 14.5% reduction in the CO2e related responsible investment capabilities of our lead asset manner – minimising waste and improving energy, water, to our business travel compared to 2016, managers and the majority of external fund managers, paper and building efficiency. This is monitored through by promoting our ‘No Travel Week’, and we launched a social bond fund in addition to the our Environmental Action Plan which sets reduction targets up until 2020. encouraging travel alternatives, and the ethical and environmental funds in our range. successful roll out of ‘WebEx’, Groupwide We also strive to reduce CO2 emissions which are mostly attributable to our consumption of gas and electricity. Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions are subject to limited ISAE 3000 (Revised) assurance by Deloitte. Deloitte’s Assurance Statement is available online. 16 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 17 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress 4. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 18 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 19 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress Approach to anti-corruption Lloyds Banking Group is at the heart of communities, All colleagues, including contractors, complete As a minimum, we expect our suppliers to: serving the financial needs of over 27 million customers in annual anti-bribery training and are encouraged to Outcomes the UK. That is a great responsibility and one that we take confidentially report any instances of suspected bribery ➔➔ Adopt a Code of Business Responsibility or similar that very seriously. We have a moral and ethical duty to act via the whistleblowing service, Speak Up, or their line covers adherence to local laws; bribery and corruption ➔➔ No fines or external legal cases involving with the highest standard of integrity and will not tolerate manager. Colleagues are also encouraged to speak out and business integrity (including improper payments, the Group during 2017 acts of bribery or corruption committed by any of our if they have any suspicions regarding violations to the conflicts of interest, fraud, competition, gifts and employees, including the Board of Directors, and any standards in our Codes of Responsibility and other hospitality and brand and intellectual property ➔➔ All colleagues completed necessary third parties who act on our behalf. Lloyds Banking Group policies and procedures. protection) mandatory training is a member of the Transparency International Business Integrity Forum. Our approach and governance is overseen by the Financial Crime Standards Committee, and Financial We measure our performance in this area on an ongoing To tackle bribery and corruption, we have policies and Crime Prevention Committee, which meet monthly to basis by looking at: procedures in place to comply with all applicable laws discuss and resolve issues in a semi-open forum. and regulation where we operate. This includes an ➔➔ Number of incidents such as those involving a Anti-Bribery Policy which prohibits the payment, offer, We have identified and developed clear position statements about sectors that feature heightened risk, colleague or supplier offering or accepting a bribe acceptance or request of any benefit which could be constructed as a bribe and takes a broad approach to which are publicly available online. These include ➔➔ Number of breaches in our policy such as risk defining corruption as misconduct associated with the defence, forestry, mining, oil and gas and power. assessments completed by businesses abuse of power for private gain. This is informed by In all sectors, which may have heightened Ethical, Guidance issued by the UK Ministry of Justice to support ➔➔ Number of completed training sessions Social & Environmental (ESE) risk, we aim to work the UK Bribery Act 2010 which applies to us wherever we with customers to: ➔➔ Number of staff in financial crime roles operate in the world. Our approach and governance is overseen by the Financial Crime Standards Committee ➔➔ Number of waivers submitted by business units ➔➔ Implement effective market-based solutions that take in relation to our Group Policy which meets monthly to discuss and resolve issues in a into account any social and environmental concerns semi-open forum. about their operations In relation to high risk sectors, businesses within the ➔➔ Operate safely and securely within a defined Group are expected to identify any higher risk sectors “We have a moral and ethical duty framework that upholds human rights or jurisdictions and implement appropriate controls to address any bribery and corruption issues identified. to act with the highest standard of ➔➔ Align their operations with the principles of this This includes enhanced due diligence and also sign off integrity and will not tolerate acts framework and with the United Nations Global from the business’ own risk area as well as a requirement Compact Framework’s labour, environment and that the Nominated Senior Manager within the business of bribery or corruption committed anti-corruption standards would be required to approve the relationship prior to by any of our employees, including any contracts or formal agreements being signed. ➔➔ Assess the long-term impact of their activities across the Board of Directors, and any third the entire supply chain and give specific consideration parties who act on our behalf.” to impacts that affect indigenous people and local communities ➔➔ Show a clear commitment to robust ESE risk management, including Health & Safety, environmental and social impact, and evidence of a good track record for transparency in the way they manage these and other risks Tell us what you think: If you have any questions regarding any aspect of this report or our approach to doing business responsibly please contact us: Responsible.Business@lloydsbanking.com Group Chief Executive’s Office Lloyds Banking Group 25 Gresham Street London EC2V 7HN @LBGNews Available in alternative formats on request.
