Better Health for a Better World ® 2017 Progress Report on Global Social Responsibility Mylan by the Numbers ~35,000 >3,000 GLOBAL R&D, Clinical, Medical WORKFORCE and Regulatory Professionals >7,500 MARKETED PRODUCTS >165 COUNTRIES AND TERRITORIES >4,000 ~1,800 patents fileD globally PRODUCTS PENDING APPROVAL 47 10 2 MANUFACTURING technology-focused GLOBAL FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT sites R&D CENTERS ~69B ~$12B DOSES SOLD IN REVENUES 17¢ per dose no single product generates more than the average selling price of our medicines in 2017 ~4% of total revenueS Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 2 Table of Contents About This Report 4 01 Introduction Message From Our CEO 6 About Mylan 7 The Pharmaceutical Industry 9 } Mylan’s Business Model 12 02 Better Patient Health 15 Better 03 Better Customer Health 30 04 Better Partner Health 36 Health for a } 05 Better Employee Health 41 06 Better Environmental Health 47 07 Better Community Health 53 Better 08 Better Industry Health 58 09 Better Shareholder Health 67 World Appendix 75 Global Reporting Initiative Content Table 87 Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 3 About This Report We are pleased to provide our 2017 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report. It is intended to give a companywide overview of Mylan’s global operations as they relate to various environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters. Content is based on relevant ESG considerations and addresses topics in which our stakeholders have expressed interest. As detailed within the report, our work in this arena will continue to expand. Our Commitment to the U.N. Global Compact In May 2017, Mylan became a signatory to the United Nations (U.N.) Global Compact.1 This initiative encourages businesses worldwide to align their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles, and to take action in support of U.N. aims and issues. As a signatory, Mylan is committed to the U.N.’s 10 principles to protect human rights and the environment, ensure ethical labor conditions and corruption-free business practices, and encouraging other companies to do the same. The Compact comprises approximately 9,000 companies that make up the world’s largest business community committed to sustainable development. This publication constitutes Mylan’s first formal Communication on Progress Report as a company signatory. The 10 principles of the U.N. Global CompacT Human Rights Principle 4: the elimination of all Principle 8: undertake initiatives forms of forced and compulsory to promote greater environmental Principle 1: Businesses should labor, responsibility, and support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 5: the effective abolition Principle 9: encourage the human rights, and of child labor, and development and diffusion of Principle 6: the elimination of environmentally friendly Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights discrimination in respect of technologies. abuses. employment and occupation. Anti-corruption Labor Environment Principle 10: Businesses should Principle 7: Businesses should work against corruption in all its Principle 3: Businesses should support a precautionary approach forms, including extortion and uphold the freedom of association to environmental challenges, bribery. and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, 1 https://www.unglobalcompact.org 4 Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals We support the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which were adopted by the U.N. members states in 2015. These goals cover a broad range of social, environmental and economic development issues, with a specific focus on ending poverty, protecting the planet and ensuring prosperity for all. While governments, the global business community and civil society helped develop the goals, companies are integral to achieving them. Indeed, the very nature of Mylan’s business, how we conduct ourselves and our aspiration to deliver better health for a better world align closely with the SDGs. We have identified nine SDGs as being especially relevant. Throughout this report, we illustrate how we support their achievement. Mylan’s greatest contributions are to goal No. 3 – good health and well-being for all at all ages. While impressive progress has been made on many health fronts, far too many people still face barriers to high quality medicine and care. Given our history in the generics industry and our long-standing focus on innovating to expand access, Mylan has a central role to play in addressing unmet health needs. The EU Directive on Non-Financial Reporting Certain Mylan entities2 are, or may be, subject to statutory sustainability reporting in the European Union (EU) as part of the EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive (EU NFR). This directive was implemented into national legislation across EU member states, effective Jan. 1, 2018, as part of the EU Commission’s goal to establish an overarching and comprehensive EU strategy on sustainable finance. Mylan’s 2017 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report, together with Mylan’s statutory filings in Greece, Sweden, the Netherlands3 and the U.S.4, is intended to fulfill our applicable reporting requirements per this directive. Global Reporting Initiative Standards We have used selected parts of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards to inform our reporting. This publication references those standards, which offer a framework for companies to publicly report on their economic, environmental and social impacts. Please see the GRI Content Table for more information. Should you have questions or feedback, please contact us at GSR@Mylan.com. = especially relevant to Mylan 2 Meda AB in Sweden, Generics Pharma Hellas E.P.E. and BGP Pharmaceutical Products Ltd. in Greece 3 Mylan 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Mylan N.V.’s 2017 Dutch Board Report and Mylan’s 2018 Proxy Statement 4 Mylan N.V. 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K and 2018 Proxy Statement Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 5 A message from Mylan’s CEO Dear Stakeholder, The opportunity to deliver better health for a better world by providing people access to high quality medicine is an honor and a privilege for Mylan. Consistent with our company’s unconventional nature, we don’t refer to health in just the traditional sense. Instead, we want to help people everywhere enjoy physical, mental, economic and relational well-being so they can thrive and give back to We joined the AMR Industry Alliance business model, continue to challenge us their communities. and signed the Davos Declaration to provide an efficient and effective ONE on AMR; both actions reflect our Mylan organization. Consistently adapting Achieving this goal informs everything dedication to the fight against the rise our operations is essential if we are to we do. It’s why we are willing to challenge of antimicrobial resistance (AMR). We remain competitive in today’s global the status quo. It’s why we continue to also made our first submission to CDP, marketplace. insist on “doing what’s right, not what’s a not-for-profit organization that runs the easy,” our co-founders’ mantra. It’s why global disclosure system for investors, As always, Mylan learns from our we continue to strive to serve all our companies, cities, states and regions experiences. Clearer than ever, for stakeholders and have built Mylan to last. to manage their environmental impacts. instance, is the importance of proactively Making the world a better place also is engaging with our various stakeholders. why Mylan is stepping up its efforts to In addition, we entered into a landmark We recognize the need to help others reimagine and transform healthcare in agreement with UNAIDS, the Bill & understand our story of commitment to ways that we hope will serve generations Melinda Gates Foundation, the Clinton access and to hear their perspectives to come. This report is serving as a Health Access Initiative and other partners on how we can continue to learn roadmap for our work. to provide the next-generation single-pill and grow. That’s why stakeholder HIV regimen to patients in more than 90 engagement is among my priorities for For instance, we have been expanding lowand middle-income countries for less 2018. Another priority is to demonstrate, our efforts to analyze Mylan’s most than $75 per person per year. Further, through our actions, Mylan’s ongoing relevant ESG practices and data, and we formalized our commitment to the support for the U.N. Global Compact better understand our stakeholders’ U.N.’s Every Woman Every Child initiative and its 10 principles. evolving expectations about a broad as part of our participation in the 2017 range of associated topics. Further, to Family Planning 2020 (FP2020) summit. The bottom line is that serving our use this knowledge to inform decisions These and many other examples of our stakeholders is Mylan’s business. Their and actions across our organization, commitment and leadership are included trust and support are essential to our we created in 2017 an executive role throughout this report. success and ability to deliver better of head of Global Sustainability. This health for a better world. On behalf role is part of my executive governance 2017 also presented challenges for our of the company’s board of directors team. Working in coordination with industry and our business. As debates and senior leadership team, I’d like a multidisciplinary group, this leader continued around the globe about to thank everyone – and particularly is responsible for overseeing the prescription-drug prices and the growing Mylan’s workforce – for sharing our development and execution of Mylan’s devastation caused by opioid addiction, commitment to constructive change, to goals on relevant ESG topics. The particularly in the U.S., we considered our excellence and to the incredible potential function provides an important channel role and how we can help address these that only cooperation and inspiration for additional engagement with Mylan’s issues in ways that best reflect across borders, cultures and individual stakeholders. our mission. differences can realize. Mylan also signaled its continued Additionally, our rapidly evolving industry, commitment to sustainability by signing as well as the need to maintain our on in 2017 to the U.N. Global Compact. diversified, durable and access-focused Heather Bresch Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 6 1 About Mylan Mylan is a global pharmaceutical company committed to setting new standards in healthcare and providing 7 billion people Our Mission access to high quality medicine. We offer a growing portfolio At Mylan, we are committed of more than 7,500 products, including prescription generic, to setting new standards in branded generic and brand-name drugs and over-the-counter healthcare. Working together (OTC) remedies. We market our products in more than 165 around the world to provide 7 billion people access to countries and territories. Every member of our approximately high quality medicine, we: 35,000-strong workforce is dedicated to creating better health ► Innovate to satisfy unmet for a better world. needs; Mylan’s mission is grounded in our belief that every person matters and should have ► Make reliability and service the opportunity to live the healthiest life possible. We’ve built our business model excellence a habit; consistent with this belief. Through it, we are impacting people around the world with ► Do what’s right, not what’s each passing year. In 2017, for instance, the selling price of our medicines, on average, was just 17 cents per dose. easy; and ► Impact the future through Further, we recognize that through our work, we can help advance society’s broader goals. We therefore appreciate the importance of considering the needs of future passionate global leadership. generations and promoting development that protects and serves their interests. This understanding informs Mylan’s vision for global social responsibility. It also motivates us to make sustainability – in the broadest sense – a priority in everything we do. << Table of Contents (TOC) Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 7 Our Vision for Global Social Responsibility Global social responsibility is intrinsically woven within Mylan’s commitment to achieve our mission and deliver better health for a better world. It is what drives our enduring passion to improve access and serve unmet needs across all geographies, while respecting the environment and positively impacting our stakeholders. Our Culture Passionate We’re constantly sparked by the urge to make a difference. Committed We do what’s right, not what’s easy. Relentless We’ll each do our part every day to provide 7 billion people access to the medicine they deserve. Unconventional In a world full of watchers, we’re doers. And together we can do anything. 8 The Pharmaceutical Industry Pharmaceuticals have long played an indispensable role in delivering better health around the world. They have virtually eliminated certain diseases, such as smallpox, that once killed tens of millions of people and have drastically reduced the number of deaths caused by other illnesses, such as influenza. More recently, pharmaceutical products have helped people with conditions such as cardiovascular disease, mental health and respiratory disorders, to name but a few, regain control of their lives. Today’s wellness and lifestyle medicines offer opportunities to make everyone’s journey healthier and more enjoyable. Pharmaceutical products also help reduce the cost burden borne by individuals and society as a whole that results from sickness or injury. They do so by helping people avoid surgery and other expensive medical procedures. Moreover, by keeping people functional, medicines help keep them productive. For all these reasons, it’s important that the industry itself be healthy. The key to that, quite simply, is to make sure that innovation and competition both can flourish. That said, the pharmaceutical industry is large and complex. How it functions, how it’s regulated and how it provides patients access varies by location. In addition, the industry and the broader healthcare system are constantly evolving, and at paces that vary from place to place. Products Markets Channels Rx: Physician-prescribed and marketed mostly with a brand name Gx Bx: Branded generics Gx: Unbranded generics Distribution OTC: Over-the-counter and consumer (Cx – physician endorsed) Hospita Distribution: Pharmacy chain and/or wholesaler are decision makers Institutio l/ Tender: Public health systems buy International NonProprietary Name (INN) Prescriptio il n products based on various factors ranging from cost to supply reliability Re Substitution: Individual pharmacist or pharmacy buying group are ta Commerce decision makers O TC n Tender EPrescription: Physician is decision maker al les utor e r/ o h trib Wholesaler/Distributor: Purchased directly from manufacturers; product s Di stored in warehouses and sold to pharmacies ecialty Retail: Purchased directly from manufacturers or wholesalers/distributors W Sp rmacy and sold to consumers a Rx Ph / Hospital/Institution: Addresses special needs in hospitals, nursing homes, Bx Substitution etc., through unique package offerings (e.g., injectables and unit dose supply) E-Commerce: Automated centers that mail prescribed drugs directly to consumers Specialty Pharmacy: Manages dispensing, distribution, reimbursement, case management and other services for patients Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 9 To help provide clarity, we have illustrated important industry characteristics, which center around product types; Substitution kinds of markets, which are a function Many countries allow generic drugs to be substituted for brand-name medications. of who makes key decisions around But first, the two products must be proven to be therapeutically equivalent. pharmaceutical prescribing, dispensing To determine whether a generic product meets this standard, health authorities or buying; and channels, through which require evidence from an extensive series of studies. our products make their way to patients. The generic’s maker compiles and submits the associated data, which typically Just as wide-ranging are the types of includes a thorough scientific evaluation of both pharmaceutical equivalence companies operating within the industry. and bioequivalence. Historically, drugmakers focused either on developing new prescription products Pharmaceutical equivalence means that the generic and brand-name products are the same in terms of active ingredient, dosage form, dosage strength and or on manufacturing generics, though route of administration. The generic drug also must be the same as the branded many firms today do both. drug with respect to quality, purity, identity and potency. Those focused on new products develop Bioequivalence refers to how the drug is absorbed and distributed after it drugs that are sufficiently novel as to be is taken by mouth, injected, infused, inhaled or otherwise administered. protected by patents or other forms of A generic drug and a branded medication are considered bioequivalent when exclusivity. As such, these drugs, which there is no significant difference between the products in the speed and extent bear trade names, may be produced of delivery of the active ingredient to its site of action in the body. and sold only by those owning the rights, When a generic medication meets these stringent requirements, it is considered subject to certain available challenges. therapeutically equivalent to the branded drug. This means the two medications Developing new medicines takes years would be expected to have the same clinical safety and efficacy, and that and significant investment. Only a few physicians, pharmacists and patients can substitute the generic for the branded promising therapies ever enter clinical product with confidence. trials. Fewer still are approved for sale by health authorities, at which point Generic drugmakers are held to the same standards of good manufacturing marketing to healthcare providers practices (GMP) by health authorities as brand drugmakers. (HCPs) and consumers begins. Because patents and exclusivities last Generic pharmaceuticals are therapeutically equivalent versions of brand-name many years, they serve as an incentive to medicines. They generally become available once the patents and other exclusivities developers. During the periods protected, on their branded counterparts expire. developers recoup their investments Generic drugmakers also invest significant sums in R&D and in manufacturing and earn a profit, typically by charging capacity. They also often incur substantial litigation expense as a result of challenging premium prices that reflect the benefits unwarranted brand patents or exclusivities. But because generics developers are of their innovation. In many high-income not required to reproduce expensive clinical trials and seldom engage in product countries, the brand business often is promotion, generic drugs typically cost far less than brand-name drugs. The generics characterized by higher margins on lower business is characterized by lower margins on higher volumes, as most generic volumes – especially when compared drugmakers offer a relatively large number of products. with generic manufacturers. Although generics companies have long been considered the industry’s advocates for access, they also play substantial roles as innovators, in areas ranging from dosage forms to packaging. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 10 Drugmakers also often contract with other, more specialized organizations for various products or services. Examples include producers of bulk compounds and chemicals used in producing drugs; biotechnology firms, which specialize in promising biological products; drug-delivery system suppliers; and packaging vendors. Regardless of their heritage, all pharmaceutical companies – and the patients who ultimately depend on them – benefit when robust competition fuels innovation. Doing so means acknowledging each company’s respective contributions and balancing their interests to preserve the industry’s viability. Balance provides all participants with the opportunity to generate a reasonable profit and incentive to reinvest proceeds and grow in a sustainable manner. How individual companies approach that opportunity is defined by their choice of business model. Mylan’s model, discussed next, takes into account all aspects of the industry. It is built to allow the company to last and to holistically provide better health for a better world. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 11 Mylan’s Business Model Mylan was founded in 1961 by two Army veterans who saw an opportunity to help people in rural communities in the U.S. state of West Virginia obtain quality affordable medicines. Originally a distributor of other firms’ products, we grew over time into one of the nation’s largest manufacturers of generic drugs. Approximately 10 years ago, however, we saw that the industry was changing dramatically. Competition was intensifying. Customers were merging. Traditional lines between brand and generics companies were blurring. Advances in science were creating opportunities that would reward wise investment. Meanwhile, burdens on the world’s healthcare systems continued to grow. In response, Mylan embarked on a journey to navigate through all these changes and build the company so it could last for decades to come. We sought to create a durable business model within the industry, one that would responsibly harness the power of competition to drive innovations that would lead to universal access to medicine. Our strategy involved globalizing; creating scale in R&D, active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) production and finished dosage form manufacturing; diversifying by product type, therapeutic area, dosage form and channel; upholding our historic Mylan archives commitment to quality; and managing for the long-term. Our Business Model Providing universal access to medicine is the core purpose of our model, pictured below. To provide access, we must be able to satisfy the needs of an incredibly diversified global marketplace whose economic and political systems, approaches to delivering and paying for healthcare, languages and traditions, and customer and patient requirements vary by location and over time. ACCESS is our core purpose The more diversification To drive access, Mylan we achieve through has built tremendous driving access, the diversification more it enhances the into our commercial, DURABILITY of operational and scientific our business model platforms Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 12 It is with these considerations in mind that we built and scaled our commercial, operational and scientific platforms to Product meet the evolving needs of customers complexity Development in ways that are globally consistent (i.e. clinical trials) and manufacturing and locally sensitive. As a result, Mylan Number of countries now reaches patients in more than 165 >165 countries and territories countries with a broad range of brand= Durability name, generic, branded generic and Product mix OTC products. Rx/Bx, Gx, OTC As important, with each additional Market and Product concentration channel type patient we reach, our diversification No single product generates more than 4% of total revenue Substitution, Tender, Retail, grows, further reinforcing our business Hospitals, etc. model’s durability. In addition, durability means that Mylan’s shareholders and other stakeholders can expect us to continue to “do good” Deliver on our mission to provide medicine by expanding access to medicine, to the world’s 7 billion people and “do well” by generating consistent Set new standards in healthcare Provide passionate global leadership financial results, including reliable cash Access Launch products in markets where they flows capable of supporting ongoing previously weren’t accessible investments in long-term growth. These Serve all markets (low-, middleand efforts differentiate and underscore the high-income countries) strength of Mylan’s business model. Invest in R&D across commodity, complex and biosimilar products Our Value Chain Optimize broad range of manufacturing capabilities and operational expertise Mylan delivers value by focusing on Diversification Leverage scale across Rx/Bx, Gx, OTC the activities listed at right, some of Deliver strong product and revenue mix which are conducted in partnership across segments with other organizations. While each Focus efforts to expand patient access across 10 major therapeutic franchises activity represents a major contribution individually, taken together they Live commitment to quality and safety represent one of the industry’s most Diversify revenue streams – no single product diversified and durable platforms. generates more than 4% of total revenue Develop and launch complex products Durability To carry out these activities, we have Execute on strong scientific, regulatory, clinical, medical and legal intellectual-property capabilities structured our company to help Leverage sites with proximity to key markets us consistently deliver operational, Capitalize on vertically integrated portfolio commercial and enterprise excellence. We achieve this by applying the Better Health advantages of scale, diversification and expertise in a variety of crucial disciplines Our Impact for a Better World – as well as through a culture dedicated to continuous learning and performance. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 13 Operationally, for instance, we have chosen to vertically integrate much of our manufacturing activity. This means producing a majority of our own APIs and finished Commercially, we dosage forms. This approach affords us control over the cost and quality of what we make, which benefits our patients and customers. As for R&D, we focus our strive to deliver all of investments on bringing new or improved products to market, particularly those for Mylan – ONE Mylan – which patient demand is very strong and growing. Good examples are biosimilars and medicines used to address needs often not served by others, such as providing to our customers, antiretrovirals (ARV) to treat HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa. in effect, offering Commercially, we strive to deliver all of Mylan – ONE Mylan – to our customers, in them the convenience effect, offering them the convenience of a one-stop shop. Achieving this is far easier of a one-stop shop. said than done given the different types of products, markets and channels around the world, as well as customers’ varying needs. To best meet those needs, Mylan manages its business through geographic COMMERCIAL segments: North America, Europe and Rest of World. EXCELLENCE Enterprise excellence focuses on leveraging skills that benefit not only our entire organization, but in some cases, our entire industry. Consider our Global Policy and Government Relations team. Its members engage with regulators, policymakers and legislators to help shape how the industry operates and serves patients. As one example, the team was instrumental in developing a U.S. law, passed in 2012, OPERATIONAL ENTERPRISE EXCELLENCE EXCELLENCE designed to help improve drug safety globally. Our Impact The results of our transformation to date have been telling. We have consistently been able to overcome periods of intense competition, relentless consolidation, unpredictable regulatory environments and substantial economic fluctuations. We are pushing the frontiers of medicine, with 20 biosimilar and insulin analog products on the market around the world or in development. We have reduced our business risks by eliminating dependence on any one geography or product. Now more durable and flexible, we’re able to matter even more to a customer base increasingly dominated by a small number of very large firms. Moreover, standing still never has been an option for us. We continually look to bring into Mylan’s platform additional capabilities we can build upon. When acquiring businesses, people always are our top consideration; we strive to ensure good cultural fit and retain talent. We also take the time to fully integrate the acquired organizations’ operations. We believe these practices differentiate Mylan. As important, by staying true to our mission, we have been able to benefit our many stakeholders, especially patients, as we expand the world’s access to thousands of affordable medications. In addition, we’ve provided meaningful careers for employees, generated outstanding returns for shareholders and outperformed peers. We’ve also set our sights on doing our part to help build or transform healthcare systems, guided by our view that keeping people healthy is as important as treating them when they’re sick. We believe doing so will have a lasting impact on society. Choosing paths less traveled while staying focused on our mission has always been what sets Mylan apart. In the chapters that follow, we show progress we’re making towards our goal of delivering better health for a better world. Although we have accomplished a great deal, there is much left to do. We look forward to continuing the journey. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 14 Better 2 Patient Health We believe everyone deserves the opportunity to live a healthy life. That’s why our business is predicated on providing patients everywhere with access to a sustainable supply of high quality medicines. Serving Patients Globally In 2017 Mylan made Impressive advances have been made on many health fronts around the globe, but inequalities in access to healthcare within and across countries remain more than 500 a challenge. People around the world continue to lose their lives to treatable submissions across diseases, while the burden imposed by chronic conditions is increasing. 70+ countries, and we This challenge is particularly true in lowand middle-income countries. Our aspiration to help deliver better health for a better world acknowledges our received approximately desire and commitment to help patients everywhere. In fact, our ongoing efforts 800 product approvals to strive to provide people in all countries with high quality products often sets globally. We expanded Mylan apart. Key among these efforts are investing in innovation, expanding our portfolio in all major patient access and addressing unmet needs. therapeutic areas. << TOC Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 15 Investing in Innovation Innovation has fueled Mylan’s success for nearly 60 years and will continue to do so well into the future. More than 3,000 members of our workforce are dedicated to research and development, clinical, medical and regulatory professions. We have two global R&D centers, in the U.S. and India, and 10 technology-focused R&D sites across the U.S., India, Japan and Europe. From 2013-2017, Mylan invested more than $3 billion in cumulative R&D spend5. Innovation is not just about introducing novel products. It’s also about improving existing ones. We invest in manufacturing and distribution capacity to make more products available to more patients across more countries using the most efficient processes possible. Global R&D ► Biologics and insulin analogs INCREASING DELIVERY SYSTEM COMPLEXITY R&D global centers ► Respiratory Tech-focused development sites across API, oral solid dose, biologics, respiratory, dermatology ► Complex sterile products and injectables ► Dermatological / Complex analytics labs Transdermal Systems ► Complex OSDs Dedicated central device labs ► Modified-release dosage forms Markets with in-country regulatory expertise ► OTC / Parapharmaceuticals R&D, Clinical, Medical and Regulatory professionals ► High potency Patents filed globally ► Traditional generics 5 Cumulative spend refers to adjusted R&D. Adjusted metrics are non-GAAP financial measures. Please see appendix or investor.Mylan.com for the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures as well as reconciliations of such non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. 16 Expanding Patient Access Differentiated global manufacturing network Helping patients have greater access to the medicines they need is a key priority for Mylan. Our diverse manufacturing capabilities and global operating platform – with strategic proximity to local markets – support this goal. 47 manufacturing sites EUROPE (12) Chatillon, France INDIA (21) Merignac, France Ahmedabad Jadcherla Meyzieu, France Aurangabad Jaggaiahpet Cologne, Germany Bangalore (4) Mumbai NORTH AMERICA (10) Troisdorf, Germany Hosur Nashik Confienza, Italy Caguas, Puerto Rico Hyderabad (4) Sarigam (2) Decatur, Illinois Dublin, Ireland (3) Indore Vizag (3) Morgantown, West Virginia Galway, Ireland AFRICA (1) JAPAN (2) Rockford, Illinois Komarom, Hungary Zambia Katsuyama Sugar Land, Texas Warsaw, Poland Kawagoe San Antonio, Texas (3) AUSTRALIA (1) St. Albans, Vermont Somerset, New Jersey Carole Park Complex Dosage Oral Solid Dose Injectables API Forms Facilities 24 7 7 9 • Immediateand modified-release • Small and large parenteral • Transdermal patches • >250 APIs tablets and capsules liquid vials • Oral films • Dedicated peptides • Multi-layer tablets • Lyophilized vials • Liquid bottles facility • Orally dissolving tablets • Liposomal dispersion • Nasals • Capacity dedicated for Select • Powder-layering technology • Polymeric microsphere • Dry powder inhalers iron complexes Capabilities • Wurster coating • Ampoules • Devices, e.g., pens and • Separate facility for high• Spheronization • Bags cartridges potent active ingredients • Liquid-filled hard-gelatin capsules • Emulsions • Biologics • Hot-melt extrusion • Dry powder vials • Topicals, e.g., foams, • OROS technology • Long-acting injectables creams, gels and ointments Capacity >75B Doses >500M Units 1.3B Units >4,800 Kiloliters Diverse Product Portfolio Expanding Mylan’s footprint into new markets and introducing more products into our pipeline each year is yet another way we support our mission. In 2017 we continued our extension into new geographies such as China, Russia, Turkey, Mexico, Brazil and countries in Southeast Asia and the Middle East. We also enhanced our position as a provider of OTC medicines. Further, we have more than 1,000 projects in our product pipeline across our regions. Japan, Australia North America Europe Emerging Markets and New Zealand ► 359 products in pipeline6 ► 174 products in pipeline ► 310 products in pipeline ► 181 products in pipeline ► 267 products pending ► 528 products pending ► 947 products pending ► 41 products pending approval7 approval approval approval 6 Product pipeline is molecule plus form, independent of market. Data as of March 1, 2018. 7 Products pending approval is molecule plus form plus country. Data as of March 1, 2018. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 17 Addressing Unmet Needs Over the past few years, Mylan has organized its products and services into 10 major therapeutic areas, helping us better focus on patients’ needs by providing prescription generic, branded generic and brand-name drugs and OTC remedies where they are needed most. This structure helps us look at healthcare holistically and challenges us to provide access throughout patients’ lives. We’ve also provided support to patient-advocacy organizations across these areas. In 2017 we helped organizations develop disease-related information that was shared across various platforms, including podcasts, webinars, radio programs, community events, regional summits, roundtables and national forums. In the pages that follow, we highlight examples of Mylan’s impact in selected therapeutic areas and discuss the company’s commitment to maintaining quality in everything we do. Mylan’s Major Therapeutic Areas* Products Cardiovascular CNS & Anesthesia Dermatology Diabetes & Metabolism Gastroenterology Current 1,250 2,000 400 400 700 Pipeline 200 400 50 200 100 Products Immunology Infectious Disease Oncology Respiratory & Allergy Women’s Health Current 60 800 350 700 500 Pipeline 30 700 400 150 150 *Product defined by product/dosage form/country. “All Other Franchise” not shown. Current products taken from internal data and rounded. Across many growing >7,500 >2,500 franchises, geographies Products Products in Pipeline and businesses Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 18 Stemming the Tide of HIV/AIDS Mylan’s commitment to fighting HIV/AIDS is an integral part of our mission and business. In fact, 50% of our API manufacturing capacity is dedicated to ARVs, which we sell in more than 100 countries. More than 40% of the nearly 21 million HIV+ patients being treated today – and 60% of the world’s HIV+ children – depend on one of our products. Mylan has made tremendous strides over the years in stemming the tide of HIV in lowand middle-income countries. We now are bringing our expertise to help people elsewhere. In Europe, for instance, generic ARVs are among the key drivers of our growth. In the U.S., Mylan recently launched Symfi Lo™, Symfi™ and Cimduo™, novel combinations that are empowering patients to choose the lower-cost ARV treatment option that is right for them. In 2017 we maintained our position as the world’s largest producer by volume of ARVs. Our launches during 2017 included: ► Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate, Lamivudine and Dolutegravir (TLD) and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate, Lamivudine and low-dose Efavirenz (TLE400)8 Mylan has invested in lowand middle-income countries. In 2016 the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended both TLE400 and TLD as alternatives for first-line more than $250 million therapy for adults living with HIV.9 to expand our ARV ► HIV self-tests in Romania and Italy; and production capacity. We produced 4 billion ► the first generic version of Truvada® in France and Ireland, the only combination prophylactic drug approved for HIV. ARV tablets and We also applied for WHO Prequalification (PQ) status on Lopinavir/Ritonavir capsules in 2017 alone. (LPV/r) granules, a novel product used for treating HIV in children. 8 https://www.fda.gov/InternationalPrograms/PEPFAR/ucm119231.htm 9 http://www.who.int/hiv/pub/arv/arv-2016/en/ New Medicine Formulation for Children With HIV Children sometimes have difficulty swallowing tablets and capsules; that’s why their medicines often take the form of syrups and liquids. However, these forms often present storage and transportation challenges and sometimes require refrigeration. In response, Mylan developed a heat-stable dispersible tablet of an important first-line combination therapy that dissolves into a child’s drink. For another product that also required refrigeration and had a bitter taste, Mylan scientists developed a heatstable, sweet-tasting formulation that can be mixed into a child’s food, increasing ease of administration and the likelihood of drug adherence. Our ARV portfolio is a demonstration of the relationship between equitable pricing and access. Mylan uses an equitable-pricing approach with international donors, such We now are seeking to as the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; the Pan American Health Organization; and the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, or PEPFAR. bring our ARV portfolio to the U.S., where we Next-Generation Treatment Now Available recently launched three in Low-and Middle-Income Countries new, low-cost HIV On Sept. 21, 2017, at the U.N., Mylan announced its next step in the fight products with list prices against the HIV epidemic. Together with partners such as the Clinton Health significantly lower than Access Initiative, UNAIDS, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the U.K.’s Department for International Development, Mylan entered into a unique public/ the nearest competitors. private partnership to accelerate the availability of a next-generation ARV treatment, TLD, to patients in more than 90 lowand middle-income countries. As part of this alliance, Mylan committed to selling this product (a combination tablet, taken once daily, of the three molecules Dolutegravir, Lamivudine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate) to public-sector purchasers at about $75 per person per year.10 This initiative supports SDG No. 3 and marks the first time the best-available one-pill, once-daily regimen is available for a price lower than the most commonly used regimen. The low cost means that governments can address two often-conflicting priorities at once: providing better treatment options for patients while reducing overall treatment cost.11 Supporting Early Diagnosis and Prevention of HIV Additionally, we understand the importance of access and support. Some 2017 highlights: ► We were a founding member of the global consortium OPTIMIZE12, which is dedicated to accelerating access and improving treatment outcomes for It is estimated that only 70% of patients living with HIV in lowand middle-income countries. people living with HIV know their HIV status. Countries are looking ► Mylan worked with governments and other key stakeholders to increase for ways to rapidly increase access to our Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) regimen and offer it at a access to and use of HIV lower price. This regimen is a preventive measure for people who do not testing services. One approach have HIV, but who are at substantial risk for contracting it. In Poland, we is HIV self-testing, which partnered with the Polish AIDS Society and the HIV Association to create allows someone to perform a PrEP administration guidelines in eight medical centers. diagnostic test and interpret the ► We provided funding to St. Stephens AIDS Trust to conduct a pharmacokinetic results in private. study of 400mg Efavirenz in HIV+ women being treated during pregnancy. The study is critical to filling clinical data gaps and identifying potential Mylan offers self-tests in France, opportunities to address HIV/AIDS risk in pregnant women. Italy, Romania and Spain. 10 https://msfaccess.org/sites/default/files/HIV_Brief_SpotlightOnAccessGaps_ENG_2017.pdf 11 https://clintonhealthaccess.org/landmark-drug-deal-will-reduce-side-effects-help-people-living-hiv-stay-treatment/ 12 https://optimize.icap.columbia.edu/ Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 20 Applying Our Success in Fighting HIV/AIDS to Other Infectious Diseases hepAtitis C We are building a robust portfolio of hepatitis C (HCV) drugs based on knowledge 2017 Hepatitis Achievements and experience derived from our HIV/AIDS work. In 2017 Mylan had active/pending ► Provided treatment for registrations in approximately 50 countries. approximately 200,000 patients Lack of a proper diagnosis remains a hurdle to timely treatment of HCV. Mylan living with HCV in lowand actively supports screening programs in Mongolia and Egypt to identify patients middle-income countries; with the disease and place them on life-saving therapy. In Asian and African ► became the first generics countries, we assembled an advisory board to help develop and publish guidelines company to receive WHO for managing HCV in resource-limited settings. Looking ahead, we will launch prequalification for Sofosbuvir, Sofosbuvir+Velpatasvir in lowand middle-income countries; this panuniversal a direct-acting ARV used to regimen can be used for noncirrhotic and cirrhotic patients. treat the disease; and ► launched Sofosbuvir+ Mylan Launches First Drug in Velpatasvir in India through a license with our partner, Eight Years for Management Gilead Sciences. of Chronic Hepatitis B Mylan India launched 25mg HepBestTM in December 2017, the first drug approved in eight years for the management of chronic hepatitis B (HBV). Formulated for adults, this 25mg tablet of the drug Tenofovir Alafenamide (TAF) is taken once a day. Tackling In 2014 Mylan signed an agreement with Gilead to enhance access to TAF-based Tuberculosis HIV treatments in developing countries. As part of the licensing agreement, on U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval, Mylan received a technology In 2017 Mylan entered into a transfer from Gilead, enabling it to manufacture low-cost versions of TAF, both as a license agreement with Otsuka single agent and in approved combinations containing TAF for developing markets. Pharmaceuticals to sell Delamanid Monotherapy with TAF has demonstrated non-inferiority to TDF with an enhanced safety profile in chronic HBV. (Deltyba®) in South Africa and India. Both countries are considered to have high rates of Tuberculosis multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis There also are large inequities when it comes to accurately diagnosing and treating and TB/HIV co-infection. tuberculosis (TB). The emergence of drug-resistant TB requires lengthy treatments with toxic drugs that are less effective than the primary treatment. In 2017 Mylan entered into a license agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceuticals to commercialize Delamanid (Deltyba®), a novel drug used to treat pulmonary multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) in lowand middle-income countries. The agreement is expected to increase access for patients in high-burden countries. Malaria We continue to look for opportunities to expand access and affordability of anti-malarials, especially in lowand middle-income countries. Mylan was the first manufacturer to receive WHO PQ for a higher-strength dose of Artemether Mylan has 63 products Lumefantrine (40mg/240mg). It reduces the number of tablets required by 50% prequalified by the WHO. and may improve patient adherence, which may impact health outcomes. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 21 Breaking Down Access Barriers for MS Patients Multiple sclerosis, or MS, is a chronic, neurodegenerative autoimmune disease that leads to a variety of debilitating physical symptoms in patients who have it. The average age of onset is about 30 years, a period that often coincides with patients starting families and making important career decisions. As a result, the disease can have devastating effects on personal relationships and professional opportunities. Glatiramer acetate (GA), discovered in the 1960s, is the active ingredient in Copaxone®, a leading treatment for MS. The company that originated Copaxone began marketing the product in the U.S. and Europe in 1997 and 2001, respectively, first as a 20mg/mL daily injection, and later as a 40mg/mL injection given three times weekly. The originator enjoyed a monopoly on Copaxone for approximately 20 years. As a result, it was able to command premium prices, generating billions of dollars in annual revenues. Mylan saw an opportunity to help MS patients. So nearly a decade ago, working with our development partner Natco, we set out to bring a generic version of Copaxone to market. Before any generic drug may be marketed, however, it must be demonstrated to be therapeutically equivalent to its branded counterpart. The processes for doing so are well established and widely accepted for conventional small-molecule drugs, which make up the vast majority of medicines available today. But GA’s API is complex. To approve Mylan’s version, regulators would require substantial evidence of “sameness” between the originator’s version and ours. To assemble that proof, Mylan undertook a massive research project in which innovation played no small part. For instance, based on our knowledge of the branded product, our scientists developed an array of highly sensitive testing methods, based on chemistry as well as biology, and applied them hundreds of times just to interrogate and characterize the API itself. Characterization reveals a substance’s size, shape, weight, composition, behavior and other important traits. As the project progressed and data piled up, evidence of sameness mounted. Meanwhile, we built out the intricate supply chain needed to reach patients. We selected manufacturing sites for the API and finished dosage form, chose a syringe supplier, developed and produced auto-injectors in collaboration with our partners, and lined up logistics for refrigerated transport. Not surprisingly, as we began filing applications, the originator initiated multifaceted legal attacks to try to preserve Copaxone’s monopoly. In the U.S., the originator filed four separate patent litigations in federal court. Mylan fought one of them all the way to the Supreme Court. The originator also filed nine citizen petitions against Mylan with the FDA. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 22 In addition, the originator sought to challenge Mylan’s work with Natco by filing a patent lawsuit in India that eventually reached that nation’s Supreme Court. Mylan successfully overcame these barriers. In 2017 we launched our 20mg/mL GA product in the U.S. and became the first generics company anywhere to offer the 40mg/mL strength. In conjunction with our launch, we introduced resources to help patients. Among them are Mylan MS Advocate, a 24-hour patient-support program; the Mylan Smart Injection Tracker™ app; and WhisperJECT™ Autoinjector, which has features Supporting MS designed by MS patients. patients As important, by working with the FDA to define a regulatory pathway (to approval) for GA, Mylan has helped pave the way for launches of other complex generic Treating relapsing forms of products – from insulin analogs to respiratory inhalations. In this respect, we hope MS can be complicated for that knocking down a barrier for the MS community will ultimately prove to be good patients, their families and medicine for countless other deserving patients too. the health professionals who manage patients’ care. To serve patients in Europe, Mylan has partnered with a GA developer and supplier, and we’re selling or seeking approval to sell the product in multiple countries. The In the U.S., Mylan MS originator continues to fight us throughout the region. But we keep prevailing. Today Advocate™ helps patients our 20mg/mL GA product is available in eight European countries. The 40mg/mL navigate the healthcare version is available in five. system, access resources and We also recently announced that Mylan and Mapi, a biopharmaceutical company, comply with their treatment will partner on the development and commercialization of GA Depot, a long-acting plan. Additionally, Mylan MS glatiramer acetate product whose global marketing rights we are acquiring. Advocate nurses are on call 24x7 to offer tips on preparing, administering, storing and disposing medicine; WhisperJECT™ injection administration; and changes in lifestyle based on health. Nurses also will connect patients with local community and online support options. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 23 Making Biologic Treatments More Affordable Many conventional drugs, regardless of who develops them, are made up of small chemical compounds. Other well-known medicines, called biologics, such as vaccines and gene therapies, are complex substances derived from living organisms. Many biologics represent the cutting edge of medical science and have become the standard of care for various devastating and debilitating diseases, such as cancer, autoimmune diseases and rare genetic disorders. Both types of medications have been on the market for decades. A biosimilar is a product that is highly similar to and has no clinically meaningful differences from an existing approved biologic product. These products have helped to make biological treatments more affordable. Mylan has one of the most comprehensive and diverse programs in the industry, with 20 biosimilar and insulin analog products on the market or in our pipeline. These include eight of the world’s top oncology, immunology, endocrinology and ophthalmology biologics. Our program is designed to serve multiple markets, including lowand middle-income countries. In 2017: ► In partnership with Biocon, Mylan received FDA approval for Ogivri™, the first biosimilar for Herceptin® (Trastuzumab) to receive approval in the U.S. ► In India, Mylan launched ABEVMY™, an anti-angiogenic biosimilar to Bevacizumab (Avastin®). Championing Women’s Health Gender is a fundamental factor in one’s health and well-being. By promoting access to medicine and healthcare for women and girls, Mylan contributes to their independence, equality, and welfare. Unfortunately, not all women are able to exercise their right to freely choose when and how to start a family. Being unable to make this decision can significantly challenge prospects for equal opportunity in life and health. Mylan has a goal to provide contraceptives to 25 million women and girls by 2020. Already, we have made progress. In 2017, we provided 11 million women and girls with contraception. Our contraceptives are currently registered in 50 of the 69 countries supported by the FP2020 initiative, some of which are among the poorest in the world. Our average price per couple-years of protection was $3.50 per year in lowand middle-income countries. Mylan has contraceptive products with active/pending registration in 95 countries globally and has submitted Medroxyprogesterone Acetate, an injectable contraceptive, for prequalification by the WHO. Other important areas of women’s health on which we focus include patient needs related to breast cancer, ovarian cancer, menopause, and healthy pregnancies. Family Planning 2020 Mylan formalized our commitment to the U.N.’s Every Woman Every Child initiative as part of our participation in the 2017 FP2020 summit. Mylan is committed to providing contraceptives to 25 million women and girls by 2020 and we pledge to register our contraceptive portfolio in 80% of the 69 FP2020 countries. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 24 Responding to Challenges U.S. Pharmaceutical Pricing and the EpiPen® Challenge Patients are rightfully concerned about drug prices. Mylan has felt the full weight of those concerns in relation to the price of our EpiPen® Auto-Injector brand product in the U.S. The way consumers in the nation pay for healthcare has changed dramatically over the past few years. In particular, a sharp rise in enrollment in high-deductible health plans (HDHPs) has exposed more consumers to higher out-of-pocket costs for their medications. In 2016 for example, the estimated 85% percent of consumers not enrolled in such plans paid anywhere from $0 to approximately $100 for EpiPen products, which could vary based on their health insurance and other factors. But the other 15%, many of whom were enrolled in HDHPs for the first time, found themselves in some cases having to pay list prices of $600 or more when filling their prescription. Outraged patients didn’t understand how they went from paying far less the previous year to paying a full list price. Initially, we tried to explain the outdated and complex system that determines what someone pays for medicine. We indicated that more than half the list price went back to payers or others in the supply chain. However, parents standing at the pharmacy counter unable to pay for an EpiPen didn’t need an explanation, they needed solutions. We listened and swiftly launched an authorized generic version of EpiPen. Its list price was half of the brand’s. We also significantly enhanced our patient access programs. Both actions helped patients and provided substantial savings to the healthcare system. As background, Mylan acquired and began selling EpiPen in 2007. In the years that followed, we launched a new EpiPen product, invested more than $1 billion to build awareness of the need for that product and educated people about the risks of anaphylaxis. As a result, 1 million more people now are prepared in the event of a life-threatening allergic reaction. We also worked to change laws to allow access to Epinephrine in schools Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 25 and public entities, so it can be readily available for any child who needs it. In addition, we have given away more than 1 million EpiPen products to schools across America. These free pens have been used thousands of times, potentially saving lives. We are proud of our positive impact in the allergy community, though we sincerely regret that we did not fully appreciate the impact of the list price of EpiPen products to families that had shifted to HDHPs. Pharmaceutical companies did not create the current U.S. pricing system, but they must compete within it. That said, Mylan continues to play an active role in helping educate lawmakers and others about opportunities to transform the system to better serve patients. By creating an environment where they know what their medication is going to cost, patients can better leverage their power as consumers. Indeed, we said in 2016 that we hoped the debate around EpiPen would serve as a catalyst for constructive dialogue around pharmaceutical pricing and the need for more transparency. The conversation has expanded to encompass the entire pharmaceutical supply chain. It also now includes other drugs, like insulin products and cancer treatments, underscoring pricing as a systemic issue. Since then, Congressional hearings have been held on the topic, other government leaders are calling for decisive action and conversations are happening throughout the supply chain. Everyone agrees that the current system is unsustainable. Mylan never has shied away from challenging the status quo, and we look forward to doing our part to help treat what ails the system. The challenge of the U.S. Opioid Epidemic Opioid addiction, abuse and misuse in the U.S. is a national epidemic. Mylan recognizes the scope and seriousness of this health crisis and is deeply concerned for those affected by it. In the U.S. opioid market, Mylan supplies approximately 1.1% of opioid-containing drug products sold, ranking it fifteenth among pharmaceutical companies. Despite our limited role in the production of opioid products, Mylan is committed to doing its part to help in the fight against opioid addiction, abuse and misuse, and to play a role in the long-term solution. In 2014 Mylan launched a generic injectable, single-vial version of Naloxone, a product that is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of opioid depression induced by some natural and synthetic opioids, as well as for diagnosis of suspected or known acute opioid overdosage. In the summer of 2016, Mylan launched a multiple-vial version of its generic Naloxone injectable, thereby increasing supply for customers, physicians and other providers seeking additional inventory of this important therapy. Mylan’s injectable Naloxone products are used primarily by hospitals. Today these presentations represent some of the lower-priced options on the overall Naloxone market. Although Mylan has only a small share of the Naloxone market, it stands ready to continue to provide reliable supply and access to this important product, including through a commitment to develop an auto-injector drug-device combination for it. Mylan also is fighting the opioid epidemic by taking seriously the need to safeguard against diversion and abuse of opioids. We have internal practices designed to detect suspicious orders and prevent the sale of opioid-containing products where there may be a risk of diversion. In April 2018 the company announced plans to leverage its world-class scientific platform to develop a novel delivery for Meloxicam, a non-opioid pain medication. Promoting the development of non-opioid pain treatments is one of the many tactics the FDA is focused on in its efforts to address this growing public health problem. Mylan remains committed to working with key stakeholders to continue doing its part to contribute to a long-term solution for this national health issue. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 26 Maintaining Quality in Everything We Do Because patients’ health and well-being are at stake, ensuring quality is essential for the pharmaceutical industry. That’s why, at Mylan, we view quality as being everyone’s responsibility. For us, quality begins with product development, as we work to ensure an acceptable safety and efficacy profile for every drug we hope to market, and it extends through every step of the production process, from making or sourcing raw materials to producing finished dosage forms. Externally we work with health authorities to help develop standards that reflect the requirements needed to develop and manufacture products. We then work hard to ensure that our sites, and those of third parties we rely on, comply with them. Our manufacturing facilities are routinely inspected by various health authorities around the world. In 2017, 128 inspections were performed across our facilities and affiliates. Mylan has global systems and processes in place to provide our people with the foundation and tools needed to maintain an effective quality management system. Our training programs, for instance, are designed to make sure employees are qualified by experience and education to perform their jobs in accordance with GMP. All employees responsible for GMP activities are required to take refresher training periodically. Our Quality Council program provides management with clear, quantitative data, including that of key performance indicators. It also tracks and analyzes quality trends, reviews inspection results and identifies potential areas for employee training. Mylan has grown significantly throughout our 55+ year history, but the one thing that remains unchanged is our steadfast commitment to delivering high quality medicines. in everything that we do the first ingredient in every one of our products QUALITY embedded throughout our company the fundamental point of decision-making for every product 27 In addition, we have an extensive, formal internal-audit program to help monitor activity at our facilities, as well as that of our suppliers and other partners. Our program relies primarily on oversight by a specially trained team of global experts, augmented and In 2017 Mylan supported by independent third parties. In addition, we have processes to help ensure that insights gained from our own audits and those conducted on Mylan by third conducted GMP parties, customers and health authorities are reviewed and implemented. audits of over We also proactively work with our supply and manufacturing partners to ensure that they apply stringent quality standards across their operations. We believe being 760 contractors proactive not only helps safeguard patients’ interests, but helps distinguish Mylan among our customers, as a partner of choice. and suppliers. As health-authority standards continue to evolve around the globe and among various agencies, Mylan is dedicated to continually enhancing our systems and processes to ensure sustainable quality across our network. Diverse Global Health Authority Experience 128 inspections of our facilities and affiliates in 2017. Representative agencies appear below. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 28 Pharmacovigilance is defined as the science and activities relating to the detection, assessment, understanding and prevention of adverse effects or any other drug-related problem. PV’s aims are to enhance patient care and safety in relation to the use of medicines. Promoting Product Safety and Preventing Risk We have a global policy on Product Safety and robust global pharmacovigilance (PV) programs throughout products’ complete life cycle in an effort to prevent harm. Through our global PV system, we monitor Mylan’s products and work to detect Mylan conducted 60 changes to their benefit/risk profile. A cross-functional team of primarily medical and scientific professionals support the system. We report to health authorities clinical and more than on our risk/benefit assessments through periodic safety and risk management planning reports. 35 pharmacovigilance Our Product Safety and Risk Management department oversees Mylan’s activities audits at our own through regular monitoring, including internal audits, to comply with legal and regulatory requirements. This department also is subject to external audits and sites, external health-authority inspections. contract research We have PV oversight and product-safety committees that manage due diligence and governance with respect to PV, applicable legislation and company procedures. organizations, clinical These committees also evaluate new safety information that may arise regarding our products. Information is assessed and communicated to healthcare professionals, investigator sites and patients and health authorities in a timely fashion. service providers. Conducting Responsible Clinical Research Safety always is a priority in clinical trials, and we are committed to the highest standards and integrity. Mylan abides by the principles of good clinical practice (GCP), as defined in the Declaration of Helsinki and the International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) framework and implemented in international laws, directives and regulations. We also comply with applicable clinical-trial data-disclosure laws and regulations. In 2017 we planned, conducted and/or reported on more than 100 clinical trials with two groups of human participants: patients and healthy volunteers. Mylan’s governance councils and quality committees oversee clinical trials using comprehensive quality management systems to ensure participant safety. We partner with external experts and investigational sites to ensure safety and data integrity across Mylan’s development programs, and we hold ourselves and our partners accountable to the same standards. When appropriate, Mylan employs data-safety monitoring boards to ensure patient safety and that study blinding has not been compromised. Independent third parties review Mylan’s protocol design to ensure participant safety and the integrity of the data collected. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 29 3 Better Customer Health Mylan provides products to patients through channels such as retail, hospital/institution, e-commerce, specialty pharmacy and wholesaler/distribution. Mylan’s commitment to our customers is to provide a comprehensive array of high quality medicines that span multiple therapeutic areas and dosage forms. Partnering to Address Patient Needs Our customers are essential in helping us create better health for a better world by making our products available to patients. We work with tens of thousands of customers across 165 countries and territories. In 2017 we sold approximately 69 billion doses cumulatively. Customers we Serve Examples of customers we serve Retail and Pharmacy Wholesalers/ Payers, Insurers Institutions Physicians Distributors and Governments << TOC Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 30 Delivering ONE Mylan and Exceeding Customer Expectations Our portfolio comprises Customers’ needs and expectations differ by market, depending on factors such as more than 7,500 healthcare infrastructure, delivery systems, regulations, economic development and marketed products population. We understand the importance of meeting the needs of our customers across multiple regardless of market type and strive to be their preferred partner. therapeutic areas, and As a part of this goal, we continued in 2017 to integrate our legacy business with we received ~800 more recently acquired businesses to achieve ONE Mylan, giving customers greater access to more of Mylan’s products and services around the world. In addition to our product approvals 7,500 marketed products across multiple therapeutic areas, we offer an extensive globally in 2017. range of dosage forms and delivery systems, including oral solid doses, complex products, injectables and APIs. Meeting Evolving Needs The healthcare environment is dynamic and constantly changing. An aging population, strains on public healthcare systems, digitalization and a growing middle class are among the factors causing the healthcare industry to shift. Our customers expect us to anticipate how these changes will affect patients’ needs for treatment, both in terms of the medications themselves and how they will be accessed. Mylan anticipated these changes and created a horizontally and vertically integrated platform with global scale. We also diversified our product portfolio, expanded our R&D and supply chain network, and increased our sales presence. These actions made Mylan a stronger, more relevant business partner for our customers today and tomorrow. How we conduct ourselves is as important as the high quality medicine we produce. Mylan’s management of relevant ESG topics is of growing interest to our stakeholders. That means demonstrating to industry partners, international organizations and in public tenders Mylan’s commitment to addressing ESG topics, including those mentioned in supplier evaluations and agreements. Mylan works with our partners to promote responsible business practices across many areas, including quality, the environment, health and safety, and ethics. Pricing Practices Mylan has a long history of providing high quality, low-cost pharmaceuticals to consumers. We believe that we are uniquely situated to work with customers and payers to find solutions that meet the needs of the patients and families we serve. In pricing our products, we employ a robust internal process that takes into consideration competitive factors and the need to maintain supply in the marketplace. In some circumstances, to ensure access to medications, we will sell products at little or no profit. Promoting Appropriate Use It’s crucial that patients use pharmaceutical products appropriately if they are to experience the intended effects. Unfortunately, non-adherence to prescriptions and misuse of medicines are global challenges. Our customers understand this, and by working with them and providing education and technical solutions, Mylan supports appropriate use. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 31 Mylan provides, for instance, online portals and digital solutions such as the MyFreshStart™ program, which educates patients about a variety of medical conditions and ways to better manage them. Mylan’s support of the WiZViTM application in France allows greater connectivity between patients and their doctors and pharmacists. Our sponsorship of Seguilaterapia programs in Italy promotes therapeutic adherence by reminding patients to take their medication or refill prescriptions. Mylan also adapts its packaging with symbols and pictograms that illustrate dosage schedules. To support patients diagnosed with HCV in India, we developed a mobile app called HepBUZZTM. It helps HCPs choose appropriate medications; simplify therapy options based on genotype, liver status and patient profile; and provide real-time guidance for prescribers to check drug interactions and understand a patient’s overall condition. Solutions to Encourage Patient Adherence In a growing number of countries, Mylan websites offer customers and patients access to online portals containing informational and educational content about specific therapeutic areas. Mylan’s Ashray13 disease-awareness program in India is an example of how we work with customers to develop services that help patients better understand their The MyFreshStart app medical conditions. The program connects patients, provides patients diagnosed HCPs and caregivers with HCV or breast cancer – and to increase adherence. their families – emotional and psychological support. The program is managed by a third party and offers counseling to help patients effectively manage stress. Ashray provides multilingual telecounseling support and on-the-ground Mylan’s Seguilaterapia program counselors, and organizes patient in Italy offers patients several meetings where healthcare experts convenient ways to receive speak on topics relevant for better reminders to take their medication medical treatment and to support or refill prescriptions. quality of life. 13 https://www.ashray.net.in/en/breast-cancer/caring Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 32 Improving Patient Adherence Communication – WiZViTM Dose Dispensing A survey conducted in France on behalf of Mylan Mylan supports customers in Europe (pharmacies showed that 48% of patients who were prescribed and wholesalers) that offer individual dose dispensing medicine to treat an illness or chronic disease, were services to their patients. Studies have shown clear found to be out of compliance when reviewed over adherence benefits when patients receive their a 12-month period.14 That’s why Mylan is pleased to medications prepackaged in doses tailored for them, support WiZVi, a unique app that connects patients making it easier to manage taking multiple medications to their doctor or pharmacist, providing day-to-day at various intervals during the day. Mylan is leading health management using online consultation and the market in supplying products for individual dose appointments. If necessary, prescriptions are sent dispensing in the Netherlands. Additionally, in other directly to the patients’ smartphones. Patients then European markets such as France, Spain, the U.K., can send prescriptions to the pharmacy of their choice. Belgium and Eastern Europe, Mylan is setting the WiZVi also encourages adherence by sending refill standard by helping create these offerings or by reminders, which strengthens communication between leading initiatives to increase patient access to dose pharmacists and patients should there be questions or dispensing services. concerns. For HCPs, WiZVi affords them opportunities to spend more time delivering direct patient care. 14 Press release on WizVi_June 2017 Ensuring Ethical Behavior Regarding Promotion To support our aspiration to help deliver better health for a better world, we cultivate strong customer relationships that are based on integrity and trust. We work to conduct our sales, marketing and promotional activities ethically, and in a manner that advances patient care and enhances the practice of medicine. We interact with members of the healthcare community about educational programming, medical research support, and inform on the efficacy and appropriate use of our products. While these interactions are important and necessary, they may bring elevated ethical risks. Managing those risks is a priority for Mylan. We have well-established global, regional and local policies and procedures on interactions with the healthcare community, drug promotion and ethical marketing. Risk assessments and employee training are key components. We strive to comply with regulations and adhere to ethical standards set forth by Mylan and industry associations. Here are a few examples: ► Mylan’s Standards for Interactions with Healthcare Professionals instruct employees on proper behavior when engaging with HCPs. The guidelines are grounded in Mylan’s companywide standards and take into consideration local laws and regulations. Compliance with the standards is mandatory for any member of Mylan’s workforce who interacts with HCPs. ► Mylan’s Global Policy for the Marketing and Advertising Review Council requires the establishment of local procedures to ensure that all promotional materials and other commercial communications are reviewed and approved internally by appropriate subject matter experts. The goal of the local review procedures implemented under the policy is to ensure that all materials and communications intended for promotional or commercial purposes – including materials intended for internal sales training – are accurate, truthful, medically/scientifically sound, not misleading and compliant with all applicable marketing, legal, regulatory and medical requirements and company policies. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 33 Maintaining Quality Within our Supply Chain Maintaining access to high quality raw materials and delivering finished goods in a timely manner is crucial to Mylan’s ability to provide patients with access to the medicines they need. Mylan’s global supply chain has been strategically designed to ensure that the right products reach the right customers (and ultimately patients) at the right time. Many of our facilities are located in close proximity to the markets we serve, as shown below, and about 75% of the product volume we sell is produced through internally controlled manufacturing. To manage this network responsibly across many markets and engage with health authorities around the globe, we have a robust set of quality systems and controls in place. We also engage our suppliers and partners to address the full range of quality-related considerations involved in developing and manufacturing drugs, and we have quality agreements with our suppliers. In addition, we seek full compliance with all applicable laws, such as those focused on labor, the environment and anti-corruption for both our internal and external network of suppliers. We also make investments as appropriate to keep employees safe, the environment clean and quality high. Global Strategic Supply Network ► Global network ► Global supply sites ► Proximity to key markets ► ~75% Internal manufacturing ► Regional supply sites Illustrative, not comprehensive Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 34 Moreover, we have procedures to monitor supplier compliance and mitigate potential concerns. We conduct audits of new and existing suppliers and contractors – as well as potential partners – as part of our due-diligence effort. We prioritize and set schedules for quality audits across different geographies based on criteria that include: ► Type of operation and services provided, ► geography, ► historical regulatory inspection performance, ► significance to Mylan’s business and product launches, and ► periodic audit requirements. Mylan’s scientific affairs, operations and quality teams play a key role in working to ensure product safety and quality. They oversee an extensive distribution network of internal and external partners, helping to enable Mylan to meet customers’ needs safely, securely and in a timely fashion. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 35 4 Better Partner Health Building strategic partnerships with like-minded organizations, companies and government bodies better positions Mylan to reach patients and achieve our mission. From R&D to manufacturing to distribution and sales, how our partners conduct themselves impacts the efficiency, quality and reliability of our products. It also impacts our commitment to access. Therefore, Mylan strives to ensure our partners are guided by the same principles of integrity by which we operate. Partnering With the Global Community Mylan is an engaged member of the public health community both as a supplier and a company interested in supporting health and well-being for all. This aspiration requires the resources and expertise of a diverse network of partners working together. Mylan typically works with other pharmaceutical companies, suppliers, international donors, intergovernmental organization, non governmental organization (NGOs) and governments. << TOC Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 36 Partnering to Expand Access Product Development We have been a proponent for access – and breaking down associated barriers – since our founding. We do this in part by challenging patents and partnering with other pharmaceutical companies, which helps us share risks and costs, leverage strengths and scale up distribution. The result often is that medicines become available to a significantly larger group of patients. We have license agreements with several branded originators. Some noteworthy ongoing collaborations, especially those that benefit patients in lowand middleincome countries, are: ► Gilead – our partner to develop generic complements to their HIV and hepatitis products; ► Otsuka – our partner to make the drug Delamanid (Deltyba®), available in countries with high rates of TB. The product is used to treat MDR-TB; ► Viiv and Abbott – our partners to develop generic versions and novel combinations and formulations of their HIV products; ► 3M Drug Delivery Systems and Symbiotec – our partners for manufacturing Sirdupla™, an inhaled respiratory product, and for producing API for generic Premarin®, an estrogen product, respectively; and ► Biocon, Momenta, Mabion, Revance and FKB – some of our partners in the development and manufacturing of biosimilars, of which Mylan’s program is one of the most comprehensive and diverse. We also have several licenses via the Medicines Patent Pool, a U.N.-backed public health organization working to increase access to HIV, HCV and TB treatments in lowand middle-income countries. Policy Initiatives Issues of access and affordability also need to be addressed from perspectives such as policy. We continually collaborate with NGOs and governments to devise strategies for initiatives such as: ► Improving access to diagnosis and treatment, ► building databases for improved epidemic tracking and ► establishing guidelines for the management of (HCV) infection in resource-limited settings. Additionally, we support the development of a multinational HCV registry. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 37 Global Insights and Scale Some of our access-related partnerships focus on specific therapeutic areas, such as HIV or other infectious diseases, and help inform how we adapt our products OPTIMIZE is a global and solutions. These typically global partners have holistic approaches that enable consortium dedicated a large-scale and sustainable distribution of medicine and treatment. They help us to rapidly improving bring medicines to patients in need around the world. treatment outcomes for people living with HIV Regarding infectious diseases, for example, our partners include but are not limited to: by optimizing ARV drugs and ► Clinton Health Access Initiative; formulations and accelerating their introduction in lowand ► OPTIMIZE; middle-income countries. Mylan ► Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation; is a founding member. ► The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; As more people receive treatment for HIV and AIDS, ► The United States Agency for International Development; spending will increase. In the ► The U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief; context of stagnant levels of donor funding and limited ► UNAIDS; and country budgets, there is need ► Unitaid. for simpler, better, safer, less toxic and more cost-effective In the area of family planning, Mylan works with several global NGOs that treatment. As a member of operate family-planning clinics. All clinics support a person’s right to make OPTIMIZE, Mylan is part of choices about sexuality and well-being, and the right to birth control. Some noteworthy partners include: providing options that meet these qualifications. ► Population Services International, ► Marie Stopes International, ► DKT International and ► The International Planned Parenthood Federation. Mylan’s collaboration with these organizations helps us fulfill our commitment to the U.N.’s Every Woman Every Child initiative. Collaborating with Governments The role of governments as partners for access varies across geographies. In some cases, governments and NGOs are essential to the delivery of healthcare and access to medicine. We see their role as fundamental in supplying medicines – especially for HIV – to national programs that cover millions of patients per year. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 38 Enhancing Supplier Relationships Knowing our suppliers and maintaining good relationships help make our supply chain more reliable. Mylan’s Global Strategic Sourcing group is refining its program for supplier relationship management to increase collaboration with prioritized suppliers. The program will enhance our ability to proactively manage supply chain risks and learn more about our suppliers’ management of environmental and social matters. Further, Mylan’s newly established Internal Council for Sustainable Sourcing will: ► Provide guidance on sustainable sourcing; ► set annual goals and objectives; and ► develop, implement and monitor compliance with sustainable-sourcing policies and metrics. Mylan’s U.S. Supplier Diversity Program Our U.S. Supplier Diversity Program supports small businesses and businesses owned by minorities, women and veterans. We train our sourcing employees on this initiative, monitor spending and provide access to external databases featuring diverse suppliers. Compared to 2016, Mylan’s associated spend rose: Small businesses, ~30% Veteran-owned, ~21% Disadvantaged-owned, ~30% Women-owned, ~31% Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 39 Establishing Supplier Expectations Mylan expects its suppliers to act ethically, in accordance with the law and in compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is available on our website, Mylan.com. As of January 2017 we had provided our code to more than 20,700 suppliers. All new suppliers invited to bid on Mylan projects must acknowledge acceptance of the Code, which is reviewed frequently to align with our governance and expectations. Employees in local, regional and global functions who interact with suppliers receive associated training every two years. Such functions include but are not limited to employees within Compliance, Supply Chain, Procurement and Sourcing. Mylan’s Supplier Code of Conduct establishes expectations Some Mylan business in the following areas: Freely Chosen Employment, Child Labor partners interact with and Young Workers, Freedom of Association, Wages, Benefits government officials and Working Hours, Anti-Corruption and Business Integrity, Fair Competition, Conflicts of Interest, Conflict Minerals, Environmental on our behalf. Our Authorizations, Business Continuity, Legal Requirements, goal is for at least Commitment and Accountability, and Compliance Assessments. 90% of these partners to be trained on our Monitoring Business Partners Anti-Corruption Policy While business partners are essential to Mylan’s mission and integral to our value chain, we don’t have direct control over their actions or behavior. Nonetheless, it is and procedures. In important for us to provide them with the proper knowledge and framework to comply 2017, 91% who were with Mylan’s high standards and represent us appropriately. Among our requirements: identified as requiring ► Contractors and agents are to receive the appropriate training and comply with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, training completed it. ► vendors and third parties that may interact with government officials on 91% Mylan’s behalf are to receive anti-corruption training from us, and ► we follow a global business partner due-diligence process that helps Mylan identify potential “high risk” third parties. 40 5 Better Employee Health We rely on our diverse workforce of approximately 35,000 to support our mission and help change lives. In return for their commitment, we aim to provide a supportive and safe workplace that cultivates personal and professional development, rewards performance and leadership, and encourages unconventional thinking. We also offer a variety of benefits and programs to meet the needs of our employees around the world. Attracting and Retaining Talent The idea of working for a cause – the proposition that a person can be part of Our diverse workforce* something bigger than themselves – is a key differentiator for Mylan that helps of approximately 35,000 us attract and retain talent. can be found on nearly Each of our people plays an important role in Mylan’s mission. In fact, they describe every continent: how they help provide 7 billion people access to high quality medicine – something referred to as 7B:1 – by creating individual role statements. This is one of the ways ► Europe: 27.4% our employees help articulate what the company stands for and the importance of ► North America: 21.2% their work. ► Rest of World: 51.4% Additionally, our current and prospective employees also take note of Mylan’s successful track record. We are a company that has expanded substantially into new geographies and performed well over the last several years, creating exciting opportunities. *Workforce includes employees and temporary workers << TOC Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 41 50% of Mylan employees have been ~40% of our 2017 U.S. interns continued with the company for 5+ years working at Mylan post-internship ~25% of employees moved into a new role in 2017 56% of our senior-most leaders were 14% & 16% of women of men promoted from within Mylan are responsible for managing people* *Based on employee data from Mylan’s HR information system Measuring and Rewarding Performance To focus our efforts, employees align their performance objectives with the Mylan’s company’s key priorities. We annually evaluate employee performance based Leadership not only on what employees achieve related to their performance objectives, but how they demonstrate Mylan’s Leadership Expectations of Leading, Learning, Expectations Teaching and Performing with the right Attitude in their daily work. In 2017, 94% of employees set objectives in support of Mylan’s key priorities. Throughout 2017 we extended our global performance management process to recently acquired businesses. The process is an important way we encourage managers to provide employees with continuous feedback and hold annual performance discussions. It helps us identify development needs, recognize strong performers and cultivate future leaders through stretch assignments and on-the-job learning. We drive strong results by taking a pay-for-performance approach to rewarding employees’ efforts that balances base pay with shortand long-term incentives. In 2017 we implemented a simplified set of global metrics for our bonus program to unite us as ONE Mylan and clarified the opportunity strong performers have for earning greater compensation. Recognizing Good Work Throughout 2017 Mylan organized events and programs to recognize employees for their support and hard work. Highlights included service-award ceremonies, employee-appreciation events and town hall meetings with senior leaders. 42 Encouraging Continuous Learning In 2017 Mylan’s In 2017 we upgraded our Learning Management System, MyUniversity, to create a stronger foundation for continuous learning. Our Global Learning Office also workforce recorded developed a learning library tailored to our Leadership Expectations to help 2.6 million learning employees build their skills and understand what is expected of Mylan leaders. activities in MyUniversity Supporting Diversity and Inclusion – 1 million more than 2016 At Mylan, we know that investing in diversity and truly seeing others’ perspectives make our business stronger and more resilient. That is why we are committed to continuing our efforts to cultivate a diverse, inclusive workforce that reflects and understands the communities we serve. We educate employees on our equal employment opportunity and nondiscrimination policies as part of our mandatory annual Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Visit Mylan.com to view our: training. In the U.S. we apply affirmative action plans focused on equal employment ► Global Policy Prohibiting opportunity for applicants and employees. These plans are endorsed each year by Discrimination, Harassment the head of Human Relations. and Retaliation Women at Mylan ► Diversity Statement Female Employees* 28% Executive Governance Team** 53% Board of Directors** 36% *Based on employee data from Mylan’s HR information Systemem **Includes CEO Heather Bresch Building for the Future As markets around the world evolve, our leaders routinely rethink the way we do business – both globally and locally – to remain built to last. One way we do this is by ensuring that the right people are in the right roles at the right time. In 2017 we continued to integrate recently acquired businesses and streamlined our operations by reducing organizational layers. In some instances, this called for us to make the tough decision to restructure our workforce and eliminate roles. We regularly review our business and operating model for effectiveness and efficiency. As a result, we were able to minimize workforce reductions compared to many of our peers. As Mylan’s global presence expands, we continually enhance many of our programs, processes and systems to better respond to and support the changing needs of our workforce. A global data management and governance team works to ensure the integrity of workforce data around the globe. In 2017 the team developed an auditing process to improve data accuracy and enable analytical insight into areas such as diversity, attrition, employee sentiment and performance trends. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 43 Creating an Open and Welcoming Workplace Mylan strives to create a positive, productive work environment. To this end, in 2017 senior leaders identified several areas of focus, such as employee engagement and company culture. As a follow up, Mylan is conducting an employee survey globally that is scheduled for 2018. Mylan encourages collaboration Mylan also piloted an exit survey for departing employees in several countries to through our social business intranet, collect valuable feedback about their experience at Mylan and improve employee MIKE (Mylan Information Knowledge satisfaction. This initiative is continuing in 2018. Exchange). Employees around the globe can better connect, Recognizing Freedom of Association collaborate and communicate by Mylan recognizes and respects employees’ right to representation and collective blogging and starting discussions, bargaining. We have a significant number of employees in manufacturing, forming groups to work on projects commercial and corporate functions around the world who are represented and and sharing status updates. covered by collective agreements. We engage with employee representatives globally and strive to maintain productive relationships with them and all employees. Supporting Employee Well-Being As a healthcare company, we also strive to be a model for healthy change and do our part to encourage employee well-being. That is why we invest in globally consistent, locally sensitive programs that help employees take charge of their health. For example, in India, Mylan provides a number of well-being benefits for employees, including annual health check ups, free meals and transportation, and subsidized interest rates for housing. In addition, the Mylan Employees Welfare Association supports the welfare needs of Mylan’s employees and their families. Areas of focus include higher education and healthcare for family members. In the U.S. Mylan partners with employees to help manage the high cost of healthcare by providing generous incentives for participating in wellness activities and passing through rebates to our employees at the pharmacy counter. The company’s strong health benefits also include access to biometric screenings, reminders of annual preventive exams and vaccinations, personal health coaching and telemedicine. We continually look for new and innovative ways to help our employees and their families live healthier lives around the globe. Additional examples include: ► Exercise workshops; ► on-site flu vaccines; ► step challenges, marathon and cycling sponsorships; and ► subsidized Employee Assistance Programs to address a range of personal well-being concerns. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 44 Ensuring Employee Health and Safety Safety is an integral part of how Mylan does business. A strong commitment to safety starts with our leadership and extends to all employees. We believe there are always improvement opportunities for employee protection, even with good safety performance. We encourage our people to “speak up” when it comes to safety and promote a work environment in which we all accept personal responsibility for our own safety and that of our colleagues. In parallel with designing and building a safe work environment, Mylan understands the important role human behavior plays in safety. Mylan’s program, “Think Safe Work Safe,” places an emphasis on situational awareness, a well-established technique that promotes safe behavior in changing environments. Building a Healthy and Safe Workplace Mylan’s Global Health and Safety Mylan’s Global Health and Safety Policy defines the standards and lays out the foundation for Mylan’s conduct with respect to health and safety. Our Environmental, Policy is available atMylan.com. Health and Safety (EHS) management system and our organization aims to ensure appropriate management of risks and regulatory compliance at all levels of the company. The EHS system drives ongoing improvement and manages opportunities to enhance safety across our operations. It is governed by a global EHS Governance Committee comprising cross-functional leaders. Our EHS management system is based on 13 governing principles (see appendix) that provide a framework to support health and safety across our operations, and for all employees and external partners. Mylan’s EHS technical standards establish global minimum operating requirements for a variety of safety activities. Implementing these standards helps ensure compliance with applicable EHS 6 of Mylan’s sites have attained OHSAS regulations in all countries where we operate, in addition to filling the gap where 18001 certification for health and safety certain regulations may not exist. We conduct periodic audits to systematically management. 9 additional locations evaluate our EHS performance. Mylan uses findings from these assessments to currently are in process. drive improvement, promote knowledge transfer across all locations and mitigate risks. BEST IN CLASS Mylan’s Katsuyama, Japan, team took home championships in an outdoor and indoor firefighting competition for the second year in a row. 45 Identifying Risks Before They Happen We believe in incident prevention. Our risk-management systems work to identify Better Than workplace risk and implement controls to reduce hazards. Industry Average In 2017 we elevated our injury-prevention strategy. Building on our existing hazardreporting program, Incident Prevention Opportunity, we identified areas where Mylan’s global total incident the potential for a serious or fatal incident (SFI) could result. By understanding SFI rate was potential, Mylan can ensure that the right programs and processes are in place to provide optimal protection of employees and contractors. Our commitment to safety extends beyond our employees. Across all locations, 0.51 cases per 100 protecting the safety of our contractors and visitors is part of our EHS management employees. This is 75% below system. Contractors and visitors are covered by EHS policies and procedures the industry average of 2 cases applicable at their specific sites. We have established guidelines and expectations per 100 employees.15 for contractor safety management, prescreening and training. Contractor safety performance is tracked and included in our contractor safety metrics. Mylan’s global Days Away, Enhancing Safety Through Continuous Learning Restricted or Transferred (DART) rate in 2017 equaled Through extensive training, Mylan’s employees and contractors receive information and knowledge to assist them in performing activities safely and without harm to themselves or others. We require employees to take safety courses based on job 0.38 cases per 100 responsibilities and regulatory requirements. Training is administered through our employees. This is 68% below MyUniversity platform. industry average of 1.2 cases per 100 employees.16 In 2017 sites continued to enhance global and site-specific e-Learning courses on a variety of topics, such as forklift use, hazardous-waste disposal and fall protection. 15, 16 Industry average per U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 46 6 Better Environmental Health As a pharmaceutical company and member of the global community, we are committed to caring for the environment and promoting safe and sustainable operations. We invest and innovate to achieve resource efficiency, enhance stewardship, preserve the communities in which we operate and find ways to improve our environmental performance. Recognizing and mitigating any risks posed by our operations is a business priority and a prerequisite to delivering better health for a better world. That’s why every day, Mylan works to maintain a more sustainable business. Doing What’s Right Through Strong Environmental Principles Our long-standing commitment to doing what’s right, not what’s easy, applies to how we care for the environment. Mylan conducts environmentally responsible operations grounded in a management system that lets us satisfy the needs of our growing global business. Our Global Environmental Policy lays out the foundation, while Mylan’s EHS Management System and approach to governance help ensure that appropriate management of risk and regulatory compliance are addressed at all levels of the organization. Activities are overseen by a global EHS governance committee that comprises cross-functional leaders. Our EHS management system is based on 13 principles (see appendix) that apply across our operations. These principles provide a framework of expectations with respect to our employees and external partners. << TOC Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 47 Mylan’s EHS technical standards establish global minimum operating requirements for a variety of safety and environmental activities. Implementing these standards helps ensure compliance with applicable regulations in the countries in which we operate, in addition to filling gaps where certain regulations may not exist. We monitor and track many elements of our environmental performance in 8 of Mylan’s API sites are ISO a centralized database, allowing us to oversee results and identify risks and 14001 certified for environmental opportunities. We routinely conduct internal and external environmental audits, management systems. including reviews of our data, systems and programs. 7 of Mylan’s API sites are certified for ISO 50001 energyProtecting Water Quality and Reducing Consumption management systems. Water is an important component of pharmaceutical manufacturing and for the use of medicines. Our operations require an abundant supply of high quality water as a raw material. This supply helps ensure all aspects of production meet our high standards while complying with safety requirements set by health authorities around the world. Mylan recognizes that water is a scarce resource in many of the communities where our employees live and the company does business. We work proactively to protect water and reduce consumption. While we have made significant headway in reduction at some locations, our water usage in 2017 increased by 3.5% to 3.3 million cubic meters, due primarily to increased global production. We continually look for ways water conservation to reduce water consumption, reuse water for nonpotable purposes and install 360,000 technologies that ensure adequate quality wastewater. Reducing Effluent Discharge – Leading by Example Responsible wastewater treatment is a key topic for our industry and Mylan is gallons/month committed to leading by example. The production requirements of our operations Amount of water saved by – coupled with local regulations and infrastructure – guide the type of water and replacing water-based dustwastewater management applied. In India, we are a leader in zero liquid discharge removal equipment with (ZLD) systems. ZLD systems are wastewater treatment plants that eliminate dry filtration systems at our effluent discharge into the environment or to common treatment plants. Instead, West Virginia (U.S.) plant. all wastewater is treated and repurposed back into nonpotable applications in our facilities, reducing water usage and significantly reducing environmental impact. 100% of Mylan’s wastewater generated in our Hyderabad manufacturing sites utilizes ZLD technology. Mylan began using it in 2009 and today operates 11 ZLD facilities across India. Mylan API Unit 2 Hyderabad, India 48 We continue to invest in wastewater treatment facilities and look for additional improvements across our operations. For example, we recently installed a stateof-the-art, full-scale wastewater treatment system in our manufacturing facility in 20+ million gallons Galway, Ireland. The system uses membrane bioreactor technology and eliminates Amount of water saved in the need to pull water from a nearby stream to cool high-temperature discharge. It India in 2017 as a result also allows us to create opportunities to reuse water. of pretreatment and water conservation initiatives Addressing Pharmaceuticals in the Environment and Antimicrobial Resistance We recognize and understand concerns related to the presence of pharmaceuticals in the environment (PiE). Primary routes of PiE entry are patient use and excretion, product disposal and agriculture. Significantly lower amounts result from pharmaceutical manufacturing. Nonetheless, Mylan is committed to reducing the amount of pharmaceuticals discharged by its operations. The PiE issue requires a balanced approach, given the significance of medicines to human health. As such, we support science-based initiatives to understand the risks of PiE and focus on ways to keep materials from reaching the environment through enhancements in equipment containment systems and cleaning processes. We conduct environmental Injectables Manufacturing risk evaluations for our products and have completed more than 550 assessments Facility, Galway, Ireland since implementing the program in 2016. Addressing PiE and combating AMR is not only about responsible operations, it also is about protecting the effectiveness of existing and future medicines. As part DOING OUR PART of our commitment, Mylan in 2017 became a signatory to the Davos Declaration on combating AMR. It supports measures to reduce environmental pollution from As a signatory to the Davos antibiotics. Mylan also is a board member of the AMR Industry Alliance and was Declaration on AMR, Mylan is included in the organization’s most recent progress report. In addition, we participated committed to: in the Access to Medicine Foundation’s Antimicrobial Resistance Benchmark 2018. ► Work to reduce the development of AMR, ► invest in R&D to meet public Sources of Pharmaceuticals into the health needs with innovative Environment from Human Use* diagnostics and treatments, and ► improve access to high quality antibiotics while ensuring new ones are available to all who need them. Mylan became a signatory to the Davos Declaration on AMR and a board member of the AMR Industry Usage and Disposal Industry Alliance in 2017. We participated in Excretion the first report of the AMR Industry Alliance published in January 2018. Mylan’s use of ZLD systems *Care for People, Care for Our Environment Brochure published by for wastewater treatment was AESGP, EFPIA, Medicines for Europe, 2017 highlighted in the report.17 17 https://www.amrindustryalliance.org/amr-industry-alliance-declaration Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 49 Waste Management 70% REDUCTION Our Greensboro, North Carolina, facility is well on its way to achieving zero landfill by 2020. in the amount of landfill material from Mylan’s largest distribution center in Greensboro. Focusing on Waste Reduction We are committed to reducing waste through responsible use of resources. The installation of Doing so helps us protect the environment while supporting our business. Mylan’s a new sludge dryer EHS Management System includes global standards and guidelines for waste reduced ~200 tonnes management and minimization. We are committed to reducing waste and have made great strides at many sites through dedicated initiatives on hazardous waste of hazardous waste in minimization, material reuse, recycling efforts and composting of cafeteria waste. 2017 at our Aurangabad, At our finished dose facility in Aurangabad, India, we installed a new sludge dryer India, facility. to reduce the volume of wastewater-treatment sludge. As a result, we decreased in 2017 the amount of hazardous waste generated by approximately 200 tonnes. We also developed a method to recover and reuse palladium carbon, a catalyst used in API production. Whenever possible, Mylan promotes the use of waste-to-energy facilities, cement kilns and fuel-blending facilities as effective methods for waste treatment, reducing environmental impact. We also monitor and track waste generation as part of our global centralized database. API Unit 10 Visakhapatnam, India 50 Using Technology to Improve Air Emissions Our facilities are outfitted with equipment designed to help keep the air clean; Air Emissions we use new technology as it becomes available. Examples include high-efficiency Management dust collection, HEPA filtration, electrostatic precipitation, multi-stage filtration and recirculation systems. Our API process reactors are equipped with primary and secondary condensers, and certain solvent-storage tanks in India have vent 1 million pounds of solvent emissions condensers. Online monitoring stations for ambient-air quality and stack emissions eliminated from 2015 – 2017 are present in our API sites. We also use regenerative thermal oxidizers at three by Mylan’s oxidizer systems facilities in North America and Europe to control hazardous/toxic air pollutants and volatile organic compound emissions. India has a strong tradition of honoring the environment. In 2017 more than 22,000 plants were placed in Mylan locations across the nation. 51 Increasing Renewable Energy and Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Our operations rely on various energy resources. Reducing energy demand makes good business sense and many of our locations have initiated efforts to lower demand and decrease greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We have made good progress and continue to evaluate opportunities to advance energy and emission reduction in our operations. Since 2015 we have increased the amount of renewable energy purchased by 243%. In addition to helping decrease emissions from burning In 2017 Mylan submitted coal, four of our sites in India supplement that energy power source with rice husks its first CDP Climate and biomass briquettes. We continue to evaluate opportunities to drive additional Change Response, which energy efficiencies and renewable sources. included Scope 1 (direct) Mylan submitted its first CDP Climate Change response in 2017, which included and Scope 2 (indirect) Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) GHG emissions data from our operational GHG emissions data from locations for 2015 and 2016. We applied the methodology outlined by the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Our Scope 1 and 218 GHG our operational locations emissions for 2017 are estimated to be approximately 0.8 million metric tonnes for 2015 and 2016. CO2e19 (see appendix). In 2018 Mylan plans to Renewable Energy Purchased respond to climate change 60 and water questionnaires. 243% We also will partner with million kilowatt hours 50 40 a third party to conduct 30 independent data increase 20 10 verification. renewable energy purchased 2015 2016 2017 56 million kilowatt hours of renewable Visit Mylan.com to read our energy purchased in 2017 Global Environmental Policy. 18 Market-based 19 Information may be restated due to acquisitions, divestitures or data improvements/verification Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 52 7 Better Community Health Supporting the health of our communities is important not only to our employees and stakeholders, but to our company’s future. Mylan has a long tradition of engaging with the communities where we operate and where our employees live and work. Our avenues for providing support include product and service donation and financial or program assistance, as well as through our employees volunteering their time and talents. Engagement Around the World Local contexts and needs differ significantly across Mylan’s global footprint. For example, the Mylan Charitable Foundation was established in the U.S. in 2002. It operates independent of Mylan’s business operations and supports efforts to enhance the quality of life and address unmet needs in and around the communities where Mylan operates, primarily by supporting child-focused issues in the areas of education, social services and health, among other charitable causes. Over the past 16 years the foundation has made grants totaling more than $10 million to more than 100 nonprofit organizations. Internally Mylan has a U.S. donations policy and committee that manages contributions made in that country. Outside of the U.S., Mylan country managers govern community initiatives, using a companywide approval process that provides guidance for donations. In India, we are proud to honor the India Companies Act. It mandates that companies spend 2% of their average net profits on corporate social responsibility initiatives. Since 2014 Mylan has invested nearly $4 million in such initiatives. << TOC Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 53 Regional Highlights rest of world India With approximately half of our workforce in India, Mylan provides a wide range of support, in the areas of healthcare, education, community welfare and the environment. Healthcare HCV impacts more than 12 million people in India. In response, Mylan designed an intervention plan for HCV that aligns to the WHO’s recommendations. It focuses on awareness building, education, initial screening and counseling to support global goals related to reducing and eliminating hepatitis. Done in partnership with three NGOs, this program now is implemented in 45 districts. Services include: ► Mass awareness: Mylan reached more than 350,000 people and their family members through community meetings, group discussions, street plays, folk songs, wall paintings, public announcements, educational leaflets and more; ► screenings for hepatitis B and C: Mylan conducted nearly 48,000 screenings; and ► counseling: Mylan provided education and counseling for those who identified positive as a result of screening. In addition, Mylan supported screenings for other illnesses: ► Supported programs for HCPs on recognizing the potential signs and symptoms of cancer; ► helped screen more than 69,000 people for oral cancer and nearly 9,000 women for cervical and breast cancer; ► launched the Affordable Cancer Care project with the Tata Memorial Centre to conduct cancer screenings and deliver care. We also ran screening camps in rural and semi-urban Maharashtra; and ► sponsored community health camps where people could be seen by a medical professional and receive screenings. Education Mylan strives to support schools, particularly for underprivileged children, by helping address shortcomings in infrastructure, such as classrooms, furniture, toilets and potable water. In 2017 we helped more than 12,000 students by: ► Placing drinking-water units in three schools, serving 2,180 students; ► installing toilets in three schools, serving more than 1,000 students; ► building classrooms, science laboratories and a dining hall; and ► funding supplementary teachers. Community Welfare Mylan addressed access to clean drinking water, sanitation and waste management by: ► Establishing community drinking-water projects in nine villages, supporting more than 30,000 people in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka; and ► in Andhra Pradesh, funding the purchase of garbage-collection vehicles at Jigani, Karnataka and Poosapatirega, and a public toilet complex at Nallagedapeta. Twenty-thousand people are benefiting. The Environment Environmental health and human health are connected, and we are committed to making communities healthier. In addition o upholding high environmental standards in our own manufacturing facilities, we helped clean two major bodies of water in Andhra Pradesh and planted 22,000 trees. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 54 additional rest of world highlights ► In Australia, donated medicine to the Philippine Australian Medical Association, the AusViet Charity Foundation, Cambodia Vision and Caritas PNG (Papua New Guinea) and a portable hospital organized by Youth with a Mission. We supplied the generic version of PrEP for government trials, providing access for patients at high risk of acquiring HIV. About 13,000 people are currently enrolled in various trials in Australia. ► Supported South Africa’s Project Impilo Adopt-A-School program by providing daily meal packs for children diagnosed with HIV. We also funded renovation of the country’s Masikhule Crech and Child Care Education facility to add bathrooms and a childcare center with age-appropriate toys and education curricula. ► Partnered with local football academies in Thailand’s Nakornprathom and Saraburi provinces to renovate training fields and repair equipment used by more than 300 children. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 55 Regional Highlights NORTH AMERICA Disaster Relief 2017 was a year of dramatic weather in the U.S., and several Mylan locations suffered the effects of devastating storms and flooding. To support our communities, employees and their families, Mylan provided access to much-needed medicine by working with charitable distribution partners Direct Relief, Americares and Heart to Heart International to make available more than 6 million doses of antibiotics and medicines to treat heart, thyroid, digestive and respiratory conditions. We also chartered a cargo aircraft that carried more than 36,000 pounds of essential items needed by residents and Mylan employees in Puerto Rico. We opened the doors of our manufacturing plant there to Mylan employees and those in the surrounding community and provided shelter, food, water and other assistance. Mylan also partnered with SBP, a national disaster recovery organization, to support their on-the-ground efforts in Texas. We donated more than $80,000 to SBP to assist in statewide efforts. The contribution was made possible through employee donations and Mylan’s corporate match. Mylan also offered temporary housing and provided direct financial assistance to its employees who needed support. Supporting STEM Education Mylan is committed to building awareness and interest in STEM education by supporting programs that inspire future scientists, pharmacists and physicians. In 2017: ► Senior female leaders from Mylan participated in the Annual Science Technology Engineering and Art and Math conference, hosted by the Women’s Congressional Policy Institute in Washington D.C., to encourage women to pursue STEM education. Other U.S. highlights from 2017 include: ► Mylan was recognized by Dispensary of Hope for donating more than 115 million doses of free medicine over the last 5 years to help serve patients in need; ► we participated in United Way of Monongalia County’s annual Day of Caring. Approximately 100 employees from our Morgantown, West Virginia, locations took part in a half-day event to help local nonprofit organizations with much-needed hands-on volunteer projects; ► we again participated in the Pittsburgh Pride event, a weekend-long celebration in support of the LGBT community in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Activities included sponsorship of the Mylan Wellness Village which offered confidential HIV/AIDs testing and employee participation in a parade; and ► Mylan contributed to the 2017 Bike MS event, which raised funds for the disease. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 56 Regional Highlights EUROPE ► Sponsored runs in Spain to help fund scholarships for pancreatic cancer research. ► Cheered on 300 of our employees in France when they participated in the country’s annual Association Petits Princes run to raise funds for children with cancer. ► Donated laboratory equipment to Polytech Clermont-Ferrand, an engineering school in France, to support STEM education. ► Donated nearly 7,000 Influvac® flu vaccines to Greece’s Smile of the Child, Positive Voice and Hellenic Center for Disease Control and Prevention, and 480 doses of Klaricid to the country’s Hellenic Institute for the Study of Sepsis. ► Donated Influvac flu vaccines to the homeless population of Lazio, Italy, and worked with Foundation The Bridge and NPS Italia Onlus to raise awareness of HIV prevention and promote access to self-test kits in an effort to encourage early diagnosis. ► Supported an HIV testing awareness campaign in Romania together with UNOPA, a patient association, to promote higher awareness among the general population of early diagnosis. ► Supported Romania’s Mission 150, established to enhance education about hypertriglyceridemia and promote healthy lifestyles. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 57 8 Better Industry Health Breaking Down Barriers and Improving Access It has become more apparent than ever that access is no longer just about bringing medicines to patients. It is also about shaping policy and affecting change throughout the pharmaceutical industry and around the world. Mylan has a long-standing commitment to addressing unmet needs and leading the way when it comes to industry change. Mylan has transformed significantly since our founding, but our commitment to access and to the importance of having a fair and balanced industry never has waned. Each day, we honor this conviction. We provide education and raise awareness on issues related to patient health. We strive to make vaccines and self-treatment more available. We also work hard to persevere when faced with regulatory and market challenges. << TOC Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 58 Establishing Strong Industry Partnerships to Address Access and Quality ...we’re able to facilitate We recognize that Mylan cannot act alone when it comes to delivering better health development of low-cost for our industry. Patient needs and healthcare challenges differ around the world generic pharmaceuticals and so do the solutions. As a global pharmaceutical company, we know that policies serving patients in one region may impact patients in another. The shifting and drive discussions focus toward more protective politics around the world makes that balance even on access for patient more tenuous. populations at large. That’s why Mylan works in good faith with various stakeholders and uses strong alliances with industry associations. By doing so, we’re able to facilitate development of low-cost generic pharmaceuticals and drive discussions on access for patient populations at large. Key associations with which we work include the Association for Accessible Medicines (AAM), Medicines for Europe, and the International Generic and Biosimilar Medicines Association (IGBA). Mylan also works with international groups such as the Global Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Leadership Forum, the International Society for Pharmaceutical Engineering (ISPE) and the Parenteral Drug Association (PDA) to help shape global health and drug quality policy. Following are examples of our work in 2017: Market Activity Partnered with the IGBA and other global industry associations to create a white paper articulating Global economic threats to the generics industry and the resulting risk of worldwide drug shortages. The paper was shared with the WHO. Partnered with the Canadian Generic Pharmaceutical Association to develop a five-year initiative Canada with the pan-Canadian Pharmaceutical Alliance that will provide more than $3 billion in savings for all Canadians who use prescription generic drugs. The initiative also provides stability and predictability for the generic pharmaceutical pricing environment. Advocated for and helped lead the rollout of a new national biosimilars policy proposal to expand Ireland access to these medicines. Partnered with various physician and patient associations and Foundation the Bridge to further Italy educate on biosimilars. Advocated for the acceptance of biosimilars and are an active member of Iniatiefgroep Netherlands Biosimilars Nederland. Led public debates, conferences, panels and advocacy events with patient organizations and other stakeholders to address the issue of access to medicines. Authorities had implemented measures Romania whose unintended impact limited patient access to medicine. We worked to improve understanding and reduce barriers to medicine. Supported a new regulation to make more pharmaceutical companies eligible to participate Serbia in the country’s vaccines procurement initiative. This allowed us to incorporate our Influvac into the country’s offerings. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 59 Market Activity Piloted the effort to change regulation to allow HIV self-test kits to be dispensed at the pharmacy level Spain without a prescription, making it easier to prevent, diagnose and treat HIV. Supported implementation of the National Health Service England (NHSE) Five-Year Forward View program. Mylan provided feedback challenging uncompetitive market practices, policies and clinical pathways that restrict market competition and prevent the NHS from delivering the best value for taxpayers. Our efforts were highlighted in the Supportive Commissioning framework published in September 2017. U.K. Collaborated with the British Generic Medicines Association to demonstrate the role and value of generics and biosimilars to support the NHS and its effort to provide patients the right medicines at the right time. Supported the update of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence’s guidance on hormone replacement therapy. Worked with the AAM to present a unified industry voice regarding the possible submission of qualitymetrics data to the FDA. Partners included PhRMA, Biotechnology Innovation Organization, Consumer Healthcare Products Association, ISPE and PDA. • As a result, the FDA made important alterations to its program, which reduced costs and complexity, driving savings that could be passed along to patients. We also provided extensive input into the program to help inform regulation. U.S. Provided input to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to help it better understand the scientific and technical challenges of the FDA’s regulation of nonbiologic complex drugs. Some brand companies had presented arguments and proposals to block generics in this area. Because our input was well-informed, the GAO declined to endorse these efforts. Collaborated with the AAM and the FDA to provide real-world experience in generic drug review and assist with implementation of FDA’s second generic drug user fee program, Generic Drug User Fee Amendment II. This law is intended to speed access to safe and effective generic drugs. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 60 Championing Access to Generics Healthcare systems and funding vary greatly by country, but in most if not all cases, generic products are able to be provided significantly below the originator’s price, bringing benefits to patients, governments, insurers and others within the healthcare system. Below is a summary of the important role generics play in key geographies across the globe. U.S. Mylan is the No. 2 provider of prescription medicines in the U.S. In 2017 generics represented approximately 89% of all pharmaceutical products sold in the nation.20 In contrast, generics constituted only 26% of U.S. pharmaceutical spend. A further illustration of these savings: In 2016 generics saved the U.S. healthcare system $253 billion.21 Approximately $25 billion of that amount represents savings from Mylan generics. Europe Over the past 10 years, generic medicines have more than doubled access in seven key therapeutic areas – without increasing overall treatment cost – benefiting millions of patients.22 In 2016 generic pharmaceuticals represented 56% of the medicines used in the region, but only 22% of total drug costs.22 The countries that make up Mylan’s business in Europe represent the world’s second largest generic pharmaceuticals market. Rest of World In Rest of World, we market generic pharmaceuticals primarily through our sales representatives in approximately 30 countries and through partners and distributors in 90 additional markets. Patients in Japan, Australia, New Zealand, China, Brazil, Russia, India, South Africa and certain markets in the Middle East and Southeast Asia benefit from our medicines. Rest of World 2016 Statistics: Utilization of Generics vs. Generics Cost as a % of Total Medicine Cost23 Asia and Africa and the Japan Latin America Australia Middle East Utilization of Generics 40% 71% 69% 80% Generics Cost as a % of Total 18% 43% 49% 65% Medicine Cost 20 Based on IQVIA MIDAS and NSP data for the 12 months ended 12/17, rank by value 21 https://accessiblemeds.org/sites/default/files/2017-07/2017-AAM-Access-Savings-Report-2017-web2.pdf 22 http://www.medicinesforeurope.com/generic-medicines/our-5-pillars/ 23 Long D., Global Generic and Biosimilars Trends and Insights. Association for Accessible Medicines, February 13, 2018 Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 61 Removing Barriers to Expand Access to Biosimilars While generics are used widely around the world, as an industry, we also need to In 2017 Mylan worked continue our efforts to break down regulatory and market barriers. closely with our industry association and the Biologic medicines, in particular, typically represent a disproportionately large Australian government to cost burden for patients, governments and insurers. For this reason, off-patent expand patient access competition from biosimilar medicines is critical to reducing costs while expanding to important biosimilar patient access. Yet despite the increasing number of originator biologic medicines medications. Efforts with expiring patents, numerous policy and market-related barriers (sometimes driven included increasing by originator companies) prevent biosimilars from entering the market. These include awareness among patients regulations, lengthy pricing and reimbursement administrative procedures, lack of access to originator samples for comparability studies, legal challenges of intellectual receiving a specific property (IP) and patents, and disparate naming conventions of biosimilars across treatment for the first time, different countries. streamlining regulation and embarking on a public Mylan is actively involved in educating and collaborating with policymakers around education campaign. the world to remove these barriers and support regulations to create a sustainable and competitive biologics market that maximizes patient access while reducing cost. This includes streamlining regulatory pathways, increasing stakeholder trust in biosimilar medicines and building systemwide processes that facilitate their use. With respect to trust, the industry needs to further educate people about the therapeutic equivalency of biosimilars and all generic medicines. Our efforts to date have helped drive significant policy changes in support of biosimilars in the U.K., France, Italy, Portugal and Canada. Expanding Testing and Treatment for Infectious Disease As the HIV/AIDS and hepatitis epidemics continue, so too does our commitment to these patient populations. Mylan is a strong advocate for evidence-based policies that expand access to treatment and preventive services that address HIV/AIDS and hepatitis. Our advocacy includes educating policymakers on the need for continued funding of prevention and testing programs that provide services to people globally living with these diseases. We also advocate for the expansion of testing and treatment for other infectious diseases, including TB. By providing our medicines, solutions and expertise, we help strengthen the ability of global health systems to diagnose and appropriately treat – or possibly even cure – these leading causes of morbidity and mortality. 62 Continuing Our Commitment to Anaphylaxis Mylan is a long-time champion of building awareness around anaphylaxis, a life-threatening allergic reaction. It has many possible triggers, occurs quickly and without warning, and must be treated immediately with Epinephrine. Our efforts include educating people on avoiding triggers, being prepared in case anaphylaxis occurs and ensuring that effective treatment is on hand when needed. The rate of reported severe allergic reactions to food alone has increased by nearly five times over the past decade. Further, at least 25% of adults and 65% of children who suffer a life-threatening allergic reaction have not had a previous incident24, making Mylan’s efforts on education and providing access to Epinephrine in public spaces even more important. We continue to work with governments and stakeholders around the world to ensure access. This past year, for instance, Mylan worked with the Western Australia State Government to amend health regulations to allow for inclusion of Epinephrine in first-aid kits. We also worked with members of the European Parliament to raise awareness about anaphylaxis and the need to introduce policies to improve access to Adrenaline auto-injectors. Helping Prevent Disease in Europe In 2017 we helped develop Mylan not only provides medicines to treat diseases, but vaccines to prevent them. In 2017 we helped develop guidelines on tenders (offers) on vaccines in several guidelines on tenders on European countries, including Serbia, France, Germany, Italy, Ireland and others. vaccines in several European We worked with key stakeholders throughout the region to increase awareness of the importance of vaccines to improve public health. In France, we began a pilot countries, including Serbia, program to help people receive vaccinations at pharmacies. We facilitated access France, Germany, Italy, in the U.K., an effort that enabled 3.75 million people to receive Mylan’s flu vaccine, as part of the country’s public health immunization programs. Ireland and others. 24 MJ Matasar, AI Neugut, et al. Epidemiology of anaphylaxis in the United States. Curr Allergy Asthma Rep 2003 Jan; 3(1): 30-35. 63 Tackling the Issue of Antimicrobial Resistance AMR is a widely recognized and growing global public health problem, taking the AMR Explained lives of approximately 700,000 people annually and threatening the future efficacy of medicine and treatment. Estimates are that 5.7 million people die from treatable Antimicrobial resistance occurs infections each year because they lack access to effective antibiotics.25 Developing when stronger bacteria survive sustainable markets, strong health systems, and informed physicians and patients and reproduce while weaker all are critical to tackling AMR and maximizing appropriate use of antimicrobials. strains perish. The prevalence Mylan’s portfolio contains many essential antimicrobials, including antibiotics and of antimicrobial medicines, antivirals; it also includes the flu vaccine, for which we are investing in researching particularly antibiotics, has new strains and indications. resulted in the emergence of strains of bacteria that are Mylan is on the board of the Industry Alliance difficult, if not impossible, to on AMR. The Alliance brings together more kill. Growing awareness of this than 100 biotech, diagnostics, generics and threat is prompting various research-based pharmaceutical companies, stakeholders – such as the and associations to drive and measure the pharmaceutical industry – to progress of the life science industry in curbing help address the issue. antimicrobial resistance. The organization ensures that companies who signed on to the Davos Declaration on AMR deliver collectively on the specific commitments made. It also measures industry’s progress in the fight against antimicrobial resistance. 25 Daulaire N, Bang A, Tomson G, Kalyango JN, Cars O. Universal access to effective antibiotics is essential for lacking antibiotic resistance. J Law Med Ethics. 2015; 43 (Suppl 3): 17-21 64 Respecting Intellectual Property and Removing Regulatory Barriers Respecting valid IP and promoting investment in innovation are essential to the development of new drugs. Ensuring that patents aren’t inappropriately granted and that generic medicines have the potential to reach patients are equally important. For these reasons, Mylan wants to make sure international trade agreements do not lock in excessive IP protections, such as patent terms or provisions related to data access, market access or approvals that make bringing generics to market burdensome. These protections also may improperly extend intended and fair patent scope and duration. Below are three examples of barriers generic drugmakers often face regarding IP: • A key component of developing a generic drug is comparative testing to make sure it has the same therapeutic effect as the original. Originators may restrict access to their medicines by preventing distributors from selling to generics companies. • Originators often obtain weak patents covering trivial changes – e.g., ones that yield little or no therapeutic advantage – to existing products whose patent lives have expired. The effect: additional barriers to generic entry. • Some originator companies also convince health authorities to require generics companies to use the originators’ patented tests to demonstrate sameness to a brand product. The practice can subject generics companies to litigation, ultimately delaying product launches. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 65 Advocating for Fair International Trade Mylan believes medicines should be widely available and affordable for patients. International trade agreements can delay market entry of generic and biosimilar drugs if they include excessive IP protections, such as lengthy patent terms and market exclusivities. Instead, incentives should be carefully and meaningfully balanced against the need for competition and access. International trade agreements set terms between two or more countries or regions. Terms cover considerations such as tariffs, market access and IP, among others. Mylan advocates for agreements that strike a balance between promoting innovation and ensuring expedited patient access to affordable medicine. We understand the importance of rewarding the investments needed to innovate. Mylan has participated in trade negotiations such as the North America Free Trade Agreement, the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership and multiple bilateral and other trade agreements. In the CPTPP, we stopped the inclusion of IP provisions that threatened to delay patient access to generic medicines. We continue to press for balanced IP incentives that reward true innovation of novel drugs but do not block competition for an inappropriate period for drugs that are not truly novel. Mylan continues to lead the global generics industry, arguing against excessive IP protections in international trade agreements that limit patient access to more affordable medicine. By doing so, we will advocate on behalf of patients everywhere to ensure barriers are addressed and overcome. Helping Level the Playing Field Mylan partners with health authorities, industry trade associations and international organizations to shape proposals, facilitate understanding, eliminate duplicative regulatory programs and level the playing field. We speak publicly and advocate for balanced regulatory positions. In 2017 Mylan worked to secure greater involvement of generic-medicine stakeholders at the ICH, the leading global regulatory forum for drug harmonization requirements. As a result, Mylan now has experts serving on three ICH working groups that drive the technical discussions leading to harmonization. Combating Falsified Medicines and Drug Diversion Falsified medicines are fake or adulterated medicines that are sold as real and authorized medicines. Falsified medicines may be mislabeled products or products that contain ingredients of bad or toxic quality and dosage. Since they have not been properly checked for quality, safety or efficacy, they can pose a serious and fatal risk to patients’ health. As these medicines become more sophisticated, comprehensive strategy at the regional and international level is needed. Mylan supports the global fight on falsified medicines, which has focused recently on the implementation of the U.S. Drug Supply Chain Security Act in the U.S. and the European Falsified Medicine Directive, among other global requirements. Serialization is one way to address this concern. It involves authenticating and/or tracking and tracing prescription drugs through the supply chain from manufacturing to dispensing, and it is one response to the counterfeiting of medicine. Across the globe, governments are implementing legislation calling for serialization and the reporting of associated data. Mylan made significant investments in new packaging, IT technology and infrastructure to develop, support and advance supply chain security. Mylan sees the potential for product serialization to transform the industry by connecting patients with manufacturers. We also collaborated closely with the Pharmaceutical Distribution Security Alliance, the Alliance for Global Pharmaceutical Serialization, generics trade associations, customers and solution providers to innovate in this area. Additionally, our supply chain security program has been validated by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency, achieving the highest level of certification, Tier III status, within its Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism program. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 66 9 Better Shareholder Health Ongoing Execution, Performance and Investments Shareholders are an important stakeholder to Mylan, and we believe that by continuing to do good, we will continue to do well by them. Doing both is precisely why we created our sustainable business model. Throughout the last decade we have continued to make the investments required to bring it to life. Mylan has delivered consistent and reliable results and maintained significant financial strength and flexibility. We also, with each passing year, have become ever more diversified – in terms of number of countries supplied; product mix, concentration and complexity; and types of channels and markets served – further reinforcing our durability and differentiating the company as being built to last. We look forward to building on this track record of execution to continue to deliver shareholder value for many years to come. << TOC Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 67 Consistent Execution $ in billions, except for adjusted EPS $11.9 $3.8 $4.89 $11.1 $3.7 $4.56 $4.30 $3.0 $9.4 $3.56 $7.7 $2.4 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total Revenues Adjusted EBITDA* Adjusted EPS* 16% CAGR 17% CAGR 9% CAGR *Adjusted metrics are non-GAAP financial measures. Please see the appendix for the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures and reconciliations of such non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Engaging for the Long Term Throughout 2017 the Robust shareholder engagement remains a priority for Mylan’s board and management as the company continues to drive long-term shareholder value while also striving diverse views of our to serve the interests of other stakeholders in a complex and evolving healthcare shareholders were environment. We are committed to maintaining a dialogue with our shareholders to relayed to the board ensure that they understand our differentiated strategy and business model and that on topics including: together we take the opportunity to discuss and engage on topics of interest regarding their investment in Mylan. ► Social responsibility, ► board dynamics, ► risk oversight, ► corporate strategy and ► executive compensation. For a complete overview of our process for shareholder engagement, our discussions with shareholders and what we have done to respond to their feedback, including details about the above topics, please see Mylan’s 2018 Proxy Statement. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 68 As part of our expanding effort on global social responsibility, we will work throughout 2018 and 2019 to: ► Identify and prioritize the most relevant ESG topics for our business, including identifying their potential impact on stakeholders; ► conduct an inventory of relevant policies and activities to identify opportunities to improve our performance and communication related to the ESG topics most relevant to Mylan and its key stakeholders. This will help determine a performance baseline and inform the establishment of relevant ESG goals, key performance indicators and metrics; ► engage with a cross-section of stakeholders to evaluate needs, concerns and expectations regarding Mylan and applicable ESG topics; and ► expand our ESG disclosures around the topics of highest overall relevance as well as those of interest to the investment community and other stakeholder groups. Envisioning the Future – Mylan’s Board of Directors See the composition of Mylan maintains a skilled and engaged board that reflects principles of Mylan’s board of directors independence, experience and judgment, among other qualities. It also is and standing committees, committed to supporting, valuing and leveraging diversity in its composition. Mylan believes it is important that the board represent assorted personal backgrounds. including our independent Our directors, considered as a group, provide a broad and deep-seated mix of directors, and learn more about qualifications, knowledge and abilities. The board also desires to combine the Mylan’s approach to corporate skills and experience of its long-standing members with the fresh perspectives, governance and to executive skills, insights and experience of new members. This diversity of viewpoints and compensation in our 2018 experiences is critical to Mylan’s long-term strategic oversight and performance. Proxy Statement, Dutch Board Mylan’s Articles of Association, Board Diversity Policy, Board Rules and Corporate Report and on Mylan.com. Governance Principles, as well as the charters for our board committees are available on Mylan.com. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 69 Managing Enterprise Risk to Support Mylan’s Risk Sustainable Growth Oversight In addition to general market and economic risks, Mylan manages specific industryrelated risks. We are committed to operating ethically and with integrity, and we Committee proactively manage and, where possible, mitigate risk to ensure the continued growth of our business. We strive to protect our assets and reputation, as well as the Mylan’s board, directly or interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. Risk management is an enterprisethrough its committees, wide objective subject to the oversight of Mylan’s board and its committees. oversees management’s Mylan’s management and employees implement and administer risk-management implementation of risk processes to identify material threats to our business and then assess, manage and management. Consistent monitor them, all while maintaining flexibility in how we operate. with our proactive approach To embed risk management into our culture, Mylan trains employees on good to risk management, the business practice and conduct, as well as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics board recently formed a Risk and policies related to anti-corruption, fair competition, interactions with HCPs and Oversight Committee to assist our Supplier Code of Conduct. in its oversight of our enterprise risk-management framework, in For more detailed information about the risks and uncertainties coordination with the respective associated with our business activities, see our Annual Report on oversight responsibilities of Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2017. You also may visit other board committees. investor.Mylan.com. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 70 Ensuring Strong Global Compliance Governance Mylan has a Global Compliance Program that is overseen by our board’s Compliance Committee. Our Chief Compliance Officer has the operational responsibility to ensure the program is effective and robust. This individual serves on Mylan’s executive governance team and reports to the board’s Compliance Committee and Mylan’s CEO. This structure provides broad perspective and independence. Mylan’s Office of Global Compliance (OGC) is organized by operating regions and global centers of excellence (CoE). The OGC and Mylan’s Global Compliance Program are structured in a manner consistent with the U.S. Office of Inspector General’s Resource Guide for Measuring Compliance Program Effectiveness. The head of Global Compliance leads three global CoE that support Mylan’s global operating regions and business. A senior compliance officer manages each respective CoE, which focuses on policies, training and communications; global compliance risk, audit and due diligence; and investigations. The OGC oversees the development, maintenance and recordkeeping of global policies and procedures, and performs various periodic and needsbased operational audits throughout the year, often in conjunction with Internal Audit. Fight Corruption Through Strong Management Anti-corruption and anti-fraud management are part of Mylan’s enterprise riskassessment process. We conduct assessments to confirm that our business transactions comply with company policies and applicable laws and regulations around the world. We monitor business activities that have elevated risks – such as HCP interactions – through established internal processes and controls. Our procedures also cover some business partners. Mylan takes all allegations of noncompliance with policies, as well as applicable laws and regulations, very seriously. Remedial actions are implemented in a timely fashion where necessary and appropriate. In addition to general training on business ethics, we require and provide dedicated training on anticorruption, fair competition and Mylan’s standards for interactions with HCPs for employees with relevant job responsibilities. Vendors that may interact with government officials on our behalf also receive anticorruption training. 71 Upholding Integrity as We Expand and Transform As we expand into new geographies, safeguarding integrity in business conduct and maintaining our companywide governance program are key. Looking ahead, we will strive to ensure that all members of Mylan’s workforce understand the importance of doing what’s right, not what’s easy and their role in creating a culture of integrity. KEY COMPLIANCE ACCOMPLISHMENTS in 2017 ► Established and enhanced certain policy documents, including country-specific Standards for Interactions with HCPs and Global Policy on Engaging HCPs as Consultants; ► extended internal compliance reporting mechanisms to new countries and regions; ► enhanced and developed global and certain country-level compliance risk assessments; and ► expanded and enhanced compliance coverage in new and expanded markets. Mylan’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics The Code outlines guiding principles on how we should conduct ourselves and informs our policies and standards, while remaining true to our values. It provides high-level guidance on critical areas of the company’s business operations including: ► Operational compliance; ► avoiding fraud and corruption; ► complying with fair competition, anti-trust and pricing requirements; Relevant Mylan Policies ► awareness and compliance with corporate and securities laws; and ► Code of Business Conduct ► engaging in fair employment practices. and Ethics ► Supplier Code of Conduct All employees receive training in the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics annually. ► Global Anti-Corruption Policy ► Fair Competition Policy ► Global Policy on Combating Trafficking in Persons Available on Mylan.com Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 72 Anti-Corruption Policy Corruption erodes the trust in public institutions, compromises fair competition and is costly to societies in multiple ways. Corruption also stands in the way of access to medicine and good health, making fighting it and promoting fair competition important to our business and mission. Mylan’s Global Anti-Corruption Policy establishes and communicates Mylan’s strict prohibition against bribery and corruption in any form anywhere we do business. This policy defines bribery and facilitation payments (also prohibited by Mylan) and highlights the individual responsibility of employees to avoid, recognize, prevent and report bribery and corruption, and to comply with all applicable laws against them. Fair Competition Policy Mylan’s Fair Competition Policy states the company’s position on complying with applicable competition and antitrust laws, and regulations for all regions in which the company conducts business. The policy also details that employees must promote Mylan’s products in a truthful and accurate manner, consistent with applicable laws and regulations. Annual Compliance Training results26 GOAL: Train at least 90% GOAL: Train at least 90% GOAL: Train at least 90% of Mylan’s employees of Mylan’s employees percent of Mylan’s employees on the company’s Code (as applicable) on the (as applicable) on the of Business Conduct company’s Anti-Corruption company’s Fair Competition and Ethics Policy and related laws Policy and related laws 100% 98% 99% 26 Excluding recent acquisitions Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 73 Strong Processes for Reporting Compliance Concerns Mylan encourages open communication and believes this is particularly important Mylan’s for upholding a culture of integrity. We have a strong framework through which concerns can be reported. Employees can report a suspected matter to their Compliance Line manager, Human Relations representative, local or regional compliance officer, Legal department or our OGC. They also can use Mylan’s Compliance Line. We One avenue for reporting have a clear process for investigating, resolving and remediating potential concerns is operated by an misconduct. It includes: independent third party. It is ► A review of every report by our head of Global Compliance; available to employees and external partners 24 hours a ► a thorough, impartial and timely investigation in coordination with Human day, seven days a week and Relations, our Legal department and other functions, as appropriate; and allows reports to be submitted ► fair and consistent disciplinary measures, when necessary. via telephone, email, online or by mail. In many countries, it Mylan’s Global Policy on Reporting and Investigating Compliance-Related Matters permits anonymous reports. details the reporting, investigation, communication and resolution of complianceAll information is confidential. related matters. It is available to all employees on Mylan’s social business intranet. Mylan strictly prohibits retaliation against any employee for making a goodProtecting Human Rights and Mitigating Violations faith report of suspected misconduct. Mylan supports and respects the International Bill of Human Rights. As a signatory to the U.N. Global Compact, we understand our responsibility – and opportunity – to support the protection of human rights beyond our own operations. We seek to do so through our core business and how we conduct ourselves. Every day, we contribute to realizing people’s right to health through the development and provision of high quality, affordable medicines and services to treat HIV/AIDS, hepatitis, TB, mental illness and cancer, to name a few. Through our commitment to women’s health around the world, we provide much-needed contraceptives, supporting sexual and reproductive rights. Mylan’s global polices, along with the associated procedures, training and due diligence, make up the foundation of our work to mitigate the risk of human rights violations. We will evolve our work on human rights as part of our continuing efforts regarding global social responsibility. Mylan’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Mylan’s Supplier Code of Conduct, Mylan’s Global Policy on Combating Trafficking in Persons and the companywide EHS program set forth guiding principles in areas critical to protecting human rights. These include: ► Legal compliance, ► wages, ► prohibition of trafficking of persons, ► working hours, ► prohibition of forced and child labor, ► safety in the workplace, ► handling of identity and immigration ► preventing harassment and documents, ► recruitment practices. 74 Appendix 2017: Performance Overview Better Patient Health Mylan’s Commercial Footprint and Patients Reached Doses sold ~69 billion Number of marketed products >7,500 Number of countries and territories served >165 Number of products in Mylan’s biosimilars portfolio and pipeline 20 % of children treated for HIV/AIDS who use a Mylan medication ~60% % of patients treated for HIV/AIDS who use a Mylan medication >40% Number of people treated with Mylan’s hepC and hepB medications ~200,000 Number of women and girls with access to Mylan's contraceptives ~11 million 72% % of the 69 FP2020 countries in which Mylan has registered its contraceptive portfolio (50 out of 69 countries) Number of countries in which Mylan has registered its contraceptive portfolio 95 Average selling price of Mylan’s medicines 17¢ per dose in 2017 Mylan's Operational Capacity Number of operational facilities 47 Number of oral solid doses >75 billion Number of complex-product units ~1.3 billion Number of injectables, units ~500 million Kiloliters of APIs ~4,800 ARV doses manufactured ~4 billion << TOC Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 75 Innovation and Development Number of global product approvals >800 in 2017 From 2013-2017, we invested more than Total investments in R&D27 $3 billion in cumulative R&D spend Total investments in ARVs ~$250 million Products in active development in Mylan’s R&D pipeline ~550 North America: 359 Europe: 174 Products in pipeline 28 Japan, Australia and New Zealand (JANZ): 181 Emerging markets: 310 North America: 267 Europe: 528 Pending approval29 JANZ: 41 Emerging Markets: 947 ~500 filings for Planned submissions in 2018 132 geo-expansion products Number of patents filed ~4,000 Number of clinical trials >100 in 2017 Ensuring Quality and Product Safety Number of quality and GMP audits at suppliers 768 Number of GCP audits 64 Number of PV audits 36 Number of quality and GMP audits at own facilities 42 27 Cumulative spend refers to adjusted R&D. Adjusted metrics are non-GAAP financial measures. Please see appendix or investor.Mylan.com for the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures as well as reconciliations of such non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. 28 Data as of March 1, 2018 29 Data as of March 1, 2018 Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 76 Better PARTNER Health Business Ethics and Partners % employees with business partners who interact with government officials on our 91% behalf, trained on our Anti-Corruption Policy and procedures Number of suppliers that received Mylan's Supplier Code of Conduct ~20,700 Better EMPLOYEE Health Mylan’s Global Workforce Total workers30: 35,560 (100%) Employees 31,828 (89.5%) Temporary workers 3,732 (10.5%) Workforce by region: Europe 27.4% North America 21.2% Rest of World 51.4% Workforce by function: Operations 58.0% Sales and Marketing 19.7% General and Administrative 13.7% Scientific Affairs 8.6% Employee ages, % Under 25 4.2% 25-34 37.4% 35-44 30.4% 45-54 19.1% 55-64 8.6% 65 and over 0.3% Part-time employees 1.9% Employee turnover31 17.8% % of employees who set objectives in support of Mylan’s key priorities32 94% 30 Workers and workforce include employees and temporary workers 31 Includes voluntary and involuntary turnover for regular employees 32 Not including employees covered by collective bargaining agreements in the U.S., employees on a leave of absence and new employees Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 77 Employee Gender by Region33 Female Male Europe 55.3% 44.7% North America 38.2% 61.8% Rest of World 11.9% 88.1% Global 28.3% 71.7% Women in Leadership at Mylan Board of Directors34 36% Executive Governance Team 35 53% Female managers36 26% People Managers by Gender (Population)37 % of male employees responsible for managing people 16% % of female employees responsible for managing people 14% Health and Safety Performance 0.51 cases per 100 employees Total incident rate This is 75% below the industry average of 2.038, 39 0.38 cases per 100 employees Days Away, Restricted or Transferred (DART) rate This is 68% below industry average of 1.240, 41 Total number of units covered by occupational health 6 sites in India. and safety management certifications (OHSAS 18001) 9 additional locations are currently in process 33 Based on employee data from Mylan’s HR information system 34, 35 Including CEO Heather Bresch 36, 37 Based on employee data from Mylan’s HR information system 38 Industry average per U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 39 Data as of April 2018. Information may be restated due to acquisitions, divestitures or the availability of additional data 40 Industry average per U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 41 Data as of April 2018. Information may be restated due to acquisitions, divestitures or the availability of additional data Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 78 Better ENVIRONMENTAL Health API Sites Covered by External Certification Total number of sites covered by environmental management certifications (ISO 14001) 8 Total number of sites covered by energy-management certifications (ISO 50001) 7 Wastewater Management Sites with zero liquid discharge (ZLD) systems 11 Water Supply, 2015 2016 2017 thousand cubic meters 3,142 3,185 3,298 Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 79 Greenhouse Gas Emissions, thousand 2015 2016 2017 tonnes CO2e Scope 1 382 403 415 Scope 2 378 392 387 Total 760 795 802 Total, normalized by revenue (tonnes CO2e per $ in millions 81 72 67 revenue) • 2015 is base year for total GHG emissions and water data • Scope 2 emissions are based on market-based method • Includes data for manufacturing, packaging, research and development, and distribution sites based on direct operational control • Data from 2015­ – 2017 has been adjusted to account for acquisitions and divestitures, in accordance with the methodology prescribed in the WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol • Excludes data and sources from commercial, employee travel and commutes, small administrative/lab sites, small warehouses and other business transportation • Data does not include process emissions from manufacturing or emissions from insignificant sources such as welding gases, lab gases, fire extinguishers, dry ice, etc. • All solvent combustion in air pollution control devices in Scope 1 emissions is treated as ethanol Renewable Energy 2015 2016 2017 Purchased, MWh 16,317 36,328 56,014 Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 80 Better SHAREHOLDER Health Business Ethics and Compliance Training at Mylan in 2017 % of employees trained in Mylan’s Code of Business Conduct 100% for employees assigned and Ethics training in MyUniversity % of employees trained in Mylan’s Anti-Corruption Policy and 98% for employees assigned training related laws in MyUniversity 99% for employees assigned training % of employees trained in Mylan’s Fair Competition Policy in MyUniversity Financial Performance ($ in millions, except for Adjusted EPS) Total Revenues $11,907.7 Adjusted EBITDA* $3,791.0 Adjusted EPS* $4.56 Third Party Net Sales by Segment North America $4,969.6 Europe $3,958.3 Rest of World $2,832.1 *Adjusted metrics are non-GAAP financial measures. Please see tables on next page for directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures and reconciliations of such non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 81 Reconciliations on Non-GAAP Financial Measures This report includes the presentation and discussion of certain financial information that differs from what is reported under accounting U.S. GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted R&D, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS, are presented in order to supplement investors’ and other readers’ understanding and assessment of the financial performance of Mylan N.V. (“Mylan” or the “Company”). Investors and other readers are encouraged to review the related U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measures set forth below, and investors and other readers should consider non-GAAP measures only as supplements to, not as substitutes for or as superior measures to, the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Adjusted R&D For The Years Ended December 31 (Unaudited; USD in millions) Amounts may not sum due to 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 rounding U.S. GAAP R&D $783 $827 $672 $582 $508 Deduct: Acquisition-related costs (2) (2) (2) (3) Restructuring and other special (126) (129) (20) (18) (52) items Adjusted R&D $655 $696 $650 $561 $456 Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 82 Adjusted EBITDA For The Years Ended December 31 (Unaudited; USD in millions) Amounts may not sum due to 2017 2016 2015 2014 rounding U.S. GAAP net earnings $696 $480 $848 $929 attributable to Mylan N.V. Add adjustments: Net contribution attributable to the noncontrolling interest and 58 113 105 95 equity method investments Income tax (benefit) provision 207 (358) 68 41 Interest expense 535 455 339 333 Depreciation and amortization 1,806 1,523 1,032 567 EBITDA $3,301 $2,212 $2,392 $1,966 Add / (deduct) adjustments: Share-based compensation 75 89 93 66 expense Litigation settlements and other (13) 673 (97) 48 contingencies, net Restructuring and other special 428 704 625 286 items Adjusted EBITDA $3,791 $3,678 $3,012 $2,366 Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 83 Adjusted EPS For The Years Ended December 31 (Unaudited; USD in millions, except for EPS) 2017 2016 2015 2014 Amounts may not sum due to rounding U.S. GAAP net earnings and U.S. GAAP $696 $1.30 $480 $0.92 $848 $1.70 $929 $2.34 diluted earnings per share Purchase accounting related amortization 1,530 1,412 901 419 (primarily included in cost of sales) Litigation settlements and other (13) 673 (97) 48 contingencies, net Interest expense (primarily related to 20 23 44 46 clean energy investment financing) Interest expense related to the accretion 28 43 40 35 of contingent consideration liabilities Clean energy investments pre-tax loss 47 92 93 79 Financing related costs (included in other 112 33 expense, net) Acquisition-related costs (primarily 70 335 420 140 included in SG&A and cost of sales) Acquisition-related customer incentive 17 (included in third party net sales) Restructuring-related costs 188 150 19 10 Other special items included in: Cost of sales 64 45 36 41 Research and development expense 118 121 20 18 Selling, general and administrative 14 36 48 61 expense Other expense, net 14 (18) 7 (11) Tax effect of the above items and other (330) (844) (370) (432) income tax related items Adjusted earnings and adjusted EPS $2,445 $4.56 $2,547 $4.89 $2,137 $4.30 $1,416 $3.56 Weighted average diluted ordinary shares 537 521 497 398 outstanding Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 84 Additional qualitative information MYLAN’S EHS MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES 1. Management and leadership accountability 8. Information systems 2. Risk assessment and management 9. Supplier, contractor and partner relations 3. Compliance management 10. Product supply chain stewardship 4. Emergency preparedness and response 11. Facility acquisition, design and divestiture 5. Incident management 12. Change management 6. Environmental impact and resource preservation 13. Assessment and improvement 7. Personnel development and training Limiting Animal Studies Mylan does not conduct animal studies unless required by national regulations. In some countries, animal studies are required to introduce a pharmaceutical product to the market. In these instances, we have clear procedures to ensure animal studies are conducted ethically. Facilities that perform work on our behalf must comply with regional scientific procedures for laboratory animal science and be accredited or approved according to the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care, thereby demonstrating their commitment to responsible animal care and use. We ensure our vendor partners adopt the same approach and procedure. Mylan’s Global Operations Audit team performs regular audits on all parties to ensure compliance. Managing Political Contributions Responsibly Mylan’s Global Political Contributions and Activity Policy – adopted by the board – guides our approach to political contributions. It is overseen by Mylan’s Compliance Committee and applies to all company personnel. Only to the extent allowed by law, the company may directly contribute to political candidates and political organizations. This is relevant primarily for Mylan’s U.S. subsidiaries and Mylan’s Political Action Committee, a voluntary, nonpartisan, employee-run committee. Contributions are made in accordance with the U.S. Lobbying Disclosure Act. Mylan files a quarterly report of expenses associated with lobbying the federal government.42 The report can be found on the U.S. Senate Office of Public Records website or the U.S. House of Representatives Office of the Clerk website. Honoring Our Commitment as a Publicly Traded Company Mylan N.V. is listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange in New York. Its corporate seat is Amsterdam, Netherlands, with its principal executive office located in Hatfield, Hertfordshire, England. The global headquarters of the Mylan group is Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, U.S. It is at this location where the CEO and other executive officers of the group carry out the day-to-day conduct of our worldwide business. Mylan N.V. is managed and controlled under the oversight of the company’s board of directors in the U.K., where the board generally meets. Each director is elected annually by the company’s shareholders. Certain of the directors’ duties, rights and responsibilities are detailed in the company’s Articles of Association, Board Rules and Corporate Governance Principles.43 Mylan is subject to applicable rules, regulations and/or listing standards of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, NASDAQ and the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. 42, 43 http://www.mylan.com/en/company/corporate-governance Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 85 This document contains “forward-looking statements.” These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, statements about future expectations, ability to achieve future goals, and any other statements regarding Mylan’s future operations, anticipated business levels, future earnings, planned activities, anticipated growth, market opportunities, strategies, competition, and other expectations and targets for future periods. These may often be identified by the use of words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “project,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “plan,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “potential,” “pipeline,” “intend,” “continue,” “target” and variations of these words or comparable words. Because forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual future results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: actions and decisions of healthcare and pharmaceutical regulators; failure to achieve expected or targeted future financial and operating performance and results; uncertainties regarding future demand, pricing and reimbursement for our products; any regulatory, legal, or other impediments to Mylan’s ability to bring new products to market, including, but not limited to, where Mylan uses its business judgment and decides to manufacture, market, and/or sell products, directly or through third parties, notwithstanding the fact that allegations of patent infringement(s) have not been finally resolved by the courts (i.e., an “at-risk launch”); success of clinical trials and Mylan’s ability to execute on new product opportunities, including but not limited to generic Advair and products in our biosimilar pipeline; any changes in or difficulties with our manufacturing facilities, supply chain or inventory or our ability to meet anticipated demand; the scope, timing, and outcome of any ongoing legal proceedings, including government investigations, and the impact of any such proceedings on our financial condition, results of operations, and/or cash flows; the ability to meet expectations regarding the accounting and tax treatments of acquisitions, including Mylan’s acquisition of Mylan Inc. and Abbott Laboratories’ non-U.S. developed markets specialty and branded generics business; changes in relevant tax and other laws, including but not limited to changes in the U.S. tax code and healthcare and pharmaceutical laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad; any significant breach of data security or data privacy or disruptions to our information technology systems; the ability to protect intellectual property and preserve intellectual property rights; the effect of any changes in customer and supplier relationships and customer purchasing patterns; the ability to attract and retain key personnel; the impact of competition; identifying, acquiring, and integrating complementary or strategic acquisitions of other companies, products, or assets being more difficult, time-consuming or costly than anticipated; the possibility that Mylan may be unable to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in connection with strategic acquisitions or restructuring programs within the expected time-frames or at all; uncertainties and matters beyond the control of management, including but not limited to general political and economic conditions and global exchange rates; and inherent uncertainties involved in the estimates and judgments used in the preparation of financial statements, and the providing of estimates of financial measures, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) and related standards or on an adjusted basis. For more detailed information on the risks and uncertainties associated with Mylan’s business activities, see the risks described in Mylan’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2017, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You can access Mylan’s filings with the SEC through the SEC website at www.sec.gov or through our website, and Mylan strongly encourages you to do so. Mylan routinely posts information that may be important to investors on our website at investor.mylan.com, and we use this website address as a means of disclosing material information to the public in a broad, nonexclusionary manner for purposes of the SEC’s Regulation Fair Disclosure (Reg FD). Mylan undertakes no obligation to update any statements herein for revisions or changes after the date of this document, which is May 5, 2018. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 86 GRI 102: General Disclosures The GRI Standards offer a framework for companies to communicate their economic, environmental and social impact. We have used selected portions of the GRI standards to inform internal and external stakeholders of our company’s contribution to sustainable development. UNGC Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Principle Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization pg. 85 Activities, brands, products and pg. 2,7,12-38 102-2 services 2017 10-K (pg. 3-24) 102-3 Location of headquarters pg. 85 pg. 15-38, 47-50, 59-61, 63, 77 102-4 Location of operations 2017 10-K (pg. 3-24) 102-5 Ownership and legal form pg. 85 102-6 Markets served pg. 15-38 102-7 Scale of the organization pg. 2, 68, 75-78, 81-84 Information on employees and other 102-8 pg. 77-78 Principle 6 workers 102-9 Supply chain pg. 27-29, 34 Significant changes to the organization 102-10 2017 10-K (pg. 30, 57) and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach pg. 40, 47-52 102-12 External initiatives pg. 4-6, 24, 27-29, 45, 48-49, 74 102-13 Membership of associations pg. 6, 59-60, 64 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker pg. 6 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities pg. 12-29, 31-36, 39-40, 45-52, 58-74, 85 Ethics and Integrity Values, principles, standards and 102-16 pg. 7-9, 27-29, 33-35, 39-40, 42-48, 68-74, 85 Principle 10 norms of behavior Mechanisms for advice and concerns 102-17 pg. 70-74 about ethics << TOC Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 87 UNGC Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Principle Governance 102-18 Governance structure pg. 6, 45, 47, 69-75 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for pg. 6, 70-73 economic, environmental and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholderes on pg. 6, 68 economic, environmental and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest pg. 69-72 governance body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body pg. 69 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest pg. 69 governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest pg. 69 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest pg. 6, 68-69 governance body 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, pg. 6, 69-72 environmental and social impact 102-30 Effectiveness of risk-management pg. 70-72, 74 processes Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups pg. 3, 15, 28-30, 36-41, 47, 53,58, 67 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements pg. 44 Principle 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders pg. 15, 28-30, 36-41, 47, 53, 58, 67 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement pg. 58-60, 67-68 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised pg. 58-60, 67-68 Reporting Practice Entities included in the consolidated 102-45 2017 10-K (pg. 53-55, 93 and item 21.1) financial statements 102-48 Restatements of information None 102-49 Changes in reporting None Jan. 1-Dec. 31, 2017, and it also reflects some 102-50 Reporting period informational and key event updates relative to the beginning months of 2018. 102-51 Date of most recent report May 23, 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual Contact point for questions regarding 102-53 pg. 5 the report Claims of reporting in accordance with 102-54 This report references the GRI Standards the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index pg. 87-90 Mylan’s 2017 Global Social Responsibility Progress Report has not been assured by a third-party. Mylan’s 102-56 External assurance 2018 CDP Climate Change and Water Security Program’s data will be verified by an external party. Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 88 Standard Disclosures Cross-Reference UNGC Topics Disclosure Description or Answer Principle Economic GRI 201: Economic Direct economic value generated and pg. 81-85 201-1 Performance distributed 2017 10-K (pg. 53) 203-1 Infrastructure investments pg. 15-26, 53-57 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts pg. 15-26, 31-33, 37-38, 203-2 Indirect economic impacts 60-63, 65-66 Communication and training GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 205-2 about anti-corruption policies and pg. 40, 71-74, 77, 81 Principle 10 procedures Legal actions for anti-competitive GRI 206: Anti206-1 behavior, anti-trust and monopoly 2017 10-K (pg. 160-170) Principle 10 Competitive Behavior practice Environmental Principle 8 GRI 302: Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption pg. 47-48, 52 Principle 9 303-3 Water recycled and reused pg. 47-48, 52 Principle 8 GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source pg. 47-48, 79 Principle 7 305-1 Scope 1 GHG emissions pg. 47, 52, 80 Principle 8 Principle 7 305-2 Scope 2 GHG emissions pg. 47, 52, 80 GRI 305: Emissions Principle 8 Principle 7 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions pg. 47, 52, 80 Principle 8 Principle 9 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method pg. 48-50 Principle 8 GRI 306: Effluents and No significant spills Waste 306-3 Significant spill occurred at Mylan’s facilities in 2017 No significant fines and nonmonetary sanctions GRI 307: Environmental Noncompliance with environmental 307-1 for noncompliance with Compliance laws and regulations environmental laws and/ or regulations in 2017 Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 89 Cross-Reference UNGC Topics Disclosure Description or Answer Principle Social New employee hires and employee 401-1 pg. 77 Principle 6 turnover GRI 401: Employment Full-time benefits not provided to 401-2 Mylan Careers temporary/part-time employees Types of injury and rates of injury, GRI 403: Occupational occupational diseases, lost days, 403-2 pg. 45-46, 78 Health and Safety absenteeism and number of workrelated fatalities Average hours of training per year per 404-1 pg. 43 employee Programs for upgrading employee GRI 404: Training and 404-2 skills and transition assistance pg. 42-43 Education programs Percentage of employees receiving 404-3 regular performance and career pg. 42 Principle 6 development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Diversity of governance bodies and 405-1 pg. 43-44, 69, 77-78 Principle 6 Equal Opportunity employees Operations/suppliers at risk for child GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1 pg. 39-40, 74 Principle 5 labor GRI 409: Forced or Operations/suppliers at risk for force 409-1 pg. 39-40, 74 Principle 4 Compulsory Labor labor Employee training on HR policies or 412-2 pg. 43, 72-73 Principle 1 procedures GRI 412: Human Rights Significant investment agreements Assessment 412-3 and contracts that include HR clauses pg. 39-40, 74 Principle 2 or that underwent HR screening Operations with local community GRI 413: Local 413-1 engagement, impact assessments pg. 39, 53-57 Principle 1 Communities 2016 and development programs GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions pg. 85 Principle 10 2016 Assessment of the health and safety GRI 416: Customer 416-1 impacts of product and service pg. 27-29 Health and Safety 2016 categories Learn more about Mylan’s commitment to global social responsibility. Visit Mylan.com. 90 Copyright ©2018 Mylan N.V. All Rights Reserved. The Mylan Better Health Better World logo and the Mylan logo are registered trademarks of Mylan Inc.
