Foreword from the President We are strengthening our position on the market and Poland’s energy security. It is with great pleasure that I present the latest Sustainable Development Report of the Enea Group. In it you will ﬁnd an overview of our goals and activities in 2017. This was a year of record performance and crucial developments for our Group. We took over the Połaniec Power Station and launched a new power block at the Kozienice Power Station. The unit is the most advanced in Poland and one of the largest in Europe. Our ﬁnancial result exceeded the 2016 ﬁgure by 37.2% (net proﬁt), while our investments soared by 53% to reach 4 billion Polish zloty. Thanks to the investments the Group may boast one of the lowest emission rates in the industry and the highest proportion of fossil fuel coming from our own sources. All this time, we continue to improve our oﬀer to exceed our Customers' expectations. Innovations to protect the environment and ensure energy security Good innovation management and implementation of new technologies are two important success factors that contribute to sustainable growth along with continued economic and social development, while signiﬁcantly reducing the environmental footprint of energy production. This is reﬂected in our strategy. We have set ourselves goals to be achieved by 2030 as well as targets to be reached by 2025, opting for new technologies, the upgrade and development of our distribution infrastructure, and the optimisation of operational costs. We will keep developing our human, organisational, and ﬁnancial potential to create basis for further innovations that create more value for our shareholders. We want to continue to be the second largest energy producer in Poland, a position we secured after the takeover of Połaniec and strengthened following the launch of the new unit at Kozienice. We are ready to eﬃciently respond to the growing demand for electrical energy in Poland. Our primary goal is to achieve continued growth for the Enea Group and to responsibly develop its potential © Enea SA 1 / 113 through good investments, while maintaining high ethical standards, following good business practices, employing the most advanced eco-friendly technologies, and supporting innovations. We feel an obligation to follow this course and ensure sustainable energy supply for our present and future Customers. We are equally committed to the climate goals we face. That is why we implement the latest technologies in our power stations. When designing our products we consider our Customers' needs as well as the need to protect the environment, in particular clean air. We continue to increase renewable energy production. Caring about the environment is an inseparable part of our strategy and an investment in the future of the Enea Group. We are proud of the eco-friendly measures and technologies implemented in the new 1.075 MW power block at Kozienice. Its launch was not our last step eﬀort to minimise the environmental impact of our energy production. Taking responsibility for our ecological footprint, we are preparing to improve our infrastructure to meet the high standards set in the Best Available Techniques (BAT) conclusions recently adopted at the EU level, paying particular attention to emission reduction. By 2021 we are planning to spend close to half a billion Polish zloty to upgrade and streamline our two power stations. We also contribute to sustainable development by investing in the development of electromobility. It is both a challenge and a business opportunity for us. As a reliable provider of electrical energy to more than 2.5 million Customers in Poland, we now get ourselves ready to build a network of electric car charging points across the country. We want to be a natural supplier of modern e-mobility solutions. We continue to monitor the actions of local authorities so that we can get involved in their electromobility plans. Best safety practices and social engagement are crucial for us We never lose sight of how our actions ultimately impact the safety and wellbeing of people. This applies to our social environment, current and future Customers, as well as our employees – we are, after all, one of the largest employers in Poland. For this reason, when reporting on our sustainable development, which we feel obliged to do, we also had to outline our approach to customer service quality, workplace management, and social engagement. One of the key aspects of our operations is building trust between the Enea Group and our Stakeholders. We achieve this through dialogue, utmost respect social obligations, and transparency of actions. In 2017, together with around a million of our Customers and and their families, we struggled with a destructive wave of rainstorms and hurricanes. The determination displayed by the Employees of the Enea Group proved how strongly they feel attached to the region and how committed they are to fulﬁlling our primary task: to ensure safe power supplies. Working practically around the clock, they managed to repair 3 600 damaged power poles and almost 450 kilometres of cut power lines to restore energy supply to impacted households. At the same time, the Enea Foundation donated almost 1 million Polish zloty to local communities aﬀected by the rainstorms. We expanded the operations of the Enea Foundation and follow the clearly charted path of its development. We will continue to support young talents and good-quality education through our projects, including scholarship and grant programmes. The knowledge and attitudes of today's children will shape our common future, that is why we are particularly attuned to initiatives that develop their skills and self-conﬁdence. I am very proud of our Employees' sincere and growing enthusiasm to engage in social action projects, including our workplace volunteering initiatives. Our Employees invest a lot of eﬀort and energy into helping others and sharing their knowledge, for instance by teaching ﬁrst aid courses. I am very grateful to them for that. It is my hope that you ﬁnd this report an engaging and informative read. © Enea SA 2 / 113 Mirosław Kowalik, President of the Management Board, Enea SA Structure and management Every day we produce energy and supply it to 2.5 million customers, ensuring the country’s energy security. We are investing in innovations that secure access to energy and energy eﬃciency now and in the future. We are one of the leaders of the Polish electricity market and play an important role in ensuring Poland’s energy security. The companies forming the Enea Capital Group acquire the raw materials necessary to produce energy from conventional sources and RES, distributing and selling electricity, heat and gas. We also oﬀer a wide range of other services related to the power industry. Enea Operator owns a distribution network in north-western Poland. 4 MAIN BUSINESS AREAS OF THE ENEA CAPITAL GROUP: GENERATION DISTRIBUTION MINING TRADING © Enea SA 3 / 113 Structure of the Enea Capital Group There are 6 leading entities within the Enea Capital Group: Enea SA (electricity trading; parent company, listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange), Enea Operator sp. z o.o. (distribution of electricity), Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. and Enea Elektrownia Połaniec SA (production and sale of electricity and heat), Enea Trading sp. z o.o. (wholesale of electricity), Lubelski Węgiel Bogdanka SA (coal mining). The remaining companies perform auxiliary activities in relation to the leading companies. © Enea SA 4 / 113 1) On 29 December 2017 the company was transformed from a limited liability company into a joint-stock company. 2) Under a contract signed on 23 June 2016, Enea SA acquired 1 500 000 Series U shares of the company, at the nominal value of 10.00 zloty each, that is 2.39% of the company’s share capital. The Group’s structure also includes minority interests in entities held by subsidiaries of Enea SA, in particular by Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. and Lubelski Węgiel Bogdanka SA (as at 31 December 2017)1) Please note: LW Bogdanka SA separately reports on the issues of responsible business and sustainable development. Find out which companies are covered by the Enea Group sustainability report you are reading. 1) On 28 February 2018 the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of Annacond Enterprises Sp. z o.o. decided to liquidate the company. On 17 April 2018, the company’s name was changed from Enea Innovation sp. z o.o. to Enea Innowacje sp. z o.o. Our generation assets Our generation assets Installed Attainable Installed Description electrical electrical capacity heating capacity capacity [ MWe ] [ MWe ] [ MWt ] Kozienice Power Plant 4 071.8 4 016.0 105.0 Połaniec Power Plant 1 837.0 1 882.0 130.0 Białystok Heat and Power Plant 203.5 156.6 383.7 Wind farms Bardy, Darżyno and 70.1 70.1 Baczyna ( Lubno I, Lubno II ) © Enea SA 5 / 113 Installed Attainable Installed Description electrical electrical capacity heating capacity capacity [ MWe ] [ MWe ] [ MWt ] Biogas plants Liszkowo i 3.8 3.8 3.1 Gorzesław Hydroelectric plants 60.4 57.6 MEC Piła 10.0 10.0 150.4 PEC Oborniki 30.4 Enea Ciepło 185.0 Total 6 256.6 6 196.1 987.6 Composition of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board The parent company of the Group is Enea SA with its registered oﬃce in Poznań. Management Board of Enea SA Mirosław Kowalik President of the Management Board © Enea SA 6 / 113 Piotr Adamczak Vice President of the Management Board responsible for Sales Aﬀairs Piotr Olejniczak Vice President of the Management Board responsible for Financial Aﬀairs Zbiegniew Piętka Vice-President of the Management Board responsible for Corporate Aﬀairs Until 24 August 2017, the Company’s Management Board was composed of the following persons: Mirosław Kowalik – President of the Management Board, Wiesław Piosik – Vice-President of the Management Board responsible for Corporate Aﬀairs, Piotr Adamczak – Vice-President of the Management Board responsible for Sales Aﬀairs, Mikołaj Franzkowiak – Vice-President of the Management Board responsible for Financial Aﬀairs. The Supervisory Board Stanisław Kazimierz Hebda, Chairman of the Supervisory Board; Date of appointment: 28 December 2017 Piotr Kossak, Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board; Date of appointment: 15 January 2016 Rafał Szymański, Secretary of the Supervisory Board; Date of appointment: 2 July 2015 Wojciech Klimowicz, Member of the Supervisory Board; Date of appointment: 2 July 2015 Tadeusz Mikłosz, Member of the Supervisory Board; Date of appointment: 2 July 2015 . Sławomir Brzeziński, Member of the Supervisory Board; Date of appointment: 2 July 2015 . © Enea SA 7 / 113 Roman Stryjski, Member of the Supervisory Board; Date of appointment: 15 January 2016 Piotr Mirkowski, Member of the Supervisory Board; Date of appointment: 15 January 2016 Rafał Bargiel, Member of the Supervisory Board; Date of appointment: 15 January 2016 Paweł Skopiński, Member of the Supervisory Board; Date of appointment: 5 September 2016. On 13 March 2018, the Company received a resignation from Mr Paweł Skopiński from his position of a member of the Supervisory Board of Enea SA. On March 22, 2018 Mr Ireneusz Kulka joined the Supervisory Board. He replaced Mr Paweł Skopiński. On April 13, 2018, the Minister of Energy dismissed Ireneusz Kulka, a member of the Supervisory Board of Enea. Since then, the Supervisory Board has been composed of Stanisław Kazimierz Hebda (Chairman), Rafał Bargiel, Sławomir Brzeziński, Wojciech Klimowicz, Piotr Kossak, Tadeusz Mikłosz, Piotr Mirkowski, Roman Stryjski, and Rafał Szymański. Development directions We focus on development, state-of-the-art technology and innovation. We increase production capacity, modernise infrastructure and implement eﬀective management methods. Our mission Enea delivers constantly improved products and services, ahead of our customers’ expectations thanks to motivated teams working in a friendly, safe and innovative organisation. Our vision Enea is a leading provider of integrated raw material and energy products and services and other innovative services providing them to a wide range of customers, and is valued for quality, comprehensiveness and reliability. The ‘Enea Capital Group Development Strategy to 2030’ helps us in their implementation © Enea SA 8 / 113 Main areas of activity and related strategic objectives Extraction Production of hard coal. Sales of hard coal. Security of raw material base for the Group. Objectives of the strategy until 2025: Hard coal consumption from own extraction assets for own needs: 75%. In 2017: The main supplier of coal to the Enea Group is LW Bogdanka. Hard coal consumption index from own extraction assets for own needs: 76%. Production Electricity production based on hard coal, biomass, gas, wind, water and biogas. Production of heat. Transmission and distribution of heat. Electricity trading. Objectives of the strategy until 2025: Conventional installed generation capacity: 5.8-6.3 GW. In 2017: We have commissioned the most modern power unit in Poland and Europe, unit B11 of the Kozienice Power Plant. We bought the Połaniec Power Plant. We have increased our installed conventional generation capacity to 5.8 GW. Increase in electricity generation by 7 406 GWh as compared to 2016. Distribution Provision of electricity. Planning and ensuring the development of the distribution network. Operation, maintenance and repair of the distribution network. Management of measurement data. Objectives of the strategy until 2025: Distribution network loss ratio: 5.9%. SAIFI index: 1.69. SAIDI index: 144 minutes. In 2017: Distribution network loss ratio: 5.8%. © Enea SA 9 / 113 SAIFI index: 4.312). SAIDI index: 619 minutes. 2) The reason for the high SAIFI and SAIDI indexes was extreme weather events (storms, orcasms), which led to mass damage to power lines. Turnover Retail trade: Trading of electricity and gaseous fuels on the retail market. Product and service oﬀer tailored to customer needs. All-inclusive customer service. Wholesale trade: Optimisation of the portfolio of wholesale electricity and gaseous fuel contracts. Activities on product markets. Ensuring access to wholesale markets. Objectives of the strategy until 2025: Sales of electricity to ﬁnal customers: 20.1 TWh. In 2017: Increase in sales of electricity and gaseous fuel to end users by 927 GWh as compared to 2016. Major investments in 2017 Enea Wytwarzanie: Commissioning of modern power unit no. 11 in Kozienice Launching of unit no. 3 after upgrade Launching of unit no. 8 after upgrade Commissioning of the SCR plant for units no. 4 to 8 Continuation of the construction of the SCR unit and modernisation of the electrostatic precipitators for units no. 9 and 10 as part of the 2x500MW unit modernisation programme Enea Elektrownia Połaniec: Connection between the SCR installation and the boiler for units no. 2, 3, 7 Enea Operator: Reconstruction of the 110kV Glinki – Żelechowo line Reconstruction of the 110kV Dąbie – Morzyczyn overhead line Reconstruction of the 110kV Krzęcin – Dolice overhead line Construction of a 110kV Nowogród Bobrzański – Żary Zakładowa overhead line Reconstruction of the 110kV Górzyca and Słubice overhead line Reconstruction of the 110kV Śmigiel and Leszno Gronowo overhead line © Enea SA 10 / 113 Upgrading of GPZ Kostrzyn, GPZ Jachcice and GPZ Pakość Investment plans Enea Operator: Enea Operator actively uses EU funds to implement its planned investments. In 2017, Enea Operator signed 17 contracts for co-ﬁnancing infrastructure projects. The total net value of the projects amounts to PLN 273.2 million including the grant awarded amounting to nearly PLN 180 million. The obtained funds will be used for the development of the distribution network in the scope of increasing the security of electricity supply, increasing the potential of connecting renewable energy sources to the network, and implementing the functionality of the intelligent power network. Moreover, Enea Operator concluded two agreements on co-ﬁnancing research and development projects for the total value of PLN 7.9 million including PLN 3.9 million in grants. Enea Operator plans, inter alia, the following: High and medium voltage investments related to the expansion, automation and modernisation of stations and power grids aimed at Improving the reliability of network operation Project implementation: Network Information System Reconstruction of the 110kV Morzyczyn – Drawski Młyn line Reconstruction of the 110kV Gryﬁno – Żydowce line Construction of GPZ Choszczno II and GPZ Recz Construction of GPZ Garbary and a 110kV Garbary – Cytadela, Garbary – EC Karolin line Construction of a Garaszewo network switchgear and a 110kV Kromolice – Nagradowice, Kromolice – Gądki, Kromolice – Swarzędz line Construction of a 110kV Piła Krzewina – Miasteczko Krajeńskie line and reconstruction of GPZ Miasteczko Krajeńskie Reconstruction of GPZ Wronki © Enea SA 11 / 113 Reconstruction of GPZ Piła Południe Reconstruction of GPZ Żary Innovative system services for energy storage increasing the quality and eﬃciency of electricity use Implementation of the EMS and DOL system Construction of GPZ Poznań Główna, Suchy Las, Kisielin, Skwierzyna II Reconstruction of GPZ Fordon including construction of secondary power supply, GPZ Chodzież, GPZ Oborniki, GPZ Dąbie, GPZ Zdroje Construction of a 110kV Dąbie – Zdroje cable line Construction of a 110kV Bydgoszcz Śródmieście – Bydgoszcz Północ cable line Reconstruction of the 110kV Kościan – Śmigiel line Enea Wytwarzanie’s plans include the following: Modernisation of unit no. 9 Modernisation of unit no. 6 Installation of ﬂue gas desulphurisation systems for boilers K7 and K8 Modernisation of unit no. 10 Installation of the SCR ﬂue gas denitriﬁcation system for units no. 9-10 (completed in 2019) Modernisation of a slag and ash storage site Enea Elektrownia Połaniec’s plans include the following: Building up of the SCR installation for unit no. 4 (completed in 2018) Project Phoenix unit no. 5 (completion planned for 2020) Ethics The basis of the Enea Group’s and its Employees’ operations is honesty, understood primarily as: acting in accordance with ethical rules, regulations and internal procedures, equal treatment of all Stakeholders, mutual respect and acceptance of openness in expressing opinions and beliefs. The other values of the Enea Group are built upon honesty: Competence – willingness to share knowledge and constantly improve qualiﬁcations, but also to enable Employees to gain new experience; Responsibility – keeping the declarations on appropriate quality, punctuality and reliability of energy supply and services, but also for fulﬁlling employee duties and obligations resulting from social agreements; Safety – taking preventive and remedial actions in order to ensure a safe working environment and protection of the natural environment. The employees and management of our companies are bound by the principles set out in the Enea Capital Group Code of Ethics. The Code, along with other speciﬁc policies and procedures, including the ‘Enea Capital Group Value Code’ and ‘Enea Group Gift Acceptance and Giving Policy’, provides a basis for preventing any misconduct and indicates to us the principles that we should always follow as Enea Employees. © Enea SA 12 / 113 Important regulations Enea Capital Group Code of Ethics Describes our attitude as Enea Group Employees and describes our commitments and professional conduct guidelines. Enea Group Compliance Policy Its objective is to achieve and maintain an organisational level that ensures the maximum possible degree of elimination of potential threats that may occur in the organisation as a result of noncompliance with the provisions of law and applicable standards. Internal policy in case of notiﬁcation or detection of unacceptable behaviour at Enea SA The purpose of this document is to fulﬁl the employer’s obligation to counteract mobbing and other unacceptable behaviours, such as discrimination and harassment. It sets out, inter alia, the procedure to be followed in the event of an application being received for the possibility of the occurrence of unacceptable behaviour. Anti-corruption measures Our priorities: Ensuring compliance of the activities with the law and internal regulations. Eliminating any possible corrupt practices. Popularising among the Group’s Employees the knowledge on the anti-corruption regulations and mechanisms adopted by the Enea Group. Ensuring competitiveness and transparency in relations with contractors Continuous improvement of the quality of contacts with customers and prevention of any undesirable behaviours in this area. Allowing Employees and Contractors to report irregularities (including in the area of corruption). Examples of our actions: Implementation of the provisions contained in the implemented Enea Group Compliance Policy. Provide training to employees in the Enea Group Compliance Policy and in the Enea Group Gift Acceptance and Giving Policy. Discussing the principles of counteracting corruption during meetings with Employees. Running regular meetings of Employees who have direct contact with Customers. During the meetings, the rules of conduct in contacts with Customers were discussed as well as the cases of complaints lodged by Customers, which concerned behaviours of Employees that were inconsistent with our rules. Monitoring the legal environment and market standards with regard to the development of the anticorruption system. © Enea SA 13 / 113 Providing companies with a form through which information on any corrupt events can be reported to Enea SA. In 2017: More than 1 200 employees took part in e-learning training courses on the subject of counteracting corruption and conﬂicts of interest. Employees without access to computer and e-learning training were informed about anti-corruption rules directly by their superiors. The Enea Group has not experienced any conﬁrmed corruption or human rights violations in the workplace through harassment or discrimination. The most important events In 2017, we completed the construction and commissioned a new power unit at the Kozienice Power Plant. This state-of-the-art generation unit in Poland strengthens Poland’s energy security and the Enea Group’s market position. The new power unit: is Europe’s largest coal-ﬁred power plant; is one of the largest and most eﬃcient installations of its kind in the world; thanks to the use of advanced technological solutions, it achieves an eﬃciency level of 45.6%, which allows for a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by approx. 25% in relation to emissions from other hard coalﬁred power units; increases the power output of the Kozienice Power Plant by 1/3; meets the requirements of environmental protection regulations Calendar of the year 2017 January We executed an investment agreement concerning the construction of a unit at the Ostrołęka Power Plant. We took up shares in Polimex-Mostostal – 16.48% share in the share capital of this company. We equipped subsequent facilities of our Group with automatic external AED deﬁbrillators, including facilities in Poznań, Szczecin, Gniezno and Szamotuły. We opened a modern Customer Service Oﬃce in Zielona Góra, providing our Customers with comfortable conditions and eﬃcient service. We launched our ﬁrst internship programme, ‘Zainstaluj się w Enei’, with the ten best candidates joining © Enea SA 14 / 113 our Group. Enea Operator completed complete reconstruction of the 110kV Skwierzyn – Międzyrzecz high voltage line. Enea Wytwarzanie signed an agreement with Ethos Energy to upgrade the turbines of units no. 3 and 8 of the Kozienice Power Plant to improve the dynamic state of the turbines. We became the title sponsor of the IRONMAN competition in Gdynia and Warsaw. We sponsored volleyball players from the top-class club PTPS Piła. We became the title sponsor of Astoria Bydgoszcz February We were a partner in the Forum Zmieniamy Polski Przemysł event, one of the most important cyclical debates on the state, transformations and development prospects of the Polish economy. We extended our banking services agreement with PKO BP and Bank Polski SA. We were a partner of the ‘Kooperacja przedsiębiorstw i jej znaczenie dla konkurencyjności’ conference. We initiated an action to help Poles living in Lithuania – Good Energy Beyond Borders. Enea Operator co-organised the Akademia Bezpiecznego Przedszkolaka academy in order to promote safe behaviour among children, e.g. on their way to kindergarten. March We became the owner of Połaniec Power Plant. Enea Operator launched a state-of-the-art Power Control Centre which enables the control of the high voltage network from one location. Enea Oświetlenie took part in the SmartCity Forum in the discussion panel ‘Intelligent Lighting Infrastructure and Urban Mobility’. Enea Operator became a partner of the Centre for Vocational and Continuing Training in Złotów. We became a partner of the next edition of the Energy Academy, whose aim is to exchange knowledge between practitioners from the energy sector and students. April Enea Wytwarzanie was a partner of the 3rd Technical Conference entitled ‘Traﬃc maintenance – repairs, modernisations’. We sponsored the Zielona Góra Concert Hall. We modernised our Customer Service Oﬃce in Chojnice. We joined the cluster for the development of electromobility. We became the Strategic Partner of the Responsible Business Forum. We launched a modern ﬁre protection system at the Kozienice Power Plant. We were the patron of the Enea Spring Break Festival. Enea Foundation was awarded the ‘Signum Caritatis’ statuette for its charity work. We opened a new Customer Service Oﬃce in Poznań. May We received the Amber of the Polish Power Industry award for our eﬀective and consistent eﬀorts to increase Poland’s energy security and independence by taking over the assets of the Połaniec Power Plant. We completed the inventory of our network facilities. Enea Operator together with the University of Zielona Góra received funding for the research and development project ‘Innovative system services of energy storage increasing the quality and eﬃciency © Enea SA 15 / 113 of electricity use’. We started cooperation with the Polish Rowing Association. June We became a partner of the Zielona Góra Energy Cluster, which is a joint initiative of the city of Zielona Góra, the University of Zielona Góra and local companies. Enea Operator signed an agreement for the development and implementation of one complete IT system, which will collect, process and store all data related to measurement information in the broadest sense of the term. We signed agreements with the Ministry of Energy for co-ﬁnancing the construction of smart grids. Enea Wytwarzanie was a laureate of the prestigious ‘Green Laurel’ competition for the implementation of ecological projects. We became a partner of the Large Family Card programme. July We completed the next stage of construction of the power bridge between Poznań and Gorzów Wielkopolski, consisting of a high voltage line, and we attached a 17-kilometre section of the Zielomyśl – Międzyrzecz route and a 15-kilometre section between Zielomyśl and Międzychód. Enea Wytwarzanie signed an agreement for the modernisation of the heavy oil plant at the Kozienice Power Plant. We launched an online chat for Enea’s customers. Enea Centrum conducted the 7th Rescue Manoeuvres, i.e. a three-day training course for pre-medical rescuers and persons starting their adventure with rescue. August Post-storms crisis management and recovery from damage caused by natural disasters. September Enea Wytwarzanie carried out the ﬁrst synchronisation of the 1 075MW unit with the National Power System. MEC Piła signed an agreement on the establishment of the Pilski Pilski Power Cluster. Enea Operator has signed further agreements with the Ministry of Energy on co-ﬁnancing for the construction of smart grids in the Wielkopolska and Lubuskie regions. We launched the ﬁrst edition of the Enea Talent Academy. Enea Operator connected a new 110kV Nowogród Bobrzański – Żary high voltage overhead line. October Changing the location of the Customer Service Oﬃce in Szczecin. Modernisation of the Customer Service Oﬃce in Września. Enea Elektrownia Połaniec was awarded the title of TOP Employer of Eastern Poland. We managed the crisis situation after the pass of Hurricane Ksawery and Hurricane Grzegorz. We received the ‘New Impulse’ award for the Energy+ model, as a customer relationship model. Enea Operator signed further grant agreements with the Ministry of Energy for infrastructure development, modernisation and reconstruction. Enea Serwis won a tender announced by the Road and Urban Transport Authority for delivery and launch of the ﬁrst municipal electric vehicle chargers in Szczecin. © Enea SA 16 / 113 November Enea Elektrownia Połaniec received the ‘Świętokrzyski Diamond’ award for the promotion of the region, winning the ranking of the largest companies in the Świętokrzyskie region. Enea Operator has signed an agreement for the implementation of a new network investment in Kostrzyn nad Odrą, which will be the Kostrzyn II Main Supply Point together with a 110kV power line and medium voltage power lines. Enea Wytwarzanie was a co-organiser and partner of the event ‘5th Conference: Implementation of power units with supercritical parameters’ in Kazimierz Dolny. December Enea Operator comprehensively upgraded the Jachcice Main Power Point (GPZ). We commissioned the most modern power unit in Poland, B11, for supercritical parameters of 1 075 MW, at the Kozienice Power Plant. Awards New Impulses In 2017, we were recognised for our modern model of customer relations and functioning on the market, receiving an industry distinction – ‘New Impulse’. Our company Enea SA was recognised for the successful implementation of the idea of Energy+, consisting in combining the sale of electricity with a wide range of additional services and beneﬁts. Amber of the Polish Energy Industry Our Group received a distinction in the form of the ‘Amber of the Polish Power Industry’ statuette for eﬀective and consistent actions increasing Poland’s energy security and independence by taking over the assets of Połaniec Power Plant. Prudent Company Title Title awarded to Enea Logistyka for activities related to the management of receivables and conducting business in accordance with the standards described in the Canon of Good Practices of Prudent Companies. Employer of Merit for State Defence Title awarded to Enea Elektrownia Połaniec by the Provincial Military Staﬀ in Kielce for its overall cooperation in the ﬁeld of defence and joint work for the beneﬁt of national security. ‘Signum Caritatis’ statuette for the Enea Foundation The Enea Foundation was awarded the ‘Signum Caritatis’ statuette in the Benefactor of the Year category for its charitable activity. The statuette was presented during the 9th Gala of the Bank of Mercy, an annual charity event organised by Caritas of the Poznań Archdiocese. © Enea SA 17 / 113 TOP Employer of Eastern Poland Enea Elektrownia Połaniec received this title in a competition which was resolved during the 4th Eastern Economic Congress in Białystok. Golden Safe Work Leader Card The National Research Institute has awarded Enea Elektrownia Połaniec the Golden Card for the period 2018-2019 in recognition of its performance in improving working conditions and safety. Golden Payer The Euler Hermes certiﬁcate awarded to Enea Logistyka is a prestigious recognition for maintaining the highest standards of payment discipline. Contact Contact data of Enea SA Enea SA ul. Górecka 1 60-201 Poznań www.enea.pl Contact data of CSR Enea SA PR and Communication Department Business Social Responsibility Oﬃce e-mail: csr@enea.pl Map of stakeholders Employees Employee satisfaction surveys Intranet Newsletters and internal magazines Enea News Meetings, training and videoconferencing Cooperation with trade unions Meetings and newsletters for managers Radio broadcasting at the Kozienice Power Plant Annual report Sustainability report © Enea SA 18 / 113 Local communities, public opinion Contact and cooperation with the Enea Foundation Employee volunteering programmes Direct meetings and cooperation with representatives of local communities Communication through national and local media Website www.enea.pl Participation in industry events and events dedicated to corporate social responsibility Sustainability report Public administration and regulators Reports Annual report Sustainability report Direct communication Conferences Customers Customer Service Oﬃces and Sales Oﬃces Sales partners and customer care representatives Electronic Customer Service (eBOK) Online service: consultant chat Customer hotline (contact with a consultant on 611 111 111) Website www.enea.pl Enea proﬁle on Facebook 24-hour Enea Operator hotline 991 Electronic Platform for Notiﬁcation of Accidents in Enea Oświetlenie Connection Portal for Enea Operator Internet platform for communication with municipalities Customer satisfaction surveys Printing on invoices, inserts for invoices Special events, including those sponsored by Enea, community actions and events supported by the Enea Foundation Local media advertising: press and radio Sustainability report Industry organizations Membership of organisations Direct meetings Trade fairs and conferences Participation in working groups, authorities of professional organisations Annual report Sustainability report Investors, Shareholders, Analysts Investor Relations Oﬃce and the https://ir.enea.pl/ website dedicated to investors © Enea SA 19 / 113 Direct meetings with investors and shareholders, including proﬁt and loss conferences Mobile app Website www.enea.pl Current and periodic reports Annual report Sustainability report Suppliers and contractors Purchasing platform https://www.enea.pl/bip/zamowienia/platforma-zakupowa Website www.enea.pl and company websites Direct communication with Employees dedicated to cooperation with suppliers Industry meetings, fairs, etc. Annual report Sustainability report Local government Direct meetings, participation in local events Enea’s representatives participate in the works of a working group set up by the Voivode of Wielkopolska to identify signiﬁcant social needs and to plan actions for their implementation. Websites, including the website www.enea.pl Conferences Sustainability report Social partners and beneﬁciaries Enea Foundation Website www.enea.pl Application form for beneﬁciaries Direct contact, individual and event meetings Sustainability report Media Press oﬃce and ongoing communication Contact via dedicated e-mail Website www.enea.pl Meetings with the media Press conferences Sustainability report Supply chain We are a signiﬁcant customer for suppliers of raw materials, products and services. Our purchases contribute to the development of the Polish economy. © Enea SA 20 / 113 Our suppliers include manufacturers, agents and wholesalers. The most important raw materials used by us are those used for energy production in the Production Area. These include, but are not limited to: hardcoal – the vast majority of this raw material is provided by LW Bogdanka, a member of the Enea Capital Group, biomass – used mainly by Enea Elektrownia Połaniec and Elektrociepłownia Białystok, roasted magnesite and limestone meal – raw materials used in the ﬂue gas desulphurisation plant, rock salt – raw material for the regeneration of sodium exchangers in a water treatment plant, sodium sulphite, sodium phosphate and sodium hydroxide, light and heavy fuel oil. Check how many raw materials the Generation Area used in 2017. We use a wide range of products and services, including transformers, cables and wires, construction and power services (design, modernisation and network construction), IT services, and support services such as cleaning, supervision, and maintenance. The Group’s companies are acquired by the Enea Centrum Purchasing Department. Enea Centrum’s procurement regulations comprehensively regulate the procedures used to select individual contractors and the principles followed by the company’s employees responsible for making purchases. These include, but are not limited to: the principle of impartiality of persons conducting purchasing procedures, the principle of equal treatment of suppliers, the principles of fair competition. Potential suppliers can track the Enea Group’s purchasing needs on the purchasing platform available at: https://www.enea.pl/bip/zamowienia/platforma-zakupowa. In addition to the purchasing processes conducted through the platform, there are references to a list of orders not covered by the platform (including those from Enea Operator and Enea Wytwarzanie). The key criteria for selecting a supplier of a product or service to the companies in our Group are quality and price. Partnerships and cooperations We are members of many organisations and are involved in their initiatives. These include, but are not limited to: Enea Ciepło (Białystok) Izba Gospodarcza Ciepłownictwo Polskie – Member of the System Heat Programme Związek Wzajemności Członkowskiej ENEA Towarzystwa Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych Polski Zakład Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych (TUW PZUW) © Enea SA 21 / 113 MEC Piła Izba Gospodarcza Północnej Wielkopolski Izba Gospodarcza Ciepłownictwo Polskie Stowarzyszenie Elektryków Polskich Związek Wzajemności Członkowskiej ENEA Towarzystwa Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych Polski Zakład Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych (TUW PZUW) PEC Oborniki Izba Gospodarcza Ciepłownictwo Polskie Związek Wzajemności Członkowskiej ENEA Towarzystwa Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych Polski Zakład Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych (TUW PZUW) Enea Wytwarzanie Izba Przemysłowo Handlowa Ziemi Radomskiej Związek Wzajemności Członkowskiej ENEA Towarzystwa Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych Polski Zakład Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych (TUW PZUW) Enea SA UN Global Compact Forum Odpowiedzialnego Biznesu Polskie Towarzystwo Energii Elektrycznej Towarzystwo Obrotu Energią Stowarzyszenie Pracodawcy Rzeczpospolitej Polskiej Izba Gospodarcza Energetyki i Ochrony Środowiska Wielkopolska Izba Przemysłowo-Handlowa Polski Komitet Światowej Rady Energetycznej Polski Komitet Energii Elektrycznej Klub Partnera Uniwersytetu Ekonomicznego w Poznaniu Związek Wzajemności Członkowskiej ENEA Towarzystwa Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych Polski Zakład Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych (TUW PZUW) Enea Operator Polskie Towarzystwo Przesyłu i Rozdziału Energii Elektrycznej Klub Partnera Uniwersytetu Ekonomicznego w Poznaniu Lubuskie Towarzystwo na Rzecz Rozwoju Energetyki Stowarzyszenie Elektryków Polskich © Enea SA 22 / 113 EDSO for Smart Girds Związek Wzajemności Członkowskiej ENEA Towarzystwa Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych Polski Zakład Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych (TUW PZUW) Enea Oświetlenie Związek Wzajemności Członkowskiej ENEA Towarzystwa Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych Polski Zakład Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych (TUW PZUW) Enea Elektrownia Połaniec Stowarzyszenie Elektryków Polskich Oddział Tarnobrzeg, Stowarzyszenie Księgowych w Polsce Oddział Okręgowy Kielc Liga Ochrony Przyrody Okręg Kielce, Towarzystwo Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych Polski Zakład Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych Towarzystwo Gospodarcze Polskie Elektrownie Związek Wzajemności Członkowskiej ENEA Towarzystwa Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych Polski Zakład Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych (TUW PZUW) Enea Pomiary Towarzystwo Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych Polski Zakład Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych with its seat in Warsaw Klub Polskich Laboratoriów Badawczych Pollab Związek Wzajemności Członkowskiej ENEA Towarzystwa Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych Polski Zakład Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych (TUW PZUW) Enea Trading Towarzystwo Obrotu Energią Polski Komitet Energii Elektrycznej Związek Wzajemności Członkowskiej ENEA Towarzystwa Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych Polski Zakład Ubezpieczeń Wzajemnych (TUW PZUW) Customers and products ‘Enea continues to provide products and services that exceed our customers’ expectations,’ Enea’s Mission demonstrates that our customers and their needs are at the centre of our attention. We recognise the issues that are important for our Customers and we carefully try to implement them. © Enea SA 23 / 113 We are responsible for energy sales throughout Poland, delivering it to all customer segments and sectors of the economy. The proﬁle of our customers is diverse, both in households and manufacturing companies, which is why we oﬀer a wide range of products and services. We are committed to building a responsible relationship with our Customers based on loyalty and mutual trust. We focus on improving our customer service standards and consistently improve our communication channels. Our Customers In 2017,2.5 million were among the recipients of our products and services Trading segment: 2 422 000 Customers (Energy Consumption Points) Distribution segment: 2 553 000 Customers We create a group consisting of many companies, and each of them has its own Customers and business partners. In order to ensure detailed standards of customer relations, we identify the following groups of customers: individual (including households) business key strategic tender A key Customer for some of them is an internal Customer, i.e. a member of the Enea Group, e.g. Enea Serwis or Enea Pomiary. © Enea SA 24 / 113 Main services and products We oﬀer a wide range of products to meet diﬀerent expectations and needs. As the Group, we make every eﬀort to ensure that everyone in Enea ﬁnds the most suitable oﬀer for them. Our extensive product portfolio includes products that combine electricity, services and ancillary products, such as expert assistance in dealing with minor house failures and innovative devices for intelligent home management. Additionally, our individual Customers, after prior registration, can beneﬁt from the loyalty programme – Purchasing Zone. This service enables the purchase of products dedicated by Enea with attractive discounts. Our product Energy + Certain Price was the best rated by the Polish Institute of Quality Research in two categories: the general conditions of the oﬀer the most transparent oﬀer for the Consumer from among the oﬀers of 16 energy sales companies. Our main product range: Oﬀer for households Enea Smart – a product combining electricity with a package of modern solutions that will protect the house against ﬁre, ﬂooding or burglary, and allow for more eﬃcient use of electricity. Energy + Professional – sale of electricity as a package with minor household repair services (electrician, heating and gas installation technician). Energy + Health – Sale of electricity bundled with medical services. Energy + Certain Price – the customer receives a guarantee that electricity prices will not change during the term of the contract. Energy + Energy-eﬃcient house – the customer is guaranteed that electricity prices will remain the same for the duration of the contract. Energy + Family – a product dedicated to Customers who have a Large Family Card. Energy + Photovoltaics – the customer receives assistance in the analysis of technical needs and possibilities, design of the installation, obtaining ﬁnancing and construction and connection of the photovoltaic installation to the network. Enea Eco – an anti-smoking oﬀer directed from the beginning of 2018 to customers who want to start using electric heating in their homes or to charge electric vehicles at night. Oﬀer for companies Energy + Fixed Price – the customer receives a guarantee that electricity prices will not change during the term of the contract. Energy + Always Cheaper – a product addressed to enterprises, which guarantees customers constant prices for the duration of the contract and discounts up to 20% of the standard prices. Energy + Index – the product is addressed to entrepreneurs interested in the price of energy determined on the basis of forward market indexes. Dual Fuel – a comprehensive service for the sale of electricity and natural gas to businesses. Energy + Professional – associated with the sale of electricity – a package of advisory services allowing to optimise the consumption of electricity. © Enea SA 25 / 113 Assistants package – a wide range of business support services available within the Energy + Fixed Price and Energy + Always Cheaper oﬀer, including, inter alia, electric assistance, organisation of IT interventions or maintenance of oﬃce equipment. If you are looking for more information: Detailed descriptions of our oﬀers can be found on our website: Tab ‘For home’ Tab ‘For company’ A detailed oﬀer of the Purchasing Zone can be found at www.strefa.enea.pl/ Compliance with law In 2017, no penalties were imposed on our Group companies for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the supply and use of products and services. We granted our Customers discounts in the total amount of PLN 2 191 323, which were mainly related to the quality parameters of electricity and customer service standards. Eﬃcient power supply network Our priority: the availability, eﬃciency and safety of energy distribution networks. Enea Operator is responsible for the distribution of electricity over an area of 58 213 km2 covering six provinces: Wielkopolskie, Zachodniopomorskie, Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Lubuskie, and part of Dolnośląskie and Pomorskie. In total, we have 122.4 thousand kilometres of power lines and 37.82 thousand units of power stations at our disposal (as at 31 December 2017). Programme for the Improvement of Network Operating Reliability A key measure to ensure the reliability of power supply is the Programme for the Improvement of Network Operating Reliability and continuity of power supply at Enea Operator. The following activities, inter alia, are carried out under this programme: © Enea SA 26 / 113 Modernisation of MV section lines in the scope of comprehensive modernisation of entire line sections including installation of remote-controlled connectors, Automation of the power distribution network with regard to the installation of remote-controlled switches in MV overhead lines and transformer stations and the modernisation of ﬁeld controllers and concentrators, Elimination of short-circuit hazards in the MV network, aimed at increasing the cross-sections of MV line outputs from the GPZ, which will consequently increase the reliability of supply to Customers, Replacement of non-networked MV cables with cables with cross-linked PE insulation. In 2017, we completed the process of detailed inventory of network facilities and their parameters, the purpose of which was to create the Network Information System. This system will enable the collected data to be eﬀectively used in the operating activities of Enea Operator. We have made an inventory of: 15 452 cubic stations 20 593 pole stations 65 474 km of low voltage (lv) lines 45 862 km of medium voltage (MV) lines 5 168 km of high voltage (HV) lines More detailed information about investments in the network can be found HERE. Fight against accidents and the consequences of cataclysms The second half of 2017 was special in terms of the scale and frequency of dangerous weather events that aﬀected our distribution area. In total, as a result of August storms and Hurricanes Grzegorz and Ksawery: Approximately 3 600 power poles were damaged, Nearly 450 km of power lines were severed. In these diﬃcult conditions, our teams restored a total supply of electricity to more than 1 million consumers aﬀected by the storms. It was a great challenge for us, which we met thanks to the appropriate logistics, preparation and, most of all, commitment and great work of our teams. OUR GOAL: By 2025, we want to have reduced the SAIDI index to 144 minutes and the SAIFI index to 1.69. © Enea SA 27 / 113 Power supply disruptions Details 2016 2017 SAIDI planned and unplanned breaks including disastrous [minutes] 244.44 619 SAIFI planned and unplanned breaks, including disastrous ones [pcs.] 3.85 4.31 The Enea Foundation donated almost PLN 1 million to the municipalities aﬀected by the storms. This amount supported, inter alia, the renovation of buildings and public facilities and the purchase of specialist equipment for the Voluntary Fire Brigade. Events having a signiﬁcant impact on power supply disruptions in 2017: Date of the 11/12 August 2017 5 October 2017 29 October 2017 event Type of disaster Violent storms Hurricane Ksawery Hurricane Grzegorz The disaster destroyed a 48 110kV lines and 46 total of about 70 highMain Power Points were voltage poles, at the After its passing, there subject to emergency culminating moment, i.e. on were 12 HV 110kV shut down from our the night of 11/12 August, lines and 300 MV lines, Scope of distribution area in the 14 Main Power Points, 7268 three HV/MV stations damage event of an emergency. MV/lv power stations, 313 and 3754 MV/lv Nearly 15 000 MV/lv medium-voltage lines and stations without transforming stations as many as 24 110kV highvoltage. were left without power voltage lines, crucial for the supply. system, were damaged. More than 160 Range of Approximately 600 000 Approx. 250 000 customers thousand PLN. injured customers without without electricity Consumers without Customers electricity electricity © Enea SA 28 / 113 Date of the 11/12 August 2017 5 October 2017 29 October 2017 event In the evening of October 29th, electricity supplies Within nearly 48 hours, were restored to most During the ﬁrst two days, about 95% of consumers, of the Customers. On Crisis power supplies were i.e. households and 30th October the last management restored to up to businesses, had their damage to the MV customers. electricity supply lines was repaired and, restored. on that day, electricity was restored in all houses. Quality of service The quality of service is one of the main factors inﬂuencing the satisfaction of our customers. We consistently improve it, aiming at continuous development in the area of cooperation with the Customer, in accordance with our strategy. Customer service standards An important document regulating ethical and legal standards in relations with Customers is the ‘Enea Capital Group Code of Ethics’. This is complemented by the speciﬁc ‘Enea Group Compliance Policy’. We operate according to the ‘Enea Brand Strategy’. We care about precise, clear and systematic contact with our Customers, which is why we have established the following documents specifying the standards set by us: Standards of performance of tasks related to the process of sales and customer service of Enea SA by the organisational units of Enea SA and Enea Centrum; Enea SA sales standards for business customers; Customer Complaints Handling; Customer Electronic Correspondence Service Standards at the Contact Centre at Enea Centrum; Telephone Customer Service Standard at the Contact Centre; Customer Service Standards in Customer Service; Enea Operator Customer Service Standards by Enea Centrum; Standards of performance of tasks related to the process of sales and customer service of Enea SA by the organisational units of Enea SA and Enea Centrum; Procedure of acceptance and registration of Customer applications, implementation of Customer Service processes and complaints about services provided; Procedure for changing supplier; Procedure for reimbursement of overpayments to Enea Operator’s customers due to settlement or mistaken payment; Customer authorisation procedure when handling Customers at Enea; Handling of enquiries, applications and requests; © Enea SA 29 / 113 Key quality guidelines for Employees of After-Sales Service Divisions; In addition, due to the speciﬁc nature of the customer relationship, Enea Operator is bound inter alia by the following: Procedure of accepting and recording Customers’ applications, performance of customer service processes and complaints about services provided; Procedure of calculation of adjustments of settlements of distribution services at Enea Operator; Procedure for the introduction of claims, debt relief and write-oﬀ of claims against costs; Regulations governing the inspection of measurement systems, compliance with concluded agreements and correctness of settlements by Enea Operator’s representatives; Rules of settlement for distribution services with respect to the quality fee, the ﬁnal fee and the renewable energy fee; Procedure for debt collection at Enea Operator; Tariﬀ for electricity distribution services; Procedure for determining the terms and conditions of connection and conclusion of connection agreements; Procedure for connection of microinstallations; Procedure for determining the terms and conditions of connection and conclusion of the connection agreement; Procedure for monitoring the execution of the connection agreement, its settlement and the connection of the facility. Simple Customer Service In 2017, we launched a package of Simple Customer Service initiatives. We strive to simplify contracts, invoices and documents, processes in the area of support and settlements and the development of electronic customer service. We want to create clear and understandable documents for our Customers, which will translate indirectly into the improvement of the service and billing processes. We have implemented a new Customer Service Standard, which is a guide to everyday work at Customer Service Oﬃces. It provides support for consultants and answers questions related to their work, as well as standardises customer service in all facilities. The created document is a resultant of, inter alia, the experience of consultants and the results of ‘Mystery Customer’ and ‘Customer Satisfaction Survey’ research. © Enea SA 30 / 113 Awards and distinctions New Impulse In 2017, we were recognised for our modern model of customer relations and functioning on the market, receiving a distinction from the industry – ‘New Impulse’. Enea SA was recognised for the successful implementation of the idea of ENERGY+, consisting in combining the sale of electricity with a wide range of additional services and beneﬁts. Amber of the Polish Energy Industry Our Group received an award in the form of the ‘Amber of the Polish Power Industry’ statuette for eﬀective and consistent actions increasing Poland’s energy security and independence by taking over the assets of Połaniec Power Plant. Prudent Company Title Title awarded to Enea Logistyka for activities related to the management of receivables and conducting business in accordance with the standards described in the Canon of Good Practices of Prudent Companies. Certiﬁcates We are proud to belong to the prestigious group of companies that hold the title of Certiﬁed Energy Sellers. It is a testimony to our reliability in the area of sales and our eﬀorts to eliminate unfair practices in the energy market. Independent certiﬁcation company TUV Rheinland Polska awards this title to companies that sell energy, meeting the requirements of the ‘Good Practices of Electricity Sellers’. It is worth noting that out of 400 companies licensed to trade in electricity in Poland, only seven have obtained this certiﬁcate. Our companies have also received other certiﬁcates described here. Customer innovations © Enea SA 31 / 113 We focus on getting to know the needs of our customers. We believe that it is worth developing to meet these needs. We focus on innovation, which allows us to set market trends. Our priorities Building long-lasting relationships with Customers, based on positive experiences in contacting committed and motivated consultants; Creating oﬀers of products and services responding to complex needs of Customers; Development of remote (digital and traditional) sales and customer service channels; Providing Customers with an optimised network of modern, functional Customer Service Oﬃces; Consistent improvement and automation of processes related to ensuring simple operation; Improvement and development of the Enea Operator connection portal. In 2017, we carried out a number of activities with Customers in mind In the area of retail sales: Development of the loyalty programme under the Purchasing Zone; Introduction to the portfolio of new products for households: Enea Smart and Enea + Family; Customer service satisfaction and quality survey; Implementation of new functionalities in concluding contracts by the Internet channel; Implementation of an analytical system supporting forecasting and management of the sales and purchase portfolio; Development of support for Customers who feel cheated by other electricity sellers. In the area of customer service: Implementation of the Simple Customer Service programme (simpliﬁcation of the way of concluding agreements by introducing declarations, simpliﬁcation of forms, introduction of faxes which shortened the time of answering customers, implementation of the Simple Document initiative to ensure friendly written communication with customers); Improving the quality of telephone services by, inter alia, shortening the time of waiting for a call with a consultant; Implementation of a new multi-channel Contact Centre Platform to handle all incoming contacts; Implementation of a new live chat communication channel with the possibility of attaching attachments; Modiﬁcation of the billing and sales system in order to improve the service and shorten the time of execution of customer applications; Opening of the third Customer Service Oﬃce in Poznań, which is available 7 days a week, and which, due to greater availability for customers, we have located in one of Poznań’s shopping malls, namely ‘Pestka’; Modernisation of subsequent Customer Service Oﬃces; Launch of the queueing system in all Customer Service Oﬃces, which simpliﬁed customer service and allowed to reduce the waiting time in queues to a maximum of 20 minutes; Installation of anti-rapid systems in Customer Service Oﬃces for the safety of Customers and Employees; Updating Customer Service Standards in order to adjust them to Customers’ expectations and the changing market environment © Enea SA 32 / 113 Implementation of quality guidelines and new standards of work in after-sales service; Development of electronic service channels, which resulted in the doubling of the number of Customers using the Electronic Customer Service Oﬃce and e-invoice; Implementation of a new concept of operation of after-sales service, which improved the timeliness and implementation of applications; Implementation of a coherent model of service quality monitoring at Customer Service Oﬃces, Contact Centre and in after-sales service. Our plans Development of channels of contact with Customers through means including video chat and Facebook; Development of a portfolio of products for households and business customers; Development of the Purchasing Zone loyalty programme for business customers; Changing the model of providing services to business customers from the SOHO segment in order to improve the quality of their services; Continuation of modernisation works at Customer Service Oﬃces – new visualisation of subsequent Customer Service Centres; Improving the readability of electricity invoices (Simple Invoice); Development and improvement of the functionality of Electronic Customer Service (eBOK 2.0); Implementation of self-service voice services (self-service); Development of CRM – simpliﬁcation of the process of oﬀering and selling with the use of CRM, full implementation of the tool in the channels of contact with customers; Implementation of customer satisfaction surveys based on telephone surveys addressed to the customer after completion of service on the hotline and in the Customer Service Oﬃce (assessment of customer satisfaction with each and every service contact with Enea). Examples of our innovations: Enea Operator: successively strengthens the security of electricity supply in north-western Poland by implementing innovative solutions, such as technologies allowing for automatic detection of damage and limiting its range to the place of occurrence. Thanks to the company’s launch of the dispatching SCADA system, whose FDIR (Fault Detection, Isolation and Restoration) module can bypass a damaged part of the network; has launched an innovative Central Power Dispatching System, which allows for the management of the high voltage network from one location – this investment will signiﬁcantly aﬀect the continuity of electricity supply for our Customers; has received funding for the construction of smart grids; this solution will in the future allow for a very quick reduction in the number of Customers deprived of energy supplies in the event of a failure; established cooperation with the Maritime Academy in Szczecin concerning innovative and research and development projects; Enea Operator and the University of Zielona Góra received co-ﬁnancing for the implementation of a research and development project aimed at developing technologies based on energy storage, which in the future will enable the provision of new system services for DSOs in low voltage networks. Other companies: © Enea SA 33 / 113 Enea Serwis, Enea Innovation and Leszno local government have started cooperation on the construction of distributed hybrid RES microinstallations, thanks to which the city of Leszno will gain more secure energy supply and reduced costs of energy purchase. We are involved in the development of electromobility, we have become a member of the ‘Polish Electric Bus – a supply chain for electro-mobility’ cluster. In April, the Enea Group became a member of the cluster ‘Polish Electric Bus – supply chain for electromobility’. The aim of the cluster is to cooperate in the development of e-mobility, in particular electric buses and their components, which will be based on technical solutions developed in Poland. Cooperation with PGG in the development of technology for a new fuel mix In June, Enea Trading and the Polish Mining Group (Polska Grupa Górnicza, PGG) started cooperation in the ﬁeld of exchange of experience and knowledge in order to prepare a new fuel mix with the use of coal sludge, which could be commercially used in the power industry. Customer satisfaction surveys We value the opinions of our customers, which is why we regularly conduct satisfaction surveys among them. Their results are a valuable source of information for us and on their basis, we plan further activities in the area of cooperation with the Customer. In 2017, we conducted the ‘Enea vs Competition Customer Satisfaction Survey’. The aim of the survey was to determine the level of satisfaction with cooperation with Enea in all customer groups, both individual and business. We have conducted similar research among the Customers of our market competitors. The survey involved more than 1 400 Enea customers and nearly 1 000 third-party customers. The Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) for Enea in a survey conducted in 2017/2018 was 78.79 . The satisfaction of our customers increased by 2.27 points in comparison to the result of the previous year. We assume continuation and cyclical, annual surveys of this Customer Satisfaction Index. 2015 2016 2017 Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) 67.83 76.52 78.79 We also conducted other customer opinion surveys, such as ‘Mystery Customer’ surveys and customer satisfaction surveys in customers of Enea Oświetlenie and Enea Serwis. Friendly communication We are constantly improving our customer service by introducing modern communication tools, raising the standards of their service and opening new locations of Customer Service Oﬃces. © Enea SA 34 / 113 Enea Centrum is responsible for streamlining the process of managing contacts with current and potential customers in our Group. We know that the satisfaction of our Customers depends on the conscientiousness, reliability, eﬀort and competence of our Employees, based on strictly deﬁned procedures in the area of cooperation with the Customer. We are aware that the issue of service availability is important for our customers, therefore we oﬀer a range of solutions, both traditional and digital: We have 32 Customer Service Oﬃces (BOK) at our disposal; We have introduced changes in our customer service which have shortened the average waiting time at our oﬃces; We have improved our website; We have introduced additional communication tools, including a chat with a consultant. Customer Service Oﬃces Our customers have at their disposal 32 functional and friendly Customer Service Oﬃces (BOK). We make sure that our facilities are located in convenient places. We consistently modernise them in order to make them more modern and, above all, to meet the needs of our customers. We create spaces for meetings with customers in accordance with the aesthetics and standards adopted by us, in which we oﬀer comfortable conditions and eﬃcient service. We have introduced a queuing system at all Customer Service Oﬃces. We successively try to equip them with modern computer equipment, telephone charging stations and special places prepared for ﬁlling in applications. Some facilities have separate play areas for children, as well as seating areas speciﬁcally designed for the elderly. We have opened two new Customer Service Oﬃces (a BOK in Zielona Góra, a BOK in Poznań in the ‘Pestka’ shopping mall). We have modernised three Customer Service Oﬃces (a BOK in Chojnice, a BOK in Międzychodzie, a BOK in Dębno). Electronic Customer Service At the same time, we are developing remote contact channels outside traditional facilities including: a website: www.enea.pl © Enea SA 35 / 113 a helpline Electronic Customer Service (eBOK) the chat with a consultant a dedicated Customer Guardian, e.g. business, key and strategic Customers 24-hour Enea Operator hotline 991 For all Customers who prefer digital solutions, in the ﬁrst quarter of 2016 we implemented a modern Electronic Customer Service Oﬃce (eBOK) system. The system is designed for both households and business customers. Every customer who has access to the Internet and has created an account with eBOK has the possibility to settle matters concerning cooperation with Enea without leaving home: 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Main advantages of using eBOK for Customers: Time saving Access to billing information (e.g. e-invoice) Possibility of convenient and quick payment of bills 24-hour access to invoices and documents Receipt of SMS or e-mail notiﬁcations (the Customer decides which form he/she prefers) on invoices with an approaching payment date Possibility of purchasing a code for the prepayment counter Possibility of quick contact without the need to provide personal data each time We are working on extending the Electronic Customer Service Oﬃce with new functionalities. The main motivation for our activity is for us the comfort of our Customers, which translates directly into their satisfaction. Another important channel of communication with our customers is the website www.enea.pl. We are gradually improving our service, strengthening customer service on the Internet. We focused on creating a clear structure of the website and arranging the content in the form of questions and answers placed in a separate part, dedicated to the area of customer service. We have introduced icons presenting in an understandable way the issues important from the Customer’s point of view, such as the way of creating an account with eBOK and submitting an application for connection to the network. We are working on the implementation of additional solutions, such as instructional videos, the possibility of booking a visit to the facility via the Internet and easier search of invoice payment points, which will improve the level of functionality of the website and thus facilitate contact with the Customer. In addition, Customers can observe Enea’s proﬁle on Facebook (in 2017 under the name: Energia+, since 2018 under the name: Enea), where current information on the life of our Group and interesting facts are © Enea SA 36 / 113 posted. Connection Portal Enea Operator oﬀers the Users a Connection Portal, which is an electronic customer service oﬃce in the area of distribution. The Portal enables Customers to submit applications for connection to the network, applications for ensuring deliveries and applications for microinstallation connection by electronic means, if the connection capacity of the facility does not exceed 40 kW. In 2017, the Portal gained a new functionality allowing the Customers to follow the stages of the implementation of the connection investment. Through the platform, Users receive notiﬁcations about the main events throughout the process of executing their connection agreement. In addition, messages on signiﬁcant events in the investment progress of connections are delivered via e-mail and text messages (sms). Additionally, tests of the new mobile application ‘Enea Operator Wyłącz Wyłączenia’ are underway, which will enable the Customers to monitor the planned shutdowns and failures in a speciﬁc area. Enea Oświetlenie enables its customers to report lighting failures by phone. Education and sharing of knowledge We share knowledge For the third time we have become a partner of the Energy Academy organised by the Lesław Paga Foundation. The project is addressed to people who associate their future with the power industry. Its aim is to create a platform for the exchange of knowledge between experienced practitioners in the energy sector and people at the beginning of their careers in the sector. A representative of Enea led a workshop for students entitled ‘Challenges of the Energy Future’. Enea became a partner in the event of the 17th edition of the We Change the Polish Industry Forum, which is a cyclical debate on the state, changes and development prospects of the Polish economy. Its part was the ‘2030: the horizons of the Polish and world energy sector. Forecasts and dilemmas’ Panel, which was attended by representatives of the largest energy companies in Poland. Enea was a partner of the ‘Cooperation of enterprises and its importance for the competitiveness of local and national economy – challenges for Wielkopolska’ conference, the aim of which was to develop solutions beneﬁcial for the development of Wielkopolska. The event was organised by the WSB University, Region Wielkopolski NSZZ Solidarność and the WZP Lewiatan. Our representative presented a presentation entitled ‘Innovativeness of the company as an important factor in creating the development of the region on the example of the Enea Group’. Enea Wytwarzanie was a partner of the 3rd Technical Conference ‘Traﬃc maintenance – repairs, modernisations’, which took place in Kazimierz Dolny. The scope of the conference included talks about overhauls in the power industry and new requirements as well as needs related to the current operation of generation units. Enea was a partner of the 25th Jubilee edition of the EuroPOWER Conference, one of the most important events devoted to issues from the energy sector. EuroPOWER conference is a dialogue platform, a place for public consultations of government representatives with all representatives of the industry and cooperating sectors. During the conference, the subject of market changes, new trends and © Enea SA 37 / 113 directions of development of the Polish power industry were discussed. Enea Oświetlenie participated in the Smart City Forum, a national conference devoted to the exchange of experiences and presentation of projects related to the issue of smart cities. It was attended by representatives of business, administration and local governments. A representative from Enea participated in a panel discussion on the topic of ‘Intelligent lighting infrastructure and urban mobility’. Enea was a partner at the German-Polish Energy Forum, which is part of the world’s largest industrial trade fair Hannover Messe 2017 and was attended by politicians, industry representatives and experts from both countries. The aim of the forum was to present the state of work in the ﬁeld of electromobility and to discuss the possibilities of cooperation between Poland and Germany. Enea was a participant of the Nationwide Energy Summit – OSE Gdańsk 2017, whose theme was ‘Energy for the Economy – Energy for the Economy’. During this event, Enea received the Amber of the Polish Energy Industry award for eﬀective and consistent actions increasing the energy security and independence of Poland by taking over the assets of the Połaniec Power Plant. Enea took part in the 9th European Economic Congress, which was held in Katowice. Our representative took part in the ‘Energy in Europe – the biggest questions’ panel. The congress was attended by important politicians, presidents and representatives of the largest companies, companies and institutions. Enea was a partner of the Energy Future Week (EMF) event in Poznań, which includes the ExpoPower Fair. Its aim is to show the challenges facing the modern power industry, set trends for the power industry in Central and Eastern Europe, exchange international experience and inspire the domestic sector to develop. The EMF was attended by entrepreneurs from Poland and abroad who want to learn about innovative solutions, market trends and challenges faced by the industry. Enea received the Acanthus Aureus award for the best stand at the fair. Enea Oświetlenie was the organiser of the sixth edition of the ‘More Light’ Fair, which was attended by over 300 representatives of the lighting industry and local governments. The event served the purpose of meetings and exchange of experience and to present to local governments the latest solutions in this ﬁeld applied in order to improve the comfort of life of the inhabitants. In September 2017, Enea participated in the three-day Economic Forum in Krynica-Zdrój. Representatives of Enea took part in the following debates: ‘Is there enough capacity for Polish electromobility’, ‘Employer – a key partner in vocational training’, and the ‘Innovation – a key element of competitiveness of energy companies’ panel. Enea was a partner of the National Economic Summit in Siedlce, held under the ‘State – Entrepreneurship – Security: Pillars of the Polish Economy of the Future’ slogan. The event was attended by representatives of politics, economy, science and business. Our representative stressed the importance of energy security and innovation in every area of energy. Enea participated in the 14th edition of the Energy Fair 2017 in Jachranka, organised by the Energy Trading Association and the Chamber of Industrial Energetics and Energy Consumers. The trade fair served as a platform for meetings of entities participating in the national energy market. In mid-September 2017, Enea Logistyka and Enea Serwis jointly represented our Group at the BielskoBiała International Power Industry Fair Energetab, which took place in Bielsko-Biała. It was an important industry event, which attracted over 20 thousand visitors to the stands of 708 exhibitors from 22 countries of Europe and Asia. Its aim was to present the most modern technological solutions used to increase the reliability of electricity transmission, as well as to increase the eﬃciency of its generation and use. In October 2017, Enea participated in the conference ‘Energy challenges of local governments – electromobility, energy eﬃciency and clean air’ organised by the Ministry of Energy. Its element was the outcome of the ‘Energy Friendly Self-Government’ competition, which the town of Lubiszyn in the Lubuskie province received for its cooperation with Enea Operator in the preparation of the municipality’s spatial development plans taking into account the locations of the power stations in Baczyn. © Enea SA 38 / 113 Enea was represented at the Energy Technology Forum held in Bełchatów in October 2017 by Enea Bioenergia. At the event, problems and issues from the area of biomass combustion and co-combustion technologies were discussed. Our representative spoke, inter alia, about the proﬁtability of energy production from biomass, as well as about the factors that aﬀect it. Enea was a partner at the Europower conference, which focused on energy trends and new technologies such as artiﬁcial intelligence, software and smart grid equipment. Enea participated in the Świętokrzyskie Economic Forum, which is a part of the Kielce Trade Fair. At this event, Enea Elektrownia Połaniec was proclaimed the largest company in the Świętokrzyskie region of the ‘Golden Hundred’, and honoured with the Świętokrzyskie Diamond for the promotion of the region. Enea participated in Congress 590, one of the most important economic events. The event took place in Jasionka near Rzeszów and was a platform for dialogue between specialists in business, science, politics and legislation on issues related to the economy, in particular solutions that would help increase the country’s potential. Enea Wytwarzanie was a co-organiser and partner of the 5th Conference ‘Implementation of power units with supercritical parameters’ organised in Kazimierz Dolny. The conference was attended by representatives of energy industries, institutions and scientiﬁc circles. Discussions took place on the subject of intelligent control in the power industry and coal gasiﬁcation technology, as well as on the future and further exploitation of 200MW units. We warn against fraudsters We take steps to inform and educate our customers on how not to become deceived by a dishonest energy seller. We have created a campaign entitled ‘Check who sells you energy before you sign a contract’, the main aim of which is to give you three main principles that you should follow when signing a contract, namely: check the seller’s ID, do not sign the contract without carefully reading the document, and you always have the opportunity to withdraw from the contract concluded away from business premises or remotely within 14 days of its conclusion. A part of the campaign is education through a dedicated website, where information on how not to fall victim to a dishonest energy seller as well as a Consumer Guide with detailed information are provided. The action was carried out in local media, public transport and selected institutions of the Polish Post. Work is ongoing to prepare forms that can be ﬁlled in by persons being victims of fraud to describe how they have been cheated on, so that the scale of the phenomenon can be monitored. In 2017, we continued our participation in the campaign ‘It’s not a joke – choose wisely. Check out who oﬀers you electricity and gas’, run by the Energy Trading Association. Its purpose is to warn against dishonest electricity and gas suppliers. The campaign was carried out all over Poland by means of radio, the Internet and outdoor. The campaign was organised in cooperation with Enea, Energa, Tauron, PGE, Innogy, Plus and Fortum. The action is under the patronage of the Energy Regulatory Oﬃce. Data security The Enea Group treats the security of customer data responsibly and strictly observes the applicable legal regulations. In addition, we have established a policy in this respect and a number of regulations that help us eﬀectively ensure the security of our Customers’ data. Examples of internal regulations in force in our Group: Enea Group Safety Policy Security rules for the processing of personal data in the Enea Group Management Manual for the IT System Processing Personal Data in the Enea Group © Enea SA 39 / 113 Information Processing Principles in the Enea Group Information and Communication Security Principles in the Enea Group We are also taking steps to adapt our processes and information systems to the new legal requirements, which will come into force in May 2018 under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. Each contract concluded with a customer for the sale of energy or another product or service includes a provision informing the customer that their personal data has been collected and processed by Enea. Employment We take responsibility for the welfare and development of our employees, who represent the great value of our Group. All companies in the Enea Group employ more than 16 000 people on the basis of their contracts of employment. We want the people working for us to develop their potential to the beneﬁt of themselves and the entire Group. We appreciate the role that employees play in the creation of our company, therefore, in addition to fulﬁlling the legal obligations of the employer, we oﬀer a number of privileges and beneﬁts. We take care of their health by creating safe working conditions. Employees employed on a contract of employment in the Enea Group in 2017 16 193 Number of Employees across the Enea Group on a Contract of Employment basis 2 777 Number of women 13 416 Number of men includ: 10 684 Of which: employees of companies included in this report 2 507 Number of women 8 177 Number of men Note: LW Bogdanka, belonging to Enea, with more than 5 000 employees, reports separately on responsible business and sustainable development. In the companies of the Enea Group covered by this report, 10 684 persons are employed on a contract of employment. In 2017, these companies also employed 526 people under civil law contracts, including managerial contracts. Check who is employed by our companies and on what terms © Enea SA 40 / 113 Number of Employees employed in reporting companies under contracts of employment – by gender (as at 31 December 2017) Total number of Number of Number of Name of company Employees women men Enea SA 355 188 167 Enea Centrum sp. z o.o. 1 521 1 119 402 Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. 2 270 295 1 975 Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej 32 3 29 sp. z o.o. w Obornikach Enea Ciepło Serwis sp. z o.o. 135 5 130 Enea Ciepło sp. z o.o. 251 45 206 Miejska Energetyka Cieplna Piła sp. z o.o. 129 18 111 Enea Operator sp. z o.o. 4 216 524 3 692 Enea Oświetlenie sp. z o.o. 128 30 98 Enea Elektrownia Połaniec SA 484 84 400 Enea Bioenergia sp. z o.o. 155 6 149 © Enea SA 41 / 113 Total number of Number of Number of Name of company Employees women men Enea Pomiary sp. z o.o. 153 36 117 Enea Serwis sp. z o.o. 576 76 500 Enea Logistyka sp. z o.o. 172 34 138 Enea Trading sp. z o.o. 107 44 63 TOTAL 10 684 2 507 8 177 © Enea SA 42 / 113 Members of the highest managerial staﬀ (members of management boards of companies) are employed mainly on the basis of managerial contracts, and not on the basis of contracts of employment. Number of Employees employed by contract of employment – by employee categories and by gender (as at 31 December 2017) Name of Highest managerial Lower-level Operational Directors Oﬃce employees company staﬀ management employees Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of women men women men women men women men women men Enea SA 0 0 4 12 21 35 0 0 163 120 Enea Centrum 0 0 11 8 59 49 0 0 1 049 345 sp. z o.o. Enea Wytwarzanie 0 0 0 13 9 60 106 1 494 180 408 sp. z o.o. Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej 0 0 1 0 1 3 0 25 1 1 sp. z o.o. w Obornikach Enea Ciepło 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 106 5 21 Serwis sp. z o.o. Enea Ciepło 0 0 0 1 6 12 0 151 38 43 sp. z o.o. Miejska Energetyka 0 0 0 2 2 4 8 82 8 23 Cieplna Piła sp. z o.o. Enea Operator 0 0 4 46 45 295 13 1 994 462 1 357 sp. z o.o. © Enea SA 43 / 113 Name of Highest managerial Lower-level Operational Directors Oﬃce employees company staﬀ management employees Enea Oświetlenie 0 0 0 2 3 17 0 42 27 37 sp. z o.o. Enea Elektrownia 0 1 1 6 7 58 4 318 72 17 Połaniec SA Enea Bioenergia 0 0 1 1 1 7 0 125 4 16 sp. z o.o. Enea Pomiary 0 0 0 2 6 10 20 98 10 7 sp. z o.o. Enea Serwis 0 0 1 14 7 72 8 329 60 85 sp. z o.o. Enea Logistyka 0 0 2 7 8 28 19 98 5 5 sp. z o.o. Enea Trading 0 0 0 6 7 11 37 46 0 0 sp. z o.o. Total 0 1 25 120 182 664 215 4 908 2 084 2 485 Number of Employees employed on the basis of contracts of employment – by type of contract of employment (as of 31 December 2017) Total number of Name of Employees Number of Employees by type of contract of Number of Employees by working time company with a employment contract of employment Indeﬁte Deﬁnite Full-time Part-time © Enea SA 44 / 113 Total number of Name of Employees Number of Employees by type of contract of Number of Employees by working time company with a employment contract of employment Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of women men women men women men women men Enea SA 355 173 150 15 17 181 163 7 4 Enea Centrum 1 521 833 324 286 78 1 109 400 10 2 sp. z o.o. Enea Wytwarzanie 2 270 260 1 752 35 223 292 1 975 3 0 sp. z o.o. Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej 32 2 26 1 3 3 29 0 0 sp. z o.o. w Obornikach Enea Ciepło 135 5 130 0 0 5 130 0 0 Serwis sp. z o.o. Enea Ciepło 251 41 200 4 6 45 206 0 0 sp. z o.o. Miejska Energetyka 129 17 103 1 8 18 111 0 0 Cieplna Piła sp. z o.o. Enea Operator 4 216 492 3 561 32 131 520 3 690 4 2 sp. z o.o. Enea Oświetlenie 128 29 90 1 8 30 98 0 0 sp. z o.o. Enea Elektrownia 484 80 346 4 54 83 400 1 0 Połaniec SA Enea Bioenergia 155 5 68 1 81 6 149 0 0 sp. z o.o. Enea Pomiary 153 34 113 2 4 35 117 1 0 sp. z o.o. Enea Serwis 576 64 445 12 55 76 498 0 2 sp. z o.o. Enea Logistyka 172 31 124 3 14 34 137 0 1 sp. z o.o. Enea Trading 107 41 54 3 9 44 60 0 3 sp. z o.o. Total 10 684 2 107 7 486 400 691 2 481 8 163 26 14 © Enea SA 45 / 113 Number of Employees employed under contracts of employment and persons employed under civil law contracts (as at 31 December 2017) Number of Employees Number of persons Name of company with a contract of employed under employment civil law contracts3) Enea SA 355 6 Enea Centrum sp. z o.o. 1 521 398 Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. 2 270 18 Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej sp. z o.o. w 32 0 Obornikach Enea Ciepło Serwis sp. z o.o. 135 1 Enea Ciepło sp. z o.o. 251 4 Miejska Energetyka Cieplna Piła sp. z o.o. 129 6 Enea Operator sp. z o.o. 4 216 38 Enea Oświetlenie sp. z o.o. 128 5 Enea Elektrownia Połaniec SA 484 6 Enea Bioenergia sp. z o.o. 155 2 © Enea SA 46 / 113 Number of Employees Number of persons Name of company with a contract of employed under employment civil law contracts3) Enea Pomiary sp. z o.o. 153 2 Enea Serwis sp. z o.o. 576 34 Enea Logistyka sp. z o.o. 172 2 Enea Trading sp. z o.o. 107 4 Total 10 684 526 3) Civil law contracts, including, inter alia, management contracts of members of the Management Board. Workplace management The wide diversity of our companies requires a number of diﬀerent workplace management policies and procedures. However, we share the Group’s business objectives and focus on creating a safe and secure workplace, chosen by experts and professionals in our ﬁeld. We take special care of the following: Health and safety at the workplace Development of skills and competences Support and beneﬁts Tackling the generation gap In 2017, we implemented solutions optimising the HR workﬂow model in order to support our company’s business goals as eﬀectively as possible. This model includes, but is not limited to: Creating the HR policy at the level of Enea SA and cascading its assumptions to be implemented by other Group companies. This is to ensure consistency of HR activities and support the implementation of the Group’s strategy. Development and implementation of coherent HR processes and standards across the Enea Group in such areas as: recruitment, employment and change of employment conditions, development policy, training, management by objectives, incentive systems, etc. Leaving at Enea Centrum, the Shared Services Centre, only operational activities in the area of HR and payroll services, the Company Social Beneﬁts Fund (ZFŚS) and training services, and settling accounts with trade unions. Provision of business support in the Group companies by the so-called HR Business Partners. They are © Enea SA 47 / 113 responsible for proper implementation of HR solutions, supporting management boards and managers in human resources management, cooperation with company trade unions. Enea Elektrownia Połaniec received the title of TOP Employer of Eastern Poland in 2017. Main policies and regulations Our employees are required to comply with the ‘Enea Capital Group Code of Ethics’, which is a set of values and policies that inﬂuence workplace management and organisational culture. In addition to joint regulations and initiatives, companies implement speciﬁc policies and procedures for workplace management and employee relations. Some companies of the Enea Group implement the guidelines set out in the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CCBA). See examples of policies implemented by the largest Employers in our Group Examples of signiﬁcant HR due diligence policies and procedures implemented by the Enea Group companies employing the largest number of people include Names of employee policies/procedures implemented by the Name of company company Anti-mobbing procedure Working conditions Compensation Regulations Bonus Regulations Intercompany Collective Bargaining Agreement Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. Company Collective Labour Agreement of Employees of Elektrownia Kozienice S.A.; Social Agreement Collective Bargaining Agreement for Employees of Elektrownie Wodne Sp. z o.o. in Samociążek 86-010 Koronowo Regulations of the Company Social Beneﬁts Fund Intercompany Collective Bargaining Agreement Company Collective Bargaining Agreement Working conditions Enea Operator sp. z o.o. Rules of Procedure of the Company Social Beneﬁts Fund Anti-mobbing policy Programme for Generational Change © Enea SA 48 / 113 Names of employee policies/procedures implemented by the Name of company company Anti-mobbing policy Company Collective Bargaining Agreement Intercompany Collective Bargaining Agreement Enea Centrum sp. z o.o. Collective Bargaining Agreement Rules of Procedure of the Company Social Beneﬁts Fund Compensation Regulations Work Regulations Cooperation with trade unions Each of our companies has its own trade union organisation. The Group has collective bargaining agreements. See examples of trade unions for Employees of Enea Group companies Percentage of Employees covered by collective agreements in 2017 Percentage of Employees covered Group company by collective agreements in 2017 Enea SA 100% Enea Centrum sp. z o.o. 100% Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. 99.56% Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej sp. z o.o. w Obornikach 100% Enea Ciepło Serwis sp. z o.o. 83% Enea Ciepło sp. z o.o. 99% Miejska Energetyka Cieplna Piła sp. z o.o. 0% Enea Operator sp. z o.o. 0% Enea Oświetlenie sp. z o.o. 100% Enea Elektrownia Połaniec SA 0% Enea Bioenergia sp. z o.o. 0% Enea Pomiary sp. z o.o. 100% Enea Serwis sp. z o.o. 100% Enea Logistyka sp. z o.o. 52.3% © Enea SA 49 / 113 Percentage of Employees covered Group company by collective agreements in 2017 Enea Trading sp. z o.o. 79.44% Examples of trade unions associating Employees of Enea Group companies include: Organizacja Międzyzakładowa NSZZ Solidarność Enea Międzyzakładowy Związek Zawodowy Pracowników Grupy Kapitałowej Enea Międzyzakładowa Organizacja Związkowa Związku Zawodowego Inżynierów i Techników przy Enea SA Międzyzakładowy Związek Zawodowy Synergia Pracowników Grupy Kapitałowej Enea Międzyzakładowy Związek Zawodowy Energetyków w ENEA Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. Zakładowa Organizacja Związkowa w Enea Centrum sp. z o.o. NSZZ Solidarność Enea Samodzielny Związek Zawodowy Pracowników Inżynieryjno Technicznych, Administracyjnych i Obsługi Elektrociepłowni Białystok NSZZ Solidarność w Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. Międzyzakładowy Związek Zawodowy Energetyków Związek Zawodowy Pracowników Zmianowych Związek Zawodowy Ciepłowników OM NSZZ Solidarność KZZ Ciepłowników MOZ ZOZ w MEC Piła sp. z o.o. Międzyzakładowy Związek Zawodowy Pracowników Ruchu Ciągłego Grupy Energetycznej Enea S.A. Międzyzakładowy Związek Zawodowy Energetyków Zakładowa Organizacja Związkowa w Enea Operator Międzyzakładowa Organizacja Związkowa ENERGETYK w Połańcu Międzyzakładowa Organizacja Związkowa NSZZ Solidarność Pracowników Elektrowni Połaniec i Spółek Międzyzakładowy Związek Zawodowy Pracowników Dozoru przy Elektrowni w Połańcu Międzyzakładowy Związek Zawodowy przy Elektrowni Połaniec S.A. w Zawadzie 26 Międzyzakładowy Związek Zawodowy Pracowników Ruchu Ciągłego w Połańcu Międzyzakładowy Związek Zawodowy Energetyków ZOZ w Enea Trading sp. z o.o. Health and safety Shaping safe working conditions for our employees is deﬁnitely one of our priorities. We conduct business that requires us to be particularly attentive to safety. We operate in accordance with generally applicable regulations, such as health and safety laws and regulations. The Group companies also implement a number of additional internally deﬁned guidelines. © Enea SA 50 / 113 Our priorities creating a friendly and safe workplace for employees increasing the awareness, responsibility and involvement of employees in improving safety at the workplace systematic identiﬁcation and elimination of potential hazards – striving to eliminate accidents at work building awareness among employees of occupational hazards raising Employees’ awareness of the importance of the application of safe working practices In 2017, the companies covered by the reporting noted the following: 0 fatal accidents 60 accidents resulting in loss of working time Policies and procedures Each company carefully performs its own policy, standard and procedure tasks to ensure safety in the workplace. They are adapted to the speciﬁcity of the company’s operations and the associated occupational health and safety risks. See examples of policies and procedures implemented by companies in diﬀerent areas of our business © Enea SA 51 / 113 Segment Procedures Integrated Quality, Environmental and OHS Management System Policy Occupational safety and health monitoring procedure Hazard identiﬁcation and risk assessment procedure Instructions for risk assessment at the workplace Instructions for the investigation of accidents at work, occupational Generation segment – Enea diseases and potentially hazardous accidents Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. Instructions for safe working Health and safety instructions for the operation of the equipment Workstation health and safety instructions Procedure for preparing for and responding to accidents at the Koronowo site Initial training, job and periodical training programmes for employees Integrated Quality, Environmental and OHS Management System Policy Instructions for safe work organisation at Enea Połaniec S.A. Accident and emergency procedures and rules for dealing with accidents Instructions for conducting and documenting training in health and Generation segment – Enea safety at work Elektrownia Połaniec SA Instructions for assigning work clothing and footwear, personal protective equipment and cleaning equipment Fire protection instruction at Enea Połaniec SA Instructions for the prohibition of smoking Procedure for monitoring health and safety at work Procedure for hazard identiﬁcation and risk assessment Instructions for the organisation of safe operation of power equipment at Enea Operator sp. z o.o. Operating Instructions for Power Plants and Equipment at Enea Operator Procedure of assessment and documentation of professional risk in Enea Operator sp. z o.o. Fire protection procedure at Enea Operator sp. z o.o. Distribution segment – Enea Procedure specifying the rules of cooperation between Enea Operator sp. z o.o. Operator sp. z o.o. and the Contractor in the ﬁeld of OHS Procedure for periodic training in occupational safety and health (OSH) Procedure for Live (voltage on) Works on electromagnetic equipment Standard of equipment for Power Stations and brigade cars of Power Stations Rules of professional training for new recruits at Energy Posts © Enea SA 52 / 113 Segment Procedures Work Regulations for Employees of Eneos sp. z o.o. Instructions for the organisation of safe operation of power devices in Eneos sp. z o.o. Electrical ﬁtter’s workstation manual A non-electrician’s workstation manual Operating instructions for road lighting lines and devices at Enea Oświetlenie sp. z o.o. Instruction for Live Work on power devices at Enea Operator sp. z o.o. Rules for the operation of power equipment at Enea Operator sp. z o.o. ENEA Oświetlenie sp. z o.o. Station manual for the electro-monitoring of energy equipment of a transportable measuring laboratory Instructions for marking works carried out in the roadway by Eneos sp. z o.o. Health and safety instructions during transport, unloading/loading, storage and installation of lighting poles OSH instructions for storing and storing materials OSH instructions for transport operations OSH instructions for working with the ladder Workstation OSH manual for computer and printer workstation OSH instructions for the use of oﬃce and other equipment Health and safety instructions: occupational risk assessment documentation Enea Centrum sp. z o.o. speciﬁc training programmes on health and safety at work procedures for the functioning of processes in the area of health and safety at work The OHS area is supervised by specialists appointed in each company. Enea SA – Senior OSH Oﬃcer Enea Centrum – OSH Team (two OSH Specialists and a OSH Team Manager) Enea Wytwarzanie – Head of the administrative cell concerned PEC Oborniki – Head of units and OSH Service Enea Ciepło Serwis – OSH Specialist Enea Ciepło – OSH Inspector and Social Labour Inspectorsy MEC Piła – Senior inspector for occupational safety and ﬁre safety Enea Operator – Vice-President of the Management Board for Occupational Safety and Head of the Work Protection Oﬃce Enea Oświetlenie – Work Protection Oﬃce (Senior OSH Inspector, OSH Specialist) Enea Elektrownia Połaniec – OHS Oﬃce Enea Bioenergia – Plenipotentiary of the Management Board for the OHS Management System, Head of the OHS Oﬃce Enea Measurements – OSH cell, Senior OSH Inspector Enea Serwis – Vice-President of the Management Board for Employees, Head of the OHS Oﬃce Enea Logistyka – OSH Specialist Enea Trading – OSH Specialist © Enea SA 53 / 113 Examples of our actions A safe and healthy workstation Purchase and modernisation of security equipment and measures Conferences, campaigns and competitions Health and safety measures as required by law: Identiﬁcation and implementation of legal requirements related to the scope of OHS (e.g. Labour Code, Labour Regulations) Hazard identiﬁcation and risk assessment Monitoring of working conditions (e.g. inspections, surveys, workstations to check compliance with health and safety requirements) Corrective and preventive actions in the ﬁeld of health and safety (e.g. enforcing the use of personal protective equipment from employees). Health and safety training (initial, periodic, on-site) Internal communication on health and safety issues Training: Initiation of ﬁrst aid training for Employees (in 2017 about 150 people were trained) – Enea Centrum Organisation of the 7th Rescue Manoeuvres, whose main topic was to rescue the victims of the collapse of buildings, carried out for the employees of the Enea Group – Enea Centrum. Initiation of the safe driving training Skoda Auto Lab – Enea Centrum Training for blue-collar workers and managers who are or may be exposed to asbestos dust as a result of their work – Enea Ciepło Serwis Extension of the initial training programme – general brieﬁngs to include practical demonstrations using phantoms, training deﬁbrillators – training for Enea Centre employees and for persons working on behalf of the Temporary Work Agency. First aid training (56 trained in 2017) – Enea Wytwarzanie 9 persons trained as members of the company’s emergency rescue team – Enea Wytwarzanie Continuous improvement of health and safety knowledge through participation of Employees in periodic training courses – Enea Oświetlenie During periodic training, employees participate in practical ﬁre-ﬁghting with the help of a simulator – Enea Elektrownia Połaniec Organisation of ﬁrst aid training for employees – Enea Elektrownia Połaniec Organisation of annual ﬁrst aid and pre-medical assistance training for staﬀ – Enea Bioenergia First aid training (25 people trained in 2017) – Enea Logistyka Carrying out evacuation exercises on buildings for Employees according to speciﬁc risk scenarios – Enea Trading Educational campaigns: Organisation of regular initiatives to promote healthy lifestyles (running, winter sports, swimming, volleyball, football) – Enea SA © Enea SA 54 / 113 Organisation of the Health and Safety Campaign ‘Our Choice – Safe Work’ for employees from the distribution area – Enea Operator Preparation of educational materials for Employees on health and safety issues (information posters, desk pads, cups) – Enea Operator Publication of an electronic newsletter promoting health and safety at work (monthly) – Enea Operator Distribution of brochures on safety at work – Enea Oświetlenie Updating information on the intranet on occupational safety (information on accidents at work, instructional videos, accident statistics, training materials and useful documents in the ﬁeld of occupational safety) – Enea Elektrownia Połaniec Employees of the OHS Bureau and representatives of the Social Labour Inspectorate take part in Occupational Protection Fairs, where they get acquainted with the latest solutions and technologies concerning OHS – Enea Elektrownia Połaniec Participates in editing and publishing the bulletin/newsletter’ and ‘Working safely’ – Enea Pomiary Sending an internal newsletter ‘OHS Oﬃce broadcasts’ containing information on OHS area (twice a month) – Enea Serwis Safe and healthy workstation: Promotion of a programme to improve ergonomics in workplaces – Enea SA Improvement of the ergonomic system of workstations by retroﬁtting them with footrests, pads to help prevent carpal tunnel syndrome – Enea Centrum Systematic exchange of oﬃce chairs for those with adjustable armrests – Enea Centrum Mechanical air ventilation at the level of ﬂue gas heat exchangers in cogeneration by lowering the temperature, which contributed to the improvement of operating conditions – MEC Piła Installation of new and retroﬁtting of existing air conditioners in oﬃces – Enea Oświetlenie Taking care of the appearance of workrooms – renovations, refreshments – Enea Oświetlenie Purchase and modernisation of security equipment and measures: Purchase of stand-alone deﬁbrillators for eight company locations – Enea Centrum Purchase of ﬁve autonomous AED deﬁbrillators – location: Świerże Górne – Enea Wytwarzanie Purchase of four deﬁbrillators (one per item) – MEC Piła Extension of the contents of the ﬁrst-aid kits to include gel patches for burns – Enea Wytwarzanie Purchase of personal protective equipment and clothing (protective clothing and footwear, protective gloves, warning vests, dust masks, safety goggles, helmets, raincoats) – PEC Oborniki Purchase of two complete metal scaﬀoldings of the ‘Warszawa’ type – improves work safety – MEC Piła Issuing professional repellents to ﬁeld workers working during periods of increased activity, e.g. ticks – Enea Oświetlenie Retroﬁtting of electrical ﬁtters’ brigades with protective equipment to improve safety at work and replacement of safety equipment for work at a height and equipment to protect against electric shock – Enea Oświetlenie Conferences, campaigns, actions and competitions: Organisation of the ‘Live Works Conference’ organised by Enea Operator Organisation of the Health and Safety Campaign ‘Our Choice – Safe Work’ for Distribution Area Employees by Enea Operator Organisation of the occupational safety knowledge competition by Enea Elektrownia Połaniec The ‘We Work Safely or Not at All’ campaign to improve contractor safety. In 2017, 3 580 people were trained by Enea Elektrownia Połaniec. Organisation of the ‘Your Choice of Safe Work’ Campaign (series of posters addressed to employees, gadgets with campaign slogans) – Enea Pomiary Employees of Enea Trading, Enea Elektrownia Połaniec and Enea Bioenergia participated in a safety © Enea SA 55 / 113 awareness competition organised by Enea Elektrownia Połaniec Enea medical rescue The pre-medical rescue programme is a long-term, bottom-up initiative of Enea’s employees. Well-trained employees are in a position to help the victim as quickly and as eﬀectively as possible, which is particularly important in our industry. In 2017 Enea Centrum conducted the 7th Rescue Manoeuvres. They are a three-day cycle of training for both pre-medical rescuers and people just starting to gain their experience in rescue. The main theme of this year’s Rescue Manoeuvres was to rescue the victims of the collapse of buildings. Our employees agree that the subject of rescue is important and that it is worth sharing their knowledge with others, which is why they decided to include pre-medical rescue in the Enea Employee Volunteer Work Programme. Since 2010, we have trained more than 83 700 persons with ﬁrst aid and have devoted about 6 310 hours to our activities. Number of accidents and the accident rate in the Enea Group in 2017 Employees Contractors Index of Severity Number Number frequency index of of of of Name of accidents Number accidents Number accidents accidents company of the of fatal resulting of fatal resulting of the company’s accidents in loss of accidents in loss of company’s employees working working employees time time Enea SA 0 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Enea Centrum 4) 5) 0 3 0 0 1.99 80.66 sp. z o.o. Enea Wytwarzanie 0 11 0 6 4.886) 54.507) sp. z o.o. © Enea SA 56 / 113 Employees Contractors Index of Severity Number Number frequency index of of of of Name of accidents Number accidents Number accidents accidents company of the of fatal resulting of fatal resulting of the company’s accidents in loss of accidents in loss of company’s employees working working employees time time Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej 0 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 sp. z o.o. w Obornikach Enea Ciepło 0 3 0 0 13.40 1.75 Serwis sp. z o.o. Enea Ciepło 0 1 0 0 2.40 1.55 sp. z o.o. Miejska Energetyka 0 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Cieplna Piła sp. z o.o. Enea Operator 0 28 b.d. b.d. 7.39 39.64 sp. z o.o. Enea Oświetlenie 0 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 sp. z o.o. Enea Elektrownia 0 0 0 6 0.00 0.00 Połaniec SA Enea Bioenergia 0 2 0 1 7.43 0.35 sp. z o.o. Enea Pomiary 0 0 0 0 24.24 0.00 sp. z o.o. Enea Serwis 0 11 b.d. b.d. 9. 52 0.33 sp. z o.o. Enea Logistyka 0 3 0 0 17.64 14.60 sp. z o.o. Enea Trading 0 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 sp. z o.o. 4) Enea Centrum calculated the frequency index according to the formula Ifreq. = Number of victims of accidents at work recorded over the period / number of employees x 1000 5) Enea Centrum calculated the severity index according to the formula Ws = Number of days of sick leave due to accidents at work / number of accidents © Enea SA 57 / 113 6) Enea Wytwarzanie calculated the accident frequency index according to the formula: Number of accidents at work x 1000 / average employment in the company 7) Enea Wytwarzanie calculated the severity index according to the formula: Number of days oﬀ due to an accident at work / total number of accidents (less fatal accidents) Frequency index = number of accidents at work x 1 000 000/total risk hours worked (number of risk hours: number of hours including overtime/Employees with ﬁxed and indeﬁnite contracts) Severity index = number of days of sick leave due to accidents x 1 000/total risk hours worked Support and Beneﬁts Our employees have the opportunity to beneﬁt from additional privileges and beneﬁts. The additional beneﬁts vary from company to company and are tailored to the needs and expectations of employees and the capabilities of the company. We promote health prevention and encourage our employees to take care of themselves. We support our employees inter alia by: Beneﬁts from the social fund Funding for recreation of children and youth and for family holidays Subsidy for preventive and curative holidays and stays in a sanatorium Financial support for childcare in nurseries and kindergartens Loans for housing purposes Repayable or non-repayable assistance Jubilee awards More favourable retirement severance payments than those provided for under the Code Employee Pension Plan, available after one year of service Employee Investment Programme for Managers MultiSport Beneﬁt System card for the use of sports facilities and activities Support for cultural, educational and sporting activities (purchase of tickets, cinema and theatre passes and for sporting events) Purchase of Christmas and New Year’s packages for children under 15 years of age Financial support for collective catering Support for studies Additional cash beneﬁts, e.g. a prize on the occasion of the Energy Day We promote health prophylaxis inter alia by: Provision of occupational health care to Employees and, depending on the service provider, additional medical services at the Employer’s expense Group Life Insurance for Employees in PZU Subsidy for corrective glasses for Employees using screen monitors during their work for at least a half of the daily working time, i.e. 4 hours a day Analysis of the health status of workers exposed to noise pollution Organisation of regular initiatives to promote healthy lifestyles (running, swimming, volleyball, football) Organisation of preventive actions for employees and their family members, e.g. vaccination against inﬂuenza and against tick-borne encephalitis We provide our employees with access to cheaper electricity Right to reduced payment of electricity after the ﬁrst year of service in the Enea Group Financing by Enea of a charge for up to 3000 kWh of electricity for household use © Enea SA 58 / 113 Training and education We support the development of our employees through the system of organised trainings, as well as through subsidies for the forms of education undertaken by them outside of Enea. We are aware that a team of competent employees is the basis for the eﬀective operation of our Group. Enea Centrum supports and organises training processes of other companies in the Group. The training proﬁles are carefully selected to meet the needs of the employees and, at the same time, in line with the development directions of Enea. In 2017, Enea Centrum implemented a new version of the e-learning platform, which facilitates the training process for its users. Thanks to it, the Group’s employees have access to a detailed summary of future, ongoing and completed training. See the subject of obligatory training provided by the e-learning platform: Enea Group Compliance Policy Enea Group Gift Acceptance and Giving Policy Rules of processing information on the Enea Group Protection of personal data REMIT (training dedicated to Enea Trading employees) Enea Operator Compliance Programme (training dedicated to Enea Operator’s employees) Manager’s Academy In 2017, 195 employees took part in the Manager’s Academy. They took part in a series of training courses aimed at, inter alia: Better understanding of one’s role in shaping the team Learning more motivating ways, without the use of manipulation techniques, to involve employees in the management process in order to strengthen the key role of the employee in the development of each enterprise Learning practical ways to work together in a team and communicate more eﬀectively © Enea SA 59 / 113 Learning to delegate tasks in a way that is appropriate to the employee’s level of development Learning to monitor the tasks performed on an ongoing basis in order to encourage the Employee to carry them out Learning to plan well in the short and long term – one’s own and as part of the team’s work Learning constructive ways to discuss problems: developing ideas and constructive criticism Talent Development Programme The objective of this programme is to develop soft skills in managerial employees and potential candidates for such positions. In 2017, 47 employees were trained under this programme. In addition, our companies individually provide employee training in managerial skills. In 2017, the subjects of such training included: Communication in team leadership and conﬂict resolution Training in employee appraisal Development of competencies related to project management As part of all managerial skills development programmes carried out in our Group, we trained a total of 300 employees in 2017. Examples of other subjects of non-compulsory training The companies provide e-learning and classroom training, as well as wider educational programmes in line with the identiﬁed needs for competence development. In 2017, in Enea SA alone, 94 training projects were implemented, including external trainings and closed projects, in which 456 participants participated, including 422 in specialist trainings and 38 in conferences. See examples of training provided by the companies © Enea SA 60 / 113 Name of company Topics of non-compulsory training Training in team leadership communication and conﬂict resolution Training in project management ‘Project Manager Essential,’ ‘Project Risk Management Enea SA Training in eﬀective project management AIDDA Active sales training workshop (basic module, advanced model) Training for staﬀ in managerial skills (Manager’s Academy) Customer service training: Negotiations, interpersonal skills, sales Enea Centrum sp. z o.o. training for Customer Service Representatives Stress management training (under the New Energy programme) Technical, ﬁnancial, legal training Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. Training in negotiation, communication, project management, law, public procurement Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki In 2017, no employees were assigned to non-compulsory training Cieplnej sp. z o.o. w Obornikach Training on the company’s environmental reporting obligations and on the most common errors arising during an EIA inspection Enea Ciepło Serwis sp. z o.o. Training entitled: Opportunity to improve the professional power and heating sector to meet the requirements of the BAT conclusions Training in the regulation of rights to real property occupied for the purposes of industrial equipment in the heating industry Training in the analysis of changes in the VAT Act in 2017 Training in the regulation of the new Energy Eﬃciency Act and their impact on the development of heat tariﬀs Training in information on Company Social Beneﬁts Fund 2017 Training in innovative geospatial solutions 2017 Training in TIG welding Enea Ciepło sp. z o.o. Training in acetylene oxide welding Preparatory training for the CISSP examination Training on mandatory documentation of data processing in the IPO Industrial cyber security training Academy of Management and Supervisory Board Oﬃce Training in the scope of salary documentation adjustments and consequences for settlements with Social Insurance Institution (ZUS) and Tax Oﬃce (US). Training in managing working time in 2017 Management training on employee appraisal Miejska Energetyka Cieplna Piła sp. z o.o. Welding courses for Employees © Enea SA 61 / 113 Name of company Topics of non-compulsory training Training related to acquisition and development of specialist, technical and IT competencies Sense-Making training, Team Building training, interpersonal skills Training for Social Labour Inspectors Enea Operator sp. z o.o. Training in project resource management, logistics, communication, energy law, construction law Training in the Code of Commercial Partnerships Companies and in the Civil Code Training relating to the acquisition and development of technical Enea Oświetlenie sp. z o.o. competence, particularly the profession of electrical ﬁtter Talent Development Programme – addressed to managers and Enea Elektrownia Połaniec SA employees preparing for promotion. In 2017, 43 people took part in the programme. Training in technical competence, e.g. eﬃcient, safe and environmentally conscious work with construction machines Excel Training for Intermediate skiers Training in managerial skills, among others: management in a changing environment, prevention of professional burnout, Enea Bioenergia sp. z o.o. employee appraisals, management of a production team Training in professional management of the company’s management oﬃce Training in interpersonal skills: discrimination and harassment in the workplace English language classes Training in metrology – monitoring measurement equipment in laboratories. Enea Pomiary sp. z o.o. Training in communication in the company Training in the ﬁeld of information systems in the energy sector Technical and speciﬁc training – especially for electrical ﬁtters Enea Serwis sp. z o.o. Training for managerial staﬀ Accounting training – year-end tax and accounting training, tax review Course of the Data Protection Oﬃcer Training in logistics to obtain a certiﬁcate of professional competence Enea Logistyka sp. z o.o. Energy training gr. II and III, TDT SQL and analyst training databases Training in environmental law Training in pre-medical assistance Periodic SIP training Training in public procurement law Training related to the ability to use Excel Enea Trading sp. z o.o. Training in managerial skills © Enea SA 62 / 113 Average number of training hours per employee in 2017 – by gender and employment structure Average number of training hours per Name of company Highest Employees Lower-level Operational Oﬃce Women Men managerial Directors in total management employees employees staﬀ Enea SA 16.01 12.08 20.34 17.00 28.00 14.23 0.00 14.39 Enea Centrum 2.69 2.70 8.44 2.67 21.05 11.33 0.00 2.71 sp. z o.o. Enea Wytwarzanie 15.76 14.95 15.88 145.33 48.42 39.07 12.46 16.65 sp. z o.o. Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej 4.68 24.00 2.69 0.00 24.00 7.40 2.50 17.00 sp. z o.o. w Obornikach Enea Ciepło 15.48 4.80 15.89 0.00 0.00 5.33 17.58 10.00 Serwis sp. z o.o. Enea Ciepło 13.69 11.24 14.23 0.00 10.00 19.28 15.17 9.75 sp. z o.o. Miejska Energetyka 7.80 7.56 7.84 73.25 69.50 19.33 2.11 8.11 Cieplna Piła sp. z o.o. Enea Operator 2.15 2.52 2.32 17.00 10.28 3.12 3.09 1.35 sp. z o.o. Enea Oświetlenie 0.63 0.00 0.82 0.00 0.00 2.00 0.13 1.71 sp. z o.o. Enea Elektrownia 45.54 61.51 42.21 0.00 103.21 88.11 58.90 32.56 Połaniec SA Enea Bioenergia 41.95 57.33 41.29 32.00 37.75 83.18 37.34 54.26 sp. z o.o. Enea Pomiary 2.53 4.34 1.99 0.00 12.00 15.00 1.34 10.83 sp. z o.o. Enea Serwis 3.83 2.84 4.14 0.00 10.67 4.96 4.53 3.97 sp. z o.o. Enea Logistyka 10.24 11.11 11.11 0.00 5.80 11.02 9.07 8.60 sp. z o.o. Enea Trading 14.58 11.87 15.96 168.00 14.67 24.00 0.00 7.75 sp. z o.o. © Enea SA 63 / 113 Average number of training hours provided through the e-learning platform per Group Employee in 2017 Average number of e-learning training hours per Employee Highest Employees Lower-level Operational Oﬃce Women Men managerial Directors in total management employees employees staﬀ Enea Group – total of all companies 2.69 3.18 2.13 1.19 1.91 2.74 0.14 3.00 covered by the reporting Generation gap management We are committed to mitigating the negative eﬀects of economic and demographic changes, which include the risk of a shortage of candidates for jobs with appropriate skills. We are successively preparing to face the eﬀects of the so-called generation gap and we are strengthening the Enea brand as an attractive employer. Out of more than 16 thousand Employees employed in the entire Enea Capital Group, 41% are over 45 years old. We implement a long-term Generation Change Programme, which aims to maintain the desired competences in the company and ensure the continuity of high standards. © Enea SA 64 / 113 The three elements of the Generation Change Programme are: Competence Supplementation Programme New Payroll Policy Voluntary Leave Programme Our main activities stemming from the Competence Supplementation Programme are as follows: Improving the competence of employees through training tailored to their needs Mentoring programmes for new employees run by experienced specialists of our Group Implementation of internship programmes aimed at attracting ambitious candidates Development of cooperation with educational centres, sectoral schools, in the organisation of apprenticeships and in the promotion of professions closely linked to the energy sector The Voluntary Leave Programme is an oﬀer for Employees of companies from groups speciﬁed in the Voluntary Leave Programme Regulations. It aims to manage the departure of employees in a controlled way and to restore key competences in a timely manner. Internships and training periods at Enea 188 pupils and students took part in the internship organised by Enea. Students and graduates can also take advantage of the 3-month summer internship provided by the Enea Group. In addition, we have launched an annual internship programme ‘Install yourself at Enea’. We dedicate ‘Install yourself at Enea’ to young and ambitious people who care about gaining unique experience under the wings of a market leader. Under the Programme, students and graduates have the opportunity to develop their skills in business areas (including technical and operational, administrative and legal, ﬁnancial and accounting, HR, IT and trading). The programme started in 2017, when we organised meetings of ten trainees with experienced specialists in various Enea Group companies. Apart from gaining industry experience, its participants had a chance to develop their soft skills by, inter alia, taking part in workshops on self-presentation. 70% of the trainees after the end of the programme were oﬀered a job in our Group. The second edition of ‘Install in Enea’ was attended by sixteen trainees and apprentices. We are seeing a steady increase in interest in our programme. More information about the programme can be found here. We cooperate with the scientiﬁc community Examples of the Enea Group’s cooperation with universities and research institutions include: Cooperation with the Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań. We took part in the Academy of Development and Entrepreneurship and conducted development © Enea SA 65 / 113 workshops for students. We supported the competition and the Energy Law conference organised by ELSA at the university. Cooperation with Poznań University of Technology We took patronage of the conference Modern Technologies in Power Engineering at the Poznań University of Technology organised by SKN Elektroenergetyka. We co-organise educational trips for students, e.g. to the Central Power Dispatch. We took part in job fairs and internships organised by the University of Technology. Cooperation with the Poznań University of Economics We organised the second edition of the Energy Market Modelling competition, the ﬁnal of which was held at the University of Economics. We were an active member of the Partner Club of the University of Economics. We took part in job fairs and internships organised by the Career Oﬃce of the Poznań University of Economics. Cooperation with vocational schools We have been working on a standard for patronage agreements with respect to the cooperation of Enea with industry schools (vocational and technical) and model cooperation agreements between Enea SA and the companies in this respect. We organised an educational trip for students of the Złotów Technical School to the area of the training ground in Łagów. The Enea Foundation has equipped four studios from partner schools with electronic modules for practical vocational training. Moreover: We were a partner of the sixth edition of the Energy Academy project organised by the Lesław Paga Foundation. The aim of the project is to create a platform for the exchange of knowledge between practitioners from the energy sector and people at the beginning of their careers in this sector. Enea Trading organised the Energy Market Modelling competition, the aim of which was to popularise the functioning of the energy market and familiarise students with the speciﬁcs of the power industry. We are present at job fairs We focus on direct contact with young and ambitious students. We took an active part in job fairs organised for them, such as: Educational fairs Schools and Employers organised in Gorzów Wielkopolski XXI Job Fair organised by the Poznań University of Technology Job Spot Fair organised at the Poznań University of Economics Regional Labour Fairs organised by, inter alia, the Regional Labour Oﬃce in Kielce and the District Labour Oﬃce in Staszów. XX Job and Practice Fair for Electronics and IT Workers in Warsaw organised by the Warsaw University of Technology Career Days organised as part of the Poznań International Fair by the student organisation AIESEC. Absolvent Talent Days Fair organised by the portal absolvent.pl. XX Academy of Development Job fairs organised by the Career Oﬃce of the Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań. Oﬀerty Fair in Bydgoszcz. © Enea SA 66 / 113 Our Employee Turnover In 2017, our companies covered by this report employed 1 104 Employees and terminated 939 contracts of employment. Leave-overs from work were connected, inter alia, with retirements. Find out how many people have employed our companies and what their turnover rate is like: Number of new Employees enrolled by age category and gender Number of Employees’ departures and departure rate by gender Number of Employees’ departures and departure rate by age category Number of new Employees enrolled by age category and gender Number of new Employees enrolled by age category and gender in 2017 Number of new Employees enrolled in 2017 Age Name of company Age Age category Total category category Women Men from 30 to number up to 29 over 50 50 years years old years old old Enea SA 59 29 30 12 42 5 Enea Centrum sp. z o.o. 404 310 94 190 195 19 Enea Wytwarzanie 132 28 104 49 78 5 sp. z o.o. Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej 1 0 1 1 0 0 sp. z o.o. w Obornikach Enea Ciepło Serwis 18 0 18 5 7 6 sp. z o.o. Enea Ciepło sp. z o.o. 19 7 12 4 14 1 Miejska Energetyka 10 1 9 8 2 0 Cieplna Piła sp. z o.o. © Enea SA 67 / 113 Number of new Employees enrolled in 2017 Age Name of company Age Age category Total category category Women Men from 30 to number up to 29 over 50 50 years years old years old old Enea Operator 242 49 193 111 118 13 sp. z o.o. Enea Oświetlenie 8 1 7 3 4 1 sp. z o.o. Enea Elektrownia 49 5 44 20 26 3 Połaniec SA Enea Bioenergia 36 0 36 17 19 0 sp. z o.o. Enea Pomiary sp. z o.o. 8 4 4 4 3 1 Enea Serwis sp. z o.o. 67 18 49 32 35 0 Enea Logistyka 18 3 15 5 12 1 sp. z o.o. Enea Trading sp. z o.o. 33 13 20 9 17 7 Number of Employees’ departures and departure rate by gender in 2017 Total Departure Number Departure Number Departure Name of number of rate of all of women rate of of men rate of company departures Employees departing women departing men Enea SA 18 5.07 8 2.25 10 2.82 Enea Centrum 222 14.60 181 11.90 41 2.70 sp. z o.o. Enea Wytwarzanie 149 6.56 27 1.19 122 5.37 sp. z o.o. Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej 1 3.13 0 0.00 1 3.13 sp. z o.o. w Obornikach Enea Ciepło 10 7.41 0 0.00 10 7.41 Serwis sp. z o.o. © Enea SA 68 / 113 Total Departure Number Departure Number Departure Name of number of rate of all of women rate of of men rate of company departures Employees departing women departing men Enea Ciepło 20 7.97 4 1.59 16 6.37 sp. z o.o. Miejska Energetyka 12 9.30 4 3.10 8 6.20 Cieplna Piła sp. z o.o. Enea Operator 315 7.47 64 1.52 251 5.95 sp. z o.o. Enea Oświetlenie 5 3.91 1 0.78 4 3.13 sp. z o.o. Enea Elektrownia 37 7.64 8 1.65 29 5.99 Połaniec SA Enea Bioenergia 37 23.87 5 3.23 32 20.65 sp. z o.o. Enea Pomiary 25 16.34 13 8.50 12 7.84 sp. z o.o. Enea Serwis 64 11.11 22 3.82 42 7.29 sp. z o.o. Enea Logistyka 14 8.14 3 1.74 11 6.40 sp. z o.o. Enea Trading 10 9.35 3 2.80 7 6.54 sp. z o.o. Number of Employees’ departures and departure rate by age category in 2017 Departure Employees Employees Departure rate in Employees Departure aged Name of up to 29 rate of between aged over rate of between company years old Employees 30and 5050 over-50 30 and 50 departing under 30 year-old departing employees departing employees Enea SA 2 0.56 13 3.66 3 0.85 Enea Centrum 21 1.38 58 3.81 143 9.40 sp. z o.o. Enea Wytwarzanie 3 0.13 24 1.06 122 5.37 sp. z o.o. © Enea SA 69 / 113 Departure Employees Employees Departure rate in Employees Departure aged Name of up to 29 rate of between aged over rate of between company years old Employees 30and 5050 over-50 30 and 50 departing under 30 year-old departing employees departing employees Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej 0 0.00 1 3.13 0 0.00 sp. z o.o. w Obornikach Enea Ciepło 0 0.00 1 0.74 9 7.67 Serwis sp. z o.o. Enea Ciepło 0 0.00 9 3.59 11 4.38 sp. z o.o. Miejska Energetyka 1 0.78 2 1.55 9 7.98 Cieplna Piła sp. z o.o. Enea Operator 11 0.26 29 0.69 275 7.52 sp. z o.o. Enea Oświetlenie 1 0.78 0 0.00 4 3.13 sp. z o.o. Enea Elektrownia 1 0.21 8 1.65 28 5.79 Połaniec SA Enea Bioenergia 15 9.68 15 9.68 7 4.52 sp. z o.o. Enea Pomiary 1 0.65 6 3.92 18 11.76 sp. z o.o. Enea Serwis 11 1.91 19 3.30 34 5.90 sp. z o.o. Enea Logistyka 2 1.16 3 1.74 9 5.23 sp. z o.o. Enea Trading 4 3.74 5 4.67 1 0.93 sp. z o.o. Social investments We support a number of initiatives that meet important social objectives through the activities of the Enea Foundation and voluntary activity of our Employees. We feel responsible for the communities to which we have been linked for years. To this end, we actively implement our Group’s corporate social responsibility © Enea SA 70 / 113 policy. The Enea Foundation was awarded the ‘Signum Caritatis’ statuette in the Donor of the Year category in 2017. In total, we donated PLN 2 397 632.35 for all activities of social involvement in 2017. Priority directions of activities in the area of social engagement of our Group in 2017 Education Counteracting social exclusion Ecology Sport Culture Local communities Healthy lifestyle Key actions implemented in 2017: © Enea SA 71 / 113 Enea Akademia Talentów As part of the Enea Talent Academy, we have launched a scholarship programme for talented primary and junior high school students from the Group’s companies as well as a grant programme for public primary and senior high schools from the Group’s companies operating on their own projects to develop the talents and talents of their students. The jury, which included representatives of the world of science, art and sports as well as Internet users, selected the winners of the ﬁrst edition of the Enea Academy of Talents. The Enea Foundation provided scholarships and grants to 22 students and 9 schools. The scholarship holders come from urban and rural schools, including those of Bieżyń, Bydgoszcz, Goleniów, Lublin, Połaniec, Poznań, Santock, Stargard, Szczecin, Zielona Góra and Zwoleń. – The jury and Internet users indicated the best students. The winners included 22 young people, 11 from primary schools and the same number from junior high schools. In both age categories, the winners in science, art and sports were selected – Sławomir Krenczyk, President of the Enea Foundation. Biegamy – Zbieramy – Pomagamy Employees of our companies, taking part in selected cross-country competitions, scored points, which were converted into money (1 point = 100 PLN). The Enea Foundation made a donation to the Kamila Skolimowska Foundation, which implements projects aimed at promoting sports. In 2017, the Enea Athletics Camp was organised for the outdoors points, during which over a hundred children from orphanages and children of Employees of the Enea Group took part in athletic classes with the Olympic champion and professional coaches. The runners, thanks to whom the event took place, could participate in lectures with a sports psychologist and a dietitian. The action was attended by 122 runners from our Group. They took part in 134 cross-country competitions organised all over the country. © Enea SA 72 / 113 Potęga poMocy Grant programme aimed at promoting pro-social ideas of local scale among the employees of the Enea Capital Group. Employees may submit valuable local social initiatives requiring their support. The Board of the Enea Foundation selects 3 winning projects for each edition of this grant programme and grants them ﬁnancial support. In 2017, a total of 9 initiatives covering the areas were supported: activities for the beneﬁt of disabled persons, socially excluded persons and persons in retirement age activities supporting the development of communities and local communities charity activities supporting health care and promotion as well as support for counteracting addictions and social pathologies Dobra Energia ponad Granicami The Programme is intended to help Poles living in Lithuania by, inter alia, student exchange, educational trips to Poland for students from Polish schools in Lithuania. It also aims to build a sense of Polish national identity and to nurture and promote Polish tradition and language abroad by encouraging parents of children of Polish descent living in Lithuania to choose Polish schools and learn Polish, Polish history and traditions. During the ﬁrst edition of ‘Good Energy Beyond Borders’, 50 children came to Poland with their caretakers. We also organised a collection of books and popular-scientiﬁc press, which we donated to Polish schools in Lithuania. © Enea SA 73 / 113 ‘Enea Academy of Sport’ A project aimed at supporting physical activity and healthy lifestyles of children and youth. In 2017, more than 3 000 children took part in volleyball and general development activities as part of this initiative. About 1000 children and youth from 30 schools from Poznań and its surroundings took part in the Enea Mini Volleyball League tournament. ‘Studies for seniors’ The project, which we initiated in 2017, was addressed to people over the age of 60. As part of this project, older people were able to attend post-graduate studies at the Poznań School of Social Sciences and Humanities. We have taken this initiative with the aim of activating people at pre-retirement and retirement age. We have carried out 4 charity actions: © Enea SA 74 / 113 ‘The Great Power Parcel for Easter’ Every year we organise a charitable collection of small toys and sweets for the charges of the Social and Care Centres located on the premises of the Enea Group. ‘Bag Full of Smiles’ We have completed school expeditions for poor children from Wielkopolska region. © Enea SA 75 / 113 ‘Help animals survive the winter’ We collected food and accessories for pets in animal shelters. ‘Turn around – Bring over – Support’ We carry out a continuous collection of bottle caps, which are later handed over to the Association for the Assistance of Persons with Disabilities in Luboń. We also conducted the ‘Assistance to Municipalities’ action, which aﬀected the August storms, under which the Enea Group supported local communities which suﬀered the most from the August storms. The Foundation contributed nearly PLN one million to the eleven most devastated municipalities in the Enea Operator distribution area after the storm. The funds were used for the purposes indicated by the local governments, including the renovation and reconstruction of infrastructure and public buildings, as well as to support local Voluntary Fire Brigades. This allowed TSOs to equip themselves with the specialist © Enea SA 76 / 113 equipment necessary to deal with the consequences of the disasters. Moreover: Enea Elektrownia Połaniec conducted the ‘Safe road to school’ campaign in the regions of Połaniec, Staszów and Mielec in cooperation with the Podkarpackie and Świętokrzyskie police. We trained three hundred ﬁrst-grade elementary school students during specially arranged road safety meetings. We have equipped children with, inter alia, reﬂectors to improve their visibility. Enea Operator co-organised the Akademia Bezpiecznego Przedszkolaka academy. The aim of the Academy is to promote safe behaviour on the way to kindergarten, safe play in the facility itself among children, as well as to familiarise pre-schoolers with the rules of safe use of electrical equipment, road traﬃc and anticipation of various. In Nowy Tomyśl, Enea Operator trained ﬁfty State Fire Brigade oﬃcers and teams from the National Rescue and Fire Extinguishing System. During the training, threats that may occur during rescue and ﬁreﬁghting operations in the vicinity of the network infrastructure were discussed. Pro-ecological activities Protecting birdsWhile building and modernising the network infrastructure, Enea Operator tries to apply solutions that reduce the risk of bird paralysis, including storks. A successive action of this company for the beneﬁt of nature is the assembly of platforms on poles under the stork of the nest. This activity has a thirty year tradition. So far, 3.1 thousand stork nests with approximately 3.3 thousand nests located in the area of operations of Enea Operator have been located on special platforms. The company also cooperated with the Regional Directorate for Environmental Protection (RDEP) in order to protect the endangered ﬁsh species. As part of the cooperation, in 2017 Enea Operator continued the installation of breeding platforms for high stakes ospreys in accordance with the locations designated by the RDEP. © Enea SA 77 / 113 Cooperation of Enea Volunteers Manufacture with the Polish Fishing Association Volunteers from Enea Wytwarzanie together with the Polish Fishing Association organised an environmental campaign in three schools in the Kozienice municipality. It consisted in conducting educational meetings. The children learned about energy sources, ﬁsh species in the Vistula and how to take care of the fauna of the rivers. The initiative was continued by restocking the Vistula twice with young pike in cooperation with the Enea Foundation. Employee volunteering For many years, the Enea Foundation has been developing the Volunteer Work Program, under which the Enea employees actively participate in projects supporting the Foundation’s beneﬁciaries. Volunteer programme in numbers: 60 numbers number of Employees engaged in our Group’s employee volunteering activities at least once a year 301 hours – total number of hours spent by Employees on employee volunteering in 2017 5 018 persons29 – number of beneﬁciaries of employee volunteering activities including participants of action/training and other employee volunteering activities The most important cyclical actions carried out with the participation of Enea’s Volunteers: © Enea SA 78 / 113 ‘Not-so-scary Current’Educational programme conducted among preschool and early school children by our volunteers. Children between the ages of 3 and 9 learn how to generate electricity and how to use it safely and economically. ‘First Aid’The initiative consists in conducting demonstrations and ﬁrst aid trainings in schools, kindergartens, festivals and during events organised by Enea. They are carried out by teams of pre-medical rescuers composed of our Group’s employees. We also carry out volunteer initiatives under the ‘Free your energy and give yourself to others’ action, which involves actions for the beneﬁt of public utility entities. In 2017, our volunteers undertook a number of activities, including: painting the ‘Oratorium Światełko’ community centre in Poznań, revitalising the garden in the Palium Hospice and at the Occupational Therapy Workshops in Transport near Kozienice. 29) Not including the number of beneﬁciaries of events and picnics supported by the Foundation Sponsorship Sport As a socially responsible company, for many years we have been actively involved in projects supporting sports in the region where we operate. Enea supports Polish athletes through sponsorship of e.g.: © Enea SA 79 / 113 Volleyball players from the Enea PTPS Piła Club Title sponsorship of women’s volleyball in the top class. Stelmet Enea BC Zielona Góra Basketball players – Polish Champion 2017 Title sponsorship of the Polish Champion in men’s basketball. In the 2017/2018 season, the team once again won the gold medal in the Polish Basketball League. © Enea SA 80 / 113 Enea Astoria Bydgoszcz Title sponsorship of men’s basketball in the ﬁrst league. General sponsorship of the Polish Rowing Association 2017 was one of the most successful years in the history of the Polish Rowing Association. In the World Championships in Sarasota, representatives of Poland won three silver medals in Olympic competitions. © Enea SA 81 / 113 Enea Energetyk Poznań Club Enea has been supporting KS Energetyk for many years by engaging in projects related to the training of children and youth. Enea Energetyk Poznań consists of over 400 athletes and players training in four sports sections: artistic gymnastics, canoe gymnastics, light athletics and volleyball. Enea AZS Poznań Club Title sponsorship of a senior team operating in the highest game class and all children and youth sections. The club took second place in the classiﬁcation of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism in the basketball category of training for children and youth. The club took the second place in the classiﬁcation of the Sports Competition for Children and Young People for the best training club in Poland in the category of women’s basketball for 2017. © Enea SA 82 / 113 AZS AJP Gorzów Wielkopolski Main sponsorship of a senior team performing in the highest class of the game and title sponsorship of all children and youth sections. The club won the classiﬁcation of the Children and Youth Sports Competition for the best training club in Poland in the women’s basketball category for 2017. Triathlon (ENEA IRONMAN 70.3 Gdynia, ENEA 5150 Warsaw, ENEA Bydgoszcz Triathlon) We are the most active sponsor of triathlon in Poland – a dynamically developing discipline, which is becoming more popular year by year. In 2017, we were the title sponsor of the largest triathlon competitions in Poland. Both the events under the rank of international federation IRONMAN and the competition in Bydgoszcz gathered a total of nearly 10 000 competitors at the start. © Enea SA 83 / 113 Enea is involved in sports events such as: 67th Alfred Smoczyk Memorial speedway competition in Leszno a local, traditional speedway event organised at the Alfred Smoczyk Stadium in Leszno. Enea was once again the main sponsor of the competition. The Tall Ships Races The Final of the largest sailing ship race in the world. A cyclical event organised every year in a diﬀerent city in the world. In 2017 the port where the sailing ships were moored was Szczecin. The event was enriched by concerts of world-famous people and zones prepared by sponsors. In our zone, whole families could learn the secrets of electricity and drink a cold lemonade. © Enea SA 84 / 113 Energy Cup Tournament in Kozienice the tournament organised in the sports hall in Kozienice was attended by the youngest footballers born in the year 2006 and was attended by eight teams. Young students of football from Polonia Warszawa, Korona Kielce, Junior Radom, Proch Pionki, and, obviously, Energia Kozienice appeared in Kozienice. The competition was also joined by the Delta Warsaw players, in which the ﬁrst football steps were taken by Robert Lewandowski. The tournament was a great opportunity for the youngest players to gather valuable experience, which will certainly be useful during further training. The tournament’s partner was Enea Wytwarzanie, and the trade unions in the company were also involved in its organisation. Grand Prix Poland Swimming in Kozienie the competition, sponsored by Enea Wytwarzanie, was held in Kozienice for the ﬁfteenth time. At the start there was a record number of more than 400 players from 64 clubs. All the races were full of excitement and the favourites were not disappointed. Radosław Kawęcki, the world champion three times, was the best © Enea SA 85 / 113 among men. In the women’s category, Aleksandra Urbańczyk won the medallist of the World and European Championships. Jumping Show in Kozienice the third edition of the Jumping Show took place on the premises of the Kozienice Stud. The event was attended by 60 competitors from all over Poland. The main partner of the tournament was Enea Wytwarzanie. The main goal of the competition was to restore the former glory of the Kozienice stud and to integrate the equestrian environment. Enea Mini Volleyball League an open cycle of games for schools in the agglomeration of Poznań. About 1 000 children and youth from 30 schools took part in the competition. © Enea SA 86 / 113 Culture We consistently participate in the most important cultural events and support cultural institutions. Enea’s patronage includes: The Grand Theatre in Poznań Opera Houses at the Szczecin Castle Zielona Góra Concert Hall The following events were held during our patronage: © Enea SA 87 / 113 ‘Mom, Dad, let’s go to the Opera’ workshop cycle Enea Spring Break Festival Title sponsorship of the music festival. Over 100 concerts in 3 days, Enea Stage at the Freedom Square in Poznan and a mix of experience and youth in the festival program. The festival was attended by nearly 5000 spectators, who could rest in the Enea relaxation zone between the concerts. Enter Enea Festival Title sponsorship of the music festival. The aim of the Festival is to present a variety of jazz scenes. The artistic director of the festival is Leszek Możdżer. The starting point for the organisation of the Festival was the presentation and popularisation of the highest quality jazz music, so far associated with elite music clubs, in the unobliging open air near Strzeszyn Lake. © Enea SA 88 / 113 Night of Explorers in Poznań ‘Energy of Heart’ concerts as part of the nationwide ‘Tytka charytatywna’ campaign. Environmental impact management Every day, taking care of Poland’s energy security, we inﬂuence the natural environment and use its resources. In our sense of responsibility for the state of the environment and its impact on the quality of life of all people, we consistently implement solutions that allow us to monitor and minimise our impact on the environment. © Enea SA 89 / 113 Our actions result from the increasingly stringent requirements set by regulators and from our ambition to be a modern company, focused on the latest technologies, reducing the impact of the energy industry and conventional methods of energy generation on the environment. With a view to the environment, we invest in innovations, implement many pro-environmental projects and modernise our infrastructure. THE MOST MODERN POWER UNIT IN POLAND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION IN STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Respect for the environment is an integral part of our Strategy. In accordance with this principle, we set ourselves the goal of using the best available solutions and technologies to reduce the adverse impact on the environment. An example of our approach are the solutions applied in the new B11 power unit in Kozienice, which was launched in 2017. It produces energy from hard coal based on the most modern technologies available, maximising the eﬃciency of processes and minimising their impact on the environment. The eﬃciency of the new unit is 45.6% and it is one of the highest in the world for this type of units. This means that B11 generates more energy from less hard coal. Taking care of the natural environment we have also established one of the main principles of the ‘Enea Capital Group Code of Ethics’, thus obliging our employees to take actions contributing to the protection of the environment. GREEN LAUREL AWARD Enea Wytwarzanie received the award of the prestigious Green Laurel competition for the implementation of ecological projects. It is a prestigious award granted annually by the Polish Chamber of Commerce to Ecodevelopment under the patronage of the President of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, the Chief Inspectorate for Environmental Protection and the President of the Convention of the Presidents of the Provincial Funds for Environmental Protection and Water Management. DUE DILIGENCE POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Enea Wytwarzanie has an integrated quality, environmental and occupational health and safety management policy in place that complies with the requirements of the following standards: PN-EN ISO 9001 – Quality management systems PN-EN ISO 14001 – Environmental management systems PN-N-18001 – Occupational health and safety management systems OHSAS 18001 – Occupational health and safety management systems The compliance of the system with the requirements of the standards was conﬁrmed by appropriate certiﬁcates issued by an independent certiﬁcation body of management systems based on a positive audit © Enea SA 90 / 113 result. In accordance with this policy, we set goals, set strategic directions of development, implement processes related to environmental protection at the highest level, and also ensure compliance with the applicable legal regulations. We place emphasis on implementing the most eﬀective solutions in the Manufacturing Area, which is responsible for most of our environmental impact. Enea Wytwarzanie has implemented a number of additional procedures and instructions regulating the monitoring of environmental impact, supervision of legal requirements, identiﬁcation, assessment and management of environmental aspects. These include, but are not limited to: Procedure: Management review, analysis and improvement Procedure: Identiﬁcation and assessment of environmental aspects Procedure: Environmental monitoring Procedure: Identiﬁcation of potential accidents and emergency situations and response in the event of their occurrence in Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. – location: Świerże Górne Procedure: Identiﬁcation of hazards and determination of responses to environmental accidents at the Białystok Heat and Power Generating Plant Procedure: Preventing and reducing the environmental impact of emergency situations at the Białystok Heat and Power Generating Plant Plant’s major-accident prevention policy Major industrial accident prevention programme Emergency plan in case of danger to life and health of persons, property or the environment in Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. in Świerże Górne Procedure: Risk management in the process of monitoring CO2 emissions in Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. – location: Świerże Górne Procedure: Pp-5.5 monitoring of CO2 emissions at the Białystok Combined Heat and Power Plant Environmental monitoring of the open water cooling system in Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. – location: Świerże Górne Principles of management of trees and shrubs intended for felling in Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. – location: Świerże Górne Waste management principles in Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. – location: Świerże Górne Waste Management Manual at the Białystok Heat and Power Generating Plant Waste management manual at Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. – RES segment Water management manual for the cascade of hydropower plants on the Brdo river (Koronowo, Tryszczyn, Smukała) Water management manual for hydroelectric power plants on the Vistula River (Żur and Gródek) Water management instructions for all hydroelectric power stations on the Reda River Water management manual for the Oborniki Hydroelectric Power Plant Enea Operator implements the following policies and procedures in the Distribution Area: Company Environmental Pollution Bank (Polish: Zakładowy Bank Zanieczyszczeń Środowiska ZBŚŚ) SOZAT Procedure for fulﬁlling obligations towards entities ﬁnancing investments of Enea Operator sp. z o.o. Procedure for recording electrical equipment containing at least 3 kg of SF6 gas and associated operation In 2017, there were no signiﬁcant ﬁnes or non-ﬁnancial sanctions imposed for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. The only marginal incident was the additional fee in Enea Ciepło for exceeding the conditions for entering industrial wastewater into the sewer network in the amount of PLN 1 © Enea SA 91 / 113 700.60. Investments and modernisations In 2017, we initiated and implemented a number of investments in the Generation and Distribution Area. Another example of pro-environmental activities is a number of activities related to the installation of energy-eﬃcient LED lighting carried out by the company Enea Oświetlenie. The undertaken undertakings allowed us to modernise our installations, increasing their eﬃciency and reducing their impact on the environment. The most important of these were: Generation Area Commissioning of power unit B11 for supercritical parameters of coal-ﬁred power unit of power of 1 075 MWe at Kozienice Power Plant Start-up of units no. 3 and 4 after modernisation at the Kozienice Power Plant Commissioning of the SCR unit for units no. 4 to 8 of the Kozienice Power Plant Continuation of the construction of the SCR unit together with the modernisation of electrostatic precipitators for units no. 9 and 10 under the programme for the modernisation of units of power of 2x500MW at the Kozienice Power Plant. Modernisation of the TZ-1 turbine set at the Białystok Combined Heat and Power Plant Modernisation of the chimney of unit no. 1 at the Połaniec Power Plant Construction of units no. 2, 3, 7 of SCR catalysts at the Połaniec Power Plant Installation of a formic acid dosing system at the Połaniec Power Plant Distribution Area Modernisation, extension and automation of highand medium-voltage stations and power networks: reconstruction: GPZ Pakość, GPZ Kostrzyn, GPZ Jachcice construction of HV overhead line: Nowogród Bobrzański – Żary Zakładowa reconstruction of HV overhead lines: Górzyca – Słubice, Zielomyśl – Międzychód, Zielomyśl – Międzyrzecz, Glinki – Żelechowo, Dąbie – Morzyczyn, Krzęcin – Dolice, Śmigiel -Leszno Gronowo, Żukowice – Bytom Odrzański Improvement of connection processes and reduction of the negative environmental impact of the electrical power equipment used Development of IT tools to support network management A new unit at the Kozienice Power Plant: The construction of the new 1 075 MWe unit at Kozienice Power Plant was the most important investment completed in 2017 in the Enea Group and the entire energy sector in Poland. It is distinguished by the application of the most modern technological solutions in the ﬁeld of boiler, turbine and environmental indexes related to the processes of production of energy from hard coal. © Enea SA 92 / 113 New unit B11: Increases by 1/3 the capacity of the Kozienice Power Plant Compensates for energy shortages in the market Provides high eﬃciency power generation High availability and low failure rate It is the most modern hard coal-ﬁred power generation unit in Poland Meets the requirements of environmental protection regulations It is the largest power unit in Europe ﬁring coal Energy eﬃciency We are committed to energy eﬃciency, seeking to reduce energy losses in all areas of our business, particularly in the Distribution Area. We are looking for innovative solutions enabling eﬀective energy management, which translates into the development of our Group. As a large company, we are subject to an energy audit obligation under the Energy Eﬃciency Act of 20 May 2016. The purpose of the introduced procedure is to provide information about potential energy savings in the company and to make calculations about the proposed projects aimed at improving energy eﬃciency. In 2017, Enea Wytwarzanie audited the Kozienice Power Plant and Białystok Combined Heat and Power Plant. The audit was also carried out at the Połaniec Power Plant. This research has shown that many of the projects implemented can make a real contribution to the reduction of electricity consumption. Actions started in 2017 to reduce energy consumption Kozienice Power Plant: Modernisation of cooling water pumps in 500MW units Modernisation of ﬂue gas fans in the boiler of unit no. 10 Implementation of the Operators Assessment Module, which is to provide an automatic and objective assessment of the performance of power units by unit operators, thus enabling a systematic improvement of technical and economic indexes of units Białystok Combined Heat and Power Plant: Renovation of the TZ-1 turbine set Połaniec Power Plant: Modernisation of steam pipelines Modernisation of unit transformers Modernisation of the defrosting room for wagons © Enea SA 93 / 113 Minimising energy loss in distribution processes One of the priorities in the area of energy eﬃciency is measures aimed at reducing the losses of electricity generated in the process of its distribution. Enea Operator implements the ‘Distribution Strategy of the Enea Capital Group – Initiative: Implementation of Comprehensive Measures to Reduce the Balance Sheet Diﬀerence’ and the ‘Programme for Reducing the Balance Sheet Diﬀerence at Enea Operator Sp. z o.o.’. 121.3 thousand km length of distribution lines together with connections In 2017, the company recorded a lower level of electricity consumption than in 2016, which is a result of, inter alia, expenditure incurred on new investments and modernisation of the network, connection of new sources of electricity and operation and maintenance activities. Thanks to the modernisation of the grid, changes in cross-sections and the conﬁguration of the grid make it possible to reduce the losses of transmitted electricity. This has a signiﬁcant positive impact on the environment as it reduces the consumption of electricity related to energy losses in the distribution process. White certiﬁcates In addition, some of the Group’s companies have received white certiﬁcates, which conﬁrm the energy savings achieved by the company as a result of the use of investments improving energy eﬃciency. They were awarded to Enea Oświetlenie for modernising road lighting to save energy and Enea Elektrownia Połaniec for replacing the lighting used for its own purposes. Total electricity consumption in 2017 [ MWh ]8 Name of company 2016 2017 Enea SA 2045.22 2339.48 © Enea SA 94 / 113 Name of company 2016 2017 Enea Centrum sp. z o.o.9 0.55 0.81 Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o.10 1167478.00 1272207.00 Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej 671.43 780.61 sp. z o.o. w Obornikach Enea Ciepło Serwis sp. z o.o. 70.90 24.50 Enea Ciepło sp. z o.o. 5158.70 5074.19 Miejska Energetyka Cieplna Piła 4361.90 5657.10 sp. z o.o.11 the company’s own needs: the company’s own 12 39794.00 needs: 40075.00 Enea Operator sp. z o.o. losses in the company’s losses in the company’s network: 1322306.00 network: 1249860.00 176.94 (including 194.23 (including 21.04 from Enea Oświetlenie sp. z o.o. 18.85 from own own photovoltaic installation) photovoltaic installation) The company did not belong Enea Elektrownia Połaniec SA 864800.31 to the Enea Group. The company did not belong Enea Bioenergia sp. z o.o.13 22.32 to the Enea Group. Enea Pomiary sp. z o.o. 162.30 188.04 Enea Serwis sp. z o.o.14 591.59 472.33 Enea Logistyka sp. z o.o. 525.89 650.89 Enea Trading sp. z o.o.15 no data 11.87 8) For some companies, the value of total electricity consumption does not include administrative properties, which are settled on a ﬂat-rate basis in rent for all utilities. 9) Only part of the electricity consumption is included in the table. The remaining quantity is included in lease rentals. 10) The increase in electricity consumption in relation to 2016 is related to the acceptance for operation of unit B11 at the Kozienice Power Plant, which since March 2017 has been in operation for a period of three years. consumed energy for its own needs and commissioned ﬂue gas desulphurisation installations for coal-ﬁred boilers K7 and K8 in the Białystok Combined Heat and Power Plant. 11) In 2017, 87.2% of the energy consumed was covered from own production – high-eﬃciency cogeneration. 12) In 2017, a lower level of electricity consumption resulted from activities carried out at Enea Operator, i.e. including expenditures incurred both on new investments and on network modernisation, connection of new sources of electricity and operation and maintenance activities. 13) The value of energy consumption includes only oﬃce rooms. Equipment, installations and adjacent premises are recorded by Enea Elektrownia Połaniec as their owner. 14) Lower energy consumption compared to 2016 was caused by milder winter, lower consumption of electricity for heating with storage heaters. 15) All oﬃce space used by Enea Trading in 2016 was leased by the company (from Enea SA, Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. and Enea Serwis sp. z o.o.). Therefore, all mining costs were recognised as a ﬁxed fee at the monthly rent paid. It was not possible to clearly identify the water and electricity consumption of the company. In © Enea SA 95 / 113 2017, energy consumption includes only the oﬃce located in Połaniec, the rest of the oﬃces were leased by the company and their operating costs were recognized as a ﬁxed fee in the amount of monthly rent paid. Emissions For many years, the Enea Capital Group has been investing in modernisation of installations limiting emissions of sulphur, nitrogen and dust oxides, preparing to meet new emission standards. Compatibility with the Guidelines According to the EU’s IED directive, we have been subject to stricter pollution standards since 1 January 2016. However, the law provides for the possibility to postpone their validity in the form of a derogation mechanism – the National Transitional Plan (NTP) – which will be in force until 30 June 2020. PSC gives the possibility of total settlement of limits within the Group. This is how the Kozienice Power Plant settles accounts with the Białystok Heat and Power Plant within the limits of SO2 and dust. In addition, the Kozienice Power Plant beneﬁted from a derogation from the Accession Treaty regarding the NOx emission standard (in force until 31 December 2017). Enea Elektrownia Połaniec enjoys a derogation from the IED directive, which covers boiler no. 1. Compliance with formal and legal requirements In 2017, there were no violations related to emissions in Enea Wytwarzanie, except for a few violations of SO2 emission standards in the Białystok Heat and Power Plant related to the control traﬃc of the newly built ﬂue gas desulphurisation installation. Both Enea Wytwarzanie and Enea Elektrownia Połaniec did not exceed the emission standards speciﬁed in the integrated permit. Carbon dioxide emissions [MG] CO2 emission level [MG] CO2 emission level [MG] 2016 2017 Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o.16) 12372636.00 12663362.31 Enea Ciepło sp. z o.o.17) 5434.00 17973.00 Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej 14274.40 15190.22 sp. z o.o. w Obornikach Miejska Energetyka Cieplna Piła sp. z o.o. 82481.00 84345.00 Enea Elektrownia Połaniec SA18) 7733638.00 7029514.00 © Enea SA 96 / 113 Emissions of sulphur oxides, nitrogen oxides and dust [MG] NOx Dust SO2 emission emission emission level level level 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Enea Wytwarzanie 14812.00 12461.83 no data 360.61 10833.00 11315.43 sp. z o.o. Enea Ciepło 4.00 27.00 3.00 6.00 1.00 3.00 sp. z o.o. Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej 26.27 28.93 no data 16.13 19) 33.63 53.23 sp. z o.o. w Obornikach Miejska Energetyka Cieplna Piła 107.38 86.93 no data 25.54 155.90 151.15 sp. z o.o. Enea Elektrownia no data 11901.09 no data 555.78 no data 7112.70 Połaniec SA20) Pollution emissions under the NTP for the year 2017 and the level of use of annual allowable emission thresholds have been presented in the table below. Installation SO2 Dust NOx use use use [ Mg ] [ Mg ] [ Mg ] (%) (%) (%) emission Elektrownia 8583.89 211.26 annual 68.5 14.1 Kozienice 12522.5 1502.7 threshold emission Elektrociepłownia 1525.2 58.72 297.04 annual 57.2 27.2 22.0 Białystok 2666.56 215.69 1347.75 threshold emission 297.04 10109.09 269.98 in total annual 66.6 15.7 1347. 22.0 15189.06 1718.39 threshold 75 16) The sum of CO2 emissions in 2017 was given for units no. 1 to 10, 11 and the start-up boiler room in Świerże Górne (Kozienice Power Plant), Białystok and Koronowo. 17) The increase in carbon dioxide emissions results from the increase in the amount of coal burned by the company. In 2016, 2500.41 Mg of coal was combusted and in 2017 9204.76 Mg of coal was combusted. © Enea SA 97 / 113 18) The company was not a member of the Enea Capital Group in 2016. 19) Dusts arising from the combustion of fuels. 20) The company was not a member of the Enea Capital Group in 2016. Pollutant concentration in the Połaniec Power Plant in 2017: Pollutant concentration in the Połaniec Power Plant in 2017: dust lower by 20% than the allowable concentration SO2 lower by 16% than the allowable concentration NOx lower by 21% than the allowable concentration Pollutant concentration in the Kozienice Power Plant in 2017 © Enea SA 98 / 113 What have we done to reduce emissions? We continued our eﬀorts to align Enea Generation with the requirements of the BAT conclusions. In order to signiﬁcantly reduce nitrogen oxides in Kozienice, we installed further SCR units in two units of 200 MW, no. 4 and no. 8 (with achievable concentrations below 100 mg/Nm3). We are in the process of implementing a ﬂue gas denitriﬁcation installation at 500MW unit no. 10, and in 2018 we planned to build an SCR installation at 500MW unit no. 9. In Białystok, we carried out a number of investments directly aﬀecting the change in emissions, including the conversion of OP-140 Boilers no. 5 and no. 6 ﬁred with coal to OFB-105 Biomass Fluid, SNCR ﬂue gas denitriﬁcation installation on OFB-105 Boilers no. 5 and 6, SCR ﬂue gas denitriﬁcation installation on OP-230 Boilers no. 7 and 8, heat recovery system on K6 Boiler and ﬂue gas desulphurisation for OP-230 Boilers no. 7 and 8. Finally, we installed SCR catalysts on units no. 2, 3, 7, which reduced NOx emissions from about 500 mg/Nm3 to less than 200 mg/Nm3 , and a formic acid dosing unit on C and D absorbers of the IOS unit, which improved the desulphurisation process eﬃciency by 1%. In addition, we are in the process of building an SCR catalytic converter at unit no. 4. Water and raw materials By producing electricity and heat, we are faced with the need to consume signiﬁcant amounts of water and raw materials. As the Group, we pay attention to optimising their use in production processes by applying modern solutions. In the production process we use mainly hard coal, gas, biomass and heating oils. The basic fuel we use is hard coal, which is supplied in signiﬁcant quantities by LW Bogdanka. Biomass in the form of forest chips, energy willow chips and sunﬂower hull pellets is used primarily at the Białystok Combined Heat and Power Plant and at the ‘green unit’ of the Połaniec Power Plant. Production of electricity and heat obtained from gas takes place in Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej Oborniki and Miejska Energetyka Cieplna Piła. Main raw materials used by the Generation Segment in 2017: Type of raw material Quantity Hard coal [thousand tons] 9823.9 Biomass [thousand tonnes] 1676.3 Gas [in thousands m3] 16840.9 Heavy fuel oil [thousand tonnes] 13.8 Light heating oil [thousand tonnes] 6.1 Limestone meal [thousand tonnes] 179.7 Ammonia water [thousand tonnes] 10.1 © Enea SA 99 / 113 Type of raw material Quantity Calcinated magnesite [thousand tonnes] 0.02 Stone salt [thousand tonnes] 0.0028 Total water withdrawal in Enea Group companies in 2017 [m3]21 Nazwa spółki 2017 źródła water supply system: 7962.70 Enea SA 12747.70 other source: 4785.00 Enea Centrum sp. z o.o. 1759.20 water supply system: 1759.20 groundwater intake: 798662.00 water from drainage: 5612230.00 Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. 1663050763.00 surface water22) : 1656582146.00 water supply system intake: 50817.00 Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej 1716.00 water supply system: 1716.00 sp. z o.o. w Obornikach Enea Ciepło Serwis sp. z o.o.23 n/a n/a water from deep wells: 13593.00 Enea Ciepło sp. z o.o. 16347.00 water supply system: 5463.00 Miejska Energetyka Cieplna Piła 6781.00 water supply system: 6 781.00 sp. z o.o. water supply system: 56412.60 Enea Operator sp. z o.o. 57237.60 water from deep wells: 825.00 Enea Oświetlenie sp. z o.o. 796.70 water supply system: 796.70 surface water: 1289717042.00 Enea Elektrownia Połaniec SA 1289784219.00 water from deep wells: 67177.00 Enea Bioenergia sp. z o.o.24 120.96 water supply system: 120.96 Enea Pomiary sp. z o.o. 847.25 water supply system: 847.25 Enea Serwis sp. z o.o. 3178.00 water supply system: 3178.00 Enea Logistyka sp. z o.o. 1280.00 water supply system: 1280.00 Enea Trading sp. z o.o. 34.55 water supply system: 34.55 21) For some companies, the value of total water consumption does not include administrative properties, which are settled on a ﬂat-rate basis in rent for all utilities. © Enea SA 100 / 113 22) Water taken from the Vistula river – taken back for cooling and without return for technological purposes. 23) Water consumed by Enea Ciepło Serwis is recorded in Enea Ciepło Company’s consumption. Enea Ciepło The service does not keep any records, because the fee for water is included in the lump sum for renting rooms. 24) The amount of water used applies only to hygiene and sanitary rooms and oﬃces. The water consumption of the equipment and installations entrusted to operate and the water consumption in the adjacent rooms (control rooms, bathrooms, etc.) are recorded by Enea Połaniec S.A. as their owner. What have we done to reduce water consumption in 2017? The new Kozienice Power Plant unit uses a closed cooling water circuit and its reuse. This results in high savings in water energy production processes. At the Białystok Cogeneration Power Plant, we have reduced water intake from deep wells and reduced the amount of process wastewater resulting mainly from modernisation works. We have modernised part of the heating network in the Generation Segment. We take care of the tightness of water systems and heating networks, as well as the high eﬃciency of installation equipment, and subject it to regular inspections. This allows for quick diagnosis and intervention in the event of malfunctions or other problems. Waste by waste type [Mg] in 201725 Name of company Waste type 2017 [Mg] Hazardous waste 0.00 Enea SA Non-hazardous waste 1.4065 Hazardous waste 0.00 Enea Centrum sp. z o.o. Non-hazardous waste 32.5 Hazardous waste 83.70 Enea Wytwarzanie sp. z o.o. Non-hazardous waste 529502.00 Hazardous waste 0.01 Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej sp. z o.o. w Obornikach. Non-hazardous waste 1430.16 Hazardous waste n/a PEnea Ciepło Serwis sp. z o.o. Non-hazardous waste 7.80 Hazardous waste 16.61 Enea Ciepło sp. z o.o. Non-hazardous waste 1900.94 Hazardous waste 9.50 Miejska Energetyka Cieplna Piła sp. z o.o. Non-hazardous waste 4576.20 Hazardous waste 517.09 Enea Operator sp. z o.o. Non-hazardous waste 4785.384 Hazardous waste 4.54 Enea Oświetlenie sp. z o.o. Non-hazardous waste 97.07 Hazardous waste 1.46 Enea Elektrownia Połaniec SA Non-hazardous waste 949890.97 Hazardous waste 0.00 Enea Bioenergia sp. z o.o. Non-hazardous waste 117.355 © Enea SA 101 / 113 Name of company Waste type 2017 [Mg] Hazardous waste 0.08 Enea Pomiary sp. z o.o. Non-hazardous waste 0.56 Hazardous waste 127.11 Enea Serwis sp. z o.o. Non-hazardous waste 368.82 Hazardous waste 4.84 Enea Logistyka sp. z o.o.26 Non-hazardous waste 12.70 Hazardous waste 0.00 Enea Trading sp. z o.o. Non-hazardous waste 0.00 25) For some companies, the value of waste does not include administrative properties, which are settled on a ﬂat-rate basis in rent for all utilities. 26) The amounts of waste include waste collected by Enea Logistyka sp. z o.o. from other entities of the Enea Group and waste electrical and electronic equipment collected under the provisions of the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Act. They do not include municipal waste. Hazardous waste is sent for recycling by ElektroEko Organisacja Odzysku Sprzętu Elektrycznego i Elektronicznego SA, whereas non-hazardous waste is recovered. Main regulations implemented by the companies concerning waste management Principles of waste management in Enea Wytwarzanie – location: Świerże Górne Waste Management Manual at the Białystok Combined Heat and Power Generating Plant Waste management manual in Enea Wytwarzanie – RES segment no. ZA-71-2015-3 Procedure PŚ-4.4-02 Waste management for Enea Ciepło Waste management in Enea Oświetlenie Waste management programme at the Połaniec Power Plant Innovations Innovation occupies an important place in our strategy, which is why we successively carry out tasks in this area. We want to actively participate in the development of innovation in Poland, which results in initiatives taken by us. We implement innovative solutions both in the area of distribution and manufacturing, in accordance with the vision of an innovative company. Moreover, we have observed a signiﬁcant potential of solving energy problems in the implementation of research and development projects in partnerships with scientiﬁc centres and local governments. Electromobility © Enea SA 102 / 113 One of our main strategic objectives is to engage in the development of electromobility. We strive to develop innovative solutions in this area. In 2017 we joined the cluster ‘Polish Electric Bus – supply chain for electro-mobility’, which aims at cooperation for the development of e-mobility based on technical solutions developed in Poland. As part of this cooperation, we are dealing with the subject of charging infrastructure, batteries and accumulators, as well as with the aspect of energy management. In addition, Enea is one of the four energy companies forming ElectroMobility Poland SA, whose objective is to create conditions for the development of the electro-mobility system in Poland. In mid-March 2017, the company announced a competition for the concept of an urban electric car for a modern, conscious and environmentally friendly consumer. The conceptual designs of the winners of the competition will serve as the basis for the production of prototypes of urban cars. Energy storage Enea Operator was the ﬁrst company in our Group to receive a grant from the National Centre for Research and Development as part of the research and development project ‘Innovative system services for energy storage increasing the quality and eﬃciency of electricity use’ carried out jointly with the University of Zielona Góra. Five energy storage facilities connected to the low voltage grid using diﬀerent technologies will be built during the works. The project aims to develop energy storage based technologies to enable the provision of new system services for DSOs in low voltage networks. In the context of the planned introduction of new quality regulations in the energy market and the development of the e-mobility sector, the implementation of innovative services proposed in the project may be particularly important for electricity operators. This project is carried out as a research and development project and, in accordance with its speciﬁc nature, is divided into two main stages: industrial research and experimental development. Energy cluster Some companies of our Group participate in partnerships for the development of innovative energy clusters. Energy clusters are a concept of building local, integrated energy markets. In 2017, we initiated three projects concerning energy clusters: Leszno Energy Cluster Zielona Góra Energy Cluster Energy Cluster Pliski Energy Cluster Energy Cluster © Enea SA 103 / 113 Renewable Energy Sources We use renewable energy sources (RES) in our production processes. The Enea Capital Group is a member of the Group: 21 hydroelectric power stations 3 wind power plants: Bardy, Darżyno and Baczyn 2 biogas plants in Gorzesław and Liszków In our power plants and combined heat and power plants, we also use biomass as a fuel for energy production. In the Renewable Energy Segment, electricity sales in 2017 amounted to 373 GWh 42% outside the Enea Group, 58% within the Enea Group Production of energy from renewable sources Production of energy from renewable sources by the Enea Capital 2016 2017 Group Production from renewable energy sources [GWh], of which: 539 GWh 2 263 GWh Biomass combustion – Enea Wytwarzanie 256 GWh 69 GWh Enea Wytwarzanie – RES Segment (hydroelectric power plants) 113 GWh 173 GWh Enea Wytwarzanie – RES Segment (wind farms) 160 GWh 190 GWh Enea Wytwarzanie – RES Segment (biogas plants) 10 GWh 10 GWh Biomass co-ﬁring – Enea Elektrownia Połaniec27 no data 529 GWh Biomass combustion – Enea Elektrownia Połaniec (zielony blok)28 no data 1 292 GWh 27) Data for Enea Elektrownia Połaniec is presented only for 2017 (including the period prior to the incorporation of Enea Połaniec into the Enea Group) as Enea Elektrownia Połaniec was not part of the Enea Group in 2016. 28) Data for Enea Elektrownia Połaniec is presented only for 2017 (including the period prior to the incorporation of Enea Połaniec into the Enea Group) as Enea Elektrownia Połaniec was not part of the Enea Group in 2016. © Enea SA 104 / 113 We educate and educate our customers on the subject of Renewable Energy Sources (RES). An example of this is one of our ENERGY + Photovoltaics oﬀers, which enables the Customer to become a Prospectus, i.e. to obtain their own energy source in the form of photovoltaic panels in combination with our services and professional advice. Energy + Photovoltaics is a comprehensive oﬀer, which includes assistance in the analysis of technical needs and possibilities, design of a photovoltaic installation, obtaining ﬁnancing, installation and free connection to the network. Details of the oﬀer are available at www.enea.pl/fotowoltaika Existing capital expenditures of the Enea Group in RES 2014 2015 2016 2017 Capital expenditures in RES [million PLN] 13.10 94.30 6.14 4.44 About Reporting Process The sustainability report you are reading presents the social, environmental and economic performance of the Enea Group for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2016. The Group reports on an annual basis. Its previous report concerned the year 2016. The report covers all the companies comprising the Enea Capital Group, with the exception of: the companies belonging to the Enea Capital Group that are members of LW Bogdanka. LW Bogdanka reports on sustainability issues separately. the companies employing at the end of 2017 fewer than 10 persons: Enea Innovation Sp. z o.o. and Enea Badania i Rozwój Sp. z o.o. These companies were in 2017 at the stage of preparation for the commencement of operations. In addition, non-ﬁnancial data covering all companies of the Enea Capital Group, including companies not included in this report, have been reported in the Statement on non-ﬁnancial information of the Enea Capital Group, which constitutes a separate part of the Report on the activities of the Management Board of Enea SA and the Enea Group for the year 2017. The report was prepared in accordance with the guidelines of the latest version of the international standard Global Reporting Initiative: GRI Standards, at the CORE application level. It was not subject to additional external veriﬁcation. The report presents important aspects of sustainable development reporting, i.e. the most important impact of the company on its environment. These are deﬁned in previous reporting processes and reviewed in the year 2018. In preparation for the review of the reporting aspects, a stakeholder survey was carried out. Aspects of reporting considered most relevant: Ensuring continuity of energy supply (including care for infrastructure) Customer satisfaction (including communication channels and customer satisfaction/opinion surveys, complaint policy) © Enea SA 105 / 113 Investments and their impact on the environment Emissions Water – caring for water resources Occupational safety and health Employment – scale and conditions of employment Compliance – compliance with laws and regulations Tackling the generation gap All these aspects of reporting aﬀect both the Enea Capital Group and its environment and key stakeholders. The report for 2017 contains information on the Enea Capital Group, which was joined in March 2017 by a new company from the Production Area: Enea Połaniec. The data concerning this company have a signiﬁcant impact, inter alia, on the environmental results as well as on the scale of employment reported for 2017. This year’s report does not include any other signiﬁcant changes in the scope, scope or methods of measurement as compared to the report for the previous year, nor any corrections to the information contained in the previous report. GRI Index GRI index Disclosure Links Organizational proﬁle • Structure and management GRI 102-1 Name of the organization • Contact • Education and sharing of knowledge Activities, primary brands, products, and • Structure and GRI 102-2 services management GRI 102-3 Location of the organization’s headquarters • Contact • Structure and GRI 102-4 Location of operations management • Structure and GRI 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form management Energy Consumption Points (number of Custom index 1 • Customers and products customers Trading Segment) Custom index 2 Installed generation capacity • Development directions Increase in electricity generation as compared to Custom index 3 • Development directions previous year • Structure and GRI 102-6 Markets served management © Enea SA 106 / 113 GRI index Disclosure Links • Structure and management GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization: • Development directions • Customers and products Custom index 4 Hard coal consumption index for own needs • Development directions Technical characteristics of the network facilities: Total length of lines in conversion to one track in km, of high-voltage, medium• Eﬃcient power supply Custom index 5 voltage, low-voltage lines; total length of network connections and number of connections (in items); number of substations (in items) Increase in sales of electricity and gaseous fuel Custom index 6 • Development directions to end users as compared to previous year Information on employees and other workers, including: • Total number of employees by gender and GRI 102-8 • Employment contract type • Total number of employees by contract type (full-time or part-time) GRI 102-9 Suppy chain • Supply chain Any signiﬁcant changes during the reporting GRI 102-10 period regarding the organization’s size, • About Reporting Process structure and ownership Explanation whether and how the precautionary • Environmental impact GRI 102-11 approach or principle is addressed by the management organization Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other • Partnerships and GRI 102-12 initiatives to which the organization subscribes cooperations or which it endorses Memberships of associations (such as industry • Partnerships and GRI 102-13 associations) and national or international cooperations advocacy organizations Strategy • Foreword from the GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker President • Foreword from the GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities President Ethics © Enea SA 107 / 113 GRI index Disclosure Links Organization’s values, principles, standards and GRI 102-16 norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and • Ethics codes of ethics Governance Governance structure of the organization, • Structure and GRI 102-18 including committees of the highest governance management body Stakeholder engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the GRI 102-40 • Map of stakeholders reporting organization Employees covered by collective bargaining GRI 102-41 • Workplace management agreements The basis for identiﬁcation and selection of GRI 102-42 • Map of stakeholders stakeholders The organization’s approach to stakeholder GRI 102-43 engagement, including frequency of • Map of stakeholders engagement by type and by stakeholder group Key topics and problems raised by stakeholders GRI 102-44 and the response from the organisation, • About Reporting Process including by reporting them Reporting practice Entities included in the consolidated ﬁnancial GRI 102-45 • About Reporting Process statements GRI 102-46 Deﬁning report content and topic Boundaries • About Reporting Process All the material topics identiﬁed in the process GRI 102-47 • About Reporting Process for deﬁning report content Explanations which relate to eﬀects of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatement GRI 102-48 • About Reporting Process and their inﬂuence (eg, mergers, acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting GRI 102-49 periods in the list of material topics and topic • About Reporting Process Boundaries GRI 102-50 Reporting period • About Reporting Process GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report • About Reporting Process © Enea SA 108 / 113 GRI index Disclosure Links Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI GRI 102-52 • About Reporting Process Standards (Core or Comprehensive) GRI 102-53 Contact point • About Reporting Process Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI GRI 102-54 • About Reporting Process Standards (Core or Comprehensive) GRI 102-55 GRI content index • About Reporting Process Organization’s policy and current practice with GRI 102-56 regard to seeking external assurance for the • About Reporting Process report Topic-speciﬁc standard disclosure Key aspect of reporting: Investments and their impact on the environment • Environmental impact Explanation of the material topic and its management GRI 103-1 Boundary • Investments and modernisations • Environmental impact management GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components • Investments and modernisations • Environmental impact management GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach • Investments and modernisations List of key investments that reduce the scale of • Investments and Custom index 7 the organization's impact on the natural modernisations environment Materials GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume • Water and raw materials Key aspect of reporting: Energy • Environmental impact Explanation of the material topic and its management GRI 103-1 Boundary • Development directions • Energy eﬃciency • Environmental impact management GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components • Development directions • Energy eﬃciency © Enea SA 109 / 113 GRI index Disclosure Links • Environmental impact management GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach • Development directions • Energy eﬃciency GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization • Energy eﬃciency Key actions implemented to reduce energy Custom index 8 • Energy eﬃciency consumption and increase energy eﬃciency Key aspect of reporting: Water – caring for water resources • Environmental impact management Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103-1 • Environmental impact Boundary management • Water and raw materials • Environmental impact management GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components • Environmental impact management • Water and raw materials • Environmental impact management GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach • Environmental impact management • Water and raw materials GRI 303-2 Total water withdrawal by source • Water and raw materials Key actions implemented to reduce water Custom index 9 • Water and raw materials consumption and protect water resources Key aspect of reporting: Emissions • Environmental impact management Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103-1 • Environmental impact Boundary management • Emissions • Environmental impact management GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components • Environmental impact management • Emissions • Environmental impact management GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach • Environmental impact management • Emissions © Enea SA 110 / 113 GRI index Disclosure Links Direct GHG emissions (Enea Wytwarzanie, Enea GRI 305-1 • Emissions Elektrownia Połaniec) NOx, Sox and other signiﬁcant air emissions as GRI 305-7 • Emissions per type and weight. Waste Total weight of waste by type and disposal GRI 306-2 • Water and raw materials method Environmental Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non• Environmental impact GRI 307-1 compliance with environmental laws and management regulations. Environmental topics Key aspect of reporting: Ensuring continuity of energy supply Explanation of the material topic and its • Eﬃcient power supply GRI 103-1 Boundary network • Eﬃcient power supply GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components network • Eﬃcient power supply GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach network • Eﬃcient power supply SAIFI Frequency of interruptions in energy Sector EU index 28 network supplies • Development directions • Eﬃcient power supply SAIDI Average duration of interruptions in Sector EU index 29 network energy supplies • Development directions Key aspect of reporting: Customer satisfaction Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103-1 • Quality of service Boundary GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components • Quality of service GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach • Quality of service Actions implemented to ensure the safety of Custom index 10 • Data security customers' personal data • Map of stakeholders Custom index 11 Communication channels with customers • Customer innovations © Enea SA 111 / 113 GRI index Disclosure Links Custom index 12 Level of customers satisfaction • Customer innovations Main activities to improve customers satisfaction Custom index 13 • Customer innovations and to ensure continuity in service delivery Key aspect of reporting: Employment scale and conditions Explanation of the material topic and its • Employment GRI 103-1 Boundary • Workplace management • Employment GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components • Workplace management • Employment GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach • Workplace management Total number and percentage of new employees and the total number of departures in the reporting period, including: • Total number and percentage of newly hired • Generation gap GRI 401-1 employees, by gender, age and region management • Total number and percentage of employees who left the organisation, by gender, age and region Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are GRI 401-2 not provided to temporary or part-time • Support and Beneﬁts employees Key aspect of reporting: Tackling the generation gap Explanation of the material topic and its • Generation gap GRI 103-1 Boundary management • Generation gap GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components management • Generation gap GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach management Key aspect of reporting: Occupational safety and health Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103-1 • Health and safety Boundary GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components • Health and safety GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach • Health and safety GRI 403-2 Type and rate of work-related injuries • Health and safety Examples of activities and solutions for Custom index 14 increasing workplace safety and employee • Health and safety education in this area © Enea SA 112 / 113 GRI index Disclosure Links Training and Education Average hours of training per year per employee GRI 404-1 • Training and education by employee category GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills • Training and education Non-discrimination Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions GRI 406-1 taken (Not identiﬁed this type of cases reported in 2017) Key aspect of reporting: Compliance • Environmental impact Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103-1 management Boundary • Ethics • Environmental impact GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components management • Ethics • Environmental impact GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach management • Ethics Employee training on human rights policies or GRI 412-2 • Ethics procedures The total fee imposed on the companies in the Custom index 15 Enea Group for non-compliance with the law and • Customers and products /or external regulations Social engagement Total amount allocated by Enea Group to social Custom index 16 engagement (including donations and employee • Social investments volunteering)/year Number of employees volunteers engaged in Custom index 17 employee volunteering activities in the reported • Employee volunteering year Number of beneﬁciaries of employee volunteering activities including participants of Custom index 18 action/training and other employee volunteering • Employee volunteering activities (without taking into account mass events) Total number of hours spent by employees on Custom index 19 • Employee volunteering employee volunteering in 2017 © Enea SA 113 / 113
