GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report At GS Caltex, we share insights into our business plan and the progress we have made towards achieving the highest level of sustainability in terms of economic, environmental and social value creation with our stakeholders through our sustainability report. This is our 13th sustainability report since 2006. This report covers our sustainability performance from Reporting Period January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017. For the key quantitative performance, the results of the past three years (from 2015 to 2017) are shared for comparative analysis while newly disclosed quantitative and qualitative performances are separately indicated. Some of the highlights over the first half of 2018 are included in this report to ensure their timely disclosure. The scope of this report encompasses the GS Caltex Scope of Report headquarters and major business operations including the Yeosu Complex. A certain part of the data was derived from the terminal, lubricant plant, gasoline stations, LPG stations and affiliated companies. Any parts that require special attention are indicated accordingly. The GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report was prepared in Reporting Guidelines accordance with the Core Option of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) standards and designed to incorporate feedback from stakeholders in compliance with AA1000SES. The content of this report has been internally reviewed by GRI certified professionals and third parties. There are no significant changes in terms of its scope, boundaries, and measuring processes from the previous report. For more information about GS Caltex, please visit our website at www.gscaltex.com or contact us at the following: CSR Team, GS Caltex 02-2005-1614 news@gscaltex.com CONTENTS CEO Message 04 OVERVIEW GS Caltex Vision & GSC Way 06 Corporate Overview 07 Sustainability Management System 10 Selection of Material Topics 12 Business Model 14 Issue 1. Creating new growth engines 16 CORE ISSUES Issue 2. Response to the new climate regime 21 and environmental management Issue 3. Building a safe workplace 28 Issue 4. Promoting fair and 33 transparent practice Corporate Governance 38 MANAGEMENT REPORT Risk Management 39 Customers 40 Employees 45 Partners 50 Corporate Social Responsibility 52 Financial Data 58 APPENDIX ESG Data 59 GRI Content Index 62 UN Global Compact and UN SDGs 65 GS Caltex Code of Ethics 66 GS Caltex Human Rights Policy 67 Code of Conduct for GS Caltex Partners 68 GHG Assurance Statement 71 Third Party Assurance Statement 72 CEO Message Dear valued stakeholders, The year 2017 has been a meaningful year for us at GS Caltex as we celebrate our 50th anniversary. Despite the uncertainties surrounding our business environment, we managed to further strengthen our competitive advantages by generating strong revenue, preparing to invest in a mixed feed cracker (MFC) with Korea’s most advanced processing capabilities, and completing the construction of a biobutanol demo plant. Furthermore, we established a corporate-wide ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) management system in 2017, to be followed up by reviewing our human rights policies and improving the CSR performance by enacting code of conduct for our partners in 2018. In particular, we will place the highest priority on safety in all our business areas, continue to invest in eco-friendly products and energy efficiency, and generate social values throughout our value chains. I hope that this 13th Sustainability Report will provide an opportunity for communication between all our stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, partners and local communities. I cordially ask for your continued support and sincere interest in our work. Thank you. Jin-Soo Huh Chairman & CEO 04 GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 05 Overview GS Caltex Vision & GSC Way In January 2014, we unveiled our new vision for the future, ‘Value No. 1 Energy & Chemical Partner’. To this end, we defined and implemented the Shared Value ‘GSC Way’. GS Caltex Vision Excellence Vision Statement Trust Flexibility Challenge Our mission is to deliver quality products and services by developing the potential of energy & on chemical resources. We are committed to increasing our capacity to generate environmentally responsible and innovative new values. Corporate Values As a global energy & chemical company, we are Trust Fulfill one’s role, and trust and respect one another. passionate about growing with our partners and Flexibility Welcome diversity with an open mind and behavior. helping the world move forward. Challenge Set high goals and pursue them aggressively. Excellence Strive for excellence in individual and organizational performance. Core Behaviors Strengthen Vision and GSC Way Practice P r o a c t i v e Think ahead and be the first to act. At GS Caltex, we share with our management and employees C o l l a b o r a t i o n Strategically utilize external resources and capabilities. on how the GSC Way is implemented in relation to our vision Performance-Driven Deliver tangible results. based on their recommendations. The challenges we face in our business operation and actions we took to overcome them are introduced in detail in line with the GSC Way Corporate Values GSC Way Statement and Core Behaviors in order to make a positive impact on the We will take the following actions to maintain the highest level of Trust, other employees’ commitment to the GSC Way. With the GSC Flexibility, Challenge, and Excellence. Way as our foundation, we select and award those who displayed • Think ahead and be the first to act. excellent performance and set an example for others in the • Strategically utilize external resources and capabilities. previous year. In 2017, 35 employees were selected based on • Deliver tangible results. their performances. We achieve our vision by applying the GSC Way in practice. 06 Corporate Overview Since its establishment in 1967 as Korea’s first private oil refiner, GS Caltex has set a new standard in the domestic petroleum industry and played a critical role in making oil and petroleum products Korea’s major export items. Through continuous investments and research in petroleum and petrochemical businesses, we are taking major steps toward becoming a leading energy enterprise in the global market. Corporate Profile Organization Profile Description Corporate Corporate Planning Sustainability Name of Company GS Caltex Corporation Date of May 19, 1967 Incorporation Finance Address GS Tower, 508, Nonhyeon-ro, Report Gangnam-gu, Seoul Directly Chairman to CEO Overseas offices China, Czech Republic, India, • Corporate Audit (branches) Singapore, Mexico, London, etc. & CEO • Human Resources • Corporate Legal No. of employees 2,969 Manufacturing Petroleum, Petrochemicals, Areas of business Base Oil & Lubricants (As of December 2017) Chemical BU Petroleum BU • Petrochemical Business • Supply & Trading • Lubricants Business • Retail Marketing (As of June 2018) Overseas Network GS Caltex Russia Representative Office GS Caltex Tokyo Branch GS Caltex London Branch GS Caltex Mexico S.de R.L.de C.V. GS Caltex Czech, s.r.o. GS Caltex China Co., Ltd. GS Caltex Abu Dhabi Branch GS Caltex (Langfang) Plastics Co., Ltd. GS Caltex (Suzhou) Plastics Co., Ltd. GS Caltex India Private Ltd. GS Caltex (Suzhou) Trading Co., Ltd. GS Caltex Shanghai Branch (As of June 2018) GS Caltex Singapore Pte. Ltd. GS Caltex Vietnam Representative Office GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 07 Overview Business Areas Petroleum Aromatic Refining capacity (barrels/day) Upgrading Ratio Aromatic Production capacity (tons/year) Night View of the VRHCR #3 (Vacuum Residue Hydrocracker ) Aromatic sample used as a base material for petrochemicals GS Caltex supplies petroleum products to the domestic market through Our aromatic production facilities were built in 1990 with an annual 2,563 gasoline stations and 399 LPG stations nationwide. About 70% of capacity of 200,000 tons of paraxylene and a half million tons of aromatic our sales come from the overseas market. With a daily refining capacity products for full-scale production. We are continuing our investment in of 790,000 barrels, we produce high-quality petroleum products from production facilities and process optimization in the aromatic sector. Our state-of-the-art automated production facilities including liquefied current production capacity reached 2.8 million tons a year including 1.35 petroleum gas desulfurization facilities. million tons of paraxylene, 0.93 million tons of benzene, 170,000 tons of In 2018, the domestic oil industry is expected to continue its upward toluene, and 350,000 tons of mixed-xylene. trend with the global economic boom. As a result, investment in In the aromatic market, margins have been declining over the past five high value-added products in the refinery industry will continue years due to the continued operation of new production facilities in Asia in order to take advantage of the economic tailwind. However, the and we are working on the development of new markets while looking domestic petroleum retail industry is facing tough challenges in the into aromatic downstream businesses to protect our margins. sales environment due to the saturation of the domestic market and intensifying competition caused by increased consumers’ sensitivity to price. Furthermore, the domestic oil price may go up dramatically if the global oil price and the exchange rate continue to rise. At GS Caltex, we have solidified the foundation for oil supply by diversifying our suppliers and purchasing crude oil not only from the Middle East but also from the U.S. and gained competitive advantages by building the largest facilities in South Korea. Added to that, we offer various loyalty programs such as bonus card and affiliated card discount to improve our service quality. Because of these efforts, we were named the best gasoline station brand in the NCSI (National Customer Satisfaction Index) for the ninth consecutive year. 08 Base Oil Lubricant Base Oil Production capacity (tons/year) Lubricant Production capacity (barrels/day) Our base oil production started in November 2007 when our BOP (Base For our lubricant business, we are maintaining a daily capacity of 9,000 Oil Plant) with a daily capacity of 16,000 barrels (800,000 tons/year) was barrels of lubricants with 9,000 tons of grease per year. As a leading completed. Since then, we increased our capacity to 23,000 barrels per producer in the market, we are recognized for our superior quality and day (1.15 million tons/year) in 2010, followed by a further increase to technological expertise in the industry. Our product portfolio ranges 26,000 barrels (1.3 million tons/year) through additional improvement in from automobiles and industrials to ships and special oils, including our production facilities. more than 200 product types with Kixx engine oil as our flagship brand. In Asia, including China, demand for lubricant is expected to increase The suppliers in the domestic market are facing difficulties in increasing along with its economic growth, particularly high-quality lubricant sales and generating profits due to flat demand and growing competition products due to growing attention to environmental impact and fuel between suppliers, while in the overseas market, the environmental efficiency. As a major supplier of base oil in Asia, we are strengthening regulations and policies are being tightened to strengthen support for local our leadership position in the market. suppliers. In order to overcome these challenges, we focus on improving product mix, developing cost-saving recipes and attracting new industries. Polymer Our polypropylene production facilities were completed in 1988 with an annual production capacity of 120,000 tons. The current production capacity is about 180,000 tons a year. We have an annual production Propylene PP Composite resins Production capacity Production capacity Production capacity capacity of 476,000 tons of propylene, which is used for polypropylene, (tons/year) (tons/year) (tons/year) thanks to our RFCC process developed in 1995 and VGOFCC in 2013. Our facilities in Korea, China, and the Czech Republic produce polymer compound, which is used for high value-added products such as automobiles and electronics. Their annual production capacity is 270,000 tons. In March 2017, a new plant with an annual capacity of 30,000 tons was completed in Mexico. The most critical risk factor in the petrochemical industry where commodity is a driving force is the fact that profitability can be subject to external factors such as oil prices. In this regard, our polymer business is known to have an optimized portfolio that can distribute risks through vertical integration between upstream and downstream, from propylene to PP and composite resins. View of the VGOFCC (Vacuum Gas Oil Fluidized Catalytic Cracking Unit) at the Yeosu Complex GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 09 Overview Sustainability Management System We manage economic, social and environmental aspects of our business to ensure sustainable growth in a fastchanging global business environment. Since establishing the four CSR strategies and convening the first CSR Committee Meeting in 2010, we have continued to develop our sustainability management system based on risk management and the fulfillment of social responsibilities. CSR Committee With the CEO as chairman, GS Caltex holds a CSR committee meeting on a regular basis. Since its first meeting in 2010, the committee discusses and makes decisions on CSR issues. In the 20th CSR Committee Meeting held in January 2018, we discussed the progress we had made towards improving our ESG practices in 2017 and our improvement plans for 2018, as well as our Maum Talk Talk, which is our social contribution campaign. GS Caltex holds a variety of committee meetings in relation to sustainability management, including the CSR Committee, in order to strengthen our sustainability management system on a corporate-wide level. Each committee undertakes the following activities. Status of Sustainability Management Committee CSR Committee CCM Committee Corporate Compliance HR Committee Committee Corporate-wide discussion Decision-making on Discussion on key issues Discussion and decisionand decision-making on CSRconsumer-oriented strategies of Voluntary Compliance making on key issues of HR related issues and their implementation Program operation and management Information Security Risk Management Safety & Environment Fair Trade Review Committee Committee Committee Committee Corporate-wide discussion and Providing guidelines and Decision-making on EHS Internal reviewing for fair and decision-making on information performance review on risk (Environment, Health, and transparent business practices security and policies management Safety) policies and strategies Shared Growth Strategic Investment Occupational Safety & Health Committee Adjustment Committee Committee Discussion and Reviewing strategic investment Reviewing and resolving of key implementation of shared projects for building midand safety issues for employees growth-related policies long-term portfolio 10 Establishing ESG Database Lately, there is an increasing trend for legislation of CSR. For Korea Productivity Center, we are managing the ‘GS Caltex example, the Indian Government legislated to make corporate ESG Database’ by analyzing global ESG standards such as GRI CSR activities mandatory in 2014 and the EU legislated to Standards, DJSI, UNGC, ISO 26000, and IPIECA. disclose Corporate ESG of which has more than 500 employees The ‘GS Caltex ESG Database’ consists of 56 index titles, 166 from 2018. In Korea, discussion on the stewardship code is requirements, and 849 types of data in categories under the ongoing and the importance of non-financial disclosure is Environment, Society, and Governance fields. The 849 types of growing. data will be divided into CSR global standards, management As a result, global investors and corporations require transparent system (principle, strategy, governance), and qualitative disclosure of non-financial information from its trading partners. and quantitative data. Each data item is classified into three At GS Caltex, we have established an ESG database in 2017 as categories according to its level of importance. an integrated ESG initiative that encompasses everything from In 2018, Human Right Management and Enhancement of policies to performance evaluation in response to the increasing Partner CSR were selected as key areas for performance and a need for evaluation and management of CSR performance. management system will be implemented for these areas. Together with the Sustainability Management Center of the GS Caltex ESG Database ENVIRONMENTAL (14) SOCIAL (22) GOVERNANCE (20) Response to Anti-competition Air pollutants Labor union Employee training External initiatives climate change activities Economic value Water resource risk Employee Biodiversity Diversity creation and Ethics management management satisfaction distribution Human rights of Performance Personal data of Stakeholder Renewable energy Energy security guards retention customers engagement Customer Greenhouse gas Water consumption Benefits Communication Government subsidy management Resource Hazardous Recruitment and Social responsibility General affairs Political engagement consumption material control retention Wastewater Occupational safety Waste discharge Employee status Risk management Product safety discharge & health Environmental Environment Child and forced Infringement of local Marketing Tax compliance general labor community rights communication Human rights Performance Anti-discrimination Anti-corruption impact analysis incentive Human rights policy Partner CSR Stable production Governance general Human rights-based Partner External Compliance investment management commitment Employee Partner due counseling system diligence GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 11 Overview Selection of Material Topics The topics of this report have been selected according to the GRI Standards in consideration of Sustainability Context, Materiality, Completeness, and Stakeholder Inclusiveness. Sustainability Context and Materiality Materiality Assessment Process Our pool of sustainability issues consists Create a pool of 38 issues in the context of sustainability of 38 issues selected based on our internal and external environment in the • 7 issues in economic responsibility context of sustainability. The materiality • 9 issues in environmental responsibility Issue definition • 9 issues in responsibility towards employees is evaluated based on ‘Relevance’ and • 6 issues in responsibility towards customers ‘Impact’. The material issues identified • 7 issues in social responsibility based on the Relevance may have an impact on our business performance if they are not managed properly. Those based on the Impact have major Prioritization impact on business performance and stakeholders. Based on these criteria, we conducted a materiality assessment Global standard analysis Industry benchmarking through comprehensive review of Based on analysis of global standards and We analyzed the sustainability report of six employee surveys, external stakeholder initiatives such as GRI Standards, ISO 26000, of our global competitors and identified surveys, industry benchmarking, and IPIECA and UN SDGs, we focus on ‘Partner ‘new growth engines’, ‘response to climate CSR’ issue. change’, and ‘emission control’ as material media analysis. We then selected 11 issues in the industry. material issues from the pool of 38 sustainability issues. Media analysis Stakeholder and employee survey In February 2018, we conducted online surveys to collect opinions from stakeholders including We selected articles related to sustainability employees, partners, gasoline station managers, management and created a list. Based on shareholders/investors NGOs, academic media analysis, we found that articles about circles, and experts. A total of 441 people took ‘investment in local communities’ and ‘sales the survey and selected ‘new growth engines’ increase’ were most frequent. and ‘prevention of incidents and raising safety awareness’ as the most important issues. 11 material issues were selected based on business relevance and Material issue impact on our stakeholders. selection 12 Completeness Stakeholder Inclusiveness The material issues identified through materiality assessment At GS Caltex, we consider communication with our are reflected in each section of the report while ‘Communication stakeholders as a fundamental part of our sustainable with stakeholders’ is reflected throughout the report. growth. We classify our stakeholders into several groups including government, customers, local community, and Result of Materiality Assessment employees, and established the following communication channels: ➊ ➌ ➋ Classification of Stakeholders & Communication Channels ➒ ➎ Impact ➏ ➍ ➓ ➑ ➐ Key Issues Government NGOs Relevance • Public hearings, discussions, seminars • CSR activities • Website • Newsletter • Discussion • Conferences on economic cooperation • Website, press releases ➊ New growth engines/business diversification ➐ Fair practice ➋ Prevention of incidents and raising safety awareness ➑ Ethics management ➌ Investment in local communities ➒ Mutual growth with partners Labor Unions Partners ➍ Response to environmental regulations ➓ Customer safety and health • Joint labor-management conference • Consultation meetings with partners ➎ Talent recruitment and retention Emission control • Joint labor-management volunteer activities • Web-portal partners ➏ Energy conservation and improvement of efficiency • Joint labor-management campaigns • Satisfaction survey Areas of Reporting Key Areas Impact on Stakeholders Page Shareholders Subsidiaries Employees Core Issues and investors, ➊ customers, NGOs, 16-20 • CEO messages • CEO messages Creating new growth engines • Website, company newsletter, • Company newsletter, internal bulletin board subsidiaries press releases • Employee surveys Core Issues Government, local Response to the new climate regime ➍➏ community, NGOs, 21-27 and environmental management employees Government, Local Community Customers Core Issues local community, ➋ 28-32 • CSR programs • Customer satisfaction survey Building a safe workplace NGOs, employees, • Discussion • Website • SNS channels partners • Website, press releases • Customer Service Center Core Issues Employees, Promoting fair and transparent ➐➑ partners 33-36 practice Management Report Shareholders & Investors ➓ Customers, NGOs 40-44 Customers • Business reports • Disclosure Management Report ➎ Employees 45-49 Employees Management Report ➒ Partners 50-51 Partners Government, Management Report ➌ local community, 52-56 CSR employees GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 13 Overview Business Model At GS Caltex, we are committed to creating values for our stakeholders throughout the entire business process. Supply • Human Resource 2,969 employees • Material Resource 270.5M barrels of crude oil (270,502,436BbLs) • Equity Structure GS Energy 50% Chevron (Overseas) Holdings Ltd. 40% Chevron Global Energy Inc. 10% Production • Refining Capacity 790,000 barrels/day • Aromatic Production Capacity 2.8M tons/year • Base Oil Production Capacity 1.3M tons/year • Lubricant Production Capacity 9,000 barrels/day Sales • 2,563 gasoline stations 399 LPG stations Investment • Domestic market share 25.0% • 11.36M membership subscribers* • Investment in facilities KRW 396.9B • Sales KRW 30,318.4B • Investment in environmental protection • Value of export KRW 21,552.6B KRW 10.2B • Export ratio 71.1% • Investment in R&D KRW 51.9B Value Creation • Total employee compensation KRW 311.9B • Social contribution KRW 17.7B • Low interest loan program for partners KRW 53.1B • Consolidated Operating Profit KRW 2,001.6B • Consolidated Net Profit KRW 1,438.1B * The personal information of about 6 million people was destroyed or separately stored in accordance with the revised validity period of the Information and Communication Network Act. 14 Core Issues Issue 1. Creating New Growth Engines 16 Issue 2. Response to the New Climate Regime 21 and Environmental Management Issue 3. Building a Safe Workplace 28 Issue 4. Promoting Fair and 33 Transparent Practice GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report Core Issues 1 Creating New Growth Engines CONTEXT & CHALLENGE Increased conflict in the Middle East, changing production volume of OPEC, the development of shale oil in the U.S., and intensifying competition in the market with business expansions are having an unpredictable impact on our business practice. The global market is more competitive and volatile than ever with the increase of refineries and exports in China, Asia, and the Middle East. As a result, our earning is fluctuating significantly. To achieve sustainable growth, we have to strengthen our internal competence while proactively responding to this changing environment. Contents Relevant Issues Importance Link to GRI Standards New growth engines/ • R&D performance Key Issues business diversification • New growth engines • GRI 201 Economic Performance Financial stability Reporting Issues • Solid foundation for growth R&D Reporting Issues HIGHLIGHTS Investment in Facilities Investment in R&D V-Project Financial Performance KRW 396.9B KRW 51.9B KRW 265.6B 16 R&D PERFORMANCE Creating New Growth Engines through R&D Projects At GS Caltex, we are committed to strengthening the competitive advantages of our existing business models and creating new growth engines for sustainable growth. Based on the technological expertise and know-how accumulated over the years, we are focusing our resources on R&D projects in biochemical and high value-added derivative sectors while diversifying our product portfolio and driving technological innovation in refining, lubricant and polymer materials sectors. Going forward, we will continue to innovate our products and technology. R&D Facility Investment We invested KRW 50 billion in the Yeosu Complex #2 and completed a bio-butanol demo plant with an annual production capacity of 400 tons in 2017. Currently, we are working on research to find out whether a mass production plant can maintain financial viability of bio-butanol. In addition, we are building a 2,3-BDO (Butanediol) demo plant with an annual production capacity of 300 tons in the Gunjang Industrial Complex with the aim to complete it by 2018 as part of the government's technology development project. Using these facilities, we are going to conduct research for applications in cosmetics, health care, and agricultural pesticide sectors. Key R&D Projects Sector Description Industrial Base Materials Biochemical is produced by microbial treatment of sugar produced from biomass. We are developing biochemical production technology and demand in eco-friendly sectors (e.g. cosmetics, Biochemical Cosmetics and Healthcare health care, pesticide) and reviewing commercialization. We plan to carry out various projects such as downstream research and Agriculture technology verification through scale-up research. Functional Textile In response to market demand for eco-friendly materials, we are High Value-added developing bio-based functional fibers and eco-friendly special Derivatives and Eco-friendly Special Solvent solvents as well as high-performance specialty polymers to meet Materials growing demand for lightweight materials in the automotive Specialty Polymer industry. In order to improve the quality of our refinery products and respond Refining and to changes in eco-friendly energy policy, we are conducting research Oil Petrochemical on quality control. In addition, we are developing high value-added products and improving productivity of our refinery process. Bio-butanol Demo Plant Groundbreaking Ceremony GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 17 Core Issues NEW GROWTH ENGINES Connected Car The connected car market including autonomous driving is expected to grow rapidly due to the development of communication technology and IoT(Internet of Things). In response to this market trend, we acquired 12% of shares in OWIN, a Bluetooth-based connected car technology company. Using the technology, customers can make a non-face-to-face payment with their vehicles as a means for payment. We are planning to expand its offline applications in places such as parking lot and F&B store and develop drive-through service where customers do not even have to get out of their vehicles to present credit cards. As of the end of 2017, there are 17 gasoline stations and 114 F&B stores that support OWIN service. Going forward, we will commercialize the vehicles with the system and increase the distribution of Car IDs (in-car Bluetooth transmitters) in cooperation with automobile manufacturers and credit card service providers. Acquisition of Cardoc Shares In order to attract more automobile maintenance service customers through online and mobile platforms, we acquired 9% of the shares of the startup company, Cardoc, in 2017. The company provides O2O* service that connects the car owner and the exterior maintenance service company using a mobile platform and is expanding its service into new areas such as replacement of lubricant and consumable parts, and premium car wash. We also expect to see synergistic benefit between Cardoc exterior maintenance Cardoc and Auto Oasis, the franchise of GS Mbiz which is one of our subsidiaries. Connect to on-demand exterior maintenance service providers In the second half of 2018, we plan to introduce a new concept of gasoline station that combines highend car wash service with café through collaboration with Cardoc which will provide semi-automatic hand wash service and high-quality food and beverage in the waiting area of the gasoline station under the ‘Cardoc Wash Express’ brand as part of our efforts to offer new service and increase the level of customer satisfaction. * Online to Offline Cardoc Wash Online premium car wash service GSC Start-up Garage At GS Caltex, we held the GSC Start-up Garage to develop and share ideas for collaboration in early 2018. The program is designed to promote open innovation that enables start-up companies to demo Cardoc imported car services or launch a new business with us based on gasoline stations, maintenance LPG stations, mobility maintenance, car wash, and GS & POINT Online sales of maintenance parts and service membership. We will renovate certain gasoline stations located in key for imported cars areas to develop a business model and use it as a test-bed. The startups selected through the process will be able to use the test-bed free of charge for 6 months, and enjoy financial support and opportunities for investment. In the future, we will explore new opportunities for business and create a business model for mutual success. 18 SOLID FOUNDATION FOR Expansion of Petrochemicals & Lubricant Business GROWTH At GS Caltex, we are strengthening the foundation for growth in our existing business sectors including aromatic, polymer, base oil and lubricant. In the aromatic sector, we are gaining competitive advantages by reducing costs and optimizing our process while establishing a sales network in overseas bases in China, Japan, and Southeast Asia to expand our presence in the global market and achieve sustainable growth by developing and increasing sales of high value-added solvent products. Polymer is also another sector on which we are focusing our resources on to drive global sales. Following the operation of the existing composite resin production facilities in China and Czech Republic, we commenced commercial operations in Mexico in March 2017 and secured new customers in North, Central, and South America to increase our overseas sales and ensure sustainable growth. In the base oil industry, we have increased the sales of Group III, which is a high-end base oil, by optimizing the production mode since 2015. We export more than 70% of our total production to the global market and are building a global sales network in China, India and Southeast Asia to develop new customers and expand our influence in the global market. Our lubricant sector is also increasing its overseas sales based on its strong competitive edge and global OEM supply performance. Currently, we’re operating Chinese and Indian subsidiaries and a main office in Russia while expanding our distribution channels in Southeast and Southwest Asia. Financial Stability GS Caltex is committed to secure financial stability in response to increasing volatility and Credit Ratings uncertainties in the business environment. While our cash flow remains robust on the back of strengthened business competitiveness, we maintain appropriate level of debt through debt and cash managements in consideration of our short and long-term business plans. While the debt maturity profile is optimized based on our cash flow, we are also securing sufficient bank credit lines around the world to secure stable source of funding and increase ability to response to emergency Moody’s : Baa1 situations. In addition, our international credit ratings were upgraded to Baa1 and BBB+ early 2018 S&P : BBB+ reflecting prudent financial policy and efforts to meet agencies’ rating triggers. With these upgrades, GS Caltex is able to reduce interest expenses further by funding at competitive rates in domestic and international financial markets. * Based on overseas long-term bonds as of March 2018 GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 19 Core Issues Strengthening Internal Competency Based on V-Project At GS Caltex, we established a corporate-wide organization to strengthen our internal competency on the value chain (crude oil production sales) as part of the V-Project which has played a key role in securing stable revenue streams in the fast-changing business environment. We identified more than 150 items for improvement including crude oil cost reduction, optimization of refinery/upgrade and petrochemical facilities, utility and energy efficiency, and maximizing sales of high value-added products. In 2017, we added 40 more items for shortand long-term improvement activities for sustainable revenue generation to enhance our competitive edge in the market. As a result of the V-Project, we achieved a financial performance of KRW 265.6 billion in 2017. In 2018, as part of the V-Project, we defined areas of improvement for short-term profitability and set flexibility as a key factor in response to changes in our external environment from midto longterm perspectives. Furthermore, we focused on optimizing our investment costs and increasing the competencies of our employees by improving the way we work in areas such as facility design, procurement, and maintenance that did not fall within the scope of our existing activities. We expect to see our financial performance reach KRW 288.6 billion in 2018. V-Project Areas of Improvement & Financial Performance (Unit: KRW 1B) V-Project 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Areas of Improvement (Year of Implementation) Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Expected Wave1(2013) 64.2 99.2 153.9 108.4 84.7 78.4 1. Competitiveness of feedstock 2. Optimization of process Wave2(2014) 61.0 117.0 72.0 61.6 54.9 operation Wave3(2015) 30.7 65.6 57.6 53.5 3. Maximization of product value 4. Optimization of energy/utility Wave4(2016) 27.0 36.7 36.1 5. Reinforcement of Mid-/Long-term Wave5(2017) 25.0 50.7 competitiveness Wave6(2018) 15.0 Grand Total 64.2 160.2 301.6 273.0 265.6 288.6 View of the Yeosu Complex 20 Core Issues 2 Response to the New Climate Regime and Environmental Management CONTEXT & CHALLENGE The demand for energy and environmental management in business practice is growing. At the 21st UN Climate Conference (COP21) held in Paris in December 2015, the Convention on Climate Change was ratified and became effective in November 2016. As a result, industries around the world are changing their structure to reduce GHG emissions. Due to the nature of its business that consumes a significant amount of energy, the refinery industry requires strict control of its energy and environmental impact throughout the entire process, as it may have various impacts on our lives and environment. Energy and environmental management is recognized as an essential part of business practice today and companies have to take a proactive approach in dealing with growing regulatory demands. Contents Relevant Issues Importance Link to GRI Standards Response to environmental regulations Key Issues Energy conservation and • GRI 302 Energy Key Issues improvement of efficiency • GRI 303 Water • Response to climate change Emission control Key Issues • GRI 305 Emissions • Environmental pollution management Response to climate change Reporting Issues • GRI 306 Effluents and Waste Recycling and reduction of • GRI 307 Environmental Compliance Reporting Issues waste materials HIGHLIGHTS Investment in Environmental Annual Energy Reduction Recycling Rate Air Pollutants Protection KRW 10.2B 1,896 TJ 76.2% Reduced by 39.3% * Based on the dust emission compared to the previous year GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 21 Core Issues RESPONSE TO CLIMATE Establishment of New Climate Regime CHANGE With the Paris Agreement and new climate regime in place, countries around the world including South Korea are obliged to reduce GHG emissions. South Korea, the world’s 7th largest GHG emitter, has submitted its plan to the UNFCCC Secretariat to reduce emissions by 37% by 2030. To achieve this target, it is essential to shift the paradigm in the industry to a low-carbon economy. Because the refinery industry uses a significant amount of energy and has a considerable impact on our environment throughout the entire process from production to storage and transportation, stricter management on energy and environment need to be implemented. Now, environmental management is an essential part of our sustainability as much as stable profit generation. Companies must take a proactive approach to their management activities and make them a priority to build a reputation as an eco-friendly business. GHG/Energy Management Plan Preemptive GHG Management Activities The ETS (Emission Trading System) which was implemented in 2015 will enter its second phase in 2018. Based on the experience and expertise we gained during the first phase, we are establishing systemic response strategies through financial impact analysis on GHG emissions. We also Check the Identify particulars of facilities that implemented an internal GHG emission monitoring process and climate change strategies through emission generate status GHG environmental analysis in line with the national GHG reduction roadmap and our business strategies. When making new investments, we conduct an economic evaluation to reflect the impact of GHG emissions on the environment and our value chain at a corporate-wide level to plan our strategy Identify Review the to deal with the new climate regime and seek new business opportunities. We also raise employee corporate-wide information GHG emission about the awareness of GHG emissions by sharing information about GHG and climate change and organizing status facilities internal training programs while creating a culture for GHG reduction. GHG Index (Unit: tCO2eq) Estimate the Estimate the emission factor emission Classification 2015 2016 2017 based on the volume information Scope I : Direct Emissions 6,616,133 6,989,465 6,364,585 (Fixed combustion, mobile combustion and process emission) Scope II : Indirect Emissions 1,818,771 1,438,495 1,442,829 (externally purchased steam and power) * The 2016 data has been changed due to the adjustment made to GHG emissions by the government. 22 Energy Management Activities At GS Caltex, we developed a midto long-term roadmap to respond to changing business environment and strengthen our competitive advantages through energy saving and efficiency programs as part of our energy management activities. Our employees, including managers, share their ideas to save energy and incorporate innovative technologies in our business operation through external consultation and benchmarking. In addition, we take a long-term, macroeconomic approach in investment for energy-saving projects. Due to these efforts, we managed to reduce our energy cost by KRW 20 billion in 2017. We are committed to achieving the goal we set each year. We also take a proactive approach in the government policies on GHG and energy in agreement with the Convention on Climate Change. In response to growing demand for GHG emissions reduction worldwide, we keep track of GHG emissions at the Yeosu Complex on a monthly basis and focus our resources on identifying the activities of reduction and developing the expertise of our human resources. Energy Index (Unit: TJ) Classification 2015 2016 2017 Scope I : Direct Energy Consumption 87,759 93,003 77,784 Scope II : Indirect Energy Consumption 17,657 16,099 16,472 Annual Reduction 2,705 2,562 1,896 * Energy consumption calculation method and unit conversion factor source •Direct consumption: Calculation of calorific value by product after checking the amount of consumption through the flow meter •Unit conversion source: Unit conversion based on the energy caloric conversion standard of the Energy Act Improving Energy Efficiency At GS Caltex, we take a proactive approach in improving energy efficiency in our business site and dealing with climate change. More than 90 energy saving activities were carried out in 2017 as follows: Activities Energy Reduction Cost Reduction Replaced old type air preheater in the CDU process 140 TJ KRW 1.49 billion to improve heater efficiency Replaced burners of heaters in the aromatic process 109 TJ KRW 1.17 billion to reduce fuel consumption Generated LP steam* through waste heat recovery 150 TJ KRW 1.6 billion * Low Pressure Steam GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 23 Core Issues ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION Reduction of Air Pollution MANAGEMENT To make our environment clean and healthy, we take various initiatives in reducing air pollutant emissions. In order to ensure compliance with the emission limit on heating boilers and to reduce particulate matters, sulfur oxides, and nitrogen oxides, we introduced clean fuel such as LNG. In addition, we are replacing the low NOx burner in our heating boilers with the high-efficiency ultra-low NOx burner to reduce the emission of nitrogen oxides while investing a great deal of effort in building facilities such as NOx reductor to minimize the emission of nitrogen oxide. We are going to invest KRW 2.5 billion to add more NOx reductors by 2019. Additionally, in order to reduce sulfur oxides, we plan to invest approximately KRW 51.7 billion in the RFCC process by the first half of 2019 to replace the existing facilities. It is expected to reduce the annual emission of sulfur oxides from 5,000 tons to 300 tons. Meanwhile, our Yeosu Complex is using such reduction facilities as electrical collector, scrubber, RTO* and VRU** to reduce the emission of air pollutants. CleanSYS is installed on the chimneys to automatically measure emissions, so we can collect data and identify the types of pollutant we need to reduce. We will continue to invest in air quality improvement facilities and increase the amount of clean energy for reducing air pollution. * RTO: Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer ** VRU: Vapor Recovery Unit Reduction of Water Contamination At GS Caltex, we manage wastewater produced during our production process on a daily basis through Recycling rate our monitoring system for wastewater sources. We reuse wastewater produced during the process of wastewater for the dealkalization facilities. Since 2017, we have reused the wastewater in our kerosene and diesel refinery and improved the total recycling rate to 18.8%. In the future, we plan to reuse wastewater, 18.8% using high efficiency wastewater treatment facilities (physical, chemical, biological filtering). Waste Materials Management Activities At GS Caltex, we diversify our efforts to reduce the amount of waste we produce and maximize their recyclability. We share the production of waste materials by worksite on a monthly basis and ensure that each type of waste material is stored separately. We also use a computer system to request disposal and an identification system to raise awareness among our employees and partners. To Recycling rate improve the recyclability of waste materials, we work on the development of technologies and look for of waste materials collectors while recycling tank sludge, waste oil, catalyst, synthetic resin, wood, and food for various uses. As a result, we managed to increase recyclability to 76.2% in 2017. Through continuous training 76.2% and inspection, we ensure that waste materials are collected and disposed of without leaving a footprint, while further increasing recyclability of waste. 24 Hazardous Material Management Activities At GS Caltex, we monitor the consumption of hazardous chemicals on a daily basis through the SHE System and make sure that any new chemical substances introduced in our work process are subject to the preliminary review system of the chemical substance portal and investment request review system. By setting our own emission reduction target, we are committed to reducing benzene, toluene, and xylene through the stable operation of marine VRU, installation of aromatic tank VRU, and strengthening of LDAR* management. We provide training programs on a regular basis for response to toxic chemical spills and the prevention of damage. In 2013, the Joint Accident Prevention Agreement was signed with companies in the Yeosu Industrial Complex to establish emergency response measures and organize joint training for chemical accident response. As a representative of the 2nd Group of the Yeosu Industrial Complex**, we hold a seminar for the exchange of information on a quarterly basis and joint training once every six months. In addition, we have reinforced our preparation for hazardous chemical spills by improving our protective gear and emergency chemical substances around each hazardous chemical storage facility. We also conduct inspection of our contractors that handle hazardous chemical substances on a regular basis and offer training programs for their managers as part of our prevention measures. * LDAR : Leak Detection And Repair ** Currently, there are 4 emergency response teams organized by 22 companies in the Yeosu Industrial Complex, and they participate in training and share information to ensure a timely response to industrial accident. Compliance with Government Policies Acts Activities ➊ Planned external impact evaluation/hazard control ➋ Undertook TF activities for improving facilities under the Chemicals Control Act (by 2019) ➌ Distributed personal protective gear under new regulations ➍ Established the procedure of reporting tools and inspecting facilities Chemicals Control Act ➎ Installed facilities for emergency cleaning and to prevent solid catalyst from scattering ➏ Replaced harmful chemical substance warning signs ➐ Conducted regular inspection on the hazardous chemical substance facilities ➑ Established a training program on the Chemicals Control Act (for all employees) Act on the Registration ➊ Built a chemicals control system (improve the purchase process, etc.) and Evaluation, etc. of ➋ Registered chemical substances Chemical Substances ➊ The reduction facilities were upgraded to improve their efficiency (e.g. replacement of NOx reductors and catalyst in SOx elimination process) Clean Air ➋ Introduction of clean fuel (LNG) Conservation Act ➌ Upgraded/replaced heating boiler (minimize the emission of NOx) ➍ Upgraded existing facilities and installed new ones GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 25 Core Issues Prevention of Soil Contamination As part of our commitment for the conservation of soil environment, we have signed an voluntary agreement with the Ministry of Environment. The Yeosu Complex relocated their underground oil pipes on the ground to prevent contamination of soil and groundwater while monitoring systems were installed at every part of the complex to monitor contamination. Protection of Biodiversity We recognize the importance of protecting biodiversity and manage the biodiversity around our business sites in cooperation with the government and local community. There is no eco-system protection zone or habitat of any endangered species in our business sites. In 2017, there was no hazardous chemical spill that affected biodiversity. Protected Areas in Yeosu Classification Description Note Water Source 1 Water Source Protected Area is located in Mipyeong-dong, Yeosu 8.8km from the worksite Protected Area Wildlife There are 4 wildlife protected areas in Yeosu. The closest one is located 6.8km from the worksite Protected Area in 190-1 (san), Jungheung-dong Designated There are 12 designated island areas in Yeosu. The one closest is the 15.8km from the worksite Island Area Gadeok Island Odong Island located in the eastern part of the Yeosu Peninsula is Hallyeohaesang National Park part of the Hallyeohaesang National Park and the front side of the sea : 6.5km from the worksite Nature Park and certain areas of Dolsaneup are designated as Dadohaehaesang Dadohaehaesang National Park National Park : 29km from the worksite Gwangyang Bay Area has been designated as an Air Protected Area Air Protected in accordance with the ‘Designation of Air Protected Area, Ministry of Area Environment #1999-191’ Low Sulfur Oil The sulfur content must be 0.3% or less in fuel oil in accordance with Supply and Use Article 10-2 of the Enforcement Decree of the Clean Air Conservation Area Act, ‘Scope of Low Sulfur Oil Supply and Use Facilities’ Special Located in the Special Controlled Area in the Gwangyang Bay Controlled Area Status of Voluntary Environmental Management Agreements Agreements Terms of Agreement Activities Voluntary Agreement against BAU Reduction of GHG emission in industry sectors to achieve 2014~2020 by 2020 the national GHG target against BAU by 2020 Voluntary Agreement for Soil Prevention of soil contamination by oil spills, voluntary 2013~2023 Preservation inspection and recovery Joint Agreement for Emergency Establishment of emergency response plan for the 2013~ Response to Chemical Accident prevention and recovery of chemical accidents Agreement on SMART Program for Reduction of emissions fo benzene(by 60%) and 2013~2017 Chemical Emission Reduction butadien(by 14%) from 2009 to 2017 26 Environmental indicators Indicators 2015 2016 2017 Dust 179.0 165.9 100.7 Nitrogen oxide (NOx) 4,151.5 4,374.1 3,221.4 Volume of Air Pollutants Sulfur oxides (SOx) 6,304 7,392.1 7,479.9 (ton) Carbon monoxide (CO) 757.5 395.4 649.9 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 116.5 109.8 107.4 Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) 80.5 95.6 66.8 Dust** 4.8/30 5.7/30 3.8/30 Concentration Level of Air Pollutants* Nitrogen oxide (NOx) 88.0/150 83.3/150 88.8/150 (ppm) Sulfur oxides (SOx) 59.2/180 62.1/180 37.4/180 ※ GSC State/Legal Req. Carbon monoxide (CO) 32.3/200 24.2/200 27.1/200 Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) 119.7 172.8 169.7 Volume of Water Pollutants Chemical oxygen demand (COD) 132.4 140.2 202.8 (ton) Suspended solids (SS) 85.7 82.3 71.2 Concentration Level of Water Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) 6.8/30 6.9/30 7.7/30 Pollutants*** Chemical oxygen demand (COD) 10.1/40 9.2/40 10.7/40 (ppm) ※ GSC State/Legal Req. Suspended solids (SS) 2.2/30 3.2/30 3.3/30 Designated waste 22,461 21,165 23,972 General waste 18,481 20,726 19,371 Recyclable 28,668 30,001 33,018 Volume of Waste Material Composting 276 263 281 (ton) Collected (incl. energy) 19,544 19,129 23,040 Incinerated 3,029 2,596 2,316 Buried 9,163 9,294 8,009 Misc. 8,929 10,609 9,697 Water Consumption (ton/day) Annual average consumption 53,930 55,487 56,068 Wastewater (ton/day) Annual average effluent 26,942 28,542 27,488 Caustic soda (NaOH) 25,521 30,398 29,824 * Dust/ NOx/SOx Effluent quality standards and average concentration Hazardous Chemical Sulfuric acid (H2SO4) 1,123 770 1,155 level of standard heaters and boilers Consumption Carbon monoxide (ton) Hydrochloric acid (HCI) 1,666 1,840 1,703 Effluent quality standards of Incineration facility Ammonia (NH3) 462 579 535 ** Dust Unit : mg/m3 *** Effluent quality standards and concentration level Wastewater and Marine Contamination 22.5 20.0 6.0 of ocean effluence Air 21.6 52.6 36.3 ※ Pollutant Discharge Facilities Investment in Environmental Volatile Organic Compounds 0.4 2.1 0.0 • Air Pollutant Discharge Facilities Protection RFCC CO Boiler, Heater, Package Boiler (KRW 100M) Soil Contamination 73.1 51.8 47.2 • Water Pollutant Discharge Facilities Misc. 16.1 Petroleum Refinery Facilities, Basic Petrochemical Compound Production Facilities, Industrial Water Total 117.6 126.5 105.6 Purification Facilities GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 27 Core Issues 3 Building a Safe Workplace CONTEXT & CHALLENGE With growing concern about safety and recent industrial accidents, safety and health management is more important than ever in our industry and the prevention of accidents is an essential part of maintaining sustainable growth and competitive advantages. As corporate citizens, companies take a proactive approach in creating safer workplaces and work toward sustainable growth while strengthening their safety and healthcare policies and regulations. In this context, GS Caltex sets SHEQ (Safety, Health and Environment Quality) as the highest priority and carries out corporate-wide SHEQ activities. Contents Relevant Issues Importance Link to GRI Standards Prevention of accident and • Occupational safety and Key Issues • GRI 403: Occupational safety awareness health management Health and Safety Employee health Reporting Issues HIGHLIGHTS Employees/Partners TRIR 0.09 DAFWR 0.01 28 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND SHEQ Management System HEALTH MANAGEMENT Recognizing the importance of SHEQ management in our business practice, we have established the SHEQ management system to fulfill our social responsibility beyond the legal requirements. We established and revised our regulations in agreement with 8 Corporate SHEQ Policies. Our system SHEQ Management Policies undergoes the process of setting goals, planning, implementation, inspection, and improvement in •Disclose our SHEQ data to the local community accordance with the ‘Plan-Do-Check-Action Cycle’. and stakeholders. •Create SHEQ-based culture in compliance with the laws and regulations and voluntary SHEQ Management System practice. •Innovate our SHEQ management system to track our progress and realize improvement SHEQ SHEQ Internal SHEQ Work SHEQ Manual/ while conducting training programs. Regulations Process/Guidelines Standards Management Based on Corporate-wide Detailed Work Detailed Unit Activities •I ncorporate safety in our practice and Policies Standards Protocols and R&R Directions for Performance ensure the safety of facilities. •I mprove our working environment and healthcare program for our employees and partners. • SHEQ Management • Safety Management Setting Goals & Inspection & •R educe emission of contaminants and • Accident Management • Health Management Planning Implementation Assessment conserve our environment. • Emergency Response • Environment Management • Safety, Health, and • Quality Control of Virtuous •Deliver high quality products and services Circle System Environment Training Petroleum Products through consistent quality control. • SHEQ Management of Partners • Safety & Environment Performance •Cooperate with our partners to maintain the • SHEQ Communication Assessment Review highest standards in SHEQ management. Internalization of Process Safety Management GS Caltex recognizes that safety is essential for sustainable growth and creates a workplace culture with a strong commitment to safety. We understand that it is important to promote active communication among employees and raise safety awareness and safe practices. We must also create a consistent system and safe facilities while enhancing our response to emergency situations. At GS Caltex, we continue to enhance the level of our response and operation in accordance with PSM*. We make sure that all our employees understand the 12 items of PSM and internalize each area of emergency response, including Human (Education and Training, Accident Investigation, Partner Management, and Internal Audit), Facilities (Facilities Maintenance and Pre-Safety Checkup), and System/Technology (Process Safety Data, Safety Operation Instruction Procedures, Safety Work Permit Procedures, Process Risk Assessment, and Change Management) for voluntary compliance. In 2017, we conducted a safety environment analysis in the areas of Human, Facilities and Systems based on the 12 PSM factors and the Chevron SHE Assessment Protocol in order to make the analysis focus on objective and quantitative data. In addition, by implementing an advanced risk-assessment system, we reduced risk factors in our workplaces in order to create a workplace free of accidents. * Process Safety Management GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 29 Core Issues Internalization of Process Safety Raising Safety Awareness Management System At GS Caltex, we create a self-reliant safety culture by raising awareness and improving safety Human practices for voluntary compliance. We are working with DuPont, a company with the highest standards in safety, to establish the ‘Safety Culture Program’ and encourage our leaders to set an example for their coworkers and take the initiative in promoting active communication for safety issues. We also provide a variety of programs for our partners to raise awareness and help them stay motivated. While supporting the establishment of the Safety and Health Management System (KOSHA Emergency 18001) to foster expertise in risk assessment, we help our partners improve their safety management System/ Facilities Response practice through the Work Certification System. Technology Improving Facility Safety Occupational Safety Certifications Our facilities are designed, built, and operated with the highest level of safety in the world. For the Certifications Workplaces last 50 years, we have checked and maintained the safety of our facilities using our state-of-theIncheon Logistics Center art inspection and diagnostic system and replaced any outdated facilities. From 2014 to 2016, we OHSAS (from 2002) conducted a safety assessment on vulnerable parts of our facilities and established our mid to long18001 Busan Logistics Center term Reliability Master Plan to be reached by 2020, to make continuous improvement. All facilities are (from 2002) operated in strict compliance within the safety range. If they go outside the range, the alarm system Incheon Logistics Center KOSHA (from 2013) is activated and the process operation system stops automatically. Based on our 50 years of operation 18001 Incheon Lubricant Plant expertise, we continuously develop the expertise of our operators to maintain the highest level of (from 2011) safety and emergency response at all times. Firefighting Drill in GS Caltex Yeosu Complex 30 Upgrading the Safety System/Technology At GS Caltex, we assess our risks using advanced, practical techniques for more consistent analysis of risks in the petrochemical. By revising our former risk assessment system to the HAZOP-LOPASIL-QRA* system, we are undertaking a risk assessment lasting until 2022. To maintain a high level of safety in our operation, we ensure that safety requirements are met prior to undertaking the work through advanced, practical risk assessment, and all our activities comply with our safety plan. While work is in progress, safety supervisors are allocated to ensure safety compliance. When changes are needed, the risk assessment is resumed and the safety work plan is revised. If any part of the work is found to be unsafe during the operation, it is stopped until safety issues are rectified. To make sure our SHEQ management system is operated effectively, we carry out objective safety environment diagnosis with some of the best experts in Korea. The Safety Environment Diagnosis is conducted on a regular team-by-team basis through a quantified checklist. We use advanced techniques so the areas of Human, Facilities, System/Technology, and Emergency Response can be identified in a comprehensive and consistent manner. In addition, we conduct an API** safety environment diagnosis every three years at our workplace while conducting an assessment of safety culture every two years to identify the areas of improvements and continue to raise the level of safety. * Hazard and Operability Study, Layer of Protection Analysis, Safety Integrity Level, Quantitative Risk Assessment) ** American Petroleum Institute Emergency Response System Establishment At GS Caltex, we established an Emergency Response Team in 2014, to expedite our emergency response process in case of industrial accidents, safety and environmental accidents, and natural disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons, 24 hours a day. Based on the ‘GS Caltex Emergency Response Manual,’ we clarify the responsibilities of our employees in emergency situations while simplifying our reporting system so that we can promptly respond when an accident occurs. At each workplace, an emergency response scenario is prepared. Training is conducted on a monthly basis while unannounced emergency response training is conducted at our headquarters. The Yeosu Complex has a system of dispatching 200 emergency personnel as the first line of response, and 100 personnel as the second line of response. In addition, we are focusing on strengthening the emergency response and preparedness of all our employees through fire drills at the largest fire training facility in Korea, in order to minimize death and property damage as well as environmental impact. Occupational Safety Drills Classification Drills 2017 Corporate-wide Corporate-wide Firefighting/Response Drills 1 time/quarter Firefighting Drills 3 times/year (by shift) On & Offshore Oil Spill Response Drills 3 times/year (by shift) Workplace* Emergency Response Drills 16 times/year Process Dry Training Drills** 1 time/month (by shift) Early Response Drills 1 time/month (by shift) * The drills at the workplace are based in the Yeosu complex, and internal drills are conducted under individual guidelines in each place ** One type of training according to the emergency response scenario GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 31 Core Issues Health Management in the Workplace At GS Caltex, we provide various healthcare programs and facilities to help our employees maintain their health and deal with musculoskeletal disease, smoking, and obesity. At the Yeosu Complex, we operate a clinic with specialized medical staff including doctors, nurses, medical laboratory technologist and emergency rescue personnel and the latest medical equipment. The clinic can provide basic medical services such as first aid treatment, blood tests, hearing tests, and X-ray examinations as well as follow-up examinations if necessary. In addition, we established an MSDS* management system to manage and train throughout the entire business process (purchase-production-sale). We also provide various healthcare support including protective gear, work environment analysis and special medical check-ups for our employees. * Material Safety Data Sheet Occupational Safety & Health Indicators Classification 2015 2016 2017 TRIR* 0.05 0.07 0.09 Employees/ Partners DAFWR** 0.03 0.03 0.01 TRIR* 0.03 0.03 0.13 DAFWR** 0.00 0.03 0.00 Employees Work-related Death – Male(Persons) 0 0 0 Work-related Death – Female(Persons) 0 0 0 TRIR* 0.07 0.10 0.06 DAFWR** 0.07 0.03 0.03 Partners Work-related Death – Male(Persons) 0 1 0 Work-related Death – Female(Persons) 0 0 0 * Total Recordable Incident Rate = Number of incidents / working hours * 200,000 Number of incidents (any injuries, illnesses, and fatalities excluding those equivalent to or less serious than incidents requiring first aid) that occur every 200,000 working hours ** Days Away From Work Rate = Number of incidents that cause a loss of work / working hours * 200,000 Number of incidents that cause a loss of one or more days’ work every 200,000 working hours Efforts to Prevent Accidents in our Workplace In August 2017, a fire accidentally broke out in a heavy oil upgrading facility, Yeosu Complex. After the accident, we inspected the entire facility to find the cause and make the necessary improvements to prevent recurrence, while carrying out an in-depth safety analysis on similar processes with outside specialist agencies. In addition, we carried out continuous improvements throughout the system, from layout to emergency response, and took our safety to the upper level. At GS Caltex, we focus on safety culture programs to raise awareness and internalization of PSM to prevent industrial accidents. 32 4 Promoting Fair and Transparent Practice CONTEXT & CHALLENGE Corporate ethics management has both direct and indirect impact on legal risk and productivity as it affects employees’ attitude and conduct. Most global companies have ethical management systems in line with social standards and are engaged in various activities to build an ethical workplace culture. In addition, multinational companies have to implement a well-structured compliance system to deal with the risk of violations of anti-corruption and anti-trust laws in certain countries where there are no proper regulations. Contents Relevant Issues Importance Link to GRI Standards • Ethics management Ethical management Key Issues • GRI 205: Anti-corruption • Fair trade Fair practice Key Issues • GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior HIGHLIGHTS Number of ethical management Number of official letters sent Number of violations against training participants for ethical management fair practice in 2017 2,120 (Online) 5,875 Zero 842 (Offline) GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 33 Core Issues ETHICAL MANAGEMENT Ethical Management System We established the Code of Ethics in 1994 as a framework for ethical management and our compliance program was implemented in 2001, through which we built a compliance officer appointment system and related reporting system under the CEO’s compliance policy. Our ethical management activities are reported through the Audit Committee under BOD twice a year. Compliance Management Organization In order to implement consistent compliance management, we have CCO* and UCO** at each division and subsidiary. Individual compliance activities are reported to the BOD while we encourage oversight and compliance at our business sites by organizing the Compliance Management Committee consisting of CCO and UCO on an annual basis. * Corporate Compliance Officer ** Unit Compliance Officer Compliance Management Activities Every year, we organize corporate-wide compliance programs, particularly ethics training for new employees, to ensure full compliance with the Code of Ethics and Rules of Conduct. We also provide ethical management training for employees of our partners. At the quarterly Compliance Management Committee meetings for CCO and UCO, we discuss compliance issues and review the progress. Additionally, we sent 5,875 letters to our customers and partners not to send traditional holiday gifts in 2017. Compliance Management Organization and Report System BOD CEO Audit Committee Appointment of CCO Corporate Corporate Reward / Compliance Compliance Punishment Officer Officer Committee (Legal Team) (CCO) Compliance Management Reporting Committee Unit Compliance Officer Each Unit (UCO) Head of Unit * Including CCOs of Training & Dissemination subsidiaries Appointment of UCO 34 Compliance Programs All GS Caltex employees are obliged to take the CCP* and submit the Pledge of Compliance every year to reaffirm their commitment to ethical practice. The CCP consists of subjects essential to day-to-day business such as ethical principles, fair trade, prevention of sexual harassment, information security, and CCM**. These programs are also implemented at our subsidiaries worldwide. They were updated to reflect regulatory changes and new systems in place in 2017. * Corporate Compliance Program ** Consumer Centered Management Raising Awareness of Ethical Management We raise awareness of ethical practice by organizing ethics campaigns for our employees. We also send out CEO messages to our employees to ensure ethical compliance before traditional holidays as part of our ethical compliance program. Anti-corruption and Bribery Prevention System in Supply Chain • Ethics Management Reporting Line +82-2-2005-6011 At GS Caltex, we promote shared and sustainable growth by ensuring that our customers, ethics@gscaltex.com shareholders, and employees, as well as other stakeholders such as partners, local communities, and environment, fulfill their ethical and social responsibility throughout the entire business process. • Sexual Harassment We post our ethics management initiatives and the full Code of Ethics on our Ethics Management Reporting Line +82-2-2005-6012 website*, while providing specialized counseling service for inquiries and ethical dilemmas that they may face in the course of business. In addition, we have established an anonymous ethics management reporting line to make it easy for our employees and stakeholders to report any violations and corrupt/unfair practices. * http://ethics.gscaltex.com Ethical Management Training Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Online Persons 1,963 2,052 2,120 GS Caltex employees who participated in training Offline Persons 871 833 842 Partner employees who Offline Persons 20 22 participated in training Letters sent for work ethics Cases 6,148 5,964 5,875 GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 35 Core Issues FAIR TRADE Consultative Bodies and Organizations for Fair Trade At GS Caltex, we have formed a fair trade organization consisting of executives and employees to ensure consistent compliance. We also monitor regulatory changes to adapt accordingly. Fair Trade Review Committee The Fair Trade Review Committee was organized to review compliance with the laws and regulations prior to undertaking any business practices. Under the committee, there are the Internal Trade Member of The Korea Fair Review Committee, which reviews relations with businesses in which we are in a special relationship, Competition Federation such as affiliates, and the Subcontractor Review Committee, which reviews business relations with small and medium-sized companies. Private organization authorized by the Fair Trade Commission, It was established to Fair Work Process Team provide online and offline training, legal At GS Caltex, we have the Fair Work Process Team in charge of communication with organizations counseling, and suggestions for improving the and consultation for business units within our company. The team ensures compliance with laws such government policies. as the ‘Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act’, the ‘Fair Trade Practices Act for Subcontractors’ and the ‘Fair Supplier-Vendor Trade Practices Act.’ Fair Trade Compliance Activities Internal Trade Review Committee The Internal Trade* Review Committee was organized to ensure fair practice in internal business relations. The committee reviews compliance with applicable laws (e.g. Fair Trade Act, Commercial Act, Tax Act, etc.) and keeps our business departments informed of compliance issues as they take the necessary follow-up measures based on the result. * Internal trade: Business dealing with businesses with which we are in a special relationship (e.g. affiliates) Subcontractor Review Committee The Subcontractor Review Committee operates to ensure fair business dealings with subcontractors. The committee reviews compliance with the Fair Trade Practices Act for Subcontractors before dealing with small and medium-sized companies. Employee Training Fair Trade Act At GS Caltex, we organize mandatory employee training on an annual basis to ensure fair business Violations in 2017 practice while providing offline training programs for new employees, as well as those with job Zero experience and occasional training programs tailored to the needs of each business department all year long. 36 Management Report Corporate Governance 38 Risk Management 39 Customers 40 Employees 45 Partners 50 Corporate Social Responsibility 52 Management Report Corporate Governance Composition of the BOD Ownership Structure (Unit: %, 1,000 shares) The GS Caltex Board of Directors is comprised of executives from GS and Chevron with professional expertise and risk Chevron Global management skills. As of June 2018, there are two inside GS Energy 50 Energy Inc. directors and eight non-standing directors. They are appointed Shares 10 Shares 2,600 13,000 each year at the General Meeting of Shareholders based on their professional qualifications in accordance with its internal policies. 40 Chevron (Overseas) Holdings Ltd. Shares 10,400 Composition of the BOD (As of June 2018) BOD Management & Prevention of Conflict of Interest Classification Name Job Title Chairman & CEO Jin-Soo Huh Inside GS Caltex Corporation As our Board members are executives from each company, Directors President, Petroleum Business Hyung Kuk Kim GS Caltex Corporation their compensation schemes follow the internal policies of their respective company, and no additional compensation Vice Chairman & CEO Young-Bong Ha is granted for their Board-related activities. The Board GS Energy Corporation Vice Chairman & CEO resolutions require an affirmative vote of more than twoTaik Keun Jung GS Holdings Corporation thirds of all registered directors, as stated in the Articles of President & CEO Incorporation. In order to guarantee the independent operation Saehong Hur GS Global Corporation of the BOD and prevent possible conflicts of interest, any President Board members who have a special interest in the agenda will Andy B. Walz Chevron Downstream & Chemicals, be prohibited from voting in regard to that particular issue. International Products Non-standing Vice President Directors The Board Support Office provides support to the directors Navin K. Mahajan Chevron Downstream & Chemicals, Finance on all Board matters, including preparation of the agenda for Board meetings, through proactive communication and Vice President John J. Kuehn Chevron Downstream & Chemicals, cooperation with related divisions. Board members are Strategy, Planning & Technology provided with meeting materials at least one week before the CEO actual meeting to ensure enough time to review the agenda William L. Stone Singapore Refining Company items. Seven Board meetings were held in 2017 to review and Country Chairman approve key agenda items such as the 2018 Business Plans, William J. Miner Chevron Korea investment in VRHCR Revamp Project, and approval of RFCC Wet Gas Scrubber Project. Roles of the Board Committees Classification Composition Role Operation of Committees in Support of the BOD Review and discussion of Accountability Committee 2 governance-related issues The BOD operates separate committees including the Review and discussion of Accountability Committee, Audit Committee (different from Audit Committee 4 compliance program and major audit issues the Audit Committee under the commercial code), and LNG Procurement Management Committee. The members of each LNG Procurement Review and discussion of 2 committee provide support based on their responsibilities and Management Committee LNG related issues roles to ensure the reliable and transparent operation of the BOD. 38 Financial Risk Management Risk Management In response to increasingly more volatile business and industrial environment, we focus on maintaining financial stability. We keep our borrowing at a safe level based on stable Risk Management Governance cash flow and secure sufficient credit lines to finance and maintain strong risk management. In response to the changing business environment, we have organized risk management teams: RM Operation Team, RM Strategy Team, and Accounting Team to monitor and analyze Non-financial Risk Management risks, and report the results. As the demand for sustainable practice has grown, so has the Risk Management Teams importance of social and environmental issues. The CSR Team coordinates with other teams to manage non-financial risk while Classification Key Activities executive officers attend CSR Committee meeting to review Report on issues and current agenda through daily RM Operation market monitoring, and propose and implement corporate-wide sustainability issues, activities and performance. Team derivatives trading Analyze market and price, conduct risk assessment, and In 2017, we focused on building ESG DB. In 2018, we will take a more RM Strategy Team trade derivatives on a weekly/monthly basis proactive approach in dealing with non-financial risk by establishing Monitor and report internal risk management activities a code of conduct for our partners and human rights policy. Accounting Team and compliance Emerging Risk Management The Risk Management Committee meeting comprising CEO and executive officers is held on a quarterly basis, where we Crude Oil & Petroleum Price Fluctuations review major risks and plan mitigation strategies. • Oil prices are highly sensitive to geopolitical and economic Risk Management Committee Profile uncertainties including inter-state trade disputes. Overview • The price of petroleum products too are subject to various Classification Description external factors such as supply-demand and inventory Chairman CEO fluctuations. General Manager of Petroleum BU, General Manager Impact on • Oil and petroleum product prices have major impact on Committee of Chemical BU, Corpoate Planning Office Manager, Business production cost and sales. Members Finance Office Manager, Managing Director of Supply & Trading, Singapore Regional Head • We use derivatives such as futures and options to hedge the risks of volatile oil and product prices while organizing Head of Corporate-wide Optimization Division, Head Activities quarterly Risk Management Committee meetings as part Board Members of Aromatics Division, Head of Crude Oil Product of our risk management. Division, Head of Financial Resource Division Secretary/ Head of RM Division, Head of Accounting Division / Secretariat RM Strategy Team, Accounting Team Changing Market due to Climate Change Provide guidelines on risk management and review Activities performance • The increasing regulatory demand on GHG emissions Overview and investment in renewable energy is shifting the energy Frequency 4 times a year (quarterly basis) paradigm. *As of June 2018 •T  he investment in GHG emission reduction is expected Risk Management for Price Fluctuation Impact on to increase while the demand for petroleum products is Business declining due to improved energy efficiency. GS Caltex is focused to secure financial stability in response to • We are establishing midto long-term strategies to adapt increasing volatility and uncertainties in the business environment. to the shift in the energy paradigm and reviewing the We’re maintaining appropriate level of debt with solid cash flow Activities impact of GHG on our new business investments and the generation and secure sufficient credit lines to increase financial operation of existing facilities for sustainable growth and development. flexibility and maintain strong risk management. GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 39 Management Report Customers ECO-FRIENDLY PRODUCTS Development of Eco-friendly Products At GS Caltex, we support low-carbon energy policies by developing by Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning in 2015, and energy efficient eco-friendly products. Our gasoline, diesel, and for Green Technology by the Ministry of Environment in 2016. kerosene products boast superior quality thanks to our cuttingIn 2017, it was named Top 100 Technologies to Lead Korea in edge refining process. We are also working on the development of 2025 by the NAEK (National Academy Engineering of Korea). next-generation eco-friendly technologies such as biobutanol. As a result of our technological innovation, we completed the mechanical construction of the demo plant for the production GS Caltex Kixx high-quality gasoline contains a high-purity of bio-butanol in Yeosu, Jeonnam at the end of 2017, and functional additive that protects the key parts of the engine and operation is scheduled to start in July 2018. significantly reduces the emission of hazardous substances *New Excellent Technology in full compliance with environmental standards. It also maximizes the engine performance of vehicles for better fuel efficiency and driving comfort. Response to the EU REACH Our diesel products also feature excellent ignitability and At GS Caltex, we are implementing our response to the EU power, containing a high-performance flow improver for REACH* under a proactive and systematic plan to protect the better ignition at low temperatures. Produced at our advanced environment and people’s health by identifying the hazards desulfurization facilities, they have been recognized as ecoand risks of chemicals. Since preregistration in 2008, we friendly products with five stars, which is the highest level by have registered our products exported more than 1,000 tons the Ministry of Environment for more than 10 years. (2010) and 100 tons (2013) to Europe. By 2018 all chemical exports exceeding 1 ton will be registered. Our customers in Our kerosene is highly purified and eco-friendly with less Europe and those who export our chemical products to Europe emissions of harmful gas as it is produced through our advanced ensure their confidence. In addition to the EU REACH, we are refinery process. It produces less petroleum odor and helps committed to strict compliance with domestic and overseas promote comfortable environments. It was certified by the chemical substance registration and evaluation systems. Ministry of Environment for eco-friendly attributes as the sulfur * Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of CHemicals content is less than 30ppm, which is 33% of the legal limit. Development of Eco-friendly Biofuel We also lead the development of eco-friendly biofuel. Through our in-house R&D project that began in 2007, we have secured technology that integrates the pretreatment, saccharification, fermentation, and separation/purification processes needed for mass production of biobutanol from non-edible wood waste, and succeeded in developing highperformance strains. Our biobutanol production technology is eco-friendly as it can reduce GHG emissions and was certified for NET* by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy in 2014, K/D HDS(Kero-Diesel Hydrodesulfurization Unit), which removes sulfur and nitrogen top 10 Technologies of Korea for Climate Change Response compounds, aromatic compounds, and metal components and increases specifications such as cetane number and fluidity. 40 Customers QUALITY MANAGEMENT Quality Inspection Status When it comes to motor fuel, quality control is crucial as it Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 has a significant impact on atmospheric environment and Quality inspection Number vehicle performance. As engine technology makes advances on gasoline stations of times 4,676 4,426 5,217 along with driving performance while consumer interest and knowledge grows, product quality control has become more Quality inspection Number 424 439 479 important than ever. Consumers are extremely sensitive to on LPG stations of times product quality as they experience the effects on their vehicles and fuel efficiency About Kixx Quality Service Vehicles Production and Management of Competitive Products Equipped with systems that can detect defective and Purpose illegal petroleum products, the vehicles perform on-site sampling and quality inspections at GS Caltex stations Complex Terminal Gasoline station/Customers Selection of stations or ·More stringent ·Quality inspection Onsite quality analysis emergency inspection quality control than before receipt ·Operation of Kixx legal requirements ·Quality inspection quality service Operation ·Quality inspection for products in vehicles Process before shipment long-term storage Follow-up Output process and (send the samples to the guidance lab if required) Strict Product Quality Control ○ Gasoline analysis: GS Caltex carries out rigorous quality control in the entire FT-NIR (Fourier Transform-Near Infrared business process from production to sales. Our products VehicleSpectrometer) mounted ○ Detection of kerosene in diesel: are subject to quality standards that are stricter than the Equipment Colorimeter, UV Spectrometer legal requirements, and quality inspection is carried out on ○ Detection of water content and sediment: incoming and long-term storage products in addition to those moisture detection reagent, centrifugal separator being shipped out. Metropolitan Area We also maintain quality assurance in the distribution process Team A, B (2 vehicles) Seoul Metropolitan Area, which is our customer contact point. Quality issues can result Gangwon-do in sales suspension or loss to consumers when the return process is not properly carried out. Since 2007, we have been operating ‘Kixx Quality Service Vehicle’, the first in the industry Daejeon Team (1 vehicle) Chungcheong-do to carry out quality testing of gasoline stations nationwide. We also ensure a prompt response to complaints and emergency situations. In addition, ‘LPG Quality Service Vehicles’ has been Busan Team (1 vehicle) Gyeongsang-do operating since 2013 while maintaining the highest quality standards to ensure full compliance with legal requirements Gwangju Team (1 vehicle) and prevent any violations at LPG stations. Jeolla-do GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 41 Management Report Customers CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Consumer Centered Management As a result of our efforts to create values for consumers and great response from customers through an acoustic concert at achieve the highest level of satisfaction, we became the first famous travel destinations nationwide. In addition, GS Caltex company in the industry to receive CCM* certification in 2010 is continuously developing customer satisfaction programs and certifications for 5 consecutive years (2012, 2014, 2016, such as soccer and baseball training, Escort Kids, and a sports and 2018). program known as ‘GS & SPORTS’ where parents and children can play sports together. We provide consultation services through our Customer Service Center (CSC; 1544-5151 or kixx.co.kr), an integrated channel for A large-scale year-round online event, ‘I am your Cinema’, has customer consultation services established to promptly handle contributed to our brand differentiation since it was launched customer complaints and inquiries. We also continue to invest in 2006 as part of our marketing program. We also share in fostering professional service representatives and improving our unique and entertaining value of ‘adding fun to filling up’ the call service infrastructure, thereby handling customer through the ‘Lucky Receipt Event’, one of our biggest annual complaints more expeditiously and enhancing customer promotions to show customer appreciation. satisfaction of the complaint-handling process. Customer complaints received through the CSC are analyzed Enhancing Mobile Business using Smart Platform and used for improvement and prevention of recurrence To improve our brand experience and encourage participation while progress is monitored after their implementation. In of consumers, we introduced ‘Smart Gas’ service which is a order to protect personal data of our customers, we have also mobile-based communication platform. Smart Gas provides maintained the PIMS (Personal Information Management useful information and benefits for users in real time through System) certification status until 2018 after acquiring it for the the GS & POINT application. first time in the industry in 2013. * Consumer Centered Management: the certification system for consumercentered business operation and improvement evaluated by the Korea Consumer In order to respond promptly to the rising purchasing influence Agency and certified by the Fair Trade Commission. of customers and their right to choose information in line with the development of mobile-based ICT, we will increase the number of Smart gas stations and expand their utility values. Various Promotional Events GS & POINT, the membership program of GS Group, provides membership benefits like travel, sports, and cultural experiences for a ‘Happy Family Life’. In 2017, we further enhanced our communication channels through promotional events such as ‘Bingo Promotion’, ‘GS & Camping Season 5 : Midsummer Night Mini-Concert’, and ‘Who will win 188g of gold?’ and provided various benefits for more than 100,000 customers. Through GS & Camping, which has been held for 5 years since 2013, we invited more than 150 family members on six occasions in 2017 and received a 42 Systematic Pricing At GS Caltex, we determine product prices through a Customer Satisfaction Performance transparent and systematic pricing process. Global crude oil Classification 2015 2016 2017 prices, changes in exchange rates, global petroleum product prices and other relevant factors are properly reflected in our Valid Valid CCM Certification for 2 years Certified for 2 years pricing, while we increase our cost competitiveness and make since 2014 since 2016 sure consumers benefit from it. We will maintain a consistent pricing structure not only to offer reasonable prices to our Excellent Excellent Excellent KSQI* customers but to stabilize domestic oil prices and enhance Call Center Call Center Call Center consumer satisfaction. Average time handling customer 0.7 day 0.8 day 0.7 day complaints Star Service Team Offers Unique Experience Ranked 1st Ranked 1st Ranked 1st NCSI (National Customer At GS Caltex, we operate a Star Service Team to provide (for 7 (for 8 (for 9 Satisfaction Index) professional service training in order to improve customer consecutive consecutive consecutive Gasoline Station Category years) years) years) experience by offering standardized services. Providing on-site service training for over two decades since its 16.99 million 17.57 million 11.36 million Membership subscribers** establishment in 1997, the Star Service Team has contributed subscribers subscribers subscribers to our achievement of taking first place in the gasoline station Domestic market share 24.8% 25.6% 25.0% category of the National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) for nine consecutive years. * Korea Service Quality Index ** ‌The number of membership subscribers has changed from the previous year The Star Service Team also works to standardize the service as the data of about 6 million people were destroyed or stored separately in accordance with the revision of the validity period of the Information and manual and offers the ‘Green Star Training Program’ to Communication Network Act (separate storage requirements). consistently improve the quality of our services. It also serves as a VOC channel delivering the voices of on-site workers to relevant departments. Service Training at Gasoline Stations GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 43 Management Report Customers INFORMATION SECURITY Security Target Facilities’, and meet the security requirements under the laws (e.g. United Defense Act, Security Policies) while implementing the national infrastructure protection plan in response to emergency situations. In the event of a Organization and Management of Information Security disaster or emergency situation, we ensure that our petroleum production and storage are maintained and controlled in an To respond to various security threats, protect our assets, and effective manner while preventing interruption of supply and ensure reliable business practice and safety, we have implemented operation. consistent information security policies while operating our information security system in accordance with laws and standards. Internal Security Measures As our top decision-making organization in information security, our ‘Information Security Committee’ is composed At GS Caltex, we examine our security issues identified of the executive officers of each division with CISO* as the in Korea as well as other countries through our security chairman for discussing investment, activities and current organization composed of top experts in the industry. To issues regarding personal information protection, prevention of prevent security breaches, we conduct various employee cyber-crime, and raising employee awareness. Furthermore, training and programs including scenario-based simulations, we conduct annual information security and personal data security seminars, and campaigns. protection training for all our employees. * Chief Information Security Officer We are also certified for ISMS* designated by the government by maintaining strict security standards while the IT system vulnerability assessment and cyber-attack simulation are Personal Information Protection System carried out on an annual basis. At the same time, we monitor and analyze logs on network anomalies, such as unauthorized GS Caltex acquired the government-designated PIMS* access, through various security solutions. Meanwhile, certification in 2013 for the first time in the industry. Our company business infiltration tests and unannounced security checks undergoes stringent examination to maintain the status. To are also carried out to enhance physical security. protect our customers’ personal information, important data is * Information Security Management System encrypted when it is stored and transmitted. Access to customer Access Monitoring System data is only allowed in a security area where fingerprint scanners and CCTV are installed. In addition, we implemented a personal information access control system to manage access to personal GS Caltex’s main business sites are designated as restricted and information and to monitor any unauthorized access. Any teams controlled areas, and a special access control and monitoring and third parties with access to personal information are subject system is implemented. Unauthorized access is strictly denied to security audit every year in order to prevent any violation of and outsiders should require authorization through our access laws or misuse. system and process to enter our business premises. In 2012, we destroyed the resident registration numbers of all our customers and no longer collect or use that information. Security Certifications We also announce the status of processing personal Classification 2015 2016 2017 information to our customers at least once a year to make PIMS Certification Status Certified Certified Certified sure their rights are protected while improving our security. * Personal Information Management System ISMS Certification Status Certified Customer Privacy Policy Violations Protection and Management of National Infrastructure Classification 2015 2016 2017 Number of data leakage, 0 0 0 theft and loss We are designated as ‘Critical National Facilities’ and ‘National 44 Campaign for Human Rights Protection Employees HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT Human Rights Policy At GS Caltex, we are committed to protecting human rights not only in our business operation but also in business relationships. We established our own human rights policy in line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UNGP*. Our human rights policy is stated in this report for review by our stakeholders. The scope of our human rights management encompasses all our suppliers and partners as At GS Caltex, we promote and protect human rights through well as our employees. our overall business operations. In 2017, we launched a * UN Guiding Principles on Business Human Rights campaign to protect the human rights of call center service representatives suffering from emotional stress, as they have to deal with verbal abuse from callers on a daily basis. Human Rights System To address this issue and raise awareness, we implemented a In addition to declaration of our human rights policy, we plan and applied ‘kind words ringback tone’ at the GM Korea’s established a human rights system to strengthen human customer center. While waiting on the line, callers hear such rights management while working on the identification of messages as ‘please wait, my dad will get to your call in a risk factors, evaluation, and mitigation process throughout moment’ to remind them that the service representatives have the entire business process. In 2018, we will conduct a survey their own families and should be respected. on human rights issues for all our employees to identify risk factors in human rights. By continuing to monitor the risk, we After five days, we took a survey for the representatives and will take necessary measures to make improvement on human found that their stress levels were reduced by 54.2% and rights issues for vulnerable groups and prevent recurrence of friendly attitude of the callers has increased by 8.3%. The video violations. about this campaign became a sensation gaining more than 13 million views on SNS, attracting attention of media outlets Human Rights Risk Management Process around the world. Afterward, seventeen companies started using the ringtone Risk Risk Risk Identification Assessment Mitigation and the campaign was recognized for its social influence winning a number of awards including Korea Advertising Festival in five categories, New York Festival in two categories, which is the top 3 advertising awards in the world, ADFEST in two categories (Asia Pacific), Epica Award (Europe), and Korea • Identify risk factors • Conduct due diligence on • Take measures areas with a high level of for improvement Online Advertising Awards, etc. risk and prevention of • Identify critical issues recurrence We will continue to organize and carry out meaningful human and vulnerable groups rights campaigns through various communication channels. Grievance Handling Process At GS Caltex, we engage in various activities to provide the support our employees’ needs and create a good work environment, through various activities, such as the sexual harassment prevention process. Listen to Kind Words Ringback tone GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 45 Management Report Employees HUMAN RESOURCE RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION Fair and Objective Recruiting Procedure Recruitment Performance At GS Caltex, we recognize the importance of human Classification Unit 2017 resources for sustainable growth and value diversity. We also No. of new employees 171 focus on the actual qualifications of our employees rather Male 122 than their academic background. To do this, we simplified our by gender Female Persons 49 application process and removed the foreign language test scores from the qualifications and focused on job competency. Seoul, etc. 101 by location We provide equal opportunities in job application using an Yeosu 70 online system. The applicants are tested for their personal values and competency for the job as well as knowledge of our nation’s history. In addition, our interviewers are not allowed to view their academic records: applicants are thus judged based Fair Performance Evaluation and Compensation on their level of competency. At GS Caltex, any discrimination in wage, evaluation, and We also diversified our hiring process and introduced promotion based on gender is strictly prohibited. Our an academy-industry internship program, and chemical performance evaluation and compensation system is designed engineering leadership to recruit talented, qualified individuals. to increase job satisfaction and motivate our employees by The chemical engineering leadership program in particular is a keeping the system fair and effective. course that is co-established by the company and the university and allows the executive officers of our company to share their When it comes to our evaluation system, we categorize know-how and knowledge in practice with students. based on their positions and ensure that their performance is evaluated based on their roles and responsibilities in a fair Employee Status and objective manner. When setting job performance goals at the beginning of the year, we closely align employees’ goals Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 with our business objectives through interviews and provide Total 3,079 3,000 2,969 feedback so the employees can review their progress and Executive 52 51 49 seek ways to improve their performance. At the end of the By Employment Full-Time 2,811 2,770 2,758 year, we evaluate performance using a descriptive form to Type consider both quantitative and qualitative aspects and apply Part-Time 216 179 162 Seoul, etc. 1,373 1,326 1,317 them for their development and compensation. To improve the By Location Persons level of fairness and acceptability of performance evaluation, Yeosu 1,706 1,674 1,652 evaluators are required to record their observations at all Under 30 431 times. The follow-up interviews, feedback system, and By Age 30-50 1,856 objection system regarding the results of evaluation have also Over 50 682 been implemented. No. of Retirees 257 170 123 Retirement Rate 8.3 5.7 4.1 Our compensation system is managed in line with performance Percentage of Female Employees % 9.1 9.6 9.6 evaluation to ensure that our employees stay fulfilled and motivated. The level of compensation for our employees is Percentage of Employees with Disabilities 1.6 1.5 1.4 determined based on their individual performance, level of Average Years of Employment Years 15.3 15.3 15.3 contribution, and importance of their jobs. High performers Employees Subject to Pension System Persons 2,738 2,771 2,795 are rewarded with additional incentives to motivate them. 46 Employees HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT Systematic Human Resource Development Coaching/Mentoring Program At GS Caltex, we have established our competency model We have organized a coaching program for our new executives based on the ‘GSC Way’, ‘Job Competency’, and ‘Leadership’ and team leaders to help them improve the leadership skills for our human resource development program. The GSC Way required to perform their duties. Our internal coaching refers to our organizational values and essential conduct, and program helps employees adapt to organizational environment Job Competency consists of several areas of expertise that are and brings out their full potential. Our mentoring program, in required to perform the job. Leadership includes the qualities which team leaders or seniors play the role of mentors, is also that leaders must have in order to achieve our company’s vision. available to new employees during their first and second years Our training programs are oriented towards practical aspects of employment. and are designed with special leadership training, job training, coaching/mentoring, and external degree programs. It has both short and long-term courses. All employees can develop Job Competency Development Program their own training plan based on the results of the competency analysis and choose a training course accordingly. Our job competency model consists of common areas required of all employees and specialized areas based on each job Human Resource Development System category. To develop job competency in the common areas, we provide business courses dealing with the refining process and Leadership development in corporate finance as well as courses for improving individual line with market environment and business strategy communication skills, creativity, and planning and analysis skills. Leadership Process of Understanding Business The specialized areas are developed based on an analysis of all Job competency development the jobs and tasks in our organization and built into the training consisting of common areas Job Communication Job required of all employees and Competency Competencies programs while building infrastructure and providing support to by Job specialized areas based on Creativity Category help each organization to join the training programs they need. each job category Common/ Specialized Analysis/Planning Areas Our fundamental values and GSC Way Trust Proactive Individual Human Resource Development code of conduct required of all GS Caltex employees are Corporate Flexibility Collaboration Program promoted with corporate Values/Core Challenge values and core behaviors Behaviors Excellence Performance-Driven We provide selected individuals with the opportunity to earn various academic degrees including MBAs in eminent, Leadership Development Program domestic, or global colleges and training programs at global companies such as Chevron to help them reach their full At GS Caltex, we provide training programs for all our potential. We also provide opportunities for our employees to employees on a regular basis to help them improve their job take various courses and external education programs in their competency and skills at each stage of growth. We select areas of expertise when needed. and foster candidates for team leaders through the LDC (Leadership Development Center), our internal leadership HR Development Indicators program while organizing Group Study for Team Leaders for Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 mutual learning for team managers. We also evaluate the Training Cost KRW 100M 34 39 52 leadership of our executives and team leaders from multiple perspectives and provide them with feedback on a yearly basis. * Training Cost: internal training cost + external training cost (excl. indirect expenses) GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 47 Management Report Employees ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURE On/Offline Communication Activities Labor-Management consultative body, we have the LaborManagement Council* and the Occupational Safety and Health To share insights into our business strategy and status and promote Committee**. We are also engaged in the bargaining process various forms of internal technology, we established on/offline to determine wages for employees every year and negotiate communication channels. To this end, in 2015, we established a place for the renewal of collective agreement to discuss labor union of 760m2 on the 27th floor of our GS Tower named ‘Jieum’ for open activities and working conditions every two years. communication and to promote collaboration between employees * Composed of 7 members from each side, discuss working conditions and workand teams, foster new ideas, and engage in organizational cultural related matters activities. Through our online communication channel ‘Nanumteo’, ** Composed of 8 members from each side, discuss occupational safety and health issues 99 ideas for improving work process were collected and 50 of them were reviewed and incorporated into practice. Employee Communication Channels Classification Description In 2018, we will refine our existing programs to improve our Shares business issues with employees on a response to a changing environment and understanding of CEO Message monthly basis. our business strategy. Through Trial & Upgrade program, we will embrace and share our failures and turn them into Interactive communication channel to discuss Nanumteo ways to improve work process, new business opportunities for growth and motivate our employees to take ideas or certain issues. initiatives and reach higher performance. In addition, by introducing cooperation tools to our work environment, we are Online Provide information about the company and business operation and promote communication going to promote sharing of information between organizations Magazine and interaction through various events using and facilitate the decision-making process. various digital contents. Labor Practice for Shared Growth Online Keep employees informed of business Business performance and midto long-term strategy Presentation through groupware. At GS Caltex, we uphold the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. We also prohibit any kind of forced labor Consists of Jieum Academy (giving lectures on business trends that can be applied in daily and child labor in all our workplaces. On December 9, 2005, practice), Jieum Talk (learning and sharing we established the ‘Declaration and Charter for Harmonious Jieum ideas about a specific topic), and Jieum TIME Program Labor-Management Relations’ to achieve our vision of ‘Shared (exchanging knowledge, experience, and topics of interest providing opportunities for Growth based on Productive Labor-Management Relations’. communication) Based on this declaration, we have implemented various LaborManagement programs to build Labor-Management relations Leader Insight Forum is organized to share external trends with all employees and provide for shared growth and development. LIF business insight through lectures and speeches Offline given by external speakers. Through collective agreement, we maintain ongoing CEO joins the new manager training program, communication channels with full-time union officials. As a Seminar for listens to the demands of employees and New Managers participates in Q&A session on various topics. Labor-Management Indicators Management Information N Talk is designed to Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 MINT promote in-depth discussion on our business 1,294/ 1,289/ 1,306/ strategy and share ideas. Union Members Persons (joined/eligible) 1,804 1,796 1,793 Business CEO share business status and performance Labor Dispute Cases 0 0 0 Presentation and get together with employees to seminar 48 Welfare System for Work-Life Balance Maternity Support We established a nursing room and relaxation room in our Healthcare Support headquarters to help female employees during or after their We provide medical expenses for our employees and their pregnancy. family members as part of our employee health care and welfare program. Parental Leave Employees are allowed to take parental leave up to 1 year for Group Insurance Support children up to 8 years old or in second grade of elementary We provide our employees with optional group insurance school. The parental leave can be split 1 time. which covers injuries, death, disability, and hospitalization up to KRW 100 million (maximum KRW 200 million) in case of Indicators related to parental leave death caused by industrial accident. Classification By gender Unit 2015 2016 2017 EAP (Employee Assistance Program) Operation Male 0 2 2 Employees on We offer professional counseling program for our employees Parental Leave Female 12 17 8 and their family members regarding their professional and personal lives, as well as legal and financial matters. Employees Who Male 1 0 3 Returned from Persons Parental Leave Female 7 10* 13 Educational Support Employees who have Male 1 0 ** As part of our employee educational support program, we worked for 12 months provide 50% of the tuition if an employee receives a higher after returning from parental leave Female 7 10 ** level of education while covering 100% for their children if they * The number of employees who returned is different from the previous reports due go to regular schools and colleges authorized by the Minister to a change in the estimation process. of Education. We also allow our employees to receive full ** The number of employees who have worked for 12 months after returning from performance-based scholarships to promote their academic parental leave in 2017 will be counted in 2018. performance. Livelihood Support Smart Working Time System As part of our employee welfare program, we provide them In response to the 52-hour work week, we implemented a with a loan up to KRW 80 million at a low interest rate when Smart Working Time System in May. At GS Caltex, we have they purchase or lease a house. However, we set a limit on the introduced such work-life balance policies including off-hour size of the house to prevent abuse of the system. We also give announcement/PC off, paperless reporting, flexible approval our employees a loan of up to KRW 20 million at a low interest system, and improved meeting culture to expedite our rate when they get married. decision-making process. We are also seeking application and optimization by departments and duties according to the 52Selective Welfare System hour work week by promoting vacation use, improving office To meet our employees’ varying needs, we have implemented dinner culture, activating the flexible working hours system, a selective employee welfare system. We give our employees and introducing a work management system. a certain amount of points which they can spend for cultural activities and sports facilities. The amount they spend is Even after the 52-hour work week commences, we are going to settled by our company system. gather feedback from our employees and incorporate it into our Smart Working System to make necessary improvements. GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 49 Management Report Partners Shared Growth Policy Technical Development Support Recognizing that shared growth with partners is a key To secure technologies we need in the mid and long-term element of sustainable management, we have implemented and to help our partners overcome their technical challenges, various programs including financial support, technological we have established the Productivity Innovation Program for development support, training and education. partners. We take a proactive approach by focusing on ‘fair’, ‘stable’ and We recognize the challenges that small and medium-sized ‘practical’ practice. We ensure fair and ethical practice when companies face when it comes to technological development, dealing with our partners and provide support such as cash due to a lack of human resources and access to reliable outside settlement and long-term contracts, technology development, organizations. We provide support for securing human resources and training. from government-supported research centers and finance their R&D projects without claiming any ownership or beneficial interest in the technology developed under this program. We also Shared Growth Policy provide matching grants for service costs for small and mediumsized companies engaging in on-site innovation. Recognizing the effectiveness of Productivity Innovation Program for strengthening the competitive advantages of our partners, we provided support for the development of Fair Stable Practical technology, product and service and added a program to Promote mutually Pay partners in cash, Provide practical and beneficial business form long-term effective management purchase developed products in 2017. In addition, we support arrangement based partnerships to promote support including market development for the commercialization and masson fairness and sustainable business technological transparency. operation for partners. cooperation, training, production of products manufactured by small and mediumand consulting sized companies. programs. Through these programs, we supported 5 and 6 companies in 2016 Financial Support and 2017 respectively, and are planning to support 17 companies in 2018 while working on maximizing the benefits by taking into We have implemented an array of financial support programs account their individual needs and optimized support. Meanwhile, for small and medium-sized companies with which we do we are carrying out joint projects to develop new polymer and business with. When making purchases, we ensure 100% cash lubricant materials, improve the quality of lubricants, provide settlement and payment is made within 7 days upon receipt of technological support and organize international seminars for invoices. In addition, we raised shared growth fund jointly with financial institutions for our partners that joined our shared growth program. In particular, we decided to increase the fund from KRW 100 billion to KRW 200 billion. As a result, a low interest loan of KRW 53.1 billion was provided for 78 partners by the end of 2017. We also introduced a program where we make advance payment Go Together up to 20% of the projected monthly expenses for major shipping We help our partners to maximize their productivity and gain competitive companies. advantages in the market through ‘Go Together’ project. 50 industrial trends and new products while localizing imported Partner Support Programs Performance (Companies/Participants) materials and stabilizing supply through long-term contracts. Classification Training Program 2017 Result Education and Training Support Construction safety training 30/43 program for supervisors TA safety supervision certification 3/56 At GS Caltex, we provide 8 training programs for the maintenance partners of our Yeosu Complex to improve their job performance, Practice training for signalmen 45/347 safety and management expertise while our Marine Transportation Safety Support Center conducts safety training for Safety training for managers/ 20/22 Yeosu Partner supervisors our marine transportation partners on a quarterly basis. Training by Complex Training program for safety Category 48/227 managers of partners Furthermore, we organize training programs for employees of Safety training for cargo crane logistics and shipping companies and partners as part of our operators 51/137 nationwide customer service improvement program to raise Human error prevention/ safety awareness, prevent accidents and increase customer 11/16 rescue program satisfaction. In addition, we help our partners establish ethics Performance improvement 5/10 management training and a compliance program (Corporate program for managers Compliance Program) for the mutual growth and development Safety training for ship owners/ 4 times for 7 companies of the company and employees. We also provide an internal crews (250 persons/time) control system such as a code of ethics and regulatory Safety JSA* training (supervisor/safety 8/17 requirement design system. Training managers of partners) Head quarters Safety training on open inspection Safety managers from 4 companies ESG Risk Management on Supply Chain Customer Customer service improvement 15 centers/ Service training for logistics center 600 participants We continuously review and improve our purchase process to Improvement promote fair standards in selection of partners and improve 78 companies/ Low-Interest Loan Support** KRW 53.1B the level of ESG in our supply chain. In response to changing social and market environment, we make sure that our * Job Safety Analysis purchase process reflects global standards and disseminate ** As of December 2017 this to our partners. At the end of 2017, we established the Code of Conduct for our partners and strengthened requirement for compliance with No. of Partners with Purchase Amount the ESG factors. In the first half of 2018, we disclosed our Code Transaction Performance of Conduct to about 340 major partners* and asked them to 1,456 Partners KRW 1.128 trillion comply with the Code of Conduct, and conducted due diligence on two partners at their business sites. In the future, we will increase the number of partners that are subject to ESG due diligence to identify and deal with risk factors. No. of Partners Required to Agree No. of Partners of On-site with the Code of Conduct ESG Due Diligence * Major partners are selected based on their size, strategic importance, and indispensability. Approx. 340 Partners 2 Partners GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 51 Management Report Corporate Social Corporate Social Responsibility CSR SYSTEM Responsibility KEY CSR ACTIVITIES CSR Strategy Maum Talk Talk To fulfill our social responsibility as a corporate citizen, we Understanding that children are our future and we have a engage in various social contribution activities. By focusing responsibility to help them grow healthy and happy, we started on culture and art, environmental protection, and local the ‘Maum Talk Talk’ project in 2013. Maum Talk Talk is a community, we create values for our society at large. group art therapy through which we help children interact with each other to develop their social skills and build selfWe are committed to improving the quality of living and making confidence using art as a medium. They can learn to express the world a better place in which to live by providing art therapy their feelings, and interact, empathize and collaborate through for children through ‘Maum Talk Talk’ and building ‘Yeosu group activities. Culture & Arts Park GS Caltex Yeulmaru.’ Also, as an energy company, we are paving the way to a sustainable future by We have worked with some of the best art therapists and engaging in various environmental protection activities and conducted qualitative management and studies to improve educational programs for conservation of marine resources. the effectiveness of art therapy. For the past 5 years, more Additionally, we organize various local community support than 160 art therapists participated in 10,652 hours of training programs to give back to our community, especially through our under the supervision of ten professors. employees donating their time and money to charitable efforts. In collaboration with the Ministry of Education’s Wee Project, Good Neighbors Joeun Maum Center, the Maum Talk Talk Slogan Project has developed three programs including ‘Maum Talk Talk Therapy’, which is designed to help children who are Beautiful world through energy sharing having a difficult time adjusting to school, ‘Maum Talk Talk Areas of focus Healing Class’ for all first grade students in middle school, and culture & art, environmental protection, local community ‘Maum Talk Talk Healing Camp’ with intensive art therapy for 3 days in a camp. As of 2017, a total of 12,546 students across Action principles the countries participated in the programs and learned how Integrity Expertise Stakeholder-oriented to express their feelings in a healthy way and improve their engage in long-term and promote cooperation with organize social contribution relationships with their peers. sustainable activities, competent partners and programs based on the based on the participation focus on effectiveness needs of local communities and support of employees, and social contribution a n d s t a ke h o l d e r s i n rather than financial/onenationwide business sites, Maum Talk Talk Program Summary time support including Yeosu Complex and Logistics Centers Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 No. of Maum Organizations 13 16 32 35 31 Talk Talk No. of Therapy 1,410 1,278 1,456 1,412 1,828 Children No. of CSR Performance Maum Talk Organizations 3 24 5 6 Talk Healing No. of Class 560 1,484 734 897 Children Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 No. of Amount of Social KRW Maum Talk Camps 6 3 4 2 2 13.9 35.6 17.7 Talk Healing Contribution* Billion No. of Camp 738 292 208 114 135 Children Annual Number of Persons 1,460 2,132 2,548 Volunteers Total 2,148 2,130 3,148 2,260 2,860 * Executed amount of social contribution purpose. It is different from donation in * Figures are different from previous year’s one due to changes in calculation business report. methods 52 Social Impact Analysis of Maum Talk Talk Psychological Change of Wee Center Program Participants Before participating After participating In order to analyze the effectiveness of the Maum Talk Talk program and improve its reliability, we developed a diagnostic 1st Semester of 2017 (326 Students) tool based on which we conduct surveys with program 3.86 3.86 3.66 3.81 4.02 3.50 participants before and after they joined the program and 3.64 3.62 3.43 3.67 3.87 3.32 5 include a control group to evaluate the effectiveness. We 4 also collect feedback from their schoolteachers (evaluation of students’ behavioral change) and program teachers 3 (satisfaction survey) to improve the effectiveness of the 2 program. 1 Self-esteem Self-growth SelfEmpathy Cooperation School life initiative expression satisfaction Through these surveys, we found out that Maum Talk Talk helped children improve their self-esteem and motivate 2nd Semester of 2017 (716 Students) them to grow as well as improve their social skills (e.g. self3.89 3.88 3.68 4.00 3.41 expression, empathy, cooperation). In the case of Maum Talk 3.76 3.68 3.70 3.46 3.82 3.28 5 3.50 Talk Healing Class, we collect feedback from therapists and volunteers to make it a better program. 4 3 The Maum Talk Talk programs provided in school are 2 considered to have raised awareness in psychological therapy and art therapy programs for children. Meanwhile, we are 1 Self-esteem Self-growth SelfEmpathy Cooperation School life developing the program to expand its areas of application initiative expression satisfaction for students with juvenile delinquency or involved in school violence. Through preventive and corrective activities, we can help these children to adapt to society and reduce social costs. By building a network with various partners including the Ministry of Education and Good Neighbors, we create values for society. Maum Talk Talk Healing Camp GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 53 Management Report Corporate Social Responsibility LOCAL CSR ACTIVITIES Local Talent Development Support Children’s Environmental Education for the Future We organize various local talent development programs as Since 2012, we have organized the Green Energy School part of our CSR activities for local community. Program in a joint effort with the Green Fund to raise awareness in climate change and energy conservation Our GS Caltex Energy Class is designed to help children for elementary school students. Through this program, pursue their dreams and develop visions for their future. we developed an environmental education kit with which Since 2010, more than 2,200 volunteers participated to assist specialized instructors visit schools and educate children on various programs including job experience and educations the importance of environment. on art/culture/envionment. In 2017, more than 1,200 local children participated in the ‘exploring the history of my city’ In addition, since 2011 we have supported the eco-experience program designed to grow a sense of history and pride in their programs for underprivileged children, senior citizens and community. people with disabilities with the Ministry of Environment and the Korea National Park while our employees volunteer to We also provide ‘English Lessons with Native Speakers in clean the environment in the coastal areas near the Yeosu Remote Areas’ program, scholarships, financial support Complex and Incheon Lubricant Plant. for after-school classes and school uniforms for students from low-income families. Additionally, to help resolve youth unemployment issues in the local community, we signed the Marine Resource Conservation ‘Extra-credits for Yeosu citizens’ agreement with Yeosu City, which is effective from 2018, while providing financial support In 2017, we released 1 million fishes and 44 tons of clams in for the program named ‘Warm table’ serving free lunches for the sea to preserve eco-system and contribute to sustainable job applicants from low-income families. growth of the fishery industry. The project was carried out in cooperation with the Yeosu City and Fishery Association, and was met with great enthusiasm by local fishermen. We will continue to support local marine conservation through these projects in 2018. Marine Seedling Release 54 Food Aid Program Our employees’ family members also joined the volunteer At GS Caltex, we provide free lunches to 350 senior citizens on activities for local community. They volunteer at the welfare average, for 5 days a week through GS Caltex Soup Kitchen in facilities near their houses at any time they want on a regular Yeosu. Since its establishment in 2008, we provided a total of basis. 778,000 meals up to December 2017 with more than 39,000 volunteers (18 volunteers per day on average) consisting of Since 2005, we have engaged in various volunteer programs our employees and their family members. The program is every May as part of the celebration for our corporate recognized as a successful local collaboration model setting a anniversary and have donated rice and household goods great example for future community support projects. worth KRW 100 million as part of the Charity Event during the Chuseok holidays. We also donate Kimchi, heating fuel, and charcoal briquettes for those in need at the end of each year. After volunteer activities, we collect feedback from the volunteers and use it to encourage participation and improve our volunteer activities for the future. GS Caltex Soup Kitchen in Yeosu Charity Event Volunteer Group Activities In ten cities nationwide where our major business sites are located such as Yeosu Plant and Logistics Center, volunteer teams are organized at each division to participate in community-based volunteer activities. Each month, we organize 25 volunteer activities and help solve community problems such as senior citizen meal service, maintenance for welfare centers, outdoor activities for people with disabilities, and cleaning seaside park. GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 55 Management Report Corporate Social Responsibility SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION THROUGH FOUNDATION ACTIVITIES Supporting Culture and Arts through Yeulmaru features a wide variety of genres including classical, opera, Yeulmaru is a landmark on the south coast of the Korean musical, concert, ballet, and plays to extend opportunities for Peninsula that GS Caltex is building by investing more than KRW people to enjoy cultural and art content. 110 billion since 2007. The name ‘Yeulmaru’ carries the meaning of ‘a space full of the rolling waves of culture and art and where In 2017, we undertook the Jangdo Island Development Project as people can relax as if they were lying on the floor of a traditional the 2nd phase of the Yeulmaru Project with the aim to complete house’. It represents a great example of collaboration between it by the end of 2018. Through the participation of artists and a corporation, local government, and communities for building citizens, the island will be re-created as an ‘Island of Art’ and infrastructure for culture and art. It comprises the Grand Theater, will include a multi-purpose exhibition space where exhibitions, Small Theater and various types of exhibition facilities which are education and experience programs will be provided as well as fully equipped with excellent audio and lighting facilities, taking an atelier where artists can focus on creating art. In addition, the culture and art experience in Yeosu to the next level and Dadohae Garden will be created with a variety of flowers and trees meets the local communities’ need for cultural spaces. Yeulmaru to provide a unique experience for visitors. Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Number of visitors to the 74,875 77,070 66,196 performance Persons Number of visitors 31,484 28,432 23,629 to the exhibition Number of Performances, Number of Visitors to Yeulmaru Exhibitions and Academy Events (Cumulative from 2012 to 2017) Number of (Cumulative from 2012 to 2017) Performances, Times 328 329 345 628,408 1,672 Exhibitions and Academy Events * Figures are different from previous year’s one due to changes in calculation methods Concert Performed at Grand Theater of Yeulmaru Bird’s eye view of Jangdo Island Development as the 2nd phase of the Yeulmaru Project 56 Appendix Financial Data 58 ESG Data 59 GRI Content Index 62 UN Global Compact and UN SDGs 65 GS Caltex Code of Ethics 66 GS Caltex Human Rights Policy 67 Code of Conduct for GS Caltex Partners 68 GHG Assurance Statement 71 Third Party Assurance Statement 72 Appendix Fina n ci a l D ata (As of December 2017) Consolidated Statements of Financial Position (Unit: KRW 1M) Consolidated Statements of Income (Unit: KRW 1M) Category 2017 2016 Category 2017 2016 Assets Sales 30,318,432 25,770,243 Current assets Cost of sales -27,409,674 -22,772,526 Cash and cash equivalents 1,200,846 1,491,635 Selling, general and administrative -907,204 -857,317 expenses Accounts and notes receivable 3,502,450 2,921,621 Operating profit 2,001,554 2,140,400 Short-term financial assets 1,010,553 1,067,023 Share of profit (loss) of equity method Inventories 4,271,305 3,321,618 10,977 11,874 accounted investees Prepaid income taxes 432 268 Financial income 1,442,352 2,185,215 Other current assets 45,841 113,905 Finance costs -1,330,610 -2,433,336 Total current assets 10,031,427 8,916,070 Other income 568,793 543,024 Non-current assets Other expenses -758,108 -621,763 Long-term financial assets 233,648 339,005 Investments in associates 294,685 288,254 Profit (loss) before income taxes 1,934,958 1,825,414 Property, plant, and equipment 9,364,164 9,567,579 Income tax expense -496,831 -408,413 Investment property 56,876 58,638 Profit (loss) for the year 1,438,127 1,417,001 Intangible assets 70,528 79,842 Profit (loss) attributable to: Deferred income tax assets 3,642 510 Owners of the Parent Company 1,438,127 1,417,001 Other non-current assets 28,827 33,967 Total non-current assets 10,052,370 10,367,795 Non-controlling interests Total assets 20,083,797 19,283,865 Liabilities Current liabilities Consolidated Statements of Accounts payable-trade 2,947,404 1,850,332 Comprehensive Income (Loss) (Unit: KRW 1M) Short-term financial liabilities 3,000,984 3,353,708 Category 2017 2016 Income taxes payable 306,474 345,302 Other current liabilities 77,278 87,280 Profit (loss) for the year 1,438,127 1,417,001 Other comprehensive income (loss), Total non-current liabilities 6,332,140 5,636,622 net of tax: Non-current liabilities Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Long-term financial liabilities 2,838,062 3,581,995 Remeasurements of defined benefit 3,676 -2,502 liability Employees benefits 9,643 35,677 Changes in equity method accounted -188 176 Deferred income tax liabilities 165,566 137,210 investee’s capital Other non-current liabilities 47,009 51,032 Total 3,488 -2,326 Items that will be reclassified subsequently Total non-current liabilities 3,060,280 3,805,914 to profit or loss Total liabilities 9,392,420 9,442,536 Net change in unrealized fair value of 256 82 available-for sale financial assets Equity Changes in equity method accounted -412 -371 investee’s capital Common stock 260,000 260,000 Effective portion of changes in unrealized -713 -6,298 Capital surplus 68,330 68,330 fair value of cash flow hedges Capital adjustments -61,189 -61,189 Foreign currency translation differences -23,898 -273 Accumulated other comprehensive income -18,472 6,295 Total -24,767 -6,860 Retained earnings 10,442,708 9,567,893 Total comprehensive income (loss) for 1,416,848 1,407,815 Equity attributable to owners of the the year Parent Company 10,691,377 9,841,329 Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to: Non-controlling interests Owners of the Parent Company 1,416,848 1,407,815 Total equity 10,691,377 9,841,329 Total liabilities and equity 20,083,797 19,283,865 Non-controlling interests 58 ES G D ata Category ESG Indicators Data Summary Page Global ESG Standards • Changes in location and operation (e.g. opening/closing, shutdown, and expansion of facilities) • There were no significant changes • GRI 102-10 • Formation, maintenance, and change in equity structure • Availability of staff in charge of environment/human • GRI 102-11/14/20~21/26~34 • Environment: Head of Safety and Environmental rights/labor issues •ISO 26000 5.2 Planning Division • Appointment of executive officers who are responsible for 10 • Human Rights/Labor: Head of HR Office /6.2/6.3.5/6.7/7.4.2~3/7.8 economy, environment, and society • CSR Committee and related committees report to the BOD • UNGC Advanced 1/19~20 • Right to report to the top decision-making body • Policies/activities/system/training on fair business practice • Systematic compliance is ensured and anti-bribery and anti-corruption • Corporate compliance management extended to • GRI 102-17/205-2 • Internal/external guidance/grievance handling programs partners and subsidiaries for ethical and legal compliance 33-36 •ISO 26000 4.4/6.6.1~6.6.3/6.6.5~6 • Ethics education for all employees • Percentage of employees taking ethics training • UNGC Advanced 12~14 • Universal human rights policies for partners and • Scope of application for basic human rights activities/ customers (UNGC 10 Principles) policies • Consumer service support and activities to resolve • Consumer Centered Management (CCM) is adopted 42 • ISO 26000 6.7.6 complaints and disputes • Customer Service Center (CSC) in operation • Potential business impact reported publicly • Publicly reported risk mitigation measures • Quality control is performed on the entire process from • ISO 26000 • Descriptions of product, health, safety and environmental production to sale under ISO Quality Management 39-41 6.5.3~5/6.7.1~.2/ management systems System • Describe how to monitor, track, evaluate, and manage • EU REACH compliance is in progress 6.7.4~5/6.8.8 product-related accidents Governance • Violations of the laws governing marketing communication • GRI 417-3 • 0 cases (2015 2017) e.g. advertisement, promotion, and sponsorship • ISO 26000 6.7.3 • Violations of the laws governing product and service • GRI 417-2 information and labeling • 0 cases (2015 2017) • ISO 26000 4.6/6.7.1~2 • If no violations have been committed, simply state the fact. • Communication of information about the product, service, • GRI 417-1 • MSDS and details are disclosed on the website and labeling • ISO 26000 6.7.1~3/6.7.5 • NCSI (National Customer Satisfaction Index) Ranked 1st in 9 consecutive years in the gasoline station category (2009 2017) •Training and activities to raise awareness about products • Service quality control system is operated 42-43 • ISO 26000 6.7.9 and services • Customer service manuals are distributed • Star Service Team is operated • Star Festival is held • UNGC Universal Human Rights Principles are supported • Human rights of public security companies • Security companies licensed by local police • Training for private security providers • GRI 410-1 departments have been hired, human rights are • Reporting human rights issues for private and public • ISO 26000 6.3.5 protected, and training for confidentiality and security is security conducted on a regular basis • Integrated management system for safety culture and • PSM (Process Safety Management) is operated crisis response throughout the supply chain and research/ 29 • SASB NR0101-19 systematically production cycle GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 59 Appendix Category ESG Indicators Data Summary Page Global ESG Standards • Minimum ESG requirements needed for partner review • GRI 308-1 • Minimum ESG requirements needed for new partner review • Inclusion and scope of ESG in contract • Additional points for ISO 9001 and ISO14001 certification • ISO26000 6.3.5/6.6.6 51 • CSR monitoring on partners when selecting partners for materials and service • UNGC Advanced • Ratio of new partners reviewed for environmental 2/9~11 compliance • Official process of identifying sustainability risk in supply chain • Supply chain management information disclosed externally • Items for the evaluation of partners’ management • Activities for the enhancement of partner performance performance (trading performance/credit rating) 50-51 • IPIECA SE5 C1/SE7 C1/SE9 S1 • Corporate policies, programs, and procedures for • Sustainability improvement activities e.g. financial and procuring products, services, and human resources technical support and safety and ethics training support • Strategies, programs, and procedures for the reinforcement of local partners and contractors • Ratio of contracts for the prevention of corruption in a • 100% (work process regulations covering legal • IPIECA SE12 S1 specific language (%) compliance, fair practice, and transparency in Korean) • Healthcare programs are provided (e.g. musculoskeletal disease prevention program, smoking cessation • A description of the processes and programs that recognize program, metabolic syndrome management) the local and global issues of employees’ health and • Affiliated clinics with medical staff (e.g. doctors, nurses, produce outcomes and plans 32 medical laboratory technologist, paramedics) are • Explanation of current healthcare systems and recent operated improvements • MSDS management, protective gear, and work • ISO26000 6.4.4 environment analysis are supported Society • IPIECA HS2 C1, S1 • Processes are implemented or changed in accordance with • Availability of formal documents and process for company regulations. Through this process, the risk of employees’ health and safety when introducing/ changing introducing/changing processes is analyzed in detail for the processes consideration of employees’ safety and health • Percentage of Occupational Safety and Health Committee representing employees working under the organization’s • GRI 403-1,4 •100% exclusivity 10, 48 • ISO26000 6.4.4/6.4.6 •Composed of 8 members, held once every quarter • Level of operation in Occupational Safety and Health • UNGC Advanced 6~8 Committee • GRI 102-41 • Number of negotiations/agreements made with the union • 0 (no significant changes in business management) • ISO26000 5.3 regarding changes in business management • UNGC Advanced 3~5 • Ratio of new employee’s wage against minimum wage by • Production Engineering 213%, Office Staff 271% • GRI 202-1~2 gender (There is no discrimination by gender) • ISO26000 6.8.1~2 • GRI 202-1~2 • Percentage of local senior executives • 100% • ISO26000 6.8.1~2 • International Labor Organization Standards and UNGC • Actions taken to abolish child and forced labor Principles are complied with • GRI 408-1/409-1/412-2 • Reporting on business sites with a risk of child labor • Forced or child labor is strictly prohibited • Actions taken to prevent child and forced labor 66, 68 • ISO26000 4.8/6.3.1~2/6.3.5/6.4.1~2 • Voluntary compliance programs for the prevention • Employee training on human rights policies and processes • UNGC Advanced 3~5 of sexual harassment and human rights have been • Corporate policies on human rights implemented 60 Category ESG Indicators Data Summary Page Global ESG Standards • Employees are notified 30 days prior to termination of employment with justified cause, and 50 days for termination due to a business reason under Article 24 • Minimum notification period for changes in business • GRI 402-1 of the Labor Standards Act management that have significant impact on employees • A written notification for renewing collective agreement • ISO26000 6.4.3/6.4.5 • Availability of notification period and negotiation terms on must be given at least 2 months before its expiration. • UNGC Advanced 15~18 collective agreement Both parties must respond to collective bargaining at least 30 days before the expiration date. However, if there is no request for renewal, it is renewed automatically • Number of violation of natives’ rights reported during the • GRI 411-1 reporting period • Not applicable • ISO26000 6.3.4/6.3.6~7 Society • Reporting of status and measures taken • IPIECA SE2 S1 • Percentage of employees subject to setting goal/mid-term • Percentage of employees subject to performance & review/year-end evaluation: 89% career review • Percentage of employees subject to Multi-aspect • Percentage of employees subject to performance evaluation(percentage of employees subject to self46 • GRI 404-3 evaluation by senior manager evaluation and evaluation by senior manager): 94% • Percentage of employees subject to multi-aspect evaluation • Percentage of employees subject to relative • Percentage of employees subject to relative evaluation evaluation(exclusive of absolute evaluation group): 90% • Female manager: 0 executive officer, 16 senior • UNGC Advanced 3-8 • Percentage of female manager managers, 88 department deputy managers • IPIECA SE15 S2 • Senior position in charge of climate change • Head of Safety and Environmental Planning Division • UNGC Advanced 9~11 • Potential opportunities and risk associated with climate • Financial impact of the GHG Emissions Trading System change 22-23, • GRI 201-2 is analyzed in advance, and consistent response • How to respond to opportunity and risk factors related to 39 • ISO26000 6.5.5 strategy is established climate change • Consideration of water stress level when undertaking a • Water stress level is considered when undertaking a • GRI 303-1 project project • UNGC Advanced 9~11 • Initiatives for the improvement of energy efficiency and • Energy saving goals are set saving and their procedure • Consultation of energy experts and internal TF are in • GRI 302-1~2,4 • Activities for energy saving and GHG emission reduction progress 22-23 • Energy used directly for electricity, heat, and vapor • Energy portal system is operated • ISO26000 6.5.4 • Energy consumption/saving/sales to outside • No energy is sold outside Environment • Hazardous waste materials under control/emissions/ • GRI 306-2~3 • Volume of waste material and hazardous chemical disposal process material control process are disclosed through 24-25, • ISO26000 • Emission of normal waste materials sustainability report 27 6.3.3/6.5.4,/6.5.6 • Activities for transporting hazardous materials • No critical oil spills in 2015-2017 • UNGC Advanced 9~11 • Amount and cases of critical oil spill • Environmental impact analysis is conducted at all business sites Third product wharf construction: post-environmental impact analysis • Availability of formal documents for analyzing the New project site construction: post-environmental environment risk in new process and process changes impact analysis • UNGC Advanced 9~11 • Operation of official system for implementing, applying Oil tank construction project in Sapo: postand reporting environmental impact assessment environmental impact analysis Oil and naphtha tank site construction: postenvironmental impact analysis • Number of soil pollution investigations near stations 261 times in 2015, 198 times in 2016, 138 times in 2017 GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 61 Appendix G R I Co n te n t In d ex G ene ra l D i s clos u re s GRI Disclosure Description Page Note Standard Number Organizational Profile GRI 102 102-1 Name of the organization 7 GRI 102 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8-9, 14 GRI 102 102-3 Location of headquarters 7 GRI 102 102-4 Location of operations 7 GRI 102 102-5 Ownership and legal form 7,38 GRI 102 102-6 Markets served 7 GRI 102 102-7 Scale of the organization 7 7, Business Report GRI 102 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 240-241 GRI 102 102-9 Supply chain 51 GRI 102 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain About this report GRI 102 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 39 GRI 102 102-12 External initiatives 65 GRI 102 102-13 Membership of associations 36, 65 Strategy GRI 102 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5 Ethics and Integrity GRI 102 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 6 Governance GRI 102 102-18 Governance structure 38 Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 13 Collective agreement applies to all GRI 102 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 48 employees GRI 102 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 12-13 GRI 102 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 12-13 GRI 102 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 12-13 Reporting Practice GRI 102 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Business Report 3-4 GRI 102 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 12-13 GRI 102 102-47 List of material topics 12-13 GRI 102 102-48 Restatements of information About this report Mark as comment GRI 102 102-49 Changes in reporting 59 GRI 102 102-50 Reporting period About this report GRI 102 102-51 Date of most recent report About this report GRI 102 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report GRI 102 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report GRI 102 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About this report GRI 102 102-55 GRI content index 62-64 GRI 102 102-56 External assurance 72-73 62 G R I Co n te n t Ind ex M ate r i a l To p i c s GRI Disclosure Description Page Note Standard Number Anti-corruption 2016* GRI 103 103-1, 2, 3 Management Approach 33-36 GRI 205 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 34-36 GRI 205 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No such cases Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 GRI 103 103-1, 2, 3 Management Approach 33, 36 GRI 206 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices No violations Energy 2016 GRI 103 103-1, 2, 3 Management Approach 21 GRI 302 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 23 GRI 302 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 23 Emissions 2016 GRI 103 103-1, 2, 3 Management Approach 21 GRI 305 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 22, 71 GRI 305 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 22, 71 GRI 305 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions 27 Environmental Compliance 2016 GRI 103 103-1, 2, 3 Management Approach 21 GRI 307 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No significant violations Employment 2016 GRI 103 103-1, 2, 3 Management Approach 46 GRI 401 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 46 GRI 401 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 49 Occupational Health and Safety 2016 GRI 103 103-1, 2, 3 Management Approach 28 GRI 403 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees 48, 60 GRI 403 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 32 Local Communities 2016 GRI 103 103-1, 2, 3 Management Approach 52 GRI 413 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 52-53 * Indicates topic name and issue year of GRI Standards GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 63 Appendix G R I Co n te n t In d ex Othe r Sta n d a rd s GRI Disclosure Description Page Note Standard Number Economic Performance 2016 GRI 201 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 14 Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 GRI 203 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 52-54 Water 2016 GRI 303 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 27 Biodiversity 2016 GRI 304 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 26 Effluents and Waste 2016 GRI 306 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 27 Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 GRI 308 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 51 GRI 308 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 51 Labor/Management Relations 2016 GRI 402 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 61 Training and Education 2016 GRI 404 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 47 GRI 404 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 46 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 405 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 46 GRI 405 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 60 Non-discrimination 2016 GRI 406 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 67 No such cases Child Labor 2016 GRI 408 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 67 No such operations Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 GRI 409 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 67 No such operations Human Rights Assessment 2016 GRI 412 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 45, 67 Supplier Social Assessment 2016 GRI 414 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 51 64 UN G lo ba l Co m pact and UN S D G s UN Global Compact Since we joined the UN Global Compact, we have been fully committed to its ten principles covering human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. We have reported our progress to the COP (Communication on Progress) every year. At GS Caltex, we will continue to improve our compliance with the UN Global Compact and its principles. Classification Principles Related Activities Report Pages • Providing education on in-house sexual harassment prevention 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of 45 Human and human rights protection for all employees internationally proclaimed human rights. Rights 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Establishing GS Caltex Human Rights Policy 67 • Operating a labor union and guaranteeing freedom of engaging 48 in the union • Maintaining a communication channel through the point of 3. Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective 48 contact in the union recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold elimination of all forms of forced and • Abiding with the regulations of the International Labor Labor compulsory labor. Organization and the UNGC principles 65, 67 5. Businesses should uphold effective abolition of child labor. 6. Businesses should uphold elimination of discrimination in respect of • Prohibiting discrimination by gender regarding wages, employment and occupation. 67 evaluation and promotion • Offering equal opportunity of employment online 46 • Establishing and practicing SHEQ management policies 29 • Responding the GHG Emission Trading System (ETS) 22 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Building environmental monitoring system 22-27 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment environmental responsibility. • Making improvement in compliance with new environmental laws 25 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Signing and performing voluntary environmental management 26 agreement • Developing more efficient and eco-friendly products 40 • Submission of the employee pledge for voluntary compliance 34-35 Anti10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including corruption extortion and bribery • Expanding Voluntary Compliance System and Strengthening the 34-35 role of Compliance Officer UN SDGs At GS Caltex, we support the principles of SDGs announced by the UN in 2015 and aligned our sustainability practice to some of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. In the future, we plan to establish strategies and strengthen their implementation to achieve the goals. GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 65 Appendix GS C al tex C od e of Et h i c s Purpose GS Caltex is striving to build an optimal business portfolio and maximize synergies with the goal of growing into the leader in total energy service. The Company’s objectives are to provide customer satisfaction by offering top quality products and services, pursue mutual prosperity with suppliers and business partners, help employees grow by providing fair opportunity and support, maximize shareholder value through outstanding performance, and promote sustainable growth of the Company and society by building a safe workplace, protecting the environment and contributing to local communities. With that in mind, GS Caltex prepared the Code of Ethics which sets forth the standards for decision-making and conduct for all employees of GS Caltex. 1. Customer Satisfaction We recognize that customers form the basis of our growth and profits and will satisfy customers by providing them with genuine value. 1.1 We shall respect and give priority to customers’ opinions in conducting our business. 1.2 We shall provide top quality products and services that meet customers’ demands and expectations. 1.3 We shall protect customer Information and interests and keep our promises to customers. 2. Co-prosperity with Business Partners We shall build mutual trust and cooperation with business partners through fair and transparent transactions for mutual development. 2.1 We shall build partnerships by providing equal opportunity to business partners and Guaranteeing reasonable transaction terms. 2.2 We shall conduct transactions as equal partners and shall refrain from abusing our position to engage in unfair conduct in any form. 3. Respect for Employees and Basic Ethics We and our employees will faithfully fulfill their duties to spur mutual growth and development based on mutual trust and respect. 3.1 We shall respect each employee and treat each Individual fairly based on his/her ability and performance so that all employees may realize their full potential. 3.2 Our employees will treat each other with mutual respect, and clearly distinguish between work and personal affairs and carry out their work in a transparent manner to fulfill their respective responsibilities. 4. Protecting Shareholder Interests We shall protect shareholder interests through efficient and transparent management worthy of shareholders’ trust and investment. 4.1 We shall realize sound profits through efficient management to protect shareholders’ return on investment. 4.2 We shall respect shareholders’ right to know relevant information and provide necessary information in a timely and transparent manner. 5. Responsibility to Society We shall comply with national laws and regulations and fulfill our social responsibility as a corporate citizen. 5.1 We shall contribute to national development through job creation and faithful payment of taxes. 5.2 We shall work with local communities for sustained development and play a leading role in creating a happy future for all people. 5.3 We shall prohibit engaging in improper solicitation, bribery, and actions that may disrupt the market. We comply with laws and treaties that regulate international commercial trade, and anti-corruption, and we take care to exercise good commercial practices and culture. 5.4 We shall respect human dignity and rights and support freedom, equality, and the value of coexistence. 6. Safety, Health and Environment, Management We shall do our best to protect the environment and create an accident-free workplace. 6.1 We shall make efforts to prevent pollution and fulfill our environmental responsibility. 6.2 We shall place priority on the health and safety of employees and business partners and create a safe and pleasant workplace free of accidents. 66 GS C al tex H uman Ri g hts Polic y Introduction As a global corporate citizen, GS Caltex recognizes the importance of human rights, universal values of humanity, and respects the rights of stakeholders in its and employees’ activities. GS Caltex complies with various state and local labor laws, and in order to support and implement the human rights/labor standards of international organizations such as UN and ILO, operates its human rights/labor-related processes including internal/external communications and grievance handling/remedying procedures. In order to implement the above, GS Caltex hereby declares its human rights policy as follows. 1. Protecting basic human rights Humane treatment We will respect our employees, and endeavor to prevent mental or physical inhumane treatment, such as verbal abuse, sexual violence, or physical abuse, to them. Non-discrimination In operating our personnel system which covers hiring, promotion, compensation, and training opportunities, we will not engage in unjust discrimination on the basis of race, skin color, gender, language, faith, nationality, disability, social status, etc. Prohibiting forced labor We will not force labor which unduly restricts mental or physical freedom, e.g., by assault, intimidation, or imprisonment, and is against a person’s free will, nor require workers to hand over their IDs or other important personal documents, as a condition of employment. Prohibiting child labor We will comply with the minimum employment age as prescribed in the state and local laws, and will not expose youth to any work environment harmful and dangerous to human bodies. 2. Protecting labor rights Complying with legal working hours and working conditions We will comply with work hours and guarantee minimum wage as prescribed in state and local laws, and comply with labor-related laws governing social insurance membership, provide recesses and vacations, etc. Creating a safe work environment We will strictly comply with health and safety standards as required by state and local laws. We will conduct periodical training/ education reflecting legal requirements, and promote workers’ safety awareness through safety culture activities. Building productive labor-management relations In order to foster a healthy organizational culture, we will grant opportunities for communication between the company and employees, will guarantee labor union membership and collective bargaining, and will not impose undue disadvantages on employees by reason of labor union activities. 3. Protecting stakeholders’ human rights Privacy We will protect customers’ and other stakeholders’ personal information in accordance with state and local laws, and will not use the same without the information-holder’s prior approval nor use the same for any other purposes. Also, we will transmit true information and not provide false information. Local community engagement We will manage changes in local communities caused by our workplaces’ potential social and environmental impacts. So that residents near the workplaces can raise their concerns for potential impacts and solve the same, we will listen to local communities’ opinions and endeavor to reflect the same in our business activities. GS Caltex will do its best to prevent human rights violations which can occur in the process of business activities and exclude thirdparties’ undue involvement in human rights violations. Further, GS Caltex will continuously improve this human rights policy by reflecting domestic and overseas trends. GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 67 Appendix C od e of C on d uct for GS Caltex Par tn e rs Introduction At GS Caltex, the Code of Ethics, established in 1994, has functioned as the foundation for ethical business practices in every aspect, and the Corporate Compliance Program, introduced in 2001, further improved ethical standards in GS Caltex. The voluntary compliance management policies begin with the CEO but are deeply-rooted throughout the company together with the appointment of Corporate Compliance Officers and a reporting system already in place. Also, we intend to promote shared and sustainable growth by ensuring that we fulfill our ethical and social responsibilities not only toward our customers, shareholders, and employees but also other stakeholders such as partners, local communities, and the environment, throughout the entire business process. Reflecting the resolve to implement ethical management and mutual growth with our partners, GS Caltex has enacted the Code of Conduct for GS Caltex Partners (hereinafter “this Code”), through which we intend to request our partners to respect their workers’ human rights, build a safe, eco-friendly work environment, and comply with corporate ethics. Partners shall endeavor to comply with this Code, and shall request all its sub-partners to do the same. With the increasing need for transparency in companies’ ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) data and legislation of CSR disclosure in the EU, sustainability has become more important than ever. We promise to continue our sustainability efforts to achieve our vision of becoming a ‘Value No. 1 Energy & Chemical Partner’. We appreciate your continued interest and support for us as we continue to create a sustainable and better future. 1. Respecting Workers’ Human Rights 1.1 Prohibiting forced labor A partner shall enter into an official labor contract with every worker in a language the worker can understand in compliance with legal requirements, and all labor shall be voluntary labor, not forced labor, which includes slave labor and human trafficking. Also, in respect for the worker’s will in any circumstances, a partner shall allow them to resign from the company of their free will or allow them to suspend work in cases of illness, temporary disability, etc. 1.2 Protecting youth workers A partner may not hire anyone under 15 years of age (or minimum employment age under the law), and in cases where it is hiring youth employees under 18 years of age, they shall not be given dangerous work or overtime or night work. 1.3 Complying with work hours Work hours for a partner’s employees shall not exceed maximum work hours under applicable laws, and at least 1 day of holiday shall be guaranteed every 7 days. In addition, maximum work hours and maximum overtime hours under applicable laws shall be complied with, and workers shall be allowed recesses, weekdays off, vacation, and paid/unpaid leave in accordance with the law. 1.4 Wages and benefits A partner shall comply with minimum wage provisions under applicable laws, and comply with the benefits system, under applicable laws, including that for salary, overtime allowance, employee benefits, and salary deduction. Base salary should not be reduced as a means of discipline. 1.5 Humane treatment A partner shall take reasonable measures to prevent workers from being discriminated against on the basis of race, skin color, gender, age, sexual orientation, sexual identity, and nationality, place of origin, religion, disability, marital status/pregnancy, labor union membership, or political inclination. 1.6 Non-discrimination A partner shall take reasonable measures to prevent workers from being discriminated against on the basis of race, skin color, gender, age, sexual orientation, sexual identity, and nationality, place of origin, religion, disability, marital status/pregnancy, labor union membership, or political inclination. 1.7 Respecting freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining A partner shall respect workers’ right to freely organize and join a labor union and to associate with other workers in order to engage in collective bargaining and peaceful assembly and demonstration, and also guarantee the right to refuse to do such acts. Also, workers or workers’ representatives shall be allowed to freely communicate and share, with the partner’s management, opinions and grievances on labor conditions and management policy without fear of discrimination, retaliation, threat, etc. and there shall be a complaint mediation process put in place for them. 68 2. Safe Working Environment 2.1 Occupational safety A partner shall, through risk evaluation, identify risk elements to which workers may be exposed, analyze the causes, predict the results, and then in order to remove/control such risk elements, conduct work process designs, technical/administrative controls, preventive maintenance, work safety procedure formulation, and continuous safety education, and if necessary, provide workers with appropriate personal protection equipment. 2.2 Preparing for emergencies A partner shall identify potential industrial disasters/diseases, and establish response plans thereof, in advance. 2.3 Preventing industrial accidents and illnesses A partner shall establish procedures to prevent and manage workers’ industrial accidents and occupational illnesses and to suppress recurrence thereof. 2.4 Managing exposure to hazard factors in the work environment A partner shall periodically measure and evaluate hazardous chemicals, noise, dust, high temperature, radiation, etc. in the workplace to which workers may be exposed, and protect workers through technical measures and management/supervision to control the same. 2.5 Managing physically-challenging work A partner shall identify workers’ exposure to physically-challenging work such as long hours of repetitive manual work, and handling of heavy items, and establish methods of removing or minimizing the same. 2.6 Equipment safety A partner, in order to secure workplace safety, shall formulate and implement work safety procedures and guidelines according to the characteristics of the work, and in cases including adoption of new machinery or equipment, changes in facility, or repetition of safety accidents in the same work, shall revise the relevant procedures or guidelines and conduct sufficient training for the workers. 2.7 Providing dormitory and sanitation facility A partner shall see to it that all places that are related to workers’ location such as workplaces, sanitation facility, and housing facility, are free from health, safety and pollution risks. 2.8 Safety, health education and communication A partner shall conduct safety and health-related education and training for workers performing works which could affect their safety and health, formulate internal operating standards meeting those of applicable laws, and establish and operate annual plans. Also, safety information including such operating standards shall be announced to the workers. 3. Eco-Friendly Business Site Management 3.1 Complying with environmental laws A partner shall comply with its legal obligations such as environmental permits and reporting required by chemicals-related laws and with GS Caltex’s environmental and quality standards. 3.2 Preventing pollution and reducing resources/energy consumption A partner shall endeavor to prevent environmental pollution and reduce its energy consumption and waste emissions through improvement of production processes, changes in equipment/process, substitution of materials, recycling/reuse of materials, normal operation of environmental pollutant-emitting/preventing facilities, etc. 3.3 Chemicals management A partner, by accurately identifying the state of handling chemicals which exist in the workplace, shall dutifully perform its responsibilities under the chemicals-related laws and also prevent risks to workers’ health or the environmental. 3.4 Waste and wastewater management A partner shall identify the characteristics of waste and wastewater from the workplace, emit/dispose of them after managing/ processing the same in accordance with the law, and take measures to reduce emissions thereof. 3.5 Air pollution management A partner shall identify the characteristics of volatile organic compounds, aerosol, corrosive gas, dust, ozone layer-depleting materials, and combustion by-products in the work processes, process them in accordance with applicable laws, and then emit them. 3.6 Complying with regulation on hazardous materials in the products and process A partner shall comply with laws and regulations which prohibit or restrict use of specific materials. GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 69 Appendix 4. Complying with Corporate Ethics 4.1 Complying with ethical management and prohibiting unjust enrichment A partner, pursuant to GS Caltex’s ethical management policy, shall prohibit all forms of bribery, corruption, unjust enrichment, and embezzlement, and continuously supervise and check for compliance with anti-corruptions laws. 4.2 Information disclosure A partner shall disclose information on its state of labor/safety and health/environmental management, management activities, corporate governance, financial conditions and performance in accordance with applicable laws and industry practices. 4.3 Protecting intellectual property rights (“IPRs”) A partner shall respect all IPRs, protect the relevant IPRs in cases of technology/know-how transfer, and protect the security of GS Caltex’s information. 4.4 Fair trade, advertising, and competition A partner shall comply with regulations/standards on fair trade, advertising, and competition. 4.5 Protecting identity and prohibiting retaliation A partner shall run a whistle-blowing channel which guarantees confidentiality and anonymity so that workers can raise issues without fear of retaliation. 4.6 Privacy A partner shall protect the personal data of all its stakeholders including partners, clients, consumers, and employees, and when collecting, keeping, processing, transmitting, and sharing the personal data, shall comply with laws related to privacy and information security. 5. Management System 5.1 Management’s expression of resolve for compliance A partner shall put in writing management’s resolve to comply with and continuously improve this Code and post the same in the workplace, and management shall periodically check the state of compliance with this Code. 5.2 Responding to outside requirements A partner shall identify requirements made by new laws/regulations and the customers including requirements hereof and periodically review compliance therewith. 5.3 Risk evaluation and management A partner shall periodically identify its risks in terms of human rights, occupational safety, environment, and corporate ethics as contained herein, and establish plans to manage high-impact risks with high chance of occurrence. 5.4 Establishing and managing goals A partner shall establish, and periodically evaluate, the goals and execution plans to improve performances in terms of human rights, occupational safety, environment, and corporate ethics. 5.5 Education, training and communication A partner shall conduct education and training for its managers and workers for the purpose of complying with this Code and the law, and communicate with its workers, partners, and customers concerning its policies, goals, and performances. 5.6 Collecting employees’ opinions and improving this Code A partner shall collect and listen to workers’ opinions on this Code and use them to improve this Code. 5.7 Documentation A partner, in preparing and keeping documents and records, shall comply with relevant regulation. 5.8 Partners’ responsibilities A partner shall request its sub-partners to comply with this Code, and help them to join the ethical/environmental/social management activities which GS Caltex conducts pursuant to this Code. 5.9 Sustainable procurement A partner, in procurement transactions with its sub-partners, shall formulate ethical/environmental/social policies and procedure for sustainable procurement, and then conduct procurement accordingly. 70 G H G A s s u ra n ce State me n t Introduction DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”) was commissioned by GS Caltex Corporation (“GS Caltex”) to verify the GS Caltex’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report for the calendar year 2017 (“the report”) based upon a reasonable level of assurance. GS Caltex is responsible for the preparation of the GHG emissions and Energy consumption data on the basis set out within the guidelines for the reporting and certification of emissions of the greenhouse gas emission trading system (Notification No. 2017-40, Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy). Our responsibility in performing this work is to the management of GS Caltex only and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with them. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or responsibility for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this assurance statement. Scope of Assurance The GHG emissions data covered by our examination comprise Direct emissions (Scope 1 emissions), Energy indirect emissions (Scope 2 emissions): • GHG emissions under verification : GHG emissions in 2017 • Organizational boundary for reporting : GS Caltex (in Korea) Verification Approach The verification has been conducted by DNV GL from January through March 2018 and performed in accordance with the verification principles and tasks outlined in the guidelines for the reporting and certification of emissions of the greenhouse gas emission trading system (Notification No. 2017-40, Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) and the verification guidelines for the operation of the greenhouse gas emission trading system (Notification No. 2017-12, Ministry of Strategy and Finance). We planned and performed our work so as to obtain all the information and explanations deemed necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence to provide a reasonable verification opinion concerning the completeness of the emission inventory as well as the reported emission figures in ton CO2 equivalent. As part of the verification process; • We have reviewed the greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption report for the calendar year 2017 • We have reviewed and verified the process to generate, aggregate and report the emissions data Conclusions As a result of the work described above, in our opinion, nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the greenhouse emissions set out in GS Caltex’s report are not fairly stated. The greenhouse gas emissions of GS Caltex for the year 2017 were confirmed as below: < Greenhouse Gas Emissions of GS Caltex in 2017 > Annual Greenhouse Gas Emissions (tCO2e) GS Caltex Direct emissions(Scope1) Indirect emissions(Scope2) Total emissions Yr 2017 6,364,585 1,442,829 7,807,414 ※ In order to report the GHG emissions as an integer, the rounded number on the statement might be different from the real number with ± 2 tCO2. ※ Total emissions = Scope 1 + Scope 2 This Assurance Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance (11st May 2018). Please note 11st May 2018 that this Assurance statement would be revised if any material discrepancy which may impact on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of GS Caltex is subsequently brought to our attention. In DNV GL Business Assurance Ltd the event of ambiguity or contradiction in this statement between English version and Korean version, Korean shall be given precedent. Country Manager In-Kyoon Ahn GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 71 Appendix Th i rd Part y A s s uran ce State me n t This Assurance Statement has been prepared for GS Caltex Corporation in accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of this Report. Terms of engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance (LRQA) was commissioned by GS Caltex Corporation to provide independent assurance on its ‘GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report’ (“the report”) against the assurance criteria below to a limited level of assurance using LRQA’s verification procedure. LRQA’s verification procedure is based on current best practise, is in accordance with ISAE 3000 and uses the principles of AA1000AS (2008) inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness and reliability of performance data. Our assurance engagement covered GS Caltex Corporation’s operations and activities in Korea and specifically the following requirements: • Confirming that the report is in accordance with: GRI Standards: Core option • Evaluating the accuracy and reliability of data and information for only the selected indicators listed below: GRI 200 (Economic): 205-2, 205-3, 206-1 GRI 300 (Environmental): 302-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-7, 307-1 GRI 400 (Social): 401-1, 401-2, 403-1, 413-1 Our assurance engagement excluded the data and information of GS Caltex Corporation’s suppliers, partners and any third-parties mentioned in the report. LRQA’s responsibility is only to GS Caltex Corporation. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. GS Caltex Corporation’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the data and information within the report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the report is derived. Ultimately, the report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of GS Caltex Corporation. LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that GS Caltex Corporation has not, in all material respects: • Met the requirements above • Disclosed accurate and reliable performance data and information as all errors or omissions identified during the assurance engagement were corrected • Covered all the issues that are important to the stakeholders and readers of this report. The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier. Note The extent of evidence-gathering for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. LRQA’s approach LRQA’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with our verification procedure. The following tasks though were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement: • Assessing GS Caltex Corporation’s approach to stakeholder engagement to confirm that issues raised by stakeholders were captured correctly. We did this through reviewing documents and associated records. • Reviewing GS Caltex Corporation’s process for identifying and determining material issues to confirm that the right issues were included in their Report. We did this by benchmarking reports written by GS Caltex Corporation and its peers to ensure that sector specific issues were included for comparability. We also tested the filters used in determining material issues to evaluate whether GS Caltex Corporation makes informed business decisions that may create opportunities that contribute towards sustainable development. • Auditing GS Caltex Corporation’s data management systems to confirm that there were no significant errors, omissions or misstatements in the report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling procedures, instructions and systems, including 72 those for internal verification. We also spoke with those key people responsible for compiling the data and drafting the report. • Reviewing supporting evidence made available by GS Caltex Corporation at their head office in Seoul and Yeosu Complex in Yeosu-si, Korea. • Checking that the GRI Content Index allows stakeholders to access sustainability indicators. Observations Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are: • Stakeholder inclusivity: We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from GS Caltex Corporation’s stakeholder engagement process. • Materiality: We are not aware of any material issues concerning GS Caltex Corporation’s sustainability performance that have been excluded from the report. It should be noted that GS Caltex Corporation has established extensive criteria for determining which issue is material and that these criteria are not biased to the company’s management. GS Caltex Corporation has established a database to manage their performance considering key environmental, social and governance issues, and has set up goals so as to contribute to sustainability. We expect GS Caltex Corporation to report its progress against those goals in the future report. • Responsiveness: Despite the increase in sales in FY 2017 compared to FY 2016, GS Caltex Corporation has achieved greenhouse gas emissions reduction. • Reliability: GS Caltex Corporation has reliable data management systems. LRQA’s standards, competence and independence LRQA implements and maintains a comprehensive management system that meets accreditation requirements for ISO/IEC 17021 Conformity assessment – Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems that are at least as demanding as the requirements of the International Standard on Quality Control 1 and comply with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants. LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent. This verification engagement is the only work undertaken by LRQA for GS Caltex Corporation and as such does not compromise our independence or impartiality. Signed 11th June 2018 Tae-Kyoung Kim LRQA Lead Verifier On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited 17th Floor, Sinsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea LRQA reference: SEO00000260 Lloyd’s Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as ‘Lloyd’s Register’. Lloyd’s Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright ©Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2018. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. GS Caltex 2017 Sustainability Report 73 This report is printed in soy ink and on FSC® certified paper.
