SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMEN OF THE BOARD __02 2. A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MODEL __03 3. COMMITTED TO SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS __20 4. COMMITTED TO EMPLOYEES __28 5. COMMITTED TO SOCIETY __35 6. ABOUT THIS REPORT __41 7. GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS __42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1. LETTER FROM THE This Report provides information on the CHAIRMEN OF THE BOARD management of non-financial risks, as well as the procedures implemented for Another year has passed and we are regulatory compliance and good corporate pleased to have the opportunity once again governance, both at Corporación to provide you with information on the Financiera Alba and in investee companies. performance and management of the Alba We highlight the management of the Group for the year 2017 in environmental, human team as a fundamental part of social and good governance aspects, the company, without which it would as well as to express, again, through our not be possible to operate, as well as different corporate policies, our commitment our commitment to climate change, to society. managed internally with good practices in sustainability, and externally through This commitment is reflected in this 2017 the measures proposed in the investee Sustainability Report, which Corporación companies Financiera Alba, as a listed company, presents, although it has no formal obligation The investments of Corporación Financiera to do so, maintaining its philosophy Alba in the long term represent a of transparency and good corporate commitment to growth and sustainability of governance practices. companies, and therefore, of society. This document contains information on The scope of this Report is limited to the most relevant aspects for each of our Corporación Financiera Alba and does stakeholders, highlighting in each of them the not include investee companies. However, most significant advances made in 2017. In it is our objective to inform about how we this way, we are responding to the concerns influence investee companies, promoting of our shareholders, who are increasingly the implementation and development of calling for investments to place special sustainability and corporate governance value on the responsible and sustainable best practices, in line with our philosophy economic development of companies in the of active participation, which is key when long term, and at the same time to implement it comes to making business decisions, procedures to achieve the United Nations’ deciding on projects and making Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). investments that generate wealth. 02 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA 2. A RESPONSIBLE To this end, the Investment Policy of BUSINESS MODEL Corporación Financiera Alba determines the guidelines of ethical excellence 2.1. Company Profile and regulatory compliance that must be analysed before any investment Corporación Financiera Alba, SA is part, can occur, so that any company that together with Banca March and Fundación does not meet these requirements will Juan March, of Grupo March, one of the main not be eligible for investment. The key private Spanish family-owned businesses and objective of this policy is to create longfinancial groups. term value for its shareholders through the investments made and the effective The company focuses its business model on participation in the companies in which investing in different sectors and managing it invests. its investment portfolio. In addition, it makes real estate investments in office buildings One of the general principles that guide located in central areas, mainly in Madrid, the actions of Corporación Financiera which are directly managed, from the Alba is the need to have a high level of commercial, administrative and technical knowledge of the investments, both in point of view, by Alba. the initial analysis and in the continuous monitoring of the company in which it invests, the sector in which it operates 2.2. Responsible Business and the markets in which it operates. With its vision placed on the stability of The Investment Policy, approved by its long-term investments, Corporación the Board of Directors in 2015, was Financiera Alba is committed to active amended in 2017 to expressly introduce participation –through appropriate levels of into it, within the principle of active shareholding– in the companies in which it participation in investee companies, invests. The objective is to contribute to their that they meet the highest standards of good corporate governance and to maximise transparency, corporate governance the financial and non-financial benefits of and, in general, Corporate Social each of the entities in which it invests. Responsibility. 03 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporación Financiera Alba’s commitment The principle of prudence is essential in to national and local economic development the business and has implications both for continues, with investment in companies the composition of Corporación Financiera located in Spain, but always with an Alba’s portfolio –hence the need to diversify international focus. Due to the need for investment to reduce volatility– and for the adequate risk diversification, the modification level of indebtedness, with liquidity of its of the Investment Policy approved during assets allowing the company to quickly the year expressly included the possibility of execute investment decisions and maintain a making investments at an international level in level of coverage to cover financial risks. developed countries, always maintaining the high standards of reliability, stability and legal certainty required of the investee companies. The credibility and reputation of Corporación Financiera Alba is understood from its longterm commitment and from its adherence to the principles of Good Corporate Governance and ethical behaviour promoted in and from the company, such as not investing in controversial sectors. In its investee companies, the Group promotes advanced policies on Good Governance, environmental, labour, social and tax issues and on avoiding conflicts of interest between investee companies. 04 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA This is the portfolio of shares held by Alba at 31 December 2017: Equity Share Listed / Not Listed Company at 31 December 2017 Listed Parques Reunidos 20.0% Listed Acerinox 19.0% Listed BME 12.1% Listed Ebro Foods 12.0% Listed Viscofan 11.3% Listed Euskaltel 11.0% Listed Indra 10.5% Listed CIE Automotive 10.0% Not Listed Gascan 40.3% Not Listed Satlink 28.1% Not Listed Panasa 26.5% Not Listed Mecalux 24.4% Not Listed in-Store Media 18.9% Not Listed Alvinesa 16.8% Not Listed TRRG Holding 7.5% Table 1: Equity Share in Listed and Unlisted Companies at 31 December 2017 05 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The breakdown of assets at 31 December 2017 by investment type is as follows: Percentage Assets at 31 December 2017 Listed companies 60% Treasury and other assets and liabilities 25% Real estate assets 8% Unlisted companies 7% Table 2: Breakdown by asset types at 31 December 2017 Corporación Financiera Alba’s investments according to sector of activity at 31 December 2017 are as follows: Percentage Investment Sectors at 31 December 2017 Industrial 31% Food 21% Real Estate 12% Financial Services 9% Leisure 8% Technology 7% Telecommunications 4% Miscellaneous 9% Table 3: Percentage of Investment in Different Sectors of Activity at 31 December 2017 06 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA 2.3. Aligned with International The Audit and Compliance Committee is Sustainability Standards responsible for supervising compliance with the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. In 2015, the Board of Directors approved the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Corporación Financiera Alba, through its with the aim of promoting a corporate participation in the Boards of Directors of culture aligned with international the companies in which it invests, promotes sustainability standards. As investment their compliance with international standards is its core business, the company’s main in environmental, labour, social and Good social responsibility is to ensure the utmost Governance matters. diligence and integrity throughout the investment process. Accordingly, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) approved by The Corporate Social Responsibility the United Nations General Assembly in Policy is based on three principles that September 2015 and set out in its Agenda apply to its investments: long-term vision, 2030 stand out as one of the main global responsible management –selecting those trends. These goals encourage all countries assets over which it has the greatest to intensify their efforts to: end poverty, reach capacity for influence and transformation– zero hunger, ensure quality education, etc. and mitigation of non-financial risks, The United Nations recognises the important including social, environmental and Good role that private sector companies play in Governance. achieving these goals. Corporación Financiera Alba promotes the identification of the different SDGs in which PRINCIPLES APPLIED the investees have an impact through their IN INVESTMENTS activities and the definition of policies and strategies to contribute to their achievement. RESPONSIBILITY MITIGATION OF LONG-TERM IN NON-FINANCIAL VISION MANAGEMENT RISKS 07 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Identification of the SDGs in the Listed Companies Corporación Financiera Alba invests in is as follows: SDG Company 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Parques Reunidos Acerinox BME Ebro Foods Viscofan Euskaltel Indra CIE Automotive Table 4: Identification of SDG’s in Listed Investee Companies 08 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA With each of the goals being: SDG1 Eradication of poverty SDG2 Fight against hunger SDG3 Health and well-being SDG4 Quality education SDG5 Gender equality SDG6 Clean water and sanitation SDG7 Renewable energy SDG8 Decent employment and economic growth SDG9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure SDG10 Reducing inequality SDG11 Sustainable cities and communities SDG12 Responsible production and consumption SDG13 Fight against climate change SDG14 Underwater life SDG15 Life of terrestrial ecosystems SDG16 Peace, justice and strong institutions SDG17 Partnerships to achieve goals Table 5: 17 SDGs identified by the United Nations in 2015 09 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This alignment of the investee companies with the international sustainability frameworks allows Corporación Financiera Alba to establish the degree to which all of its investee companies have implemented these good practices. This is reflected in the table shown below: The United DJSI Nations GRI (Global Carbon (Dow Jones No. of SR Sustainability (UN) Global Reporting Disclosure Sustainability companies Online Report Compact Initiative) Project Indices) IBEX 2 100% 100% 100% 100% 50% 50% Remainder of listed companies 7 100% 100% 86% 86% 43% 0% IBEX + Listed companies 9 100% 100% 89% 89% 44% 11% All companies 16 69% 56% 50% 50% 25% 6% Table 6: Percentage of Implementation of Good CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Practices in Alba Investee Companies. December 2017 Given that larger companies that have more resources and greater commitments to their investors have more possibilities to invest in sustainability, the table shows that there is a greater commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainability in companies listed on the IBEX and on the continuous market, compared to unlisted companies. 10 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA 2.4. Sustainability Challenges in Alba Acting consciously, taking into account the Investee Companies different risks and opportunities that arise from proper business management. Alba is aware that its sustainability depends on the management of the extra-financial • Responsible Innovation: Innovation aspects of its investee companies. These is necessary to transition to a more extra-financial aspects are divided into responsible business, both for stakeholders three categories: Good Governance, social and for the development of a sustainable and environmental, and each of them is planet. This innovation must respond defined below. efficiently to human needs. Good Governance: Social: • Integrity: Integrity is related to the • Human rights in the supply chain: transparency and honesty of a company. Relocation of the supply chain can lead Taking regulatory compliance into account to the violation of fundamental rights, and communicating information honestly which can lead not only to sanctions and transparently has become one of for companies, but also to a loss of the most important aspects of managing confidence on the part of customers, a company, not only to avoid possible and can lead to undesirable business penalties, but also to avoid reputational situations. damage. • Local Community: The performance of • Cybersecurity: The company’s ability to the activity has environmental and social protect its clients’ critical information and impacts in the places where it is carried protect it from possible cyber attacks is out. Good management of these impacts becoming an increasingly relevant factor in allows companies to gain the trust of the responsible management. people who make up the community and their representatives, which will create a • Business Sustainability: The sustainability lasting and stable relationship that will of the business is a consequence of the benefit not only the business, but also the responsible management of the same. community itself. 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Animal Welfare: In the companies • Climate Change: Climate change is a whose activities are related to the sale or risk to health, to the environment and, handling of animals, this aspect is very therefore, to society, which makes it important. The fair treatment of animals, a relevant factor for the sustainability in addition to having great visibility and of a company. Businesses will have to impact, is a great risk that can lead the introduce innovation parameters to adjust business to unpleasant situations. to the measures promoted by institutional bodies and the demands of society, to Environmental: create a sustainable planet. • G  reenhouse Gas Emissions: Greenhouse • Biodiversity: This encompasses the gas emissions contribute to climate diversity of species, plants, animals, fungi change. That is why its measurement and micro-organisms that live in a given and consequent reduction is of utmost space, the ecosystems of which these importance to avoid global warming. species are part and the landscapes Not only is it important for the company, or regions where the ecosystems are but, increasingly, lobby groups and civil located. It is therefore another factor society are monitoring it more closely, in relevant to specific industries, which some cases even exposing companies to may be exposed to legal litigation and sanctions and a decline in their reputation. reputational damage to the company. •  missions in the Supply Chain: The E • Water: Water scarcity is becoming methods to calculate the carbon footprint more and more important on our are becoming increasingly sophisticated, planet. Its use is being gradually and today it is possible to calculate the regulated and controlled, generating emissions in the production chain of a legal risks for companies that do not product, which is sometimes greater respect the standards set by the Public than that produced by the product itself. Administrations. Controlling the water Life cycle analysis not only reduces footprint is of vital importance, especially these emissions, but also saves the for companies whose business is company costs by taking advantage of closely related to water use or whose technological advances that improve headquarters are located in areas their efficiency. classified as water-stressed. 12 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA • Waste Management: Given the high Now those aspects have been defined, the degree of consumerism that has developed following table shows which aspects are over the years, the treatment of waste for material to Alba’s listed investee companies. its reintroduction into the economy is a In order to carry out a more exhaustive matter of vital importance. Companies can assessment, for each aspect we have been improve their competitiveness in efficient considered whether the company has policies waste management by including the circular that reflect the importance of the subject economy as part of their strategy, reducing within the company’s core business (policy) not only their environmental footprint, but and whether the company has implemented also their production costs. initiatives that promote knowledge, execution and regulation of these policies (procedure). Aspects of Integrity Cybersecurity Responsible innovation Good Governance Policy Procedure Policy Procedure Policy Procedure Acerinox BME CIE Automotive Ebro Foods Euskaltel Indra Parques Reunidos Viscofan Table 7: Challenges of Good Governance in Investee Listed Companies 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Social aspects Supply chain HR Local community Animal well-being Policy Procedure Policy Procedure Policy Procedure Acerinox BME CIE Automotive Ebro Foods Euskaltel Indra Parques Reunidos Viscofan Table 8: Social Challenges in Listed Investee Companies 14 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Environmental CIE Ebro Parques aspects Acerinox BME Automotive Foods Euskaltel Indra Reunidos Viscofan Greenhouse gas Policy emissions Proced. Supply chain Policy emissions Proced. Biodiversity Policy Proced. Water Policy Proced. Waste Policy management Proced. Climate Policy change Proced. Business sustainability Table 9: Environmental Challenges in Listed Investee Companies 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2.5. Materiality and Dialogue with SHAREHOLDERS EMPLOYEES CLIENTS Stakeholders AND INVESTORS For Corporación Financiera Alba, it is a priority to attend to the needs of its stakeholders. For this reason, we have identified the material aspects to which we intend to pay special attention and contribute to the development of a stable and competent business. In the first place, the Stakeholders and the commitments that Corporación Financiera Alba has with each of them were ALBA determined, which are reflected in the STAKEHOLDERS following table. SOCIETY REGULATORS SUPPLIERS 16 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Alba Corporación Financiera Alba’s Dialogue stakeholders Commitment Towards the Stakeholder channels Shareholders Encourage and develop the mechanisms for building relationships and Corporación Alba website and maintaining dialogue Investors Channel enabled for shareholders Encourage the exercise of shareholders’ rights through informed participation and transparent communication Email: alba@corporacionalba.es Ensure accountability through relevant, reliable and rigorous information Post Seek Financial Profit Electronic forum for shareholders Provide information on environmental, social and good governance General Shareholders’ Meetings objectives Annual report Sustainability report Meetings with the Investor Relations Department. Participation in forums of the different sectors related to investee companies Employees Ensure a healthy working environment in which equal opportunities are Intranet for employees respected Channel enabled for employees Encourage healthy work-life balance Maintain a permanent and transparent dialogue Promote professional development and ensure the necessary training for the development of their functions Clients Fair consideration of all their interests Corporación Alba website Excellence in performance of the business activity to offer the best Email: alba@corporacionalba.es possible service Post Extension of the Corporación Financiera Alba values to its clients Annual Report Sustainability Report Suppliers Apply corporate responsibility criteria in management and promote Corporación Alba website responsible practices in supplier companies Post Maintain a permanent channel of dialogue Email: (contractresponsible) @corporacionalba.es Regulators Carry out fiscally responsible activities Direct communication or through the appropriate institutional channels for each case Regulatory compliance CNMV (Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores -“National Securities Market Commission”-) Website Society Contribute to sustainable development, promoting integration and Corporación Alba website social well-being in the territory in which it has a presence Post Respect and promote human rights universally recognised in the Global Compact Email: alba@corporacionalba.es Respect the natural environment through measures that prevent Participation in Social and Environmental Forums pollution and through sustainable use of resources and correct waste management Adherence to the UN Global Compact Table 10: Stakeholders. Corporación Financiera Alba 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Once the stakeholders were identified, the The company’s materiality matrix was most relevant topics for each group were then drawn up internally, which includes specified in a second step. To this end, the the assessment of the most relevant issues commitments that Corporación Financiera identified, both for Corporación Financiera Alba maintains with its stakeholders are taken and for the stakeholders. into consideration, as well as the topics in the GRI Standard methodology and the aspects indicated in Royal Decree-Law 18/2017. Importance 2 1 Good Governance Alba Social Stakeholders 3 5 Very high 8 4 Environmental 6 7 10 9 11 12 13 High 14 15 16 18 17 Medium 19 20 Low Medium High Very high Importance Corporación Financiera Alba Graph 1: Materiality Matrix. Corporación Financiera Alba: 2017 18 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Scope Identification of relevant aspects (Good Governance, Social, Environmental) 1 Regulatory compliance Good Governance 2 Ethics and good governance Good Governance 3 Corruption prevention Good Governance 4 Financial stability Good Governance 5 Mechanisms for the control and management of financial risks Good Governance 6 Creation and stability of employment Social 7 Talent attraction and retention Social 8 Mechanisms for the control and management of non-financial risks Good Governance 9 Health and safety at work Social 10 Transparency in communication Social 11 Channels for dialogue with stakeholders Social 12 Diversity Social 13 ESG aspects in strategy/incentives Good Governance 14 Equal opportunities Social 15 Contribution to the development of local societies Social 16 Environmental footprint (internal and indirect impact) Environmental 17 Socially responsible financing Good Governance 18 Financial education Social 19 Sustainable supply chain Good Governance 20 Social action not linked to the business Social Table 11: Material Aspects Identified by Scope and Level of Impact. 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3. COMMITTED TO SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS Mechanisms for Mechanisms for Compliance Ethical Rules the control and the control and with the Prevention of Financial and Good Management of Management of regulations Corruption Stability Governance Financial Risks Non-Financial Risks GOOD GOVERNANCE Within the commitment to improve day to • In  addition, the company produces day transparency and communication with periodic publications such as the Annual investors and shareholders, some initiatives Report, the Sustainability Report, etc. The stand out: investor can access updated information of interest, at all times, on the company • T he company enables the Electronic website. Shareholders Forum, as a specific communication channel with this interest • T he Investor Relations Department deals group. It does so on the day of the with inquiries from investors, analysts or announcement of the General Shareholders’ proxy advisors and also holds meetings, Meeting and it remains active until it providing information so that they can concludes. Through this forum, shareholders make their investment decisions. In 2017, can request information or any clarification 20 consultations were carried out and 40 regarding the matters that will be discussed meetings were held. at the Meeting, as well as making proposals and communicating with each other. 20 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA • T he entity participates in stock exchange 3.1. Corporate Governance and Diversity forums where investors that are involved in the activity of the company are present. The Company’s governing bodies are the General Shareholders Meeting and In short, Corporación Financiera Alba the Board of Directors. The latter is the has intensified the periodic information highest decision-making body within the relating to society, taking advantage of the company and its activity is governed by the different means of interaction provided by Regulations of the Board of Directors and by both traditional communication methods the Corporate Governance Policy. and new technologies. The purpose is to provide the appropriate means for The Board devotes a significant part of its greater participation and dialogue with activity to the approval of the company’s stakeholders, shareholders and investors, business strategy and the organisation as befits a listed company that is fully required for its implementation. aware of the importance of information and transparency. The Regulations of the Board of Directors establish the rules of organisation and The Communication Department is operation of this governing body, in in constant contact with national and accordance with the laws, by-laws and the international media, who follow the Company’s Code of Ethics and Conduct, company’s information, to keep them and ensure that the Board performs its duties informed of its status and activity, providing in accordance with criteria of honesty, them the best possible information about it. respect for all stakeholders and observance of the principles of social responsibility. The Management Committee and the Board of Directors periodically review the For its part, the Corporate Governance application of and compliance with the Policy aims to set the guidelines to comply Company’s Communication Policy. with current regulations and with all the recommendations regarding corporate governance in relation to shareholders, the Board of Directors and its Committees. Likewise, this Policy follows the principle of 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT transparency of information and provides Of the total number of directors, 21.5% are for the effective promotion of its disclosure. women. Alba aims to raise this percentage to 30% by 2020. The entity currently complies with all the Good Governance recommendations The Board has the following Committees: included in the CNMV Code. And for the second time, this effort to seek excellence • T he Audit and Compliance Committee, and promote best practices in the field of whose main activity focuses on supervising Corporate Governance and Corporate the areas of risk identification and internal Social Responsibility has been recognised control systems; review and approval of internationally, with Corporación Financiera financial information; and those related to Alba being chosen as 2017 Corporate the external audit of the annual accounts Governance Company of the Year for and compliance with the legal system and Spain in the Global Banking Finance regulations. Awards, awarded by the British publication The European. • T he Appointments and Remuneration Committee, whose duties include the No new directors were appointed in 2017, establishment of the remuneration policy for and at year’s end the Board was composed directors and all those directly dependent of fourteen members, with fifteen being on the Board: general managers, etc. the maximum number allowed under the Likewise, it has competence in the selection Regulations of the Board of Directors. Three of Directors. directors are proprietary directors, six are external independent directors (three men • T he Operations Committee, which is and three women), and the remaining five entrusted with the functions of informing are executive directors. or deciding, as the case may be, on the investment activity. 22 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA • T he Investment Monitoring Committee, This policy also ensures that appointments constituted in 2017, and which tracks to the Board of Directors promote diversity the evolution of investments and their in terms of knowledge and experience, environment, and verifies that they conform providing pluralistic points of view, and that to the principles and objectives of the the selection process does not lead to gender Investment Policy. discrimination. a. Candidate Director Selection Policy Corporación Financiera Alba has approved, since 2015, a Selection Policy for Candidate Directors, which follows the recommendations of the Code of Good Governance of Listed Companies. The Board of Directors will carry out a prior analysis of the Company’s needs and will be advised by the Appointments and Remuneration Committee, which will issue a report on the qualifications, training and skills that the person who joins the Board must have. The candidate must be a professional of integrity, with a professional conduct and trajectory in accordance with the principles of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, and with the vision and values of the group. 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3.2. Alba Ethics and Values These values inspire the principles and standards of the company’s Code of Ethics The main values on which Corporación and Conduct. Compliance with these Financiera Alba bases its activity and which principles obliges both employees and all it transmits to all the entities with which it members of the management bodies to follow is related in its business activity are the these principles in order to maintain the following: confidence of other stakeholders. VALUES Prudence in Respecting Business, without Human Rights Behaviour that Fair Treatment Respectful is Ethical and in and Respects Treatment of the Taking Risks and and Commitment Prudence in Relations to the UN Global Compliance with for Others Environment the law with Customers and Compact Suppliers Commitment Loyalty to the Creation of Professionalism: to the Company Value for the Expertise and Corporación Shareholder Best Business Financiera Practices in Alba business the Sector project 24 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Employees undertake to comply with this The Report of the Audit and Compliance Code, and upon joining the company they Committee, which is published annually on adhere to it with a signed declaration of the website when the General Shareholders’ knowledge and acceptance, which they Meeting is called, includes information on submit to the company’s control body. the complaints and the measures adopted, if any, so that stakeholders can control its The company reiterates the validity of the Code effectiveness. of Ethics and Conduct for the people affected by it on an annual basis. This reminder outlines No complaints were received in 2017. No the general rules of conduct to be followed proposal for improving the Code of Ethics and the functions of the Monitoring Committee has been received either. During this last year, and explains the procedure for monitoring the Ethics and Conduct Code Monitoring compliance with the Code. In addition, the Committee has met six times and is currently confidentiality of the process is reported to working on the revision and updating of the the Chairman of the Audit Committee and Code, and it is expected that in 2018 it will the Secretary of the Board, so that the person be approved by the Board. concerned can submit complaints about illegal or unlawful actions to both the Chairman of The contracts signed with the company’s the Audit Committee and the Secretary of the suppliers and customers also include a Board, the identity of the complainant being clause on compliance with the Corporación considered confidential. Financiera Alba Code of Ethics and Conduct and how to report any behaviour contrary to it. Employees have access to the text of the Code of Ethics and Conduct both on the In addition to these ethical rules, directors, Corporación Financiera Alba intranet and executives or any other person of the website. company whose activity is related to the securities market must comply with the Internal These rules are properly monitored by the Regulations of Conduct of the Securities Code of Ethics and Conduct Monitoring Market, whose objective is to prevent any Committee, which is made up of the Secretary person, by virtue of their position, from of the Board, the Financial and Administrative committing market abuse. Director, the Investment Director and the Head of the Legal Department. 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3.3. Management and Control of For this reason, in 2016, Corporación Non-Financial Risks Financiera Alba launched a Regulatory Compliance Unit in order to coordinate, The Risk Management Policy foresees both systematise and monitor activities and non-financial risks and financial risks. efforts in everything related to this matter. After identifying the main legislative and Non-financial risks are defined as those regulatory obligations, a Compliance strategic risks relating to the corporate Model was designed with activities and governance of the company and its responsibilities for each of the main reputation, as well as risks relating to areas of the company’s activity: Personnel regulatory compliance arising from a potential Administration, Legal Advice, Internal breach of laws and regulations. Audit, Risk Management, Regulatory, Tax and Accounting Compliance, Real The scope of the non-financial risks affects Estate, Private Equity Investment, CNMV Corporación Financiera Alba and its Requirements and Information Systems subsidiaries. Both the risks related to corporate governance and those related to compliance Every six months, this Regulatory are included in the company’s risk map. They Compliance Unit carries out a detailed are organised according to the three lines of analysis of the obligations of each area, defence model proposed by the Institute of obtaining results regarding the requirements Internal Auditors. and reaching conclusions. In 2017, the total requirements amounted to 105. In the 3.4. Regulatory Compliance first semester, 25 were not applicable and 80 were resolved favourably. In the second Due to the legislative environment, which semester, 22 were not applicable and 83 is increasingly complex and regulated, were resolved favourably. companies are more exposed to the risk of regulatory non-compliance. The impact on the company is not only due to the imposition of sanctions, but above all to the economic and reputational damage that can affect its sustainability. 26 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA 3.5. Crime and Fraud Prevention Policy The aim is to exercise due control over directors, executives and employees Corporación Financiera Alba promotes integrated in the companies of the group, an internal corporate culture of ethical in order to control potential situations of principles and responsible behaviour, commission of irregularities. Likewise, together with the prevention of the contracts with suppliers are subject to commission of illegal and fraudulent acts, clauses by which they undertake to control which are considered unacceptable, and situations of risk of committing crimes, has a Crime and Fraud Prevention Policy, infractions or serious irregularities, as well approved by the Board of Directors in as to reject corruption and fraud, including, 2015. extortion, or bribery. The principles of action governing this Internally, the Crime Prevention Model is Prevention Policy are aimed at establishing followed up by issuing semi-annual reports, the internal rules and procedures for action which are reported to the Audit and and decision-making required to prevent Compliance Committee and the Board, with any person from developing decisionthe results of monitoring and compliance making powers that are not subject to with the recommendations of previous control, as well as implementing effective, reviews, if any had been issued. continuous and upgradable control systems and promoting self-control in actions and In 2017, two training sessions were held decision-making. on the prevention of crime and fraud. One of which was for Board Members To this end, the company has the Crime and Executives, and the other for Area Prevention Model, which provides an Managers. A total of twelve people effective management system for the participated, six Board Members and 9% of prevention of crime and the fight against the total number of employees. fraud. The objective of this is to monitor, anticipate and sanction any type of criminal and fraudulent acts and behaviours. 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4. COMMITTED TO EMPLOYEES Creation of Attraction Health and Equal and Stability of and Retention safety at opportunities / Employment of Talent work Non Discrimination SOCIAL The Board delegates the ordinary management of the company to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The CEO, together with the management team and the entire staff, carries out the strategy set by the Board. The organisational structure, which includes the companies Corporación Financiera Alba, S.A., Alba Patrimonio Inmobiliario, S.A.U. and Artá Capital, SGEIC, SAU, is as follows: 28 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Staff Chairman (2) (2) Staff Vicechair (1) (1) Institutional Relationships CEO Staff Secretariat (1) (1) (2) (1) Real Estate, Secretariat Investments Strategy Finance and Systems Chairman Security General Dir. Dir. Dir. Artá capital Dir. Department (1) (1) (1) (1) (1) (1) (12) Legal Real Estate Finance Systems Department Department Department Department Department Director Department (2) (4) (7) (8) (4) (4) (1) Department Department (1) (10) Graph 2: Alba Staff. 31 December 2017 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporación Financiera Alba and the other two companies mentioned above closed 2017 with 67 employees, 100% of whom were permanent employees. In 2017, the number of employees of the company has increased by 11% and, of the total workforce, 33% are women. STAFF by gender 2017 2016 % Variation Men 45 42 7 Women 22 19 15 Total 67 61 11 Table 12: Staff Distribution by Gender. December 2017 In addition, the recruitment of women increased by 15 percentage points, over and above the recruitment of men, which rose by 7 percentage points. Figure 3 shows the organisation’s efforts to incorporate women between the ages of 30 and 50. 30 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Number of people Older than 50 Between 30 and 50 25 20 23 22 20 15 10 5 0 2 Men Women Graph 3: Staff Distribution by Age and Gender. December 2017 Corporación Financiera Alba promotes all This attention to people is manifested in the the necessary values –ethical behaviour, professional development of employees in loyalty, respect, commitment, integrity, the company, which facilitates a healthy prudence, etc.– to form a full and competent working environment, respects diversity, human team that works to achieve the equal opportunities and work-life balance. sustainability of the company. The initiatives that are promoted in these areas take into account the needs of staff Not only does the Code of Ethics and that are made known through the different Conduct, which each of the employees is channels of communication that the company committed to fulfilling, contribute to this, but the puts at their disposal. company is clearly committed to a high degree of commitment through its care for its staff. 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4.1. Employment stability In 2017, one employee left the company due to retirement and six new employees joined Employees’ job security is achieved by the company, five of whom were filling newly offering decent and favourable employment created positions. conditions, adequate professional development, fixed hiring conditions for all of Corporación Financiera Alba applies, its employees and social benefits. In addition, among other human resources policies, family the necessary measures are taken to promote reconciliation measures that facilitate the safety and health at work. necessary work-life balance of its employees, in order to offer better working conditions and The results of these labour measures are very thus contribute to greater job stability. In 2017, positive and are reflected in good indicators the total number of employees taking maternity/ such as staff turnover (only 7.5%) or the high paternity leave amounted to 4, representing 6% average time spent in the company. of the total number of employees. 2017 Women Men Total Total Number of Employees Taking Maternity 3 1 4 /Paternity Leave Total Number of Employees Returning from Maternity 3 1 4 /Paternity Leave Table 13: Employees on Maternity/Paternity Leave. December 2017 32 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA 4.2. Health and Safety 4.3. Professional development and talent retention Corporación Financiera Alba has a preventive health and safety policy for its The professional development of the employees that guarantees compliance with Corporación Financiera Alba team is current regulations. The company is aware essential to meet the needs of the investment that the establishment of preventive measures market and to achieve excellence and minimises risks. professionalism in their work. In addition, the Code of Ethics and Conduct The management of the company’s talent includes both the commitment of the company is carried out in a personalised manner, to ensure health and safety, and the obligation identifying the training needs of employees that employees have to know and comply with from their departments, thus achieving all rules that affect them in this area. greater professional development. These rules are available to all employees in The total number of training hours received the “Manual on Health and Safety for Office by employees in 2017 was 574 hours. This Work”, which everyone should be aware of decreased by 26% compared to 2016 due and comply with. to the fact that in that year the training in the area of “Real Estate” increased more than Every year, the external company that usual, due to the need to update to the new coordinates the prevention of occupational developments in the sector. In 2017, training risks carries out an audit of the offices and in the systems department was increased issues a report with recommendations on and access to the training requested by the different aspects –light, workplaces, employees to carry out their responsibilities files, etc– that are evaluated to propose in the company was facilitated. improvement actions. The annual reviews of the workforce are part of the preventive health policy. Alba covers all of its employees with health and accident insurance –as part of their compensation in kind–. 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT No. of hours No. of hours Areas 2017 2016 Difference Real Estate 190 433 -56% Administration 150 150 0% Investments 81 75 8% Law 72 70 3% Systems 60 32 88% Communication 21 20 5% Total 574 780 -26% Table 14: Comparison of Training by Area. December 2016-17 TRAINING BY DEPARTMENTS IN 2017 Real Estate 190 Administration 150 Investments 81 Legal 72 Systems 60 Communication 21 Graph 4: Training by Departments in 2017 34 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA 5. COMMITTED TO SOCIETY Contribution to Environmental the Development Social Action Foodprint Socially Sustainable Financial not Linked to Responsible Supply of Local Education (Internal and Societies the Business Indirect Impact) Financing Chain SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL GOOD GOVERNANCE Corporación Financiera Alba is committed Alba also respects the natural environment to society, promoting integration and social through the prevention of pollution and the well-being in the territory in which it is sustainable use of resources and proper present. waste management. It respects and promotes universally 5.1. Environment recognised human rights in its supply chain by involving suppliers through the contracts it Although Corporación Financiera Alba’s signs with them. activity, by its very nature, does not have a significant impact on the environment, Likewise, the commitment to society is the company understands that this is a manifested in the promotion of culture fundamental aspect that can lead to risks for and art. It is worth mentioning its financial the planet and therefore strives to minimise the support to Fundación Juan March, whose possible environmental impacts of its activities purpose is to promote humanistic and and considers it a fundamental aspect to be scientific culture in Spain. taken into account. 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT For this reason, in 2017, Corporación a. Fuels Financiera Alba modified its Investment Policy to expressly introduce Corporate Social Corporación Financiera Alba promotes good Responsibility as a criterion to be valued in practices to minimise the number of kilometres the companies in which the group invests or travelled by its employees and, whenever is considering investing. The measurement of circumstances permit, prioritises telephone the carbon footprint, as well as being part of meetings or video-conferencing to reduce the the Carbon Disclosure Project, is an aspect emission of greenhouse gases. that was already taken into account when evaluating possible investments. The company’s internationalisation strategy, launched in 2017, entails the need to Corporación Financiera Alba takes into travel to other countries to examine possible account a series of measures that focus on partners and investments. This has meant an achieving this objective: increase in the number of kilometres travelled by plane in 2017 with respect to 2016. • Regulatory Compliance • Internal Promotion of the Saving of There are 5 vehicles in the company’s fleet, Resources 4 of which are state-of-the-art diesel vehicles • Adequate management of possible waste and 1 is a hybrid vehicle (petrol-electric). The arising from performing its activity. table shows the total litres consumed by the fleet in 2017, as well as the total kilometres travelled on business trips. The use of air transport has led to the emission of a carbon footprint of 25.14 Tn CO2. 36 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Unit 2017 Business fleet consumption broken down by fuel type L 9,986 Petrol L 7,739 Diesel L 2,247 Kilometres travelled on business trips (plane and train) Km 241,000 Total Km by plane Km 200,000 Total Km by train Km 41,000 Table 15: Fuel Consumption and Kilometres Travelled on Company Trips. b. Electrical Energy consumption LED lights were installed and old air conditioning units were replaced by others Energy consumption in Corporación that reduce energy consumption. Financiera Alba buildings is very low and comes mainly from lighting systems, air This philosophy is followed in all buildings owned conditioning systems and ICT equipment. by the group. In 2017, 40% of the buildings were renovated in accordance with energy efficiency In accordance with the principle of criteria. The total investment has amounted to minimising our impact on the environment, €328,000, of which 28% corresponds to the during the refurbishment of the Corporación installation of LED lights. This has resulted in a Financiera Alba headquarters in 2017, low 19% reduction in CO2 emissions. Unit 2017 2016 Electrical energy consumed (non-renewable source) KwH 317.,503 390,518 CO2 emitted Tn 111.1 136.6 Table 16: Electric Energy Consumption and CO2 emitted. 2016-2017 Comparison 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT c. Water As in the case of energy, water consumption in Alba’s buildings cannot be considered significant. The water used in the toilets is reused water, and with respect to bottled water, a system has been set up for the selective collection of bottles for subsequent recycling. Unit 2017 2016 Water consumption m3 11.29 8.74 Volume of water/Employee m3 0.17 0.14 Table 17: Cubic Metres of Water Consumed. 2016-2017 Comparison d. Paper Consumption new investments and an increase in the number of employees, it has not been Corporación Financiera Alba has possible to reduce paper consumption established measures to promote an active with respect to 2016, with consumption commitment from its team to the environment of 30,000 kg, representing 391,700 through the implementation of practices pages, compared to 296,300 used in such as the elimination of paper documents 2016. The company is aware of the need and their replacement by digital documents to review the measures to be adopted in or double-sided printing. However, in order to reduce consumption and minimise 2017, due to the increase in the study of environmental impact. 38 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Another initiative that has been carried out a. Financial Education Initiatives has been to replace printed newspaper subscriptions with digital subscriptions, In 2017 Corporación Financiera Alba eliminating the former almost entirely. In joined, together with Banca March, a new addition, all the paper used for printing is edition of the Programme Tus Finanzas, certified with the FSC (Forest Stewardship tu Futuro (Your Finances, your Future), Council) environmental seal. promoted by the AEB (Asociación Española de la Banca, –“Spanish Association of Alba also carries out a differentiated Banking”–) and the Fundación Junior treatment of other waste. Achievement (Junior Achievement Foundation), in which fifty volunteers 5.2. Social Impact from the group participated as teachers in teaching financial education to young Once again this year Corporación people between 13 and 15 years old, in Financiera Alba has contributed to different cities. social and artistic initiatives and to the promotion of financial education. Alba Corporación Financiera Alba also has participated in these activities both supported the Financial Education financially and by contributing its employees initiative called ‘vis a vis’, an educational time and knowledge. experience promoted by one of its investee companies, BME, which took The entity maintains the financial place on 2 October 2017, Financial contributions made to Fundación Juan Education Day, in the cities where the four March to organise exhibitions that contribute Spanish stock exchanges are located: to the cultural and artistic education of Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao and Valencia. society, as well as the financial support Throughout the day, those interested had for FEDEA, Fundación de Estudios de the opportunity to ask questions on matters Economía Aplicada (Foundation for Applied related to investment in the Stock Exchange Economics Studies) and the Instituto de and other securities markets. Participants Estudios Económicos (Institute of Economic received an on-site response or instructions Studies). The total amount of its contribution on where and how to find additional to these institutions is €315,000. information. 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BME, an investee company, has been a The employees also participate in forums in contributor to the Financial Education Plan the different sectors related to the investee promoted by the CNMV and the Bank of companies. Spain since 2008, the objective of which is to increase the level of financial culture of the population regardless of their economic c. Other Social Initiatives status and age. The Financial Education Day is an initiative within this Plan to permanently Corporación Financiera Alba encourages contribute to improving the transparency of the its employees and retirees to participate system and the protection of investors. actively in different associations and NGOs to help the most disadvantaged, both economically through donations and with b. Participation in Forums their direct and active involvement. Among other associations that it collaborates with Corporación Financiera Alba is a founding are: Cáritas, Banco de Alimentos (Food member of the Asociación Emisores Españoles Bank), Aldeas Infantiles (Children’s Villages) (Spanish Issuers Association), and in 2017 it and Asociación Hogares Infantiles de participated in various working groups of the Nepal (Children’s Association of Nepal). same, on the following issues: criminal liability of legal persons, market abuse, audit committees, In March 2017, employees of the Banca corporate governance, ethical codes. March Group companies participated in the IV charity race “On the Move In addition, it is a member of the Board of Against Cancer”, organised by the Directors of FEDEA, Fundación de Estudios Asociación Española Contra el Cáncer de Economía Aplicada, and the Board of the (Spanish Association Against Cancer) Instituto de Estudios Económicos. in Madrid, which fifty people from the group’s companies signed up to. Banca Since 2015, it has been a signatory to the March subsidises the participation of its United Nations Global Compact, committing professionals. itself to reporting annually on the progress made in this report, in which it must report on compliance with the 10 principles of the Compact. 40 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA 6. ABOUT THIS REPORT With this Sustainability Report, Corporación Financiera Alba continues with its policy of ensuring transparency in the management of its business. The information provided covers the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017. It has been prepared in accordance with international standards, such as the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, to which the company submits an annual progress report as a signatory company and in compliance with each of the principles. Likewise, indicators that refer to the GRI Standard methodology have been used. 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7. GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS Profile of the organisation GRI Standards Description Reference in the Sustainability Report 102-1 Organisation Name 2.1 Company Profile 2.1 Company Profile to 2.3 Aligned with international 102-2 Activities, Brands, Products and Services Sustainability Standards 102-3 Location of Headquarters C/ Castelló, 77-5ª planta 28006 MADRID 102-4 Location of Operations Operations are carried out nationally and internationally 102-5 Ownership and Legal Form Public Limited Company 102-6 Markets Served: Geographical Breakdown of Where Services Operations are carried out nationally and Are Offered internationally 102-7 Scale of the Organisation 4. Committed to Employees 102-8 Information about Employees 4. Committed to Employees 102-10 Indicated in the Annual Report Significant Changes in the Organisation and its Supply Chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 2.2 Responsible Business (Investment Policy) 102-12 External initiatives 5.2 Social Impact 102-13 Membership of Associations 5.2 Social Impact Strategy and analysis GRI Standards Description Reference in the Sustainability Report 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker of the organisation on the Letter from The Chairmen of the Board relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the strategy for addressing this issue. 102-15 Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 2.2 Responsible Business and Graph 1: Materiality Matrix 42 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Governance GRI Standards Description Reference in the Sustainability Report 102-18 Governance Structure 3. Committed to Shareholders and investors 102-19 Process of Delegation of Authority of highest governance body 3. Committed to Shareholders and investors 102-22 Composition of highest governance body and its Committees 3. Committed to Shareholders and investors 102-23 Chairs of the highest governance body Mr. Carlos March Delgado Mr. Juan March Delgado 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 3.1.a Candidate Director Selection Policy Conflicts of Interest With regard to conflicts of interest, the members of 102-25 the Board of Directors are governed by its specific regulations 102-26 Role of the highest governance body in setting Purpose, 3.2 Alba Ethics and Values. The Board of Directors Values and Strategy approves the Code of Ethics and Strategy of the entity 102-29 Identifying and managing Economic, Environmental and Graph 1: Materiality matrix and Table 11. Material Social Impacts Aspects Identified by Scope and Level of Impact. 102-30 Effectiveness of Risk Management Processes 3.4 Regulatory Compliance 102-31 Review of Economic, Environmental and Social topics Graph 1: Materiality Matrix and Table 11. Material Aspects Identified by Scope and Level of Impact 3.1 Corporate Governance and Diversity. 102-35 Remuneration Policies Appointments and Remuneration Committee. Director’s Remuneration Policy approved in 2015 and amended in 2017 Stakeholders engagement GRI Standards Description Reference in the Sustainability Report 102-40 List of Stakeholders Table 10. Stakeholders. 102-41 Percentage of Employees Covered by Collective Agreements 100% 102-42 Identifying and selecting Stakeholders Table 10. Stakeholders. 102-43 Approach to Stakeholders engagement Table 10. Stakeholders Graph 1: Materiality matrix and Table 11. Material 102-44 Key topics and Concerns raised Aspects Identified by Scope and Level of Impact. 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Material aspects and coverage GRI Standards Description Reference in the Sustainability Report 102-45 Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements 17, includes Group companies, associates and subsidiaries 102-46 Defining Report Content and Topic Boundaries Letter from the Chairmen of the Board, Graph 1: Materiality Matrix and 6. About this Report Graph 1: Materiality Matrix and Table 11. Material 102-47 List of Material Topics Aspects Identified by Scope and Level of Impact. 102-49 Changes in reporting 6. About this Report 102-50 Reporting period 6. About this Report 102-51 Date of Last Report 2016 102-52 Report Drafting Cycle Calendar Year 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the Report lff@alba-cfa.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in Accordance with GRI Standards Specific GRI-related content has been used in the preparation of the report 102-55 GRI Content Index 7. GRI Table of Contents 102-56 External Assurance Not applicable Economic performance GRI Standards Content Description Reference in the Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundary 2.2 Responsible Business Focus 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 2. A Responsible Business Model Ethics and integrity in business GRI Standards Content Description Reference in the Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundary 3.2 Alba Ethics and Values. Focus 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 3.2 Alba Ethics and Values Anti-Corruption 205-2 Communication and Training about Anti-Corruption 3.5 Crime and Fraud Prevention Policy Policies and Procedures 44 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Good governance GRI Standards Content Description Reference in the Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundary 3. Committed to Shareholders and Focus Investors 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 3. Committed to Shareholders and Investors Energy GRI Standards Content Description Reference in the Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundary 5.1 Environment Focus 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 5.1 Environment 302-1 Energy Consumption within the Organization 5.1.a Fuels and 5.1.b Electrical Energy 302-4 Reduction of Energy Consumption 5.1.a Fuels and 5.1.b Electrical Energy Water GRI Standards Content Description Reference in the Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundary 5.1.c Water Focus 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 5.1.c Water 303-3 Reused Water 5.1.c Water Emissions GRI Standards Content Description Reference in the Sustainability Report 5.1.a Fuels and Management 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundary 5.1.b Electrical Energy Focus 5.1.a Fuels and 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 5.1.b Electrical Energy 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Social action programmes GRI Standards Content Description Reference in the Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundary 5.2 Social Impact Focus 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 5.2 Social Impact 413-1 Operation with local community engagement 5.2 Social Impact Quality of employment, stability and work/life balance GRI Standards Content Description Reference in the Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundary 4.Committed to Employees Focus 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 4.Committed to Employees 401-1 New Employee hires and employee turnover 4.Committed to Employees 401-3 Parental Permission Table 13: Employees on Maternity/ Paternity Leave Occupational health and safety GRI Standards Content Description Reference in the Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundary 4.2 Health and Safety Focus 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 4.2 Health and Safety 46 CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA Diversity and equal opportunities GRI Standards Content Description Reference in the Sustainability Report Management 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundary 3.1.a Candidate Director Selection Focus Policy and 4.3 Professional Development and Talent Retention 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 3.1.a Candidate Director Selection Policy and 4.3 Professional Development and Talent Retention 405-1 Diversity of Governance Bodies 3.1.a Candidate Director Selection Policy Training and development GRI Standards Content Description Reference in the Sustainability Report Management 4.3 Professional Development and Talent 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundary Focus Retention 4.3 Professional Development and Talent 103-2 The Management Approach and its components Retention 404-1 Table 14: Comparison of Training Average Training Hours Per Year Per Employee by Area and Graph 4: Training by Department in 2017 Average: 9 hours/year 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 A copy of this Report in PDF format is available to download in the website of CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA, S.A.: www.corporacionalba.es Edition: CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA, S.A. Design, layout and production: laofficinacorporativa.es All rights reserved. CORPORACIÓN FINANCIERA ALBA, S.A. 77 Castelló, 5th floor 28006, Madrid, Spain Tel.: +34 91 436 37 10 Fax: +34 91 575 67 37 alba@corporacionalba.es www.corporacionalba.es
