Welcome to our CSR Report 2017 “Taking responsibility for society is part of who we are Contents Indholdsfortegnelse CSR at TDC Group page 4 Our impact page 11 Results & Environmental Focus areas page 12 objectives page 34 accounts page 35 Also available online at csrreport2017.tdcgroup.com CSR at TDC Group At TDC Group, responsibility is a natural part of our business, Our CSR strategy: based on our heritage and the role we play in society as a leading technology and communications company. We bring people closer together Our approach Therefore, with our current CSR strategy, we have defined five We appreciate that as part of society, we have an important role focus areas that we use to structure our approach to responsito play. Our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) bility and sustainability. These areas are strategically linked to our Digital Denmark Togetherness CSR therefore begins in our business areas and reflects our ambition core business and have been selected based on studies and We support digital citizenship, develop We bring people closer together and agendas digital solutions and ensure digital connections support an inclusive society to actively use our core competences to operate and develop TDC dialogue with customers, employees, investors and other for all of Denmark Group in a way that promotes sustainability and contributes stakeholders. The five focus areas thus represent the issues of positively to society’s development. most significance to our company and our stakeholders – and where we can make the greatest difference. Our CSR strategy and Our focus on CSR also creates business value by reducing costs its five focus areas are illustrated in the figure below: and risks, supporting innovation and improving our perception of stakeholder expectations while enhancing the company’s Our CSR strategy covers the entire TDC Group, but with a special reputation in society. Our strategic approach to CSR therefore focus on Denmark, as this is where the majority of our business allows us to create value for society at large as well as our activities are based. Customer trust & safety Well-being & diversity Climate & environment CSR We take responsibility for our We ensure employee well-being and We minimise our business, based on awareness of the social challenges we face. base customers and value chain support diversity environmental impact This report describes our specific ambitions in the five focus Purposeful CSR areas, explains how these have been translated into specific At TDC Group, we believe that CSR initiatives should clearly reflect actions, and outlines the results achieved. and match our identity and profile; who we are, our activities and aspirations, the countries in which we operate, and our The global goals and TDC Group customers, employees and business partners. In this context, our Since 2009, TDC Group has participated in the UN Global fundamental objective plays a key role, which we have defined as: Compact, the largest global initiative on corporate social we bring people closer together. responsibility, and we also aspire support and contribute positively to the global goals for sustainable development “Parents in a digital world” in cooperation with the organisation defined under the UN framework – the SDGs (Sustainable Børns Vilkår. In 2018, it is our ambition that the ambassadors will Development Goals). Consequently, we have identified the three become an even more integrated aspect of our CSR efforts. most important global goals in relation to our contribution as a company. These are the areas in which we believe we can make Our impact on society: risks and potentials the greatest difference in a meaningful way through our business From a societal perspective, all enterprises, including our activities. We therefore also seek to give special priority to these business, entail risks and potentials. In this section, we outline themes in this report. these two dimensions, while the subsequent sections on the individual focus areas provide more detailed descriptions, CSR ambassadors including how we counter risks and promote potentials. We have identified the following SDGs as the most important in relation to our impact In 2016, to strengthen our CSR effort and make it a more living part of everyday life throughout our business, we launched a new Generally, our business is characterised by relatively low risks for Digital skills team of “CSR ambassadors” among our employees in Denmark. society for two main reasons: firstly, our business activities do We join forces with civil society organisations to promote digital skills, digital citizenship not involve high consumption of natural resources, dangerous and positive online communities, focusing especially on pupils and parents. We believe it is vital for the success of our ambitious CSR strategy working conditions or pollution of any significance, and secondly, that we involve our employees across the organisation and our geographical footprint covers Denmark and Norway, which anchor the individual initiatives in our various business areas. are countries characterised by affluence, welfare and a low level of Productivity & innovation The ambassadors have therefore been given a central role in corruption. developing and launching new initiatives while also spreading We develop and deliver digital solutions that combined with our digital infrastructure, knowledge about the responsibility we undertake and engaging Nevertheless, we operate a communications network and enable flexible work forms, higher levels of productivity and new forms of innovation. colleagues in our CSR activities. We are therefore very pleased services that are so extensive that they may be described as that nearly 100 colleagues across TDC Group have signed up as infrastructure critical to society. Disruptions to our services may CSR ambassadors. therefore constitute a major inconvenience or risk to society, Digital infrastructure which is highly dependent on stable access to these services. We invest in digital infrastructure, also in rural areas, to provide access to connectivity. In 2017, our CSR ambassadors contributed to activities that are Consequently, we have defined an uptime goal of 99.999% for This supports economic development and human well-being in an increasingly digital world. described in more detail elsewhere in this report, including our IP network, which we met in 2017 except for August when, Coding Class, WiFive, the Youth Festival and the initiative with due to a single major fault, we had an uptime of 99.5%. 4 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 5 Our business model TDC Group’s model comprises a range of resources and assets that enable us to develop and upgrade our infrastructure, offerings and customer service to a level from which we can consistently deliver high-quality integrated products and services to our customers and thereby create value for our stakeholders We also handle large quantities of data, including sensitive Our business personal data. This means that breaches in data security, For over 130 years, TDC Group has played a vital role in bringing 1 2 including personal data safety, could have significant negative people together while creating a cohesive force in society. In an consequences for society. Security and correct handling of age when proximity can no longer be measured just in metres, but Our resources and assets Our value adding activities personal data are therefore top priorities for us. more in megabits and mobile coverage, our role will only become more vital. Skilled employees Better connectivity Our diverse and skilled workforce includes everything Upgrade and build-out of landline and mobile Finally, job-related accidents or injuries can potentially occur from technicians in the field to customer service staff networks in Denmark and Norway among our employees, even though our working conditions are Our history began in Denmark and stretches back to the founding and academics relatively safe and healthy, and even though we have significant of Kjøbenhavns Telefon Selskab in 1881. A number of regional Better offerings Networks and brand stores Development of digital offerings, including aggrega­ precautionary measures in place. companies followed, and in 1995, the four remaining regional Mobile and landline networks in Denmark and Norway ting communication solutions and entertainment companies merged to become a national state-owned company as well as both B2C and B2B brand stores In terms of potentials, our business areas represent a wealth of called Tele Danmark. In 1997, the government completed the Better customer experience Partnership & suppliers Development of service and support for customers, potential gains for society through development, implementation process of privatising Tele Denmark, and in 2000 the company Content and IT service providers, network developincluding flexible digital self­service solutions and use of various digital technologies. For example, the adopted the name TDC. A number of European acquisitions then, ment and maintenance, and international connectivity increased use of cloud-based services may provide easier access and at one point TDC was present in 16 different countries. Financial capital for a company’s customers and higher productivity among employees. Implementation of Internet of Things and Smart Since then, the company has undergone a transformation Cities solutions may also save time, energy and money. Another process with divestments, a focus on rationalisation and 2 form of increased safety and improved accessibility for citizens consolidation in the Nordic markets, which is the scenario for TDC includes increased use of telemedicine and other welfare Group today. Throughout the process, our fundamental objective technologies. The options are almost endless – and the potential has been to bring people closer together, and by giving our benefits are discussed in more detail in the sections on Digital customers access to new technologies, we have contributed to Denmark and on Climate and environment. enriching peoples’ lives and enhancing society with new opportunities. The most significant risks and potentials are summarised below: Today, TDC Group is the leading provider of communications and Risks entertainment solutions in Denmark, with a market-leading • Disruptions in TDC Group’s digital infrastructure or services position within landline voice, TV, broadband and mobility • Breaches of data safety or personal data safety services. We also offer cloud-based solutions and system 1 3 • Job-related accidents and injuries integration solutions to corporate customers. At the same time, TDC Group has a strong presence in Norway, where we provide Our purpose is to Potentials landline telephony, mobility services, broadband and TV to the bring people closer together • Productivity gains through increased digitalisation of society consumer and business markets through the companies GET and • Environmental gains through increased use of e.g. the TDC Norway. GET is Norway’s second-largest cable-TV supplier Internet of Things and has a network that together with partner networks covers • Welfare benefits through increased use of e.g. telemedicine more than 700,000 homes and businesses. or digital learning resources 1 In Denmark, TDC Group covers all customer segments, channels About this report and product categories in the residential and business markets This CSR report covers the entire TDC Group, i.e. TDC A/S through a diverse range of strong domestic brands. These brands 4 including subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. The reporting are based on our undisputed position as the leading provider of period is the 2017 calendar year, and the report was prepared in technology platforms and infrastructure across all major accordance with Sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial technologies – DSL (copper cables), cable TV (coaxial cables), fibre 4 3 Statements Act. A separate report is prepared as a (fibre-optic cables), and mobile (2G, 3G and 4G). Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact. TDC Group’s presence in the business market also includes a Our value creation Our offerings fibre-based network across the Nordic countries through which Best-in-class customer satisfaction TDC Group offers business solutions to customers in Sweden and Easy access to digital integrated solutions and best Finland. Finally, through our subsidiary Call Center Europe, we entertainment in one place with the best connectivity everywhere and anytime. Including easy and userInternet & Entertainment Landline and Cloud have approximately 125 customer service employees based in Internet & Entertainment Landline and Cloud network and TV mobile voice oﬀerings friendly customer support network and TV mobile voice oﬀerings Flensburg in North Germany. Best-in-class employee satisfaction The figure opposite gives an overview of our business model. Motivated by attractive development opportunities, great teams and pride in working for TDC Group Beneﬁt Security Wholesale Uniﬁed Beneﬁt Security Wholesale Uniﬁed programme oﬀerings communications Best in-class shareholder returns for capital owners programme oﬀerings communications 6 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 7 STAKEHOLDERS EXAMPLES OF ENGAGEMENT Customers • Social media • Customer service calls • In our YouSee Shops and TDC Business centres Employees • Dialogue meetings with senior executive vice presidents • Collaboration committees with professional associations and unions • Employee surveys Partners & suppliers • Management meetings • Exchange of experience • Evaluation meetings Investors • Investor meetings (incl. telephone conferences) • Bilateral dialogue and responses to questionnaires Stakeholder dialogue our strategy, for example, in the areas of sustainability and on sustainability and responsibility issues At TDC Group, our approach to CSR is based on who we are, responsibility in the supply chain. • Annual general meetings including where we operate, our business areas and our Authorities • Dialogue with municipal, regional, national and international authorities at bilateral stakeholders’ priorities. TDC Group also engages in discussions on societal challenges of meetings, inter-industry meetings and conferences and hearing outcomes relevance to our business areas through a range of forums at Dialogue with our stakeholders is an ongoing and natural part of national, European and global levels. In Denmark, these include Political representatives • Dialogue with MPs and members of municipal and regional committees at bilateral our business, as we have interfaces and interactions across the Telecoms Industry Association (TI), The Danish IT Industry meetings, inter-industry meetings and conferences society. By engaging in dialogue with our stakeholders, we Association (ITB) and the Danish Chamber of Commerce, in Local community • Open-house events become better at focusing our efforts on the most significant Europe, the European Telecommunications Network Operators’ • Dialogue meetings in local communities issues within sustainability and responsibility – and thereby Association (ETNO), as well as the Global e-Sustainability strengthening our ability to address societal challenges. Initiative (GeSI) and GSMA at global level. Industry partners • Active membership of industrial associations and networks, including networks and committees specifically related to sustainability TDC Group has a wide range of stakeholders who have an interest Interest organisations • Bilateral and multilateral dialogue on key issues and trends of mutual interest in how we address issues of societal importance. Sometimes, our stakeholder dialogue is formal and structured around specific Media/journalists • TDC Group is in daily dialogue with the media, and as a matter of principle, we contribute topics, but often it is less formal and part of our day-to-day work. constructively to interviews and other inquiries from media and journalists The table opposite gives an overview of our stakeholders as well as examples of the forms of our stakeholder dialogue. Darker shading indicates deeper interaction with the stakeholder group Commitment and cooperation Today, many societal challenges are global in nature, and since 2009, we have therefore participated in the UN Global Compact, the largest global initiative on corporate social responsibility. The compact is based on ten principles in four areas: human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Our participation in the UN Global Compact is also an important way for TDC Group to demonstrate its commitment to supporting and securing internationally recognised human rights. These are addressed more specifically as integrated aspects of our five CSR focus areas, without a distinct policy on human rights. The principles of the Global Compact also serve as inspiration for 8 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 9 Our Impact Energy Customer relations 301 GWh 7.8m Number of Employees shareholders 8,298 36,000+ CO2 emissions Salaries and pensions 59,968 tonnes DKK 4.0bn Shareholder returns Investments DKK 802m DKK 4.5bn Corporate taxes Data transported DKK 556m 12.2bn GB Employees: 8,298 Data transported: We are Denmark’s tenth largest 12.2bn GB private sector employer with almost 7,400 employees at 122 locations, CO2 emissions: The volume of data transported through our networks continues as well as just under 800 employ59,968 tons to increase. This trend is especially ees in eight regions of Norway and We aim to reduce our CO2 emissions driven by a growing use of video over 100 employees in Flensburg, by 70% from 2010 to 2020, and streaming. The total amount of data Germany. we are well on our way with a 60% rose by approx. 25% compared reduction so far. with 2016, and almost doubled compared with 2015. Energy: 301 GWh We reduced our total energy conShareholder returns: sumption by 10% compared to the DKK 802m Investments: previous year. Most of our energy For 2017, a dividend of DKK 1.05 DKK 4.5bn consumption comprises electricity per share was paid to our more than We have a high level of investment we use to run our networks. 36,000 shareholders. to further expand our digital infrastructure and develop new products based on cutting-edge technologies. Customer relations: 7.8m Corporate taxes: Our network investments amounted We have customer relations DKK 556m to 56%, and DKK 3.8bn of the total throughout society, including amount was invested in Denmark We are committed to responsible families, businesses and the and DKK 0.7bn in Norway and transparent tax practices, and public sector. are the tenth-largest contributor of corporate taxes in Denmark. In 2017, TDC Group paid net taxes Salaries and pensions: Number of shareholders: amounting to DKK 556,483,655. DKK 4.0bn 36,000+ Taxes pertaining to the fiscal TDC Group does not wish to take We have many shareholders, year 2017 amounted to DKK the lead concerning wages and including institutional investors, 630,021,870, but were partially salaries but aims to give attracprivate investors and TDC Group offset by a return on taxes of DKK tive remuneration in relation to employees. 73,538,216 for previous fiscal qualifications, functions, efforts and years. results to recruit and retain skilled employees. 10 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 11 Digital Denmark With our focus area “Digital Denmark”, we wish to maintain Denmark’s position as a leading digital country – for the benefit of citizens, businesses and society at large. We achieve this by continuing to expand our digital infrastructure, Many of the upgrades and expansions of our fixed and mobile which keeps us all connected with the outside world. At the same networks that we undertook in 2017 can be seen on the time, we contribute towards strengthening the digital skills and interactive “Upgrade map” that is available from the home page digital citizenship of children and young people, so that they are of our online CSR Report. It is, however, important to note that well equipped to work creatively with digital tools and learn how this map does not show the total status of TDC Group’s networks, to get on in a digitalised society while treating each other with and not all forms of upgrade and expansion are shown, such as respect and a good understanding of digital communities and upgrades to the backbone network. their own roles in them. Last, but not least, we develop solutions that can help solve societal challenges, e.g. telemedicine and A premium mobile network services within Smart Cities. In 2017, the Danish Technological Institute tested our mobile network, and for the third year running named it as Denmark’s best and fastest network. We regard it as recognition of our Stronger digital infrastructure efforts to lead technological developments. The test shows that As our society becomes increasingly digitalised, and access to our mobile network both nationally and locally gives the best telephone and data connections anywhere and anytime has customer experience, which means that mobile phone calls in become a fundamental expectation, more will be demanded of general are close to being faultless, and that our customers the digital infrastructure required to keep us all connected. always have the best access to 4G. The test also concluded that Access to mobile telephony and broadband is also promoting our mobile network is the fastest at downloading – and signifiproductivity in society by making daily life more convenient and cantly faster at uploading than the other operators. The test was creating new opportunities. conducted in May and June 2017, and since the Danish We consider this hybrid technology interesting from a societal huge investments on our part, but it also means that a very large Technological Institute’s test in 2016, data traffic on our mobile point of view, as although Denmark has one of the best broadnumber of customers gain access to significantly faster broadWe are therefore maintaining our ambitious investments in digital network has doubled. band coverages in the world and offers individual citizens the band connections without the need for us to lay new cables to infrastructure, and in 2017 our annual investments in infrahighest broadband speeds, there is still need for faster connecindividual households. At year-end 2017, we were thus able to structure (capex) amounted to DKK 4.5bn – equalling DKK 12m That does not mean we have finished developing our mobile tions in some areas. Even in a small country like Denmark, local cover 21% of households in Denmark with connections of 1 Gbps. every single day all year round. Of these, our network investnetwork, as both technology and customer needs develop differences can be significant, and in our business, we are aware ments amounted to 56%, and DKK 3.8bn of the total amount continuously, and there will always be a potential for further that many families experience a need for better connectivity. Our customers connected to our copper network have also been was invested in Denmark and DKK 0.7bn in Norway. development and improvements. Therefore, we will continue to upgraded as we have installed a technology called Vplus in regularly expand, upgrade and optimise our mobile network. We have therefore been extremely keen to test hybrid broadband selected exchanges and remote network hubs. This gives access Our high level of investment is necessary to allow us to further For example, over the past year, we have erected a new mobile as an option for higher speeds without digging trenches in our to higher internet speeds, particularly in small rural towns, extend our digital infrastructure and thereby provide access to mast or upgraded the existing masts with increased capacity and customers’ gardens and rolling out new cables. Fortunately, the making internet and TV products more stable. In 2017, we have cutting-edge technologies and services. But even though we new technologies at 191 sites in Denmark. In 2017, we began to preliminary results are quite promising, and many customers thus expanded our DSL network with 46 new hubs and made over allocate large amounts, the funds are not unlimited. further enhance our mobile network by implementing a techhave given positive responses as the new hybrid technology has 800 upgrades of existing hubs, thus providing customers with Consequently, we must always prioritise our investments based nology that facilitates data speeds of 600 Mbps. However, multiplied the speeds of their broadband connections following access to faster broadband connections through our copper on where we can make the greatest difference. coverage and capacity may still require adjustment, and here our an increase of 30-40 Mbps. network. TDC Netperform app enables users to test mobile network speeds etc. themselves at their precise location. We can then use Building the broadband of tomorrow Finally, we have built infrastructure for high-speed broadband in these data to further develop and enhance our network. At TDC Group, we use a range of technologies to provide around 500 new housing areas using either fibre or coax OBILE NET customers with cabled broadband connections, including connections to provide over 15,000 households with access to M W Hybrid broadband tested at customers fibre-optic, coax (cable network) and DSL connections the best digital connections. BES K On 16 November 2017, TDC Group was the first company in (copper network). T OR Denmark to test a new broadband product at 250 households Better connectivity throughout Denmark through our YouSee business. Our employees connected a new In 2017, we focused specifically on an extensive upgrade of our At TDC Group, we are committed to ensuring that digital type of hybrid modem that combines data connections from cable network with an aim to provide around 50% of all Danish technologies benefit as many people as possible. Naturally, this landlines with the 4G mobile network, thereby considerably households with access to broadband of tomorrow, or more includes access to good digital connections. In addition to our increasing the customers’ broadband speeds. The test will last for precisely an opportunity for a speed of 1 Gbps, i.e. 1,000 Mbps. efforts to ensure that we can provide Denmark’s fastest mobile a period of six months. This is achieved by upgrading our systems to DOCSIS 3.1 network with the best coverage, TDC Group has established a technology. During 2017, almost 5,000 hubs in our cable so-called ”Rural Area Initiative” to support better broadband network were upgraded and expanded. Naturally, this requires connections in rural areas. 12 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 13 Through this model, we offer to upgrade the local digital developing as individuals and treating others respectfully in a infrastructure for broadband and TV connections, provided that digital universe. This applies especially to new generations for at least 50 households no more than 500 metres apart are whom the digital world is a reality almost from birth. It is a huge interested in upgraded connections. We can thus deliver task – but also one that, as a company, we wish to take on. download speeds of 30–100 Mbps via our YouSee business to the areas with the greatest local needs and interest. Digital driving licence underway Based on the shared goal of strengthening digital citizenship and This Rural Area Initiative has attracted intense interest, both on a preventing online bullying among children and young people, TDC national and local level. As a result, during the year, broadband Group has teamed up with the Association of Danish Pupils on connections were upgraded for customers in e.g. Allinge on the “WiFive – the good digital citizenship” project. Bornholm, Blokhus in North Jutland, on Orø (an island near Holbæk) and in Lohals on Langeland. This initiative was inspired by the fact that though the digital world is becoming an increasingly important aspect of childhood, Altogether, through the Rural Area Initiative and similar activities, efforts to educate children in dealing with social media and digital in 2017, TDC Group upgraded the cabled networks in 30 local platforms have not kept pace with developments. Consequently, areas, providing 4,978 households with access to faster many young people lack the tools to deal with and avoid broadband connections. uncomfortable experiences online. Our partnership aims to help remedy this situation by involving pupils in helping to identify solutions. We are therefore looking for new ways of supporting Digital citizenship and future skills good digital citizenship based on the pupils’ own knowledge and As the leading supplier of digital connections, we find it natural to experience. take co-responsibility for ensuring that as individuals and as a society we have the skills required for a digital age. This relates to the technical, creative and social skills that are crucial for Kick-off event for “WiFive – the good digital citizenship” The project will run until the end of 2019, and we aim to have at Class”, which we have helped start under the framework of the least 30,000 pupils complete an online course and thereby Danish IT Industry Association. The objective of Coding Class qualify for a ”digital driving licence”. The licence will be launched in is first and foremost to get children to interested in IT and spring 2018, as we have spent 2017 developing the actual technology, so they gain a better understanding of the world content of the digital licence with 10 flagship classes across the that surrounds them now and in future. For example, by giving country, comprising co-creators and ambassadors for digital children the opportunity to challenge themselves with an exercise citizenship. The project targets intermediate classes, i.e. 4th to involving coding and programming. We hope this will help future 6th grade, but we have also gathered inspiration from older generations to gain a basic understanding of the digital foundapupils, e.g. at a workshop at the Youth Festival ’17. tion on which our society is built. Skills for the future The project is set up in collaboration with municipalities and At TDC Group, we are committed to ensuring that citizens in our schools and involves introducing mainly 6th grade pupils to society are equipped to understand, think and create in a digital algebraic and abstract thinking, logic structuring and probreality. In other words, that as a society we have the skills lem-solving as well as dedicated coding. Finally, the pupils visit required for the twenty-first century – not least the brand new companies such as TDC Group to see how coding and digital tools digital skills. are part of everyday working life. The project is taking place in close cooperation with the National Agency for IT and Learning as We seek to do this based on an agenda we call “Skills for the well as the voluntary association Coding Pirates. Future”, whereby we aim to bring attention to the challenges related to skills we face as a society in a digital age, and what is In 2017, a total of 137 classes participated in Coding Class, and required in order to ensure the necessary future skills. we began collaborating with the Metropolitan University College As part of this effort, TDC Group is active in the initiative “Coding in Copenhagen on offering Coding Class as a new subject for 14 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 15 Togetherness future teachers. We hope this initiative will help future teachers in We also cooperate with two Danish municipalities concerning People have always needed to communicate, and as a company, their ability to teach pupils about using IT for creative productions. virtual home help using ’online visits’ for senior citizens. This enables the citizens e.g. to easily receive video calls from the we play a very special role in facilitating communication and home-help personnel to follow up on e.g. their eating or get ensuring connections between people. advice on medication. In this way, the citizens achieve more Telemedicine and welfare technology flexible access to the home-help personnel, and local authorities Public health services are coming under pressure as, over the can reach more citizens in a shorter space of time as the need for years, larger parts of the ageing population will require treatment. transport is reduced. Similar scenarios exist for other welfare services, including education and care for senior citizens, where the societal ambition is to ensure the highest quality for the available Internet of Things & Smart Cities resources. At the same time, digital communication can allow The information and communications technology (ICT) at the core welfare tasks to be solved in a more flexible and efficient manner, of TDC Group’s business represents huge potential for achieving e.g. by enabling citizens to monitor their own physical condition rewards for society as a whole, including benefits for the and receive medical advice in the comfort of their own homes. environment and climate. For example, this can involve machineto-machine (M2M) technology, in other words telecommunication Consequently, TDC Group is committed to developing and between machines, also known as the Internet of Things (IoT), promoting telemedicine and welfare technology solutions across which allows for monitoring processes in real time or measuring Denmark. We see a bright future for using technology to provide on machines that are difficult to access in order to increase smarter welfare services within healthcare and related areas to production efficiency and reduce consumption of natural potentially improve citizens’ quality of life, while making everyday resources. Over the past few years, from a societal perspective, life easier for carers and reducing wasted time, the need for this has resulted in an agenda headlined Smart Cities, which transportation, and healthcare costs. addresses how these technologies can make our modern society more efficient, environment-friendly and citizen-friendly – without In 2017, TDC Group has been a supplier to several telemedicine the solutions being reserved for cities only. and welfare technology projects, including a large project covering users in the Greater Copenhagen Area. This included At TDC Group, we are currently developing and implementing patients with heart failure, COPD patients and pregnant women solutions based on these technologies, e.g. in collaboration with who can take measurements at home and submit the data to the Danish municipalities. For example, one project involves healthcare personnel at the hospital using measuring equipment measuring air pollution in Copenhagen and Albertslund/Glostrup, connected to a tablet computer. where data from nine measuring stations is sent real-time using our IoT mobile technology. The data are used for urban planning regarding constructions and traffic, and several other possible applications are being considered. Another example is the use of waste sensors for monitoring when waste containers need to be emptied – and when the collection might be postponed. In this way, time and energy may be saved, and CO2 emissions reduced. Smart sensors can optimise In two pilot projects, the City of Copenhagen has seen a 70% waste collection by optimisation potential in the inner city, and has therefore decided to roll out a further 1,000 sensors. Through this, we create a cohesive force in society and reduce distances at a time when proximity can no longer be measured collaboration with the Børns Vilkår organisation’s BørneTelefonen (Child Helpline) and ForældreTelefonen (Parent’s Helpline); a 70% only in metres. Our mission is to bring people closer together and collaboration which we were proud to celebrate the 30th In 2017, we tested Narrow Band IoT technology, which is the LTE support togetherness. We achieve this in various ways through anniversary for in 2017. mobile network of the future built specifically for the Internet of partnerships to strengthen togetherness and community spirit Things. Narrow Band IoT is characterised by good coverage, low across society. At TDC Group, we wish to take joint responsibility for ensuring battery consumption and not least application of inexpensive and that children and young people join and develop good digital simple technology that makes IoT more accessible for our Parents in a digital world citizenship. We also acknowledge that parents play an important customers and partners. In 2018, the first Danish cities will be Today, parents face the daunting prospect of considering and role in this context. We have therefore joined forces with Børns covered by a commercial network for this technology. handling new challenges when their children begin exploring the Vilkår to offer free training workshops and webinars to give many opportunities of the digital world. Unfortunately, as there is parents a better understanding of the digital world facing no good advice and experience accumulated over several children, so that they can support and guide their children generations to rely on, many parents find they are ill-equipped to towards safe and positive experiences that they can enjoy set out out guidelines for their children’s use of digital and social together online. media. That has become evident thanks to our long-standing 16 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 17 Coding Class visit to TDC Group Workshop for parents Mobile phone collection More specifically, TDC Group hosted a workshop and several TDC Group employees volunteered and TDC technology was debates on the impact of digitalisation on our sense of commucontributed free of charge for the fund-raising event, which nity and our social interaction. The aim was to make young people involves collecting donations made via SMS and phone call. In reflect on presence and absence in a society where digital media 2017, TDC Group helped Denmark’s Collection to raise DKK 90 Youth Festival ‘17 and online communities impact on physical togetherness and million for initiatives focusing on malnourished and undernourface-to-face communication. ished children, an everyday problem for millions of children At year-end 2017, more than 2,000 parents had already taken children and young people through use of our technologies worldwide. The funds have gone towards e.g. projects that part in these training programmes, which in fact surpassed our and know-how. Finally, as network partner for the Youth Festival, TDC Group support breakfasts for pupils in Bolivia, prevention and treatment expectations. In 2018, we will continue to hold webinars and supplied wireless WiFi hotspots to ensure sufficient digital of undernourishment in children in Madagascar, help for families workshops at schools, in housing associations and other contexts The Child Helpline is an important part of this work, and TDC infrastructure for the event’s many visitors as well as organisers. made homeless in Afghanistan and nutrition training for parents where it is possible to gather interested parents. Group supplies the telephony and internet services for the in Mali and Burkina Faso. helpline entirely free of charge. This partnership ensures that Enigma – Denmark’s Museum of Communication New lives for old mobile phones children and young people always have someone to call if they Since 1996, TDC Group, together with Post Danmark, has been a In Denmark, estimates show that more than a million mobile are facing serious problems, need help with relationships staunch sponsor of the Post & Tele Museum, which, in 2016, phones are discarded or stored in drawers even though they are involving friends, romantic attachments and parents, or feel moved to a new venue at Øster Allé in Østerbro, Copenhagen and still working. Instead of gathering dust in drawers or wasting excluded due to teasing or bullying. In 2017, more than 50,000 was transformed into ”Enigma – Museum of Post, Tele & space, all these many mobile phones can create value – both children and youths contacted the Child Helpline and were given Communication”. The name ”Enigma” comes from the Greek for for the environment and financially – by being recycled. advice by the organisation’s volunteers, which is an increase of ’puzzle’, and was chosen to stimulate curiosity and thoughtfulConsequently, in 2017, TDC Group initiated a nationwide more than 20% compared with 2016. ness in the field of communication. collection of mobile phones to ensure that old mobile phones are recycled in an environmentally safe manner. At the same time, TDC Group employees also helped raise additional funds for Enigma is the Museum of Communication for the whole of we decided that the income from this project should help children Børns Vilkår in 2017 through a collection of mobile phones, Denmark and is also in charge of research, exhibitions and and young people develop and take part in positive relations business network and employee donations. spreading facts and figures about the past, present and future of online. communication. The new museum itself was designed to invite Uniting citizens of tomorrow people to communicate with each other and therefore contains Since summer 2017, all YouSee shops, TDC Business Centres and On 7-8 September 2017, TDC Group took part in the second e.g. a café with only long tables for sharing, and will feature all TDC Group locations have accepted old mobile phones Youth Festival held in Søndermarken close to Copenhagen, which regular events to encourage interaction, including reading aloud It is important to TDC donated to this cause. We make sure that all donated mobile attracted about 20,000 participants. The Youth Festival stimufor children, scientific lectures, panel debates, debating lounges phones are sold for recycling, and that all the money goes lates participation, dialogue and fellowship among young people, and workshops. The first phase of the transformed museum was straight to Børns Vilkår and our joint efforts to prepare parents for helping children to enjoy a good digital life. In 2017, more than so that as future citizens they can help solve problems faced today. opened to the public in January 2017. Group that children and 8,000 used mobile phones were collected, and we will continue the collection in 2018. As Denmark’s largest supplier of digital connections, TDC Group In 2017, TDC Group and Enigma also teamed up to organise topical debates for the Youth Festival on themes including digital young people can use Support for the Child Helpline chose to participate in this event and talk with young people about issues relating to digital trends in society, including digital communication, as described above. digital technologies It is important to TDC Group that children and young people can citizenship and digital communities. In our view, it is essential that Connections for Denmark’s Collection securely and safely use digital technologies securely and safely. At the same time, we young people are involved and invited to contribute relevant As we have done since 2007, in 2017, TDC Group participated in would like to use our communications technologies to support knowledge and concrete suggestions for solving the societal setting up and holding ‘Danmarks Indsamling’ (Denmark’s security. That is why for many years TDC Group has teamed up challenges we are currently facing. Collection); an annual nationwide event that raises funds for with the Børns Vilkår organisation and supports its work with specific humanitarian purposes and development projects. 18 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 19 Customer trust and safety At TDC Group, our work is customer-centric, and it is essential importance, as the digital world includes a number of risks that our customers trust us and feel safe and secure when using concerning data safety, privacy protection and IT crime. our products and services. In light of this, we have ramped up our security efforts during 2017, e.g. with a new chief security officer, and in 2018 we plan to hire around 40 new employees within the field of security, including technical specialists as well as so-called “ethical 700 hackers”. Security policy and personal data We blocked over million At TDC Group, we take overall responsibility for both IT security spam mails every month and physical safety by applying a wide-ranging Group Security Policy based on best practice and compliance with the ISO27001 standard for handling IT security. We also apply other industry standards, e.g. ETIS – European Telecommunications and Information Systems. extensive preparatory work prior to enforcing the new requireUnfortunately, no company can guard its customers against all ments concerning data protection for individuals, which will come risks or security threats on the internet, and that also applies to into force with the General Data Protection Regulation, also TDC Group. However, we do everything we can to ensure that our known as GDPR. More specifically, this involves new and updated own products are safe for our customers to use. We achieve this processes and changes in IT systems, and that all managers and via extensive safety tests and by including built-in safety and employees must be trained in how to handle personal data. The privacy protection in our products from the outset. We also changes in processes and systems combined with training will advise our customers on digital security through e.g. social ensure that we comply with the new legislative requirements and media, our website and electronic newsletters that include expectations. recommendations on how to handle viruses, spam, phishing and other kinds of fraud. Safe products TDC Group’s Security Operations Centre Safety is inherent in our products. For example, our systems We also strive to share our know-how on IT security with the use DMARC protection to significantly reduce the number of We therefore make sure that our products score top marks on An important initiative in 2017 was our “Quality Time” initiative outside world through e.g. our annual DDoS report, which fraudulent mails and provide better protection for receiving mails. safety, and have specified requirements concerning sustainability at YouSee, where the employees regularly identify areas of describes the trends and implications as we see them in this field. Furthermore, every month, our general spam and virus filters and human rights in relation to our suppliers. We strive to product stability and customer-centric processes requiring DDoS (Distributed Denial of Service) is a frequently occurring stop more than 700 million unwanted and malicious e-mails from communicate with our customers in a clear and trustworthy improvement. Similar work with processes was completed by our type of cyberattack where the attacker seeks to block access to reaching our customers’ inboxes. We also offer our customers a manner so that they feel well-informed about how to enjoy full other brands and we continued using “Customer Feedback Loops” e.g. a company’s website by using a large number of computers choice of products with extra security and safety features, such and secure use of our products. that involve managers contacting customers when they express from the internet to carry out a coordinated attack. as security packages for broadband and the option of parental low satisfaction. controls. And we contact business customers as well as In addition, TDC Group is a member of the board of the Council consumers if we discover abuse, e.g. if mail accounts or equipAttentive customer dialogue Last but not least, we chose to insource customer service and for Digital Security, which aims to create a solid and wide-ranging ment have been hacked by IT criminals and malware distributed. Dialogue with our customers is a vital tool for safeguarding trust support from an external supplier to simplify our work processes platform for qualified debates and policy proposals on how and safety. Bearing this in mind, TDC Group continuously strives and make being a customer with TDC Group easier. Our customer Denmark can continue to benefit securely from the opportunities Continuous monitoring to maintain an attentive and trusting dialogue with customers, service will become more flexible, as we obtain more in-house afforded by digitalisation. Security at TDC Group is continuously monitored, both daily and based on their needs and expectations. We accomplish that in our information that can speed up process improvement. This was via internal and external audits. As a supplement to our Network shops, in connection with technician visits and through customer more difficult when customer service was performed by two In the field of protecting customer data, we apply the need-toOperations Centre (NOC), which continuously monitors the services calls, electronic newsletters and social media, including different organisations. know principle, i.e. checking who has access to which personal stability and accessibility of our systems and services, TDC Group Facebook and Twitter, where we invite customers and the general data in our systems, and access is given only to those employees has set up a Security Operations Centre (SOC) that monitors the public to give us feedback on our products and services. who have a work-related requirement. In cases where we security in TDC Group’s IP network round the clock to prevent Customer security collaborate with external partners on data handling, specific attacks against our customers and ourselves. From here we At TDC Group, product security is a top priority, and we base agreements are concluded on how to handle personal data. If handle all forms of cyberattacks, including e.g. DDoS, ransomRaising customer satisfaction our work on four principles: protect our company, protect our these rules are found to have been violated, the matter is ware, phishing, hacking etc. We will continue to invest in this area, At TDC Group, we focus strongly on customer satisfaction, which employees, protect our customers and protect the citizens. This reported to the Danish Business Authority. both in terms of employees and technology. We not only use our we continuously monitor by measuring specific parameters and ensures that our customers enjoy the full potential of their own resources but liaise with authorities and international implementing regular initiatives. products in a confident and safe manner, whether they are In 2017, we reviewed and updated our IT security policy to reflect organisations globally to gain access to better know-how and business customers or consumers. This is of particular the risks and challenges constantly developing, and during our information on expedient courses of action. 20 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 21 Furthermore, through membership of the organisation ’Global e-Sustainability Initiative’ (GeSI), TDC Group addresses global challenges together with other telecommunications operators, equipment producers and organisations such as EICC, UNEP and WBCSD. This involves compliance with human rights and improved sustainability in global value chains in particular. Unfortunately, in 2017, we experienced irregularities at subTDC Group strives to suppliers of one of our major suppliers. We have therefore implemented an extensive analysis to identify risks in our supply be the best in the Nordic chain, and we are examining potential tools and procedures to strengthen the screening, monitoring and dialogue regarding countries with regard responsibility and sustainability within our supply chain. to security Anti-corruption and whistleblowing Since security threats know no bounds, TDC Group participates in At TDC Group, we have an Anti-Corruption Policy that sets out international fora to be better equipped to protect our customers clear expectations and guidelines for employees, customers, and ourselves. For example, we regularly participate in activities business partners and public authorities. The policy is communithrough Forum of Incident Response and Security Teams (FIRST), cated to all employees through various in-house channels, and we which is a global organisation of more than 700 companies and are continuing to increase familiarity with in-house precautions public authorities sharing know-how and coordinating efforts through communication targeted at departments working with concerning IT security. Sharing practical information and learning major contracts. from each other’s strategic initiatives is of great value in continuously improving security. Although TDC Group operates only in the Nordic markets, which are characterised by a low level of corruption, and has not had In addition, as part of our contracts with suppliers and partners, any such cases, we chose to clarify to all our stakeholders that we set high requirements for IT security and cooperate closely TDC Group does not tolerate corruption of any kind. We are with the relevant Danish authorities. TDC Group also has regular pleased to report that, once again, no cases of this kind were contact with relevant authorities in connection with threat experienced in 2017. assessments and takes the necessary measures to secure customers and infrastructure in the best possible ways. We also have a whistleblower system that gives employees in TDC Group (excl. subsidiaries) an opportunity to report Due to our focus, investments and activities, there were no irregularities and conditions or issues particularly open to incidents in 2017 such as the one that affected our TV signal on criticism. However, in 2017, we could conclude that no reports New Year’s Eve 2016. No organisation can guarantee that it were submitted. cannot be compromised, but at TDC Group, we have done all we can to reduce this risk to an absolute minimum. With regular assessments made both by in-house and external parties, continuous investments and Management focus, TDC Group strives to be the best in the Nordic countries with regard to security. Value-chain responsibility When buying products from TDC Group, customers should feel sure that attention has been paid to responsibility throughout the entire value chain in relation to e.g. human rights and the environment. Consequently, we make demands on our suppliers that also apply to their suppliers. This is implemented through a Code of Supplier Conduct and in our supplier contracts. The requirements are based on the UN Global Compact, of which we have been a member since 2009. Since then, we have updated and further specified our standard contract criteria. 22 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 23 Employee well-being and diversity At TDC Group, taking responsibility for our employees’ well-being in its widest sense is a natural part of our business. Our markets are highly competitive and rapidly changing, and this demands a lot of our employees’ performance and readiness for Our job satisfaction index change. In turn, TDC Group has a responsibility to ensure that our employees are thriving despite the challenging circumstances. score of 74 is considerably That applies during day-to-day work, when developing employee higher than the average competences and when training our managers. for the Danish labour In recent years, our high employee satisfaction score has reflected our continuing targeted efforts to ensure that our market in general, and employees are thriving and feel both dedicated and motivated. Meanwhile, we also pay close attention to the physical and among the best companies psychosocial working environment and to preventing workrelated accidents. in Scandinavia. For many years, TDC Group has endeavoured to be a diverse Employees helping with hybrid broadband test workplace that welcomes all types of employees. We are focusing on diversity because we value having a diverse and competent This provides us with a systematic approach to preventing workforce irrespective of gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation and work-related accidents, procedures to improve our working work capacity. Since TDC Group is a large company with an environment, regular working environment inspections and our Education, training and mobility Collaboration with professional important role in society and we deal with all types of customers, clear focus on subjects including work-life balance. TDC Group is constantly evolving, and that makes heavy associations and unions we want our staff to reflect the society in which we operate. demands on ensuring that our employees’ skills continue to For years, we have maintained a firmly established, structured High job satisfaction and motivation develop. Therefore, in 2017, we launched a new tool called and constructive dialogue with our employees’ professional In 2016, we introduced a new employee survey that allows us to “MyPlan”, which ensures that all employees have clearly defined associations and unions to ensure that employee concerns are Employee well-being focus explicitly on the elements that drive employee job satisfacdevelopment goals and plans for how to achieve them. MyPlan discussed and that the parties work together to solve challenges. At TDC Group, we prioritise that our employees thrive and feel tion and commitment. The results of the 2017 survey show that also ensures that all employees receive structured feedback on comfortable at work, as that is vital for the quality of our we succeeded in maintaining the high level of job satisfaction their performance and behaviour in relation to “OurWay”. With Collaboration procedures in TDC Group are characterised by a customer service – and thus also our success as a company. among our employees, who are still motivated and highly MyPlan, we also focus on career opportunities and in-house wish to reach agreement through constructive dialogue characWe therefore measure and follow up regularly on job satisfaction. committed to their day-to-day work and willing to go the extra mobility so that employees can develop their potential through terised by mutual trust, recognition and respect for one another We enjoy a well-established cooperative relationship with our mile when required. new challenges and responsibility. on an equal footing. This collaboration ensures active participaemployees’ professional associations and unions, and maintain tion in the development of TDC Group and appreciation of our an extensive working environment system including certification Our job satisfaction index score of 74 is considerably higher than In 2017, we also admitted 21 young talents to our graduate strategies. in accordance with the international OHSAS-18001 standard. the average for the Danish labour market in general, and among course for specially selected graduates. All the graduates the best companies in Scandinavia. As always, we systematically represented critical skills that will be required in future. The This is in extension of the long-standing tradition for constructive follow up on the results of the survey to identify and implement graduate course is a one-year course that paves the way for a relations in the Danish and Nordic labour markets, with profesthe required improvement actions – both in the individual teams good career start, with the graduates rotating between departsional associations and unions playing important roles. We Employee satisfaction and as an overall workplace – so that in future we remain among ments to obtain maximum company insight and the ability to believe that the active involvement of employees and managers score in 2017 the best regarding job satisfaction and commitment. think across the value chain. Their learning will also accelerate in developing the company is vital in terms of the company’s with major challenges and responsibility on the job, and through competitiveness, value creation, well-being and security, and for a 74 74 On a daily basis, we work to support job satisfaction and excellent training in case camps in e.g. project management, presentation good working environment. 70 cooperation across TDC Group through a joint framework of work techniques and customer insight. principles entitled “OurWay”. This ensures that we all act on the In practice, it all takes place through an extensive collaboration basis of our common values and four promises that involve: how Every year, we also take on trainees, e.g. in our shops. system that reflects TDC Group’s organisational structure while we put our customers first, how we cooperate, how we make Furthermore, in 2017, we cooperated with the vocational training allowing for engaging and involving employees in company decisions and how we execute – always based on our purpose, i.e. institution TEC (Technical Education Copenhagen) on a specialist decisions and corporate development. In addition to a Main bringing people closer together. This guides us to make the right training course for electricians, for whom we also provide Works Committee (MWC), the system comprises collaboration decisions in our day-to-day work when facing decisions of all apprenticeships. Through this, we also contribute towards committees in the various entities and permanent committees TDC Group Average Best-in-class, dimensions and difficult dilemmas. OurWay covers employees at shaping future vocational training and training future technical dealing with education and training, non-discrimination, in Denmark Scandinavia all levels and was implemented across TDC Group in 2017. manpower. communication and canteen matters. 24 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 25 Diversity All employees We also have a diverse range of employees in terms of educational background – everything from technicians in the field to customer service staff and highly educated academics and engineers. We believe that our diverse range of employees is a strength when devising creative solutions, collaborating across the company and meeting the needs of our various customers. 72% 28% We have employees in many different regions; in Denmark, at year-end 2017, we had almost 7,400 employees at 122 different locations, just under 800 employees in eight regions of Norway All managers and over 100 employees in Flensburg, Germany. TDC Group has worked with diversity management for many years, and has achieved positive results from the company’s 77% 23% initiatives. These include paid parental leave (Father’s Hug scheme), flexibility in work planning involving home offices or part-time jobs, schemes for senior employees, ethnic diversity We have also established close contact with the professional the preventive measures that are subsequently distributed to and retention of employees with reduced working capacity, e.g. associations and unions and our employees through the formal parts of the organisation with similar risks. through flexible working hours or relocation to another Corporate Management Team working environment fora, the Main Working Environment department. Committee (MWEC) and the more than 100 working environment For TDC Group in Denmark (excl. subsidiaries) the number of groups that help us comply with the Working Environment Act work-related accidents resulting in absenteeism was 40 in 2017. To strengthen our strategic work on diversity, we set up a steering and the basis for the internationally recognised working environIn 2017, the accident incidence rate, which is based on 10,000 committee in 2017 to drive and support initiatives promoting ment certificate OHSAS 18001. TDC Group also has a European employees, was 65, slightly higher than 60 in 2016. By contrast, equality and diversity. Here, we focus particularly on increasing collaboration committee that covers collaboration across the companies in Denmark, Norway and Germany. the most recent statistics from the Working Environment Authority (2016) show that the total incidence rate for reported the number of women in management, and in 2017 we completed the first training programme exclusively for female 67% 33% work-related accidents for all trades in Denmark was 152 managers. We also established a management network so that Finally, the Board of Directors of TDC A/S has four employee accidents per 10,000 employees. female managers can meet and discuss the specific challenges representatives elected in accordance with the rules of the Danish they face. 27% are managers, i.e. a factor of 57. However, even though our Companies Act. The employee representatives currently elected For Get and TDC Norway, the total accident incidence rate was figures are relatively high compared with the national average, we are also members of professional associations and unions. 98, which unfortunately is an increase compared with 2016. Finally, our Group CEO, Pernille Erenbjerg, is a member of the have yet to reach our goal. We will therefore be continuing to Here, the number of accidents with absenteeism totalled 8, due Gender Diversity Roundtable Denmark, which is a gender-equality develop key HR procedures, such as recruitment, development Health and safety e.g. to injuries from falls due to slippery winter road conditions initiative anchored in the UN Women organisation for top and talent programmes, to ensure that we find and maintain all At TDC Group, our initiatives to secure a good physical and in Norway. business managers, educational institutions and NGOs potential talents across the TDC Group – both female and male. mental working environment continued based on an extensive composed to identify relevant tools and solutions to promote working environment system certified in accordance with the For the entire TDC Group, naturally the goal is always to avoid diversity. On the Board of Directors for TDC Group, gender is one diversity international OHSAS-18001 standard. Through our working accidents altogether, which is why each accident both with and parameter taken into account when recruiting board members. At environment organisation, we continuously focus on reporting without absenteeism is systematically analysed to ensure that Women and men in TDC Group the end of 2017, the board members elected at the annual challenges seen and experienced by our employees so that the preventive measures span the entire Group. This, together with For years, we have focused on increasing diversity through general meeting consisted of three women and four men, entire organisation can learn from the challenges and solutions our increased awareness of regularly monitoring risks, explains gender equality, and we have adopted a policy that includes an corresponding to 43% and 57%, respectively. TDC Group is devised. Twice a year, the more than 100 working environment our continued positive trend for reducing the number of ongoing goal for the entire TDC Group in Denmark, including thereby also compliant with the requirements for the composition groups review their own coverage areas to check for possible accidents. subsidiaries, that the number of female managers at all manageof management according to gender as defined in Section 99b of working environment challenges. These challenges and derived ment levels below the Board of Directors and Corporate the Danish Financial Statements Act and the latest guidelines action plans are recorded centrally so that everyone can learn Regarding overall health, TDC Group has a number of supportive Management Team (CMT) should reflect the proportionate from the Danish Business Authority. from the solutions applied locally. offers for its employees, including health insurance, access to a distribution of women in the company, i.e. a factor of 100. At the midwife, quit smoking courses, advice on substance misuse, end of 2017, 28% of all employees at TDC Group (excl. CMT) in An equitable gender distribution, as defined in the latest With regard to minimising work-related accidents, everyone in the emergency counselling and psychological therapy. For years, we Denmark were women, and 22% of all managers were women, i.e. guidelines from the Danish Business Authority, was attained in organisation has joint responsibility for focusing on maintaining a have also supported physical activity among our employees a factor of 79. For the entire TDC Group, 28% of all employees the Board of Directors of our subsidiary TDC Telco Aps. However, safe working environment. Any work-related accidents are through participation in the ‘We cycle to work’ campaign, and we were women, and 23% of all managers were women. an equitable gender distribution has not been attained for our analysed by the employee involved in the incident and by his or have put men’s health on the agenda with a health week in our subsidiary Dansk Kabel TV, and, as such, targets for the gender her manager and working environment group, and it is their duty Danish canteens. By way of comparison, the most recent public statistics show that composition of their Board of Directors will be set at the earliest to report it in a central system. This knowledge becomes part of approximately 48% of the Danish workforce are female – but only opportunity. 26 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 27 In 2017, we held three active IGU courses as well as three work experience courses to introduce the IGU courses. We expect to recruit for three more IGU positions in 2018, and are regularly exploring opportunities for establishing work experience courses followed by IGU courses. The Specialists TDC Group cooperates with ’The Specialists’, an enterprise that employs people with autism spectrum disorders to solve special zero-error tolerance tasks. Some of these colleagues test mobile phones, and others process orders using TDC Group IT systems or send letters containing SIM cards and other important materials to customers. This work is of great value to our company, as the consultants from The Specialists are highly focused and have an exceptional eye for detail that our customers appreciate. TDC Group has cooperated with The Specialists since Integration at work 2004, when the enterprise was founded by a former employee. As a large company widely represented in society, we have, for many years, structured our work on making ethnic diversity a natural part of our work culture. In our Danish businesses, nearly every tenth employee has an ethnic background other than Full-time fathers Danish. Consequently, it was natural for us to become involved in At TDC Group, we believe that an interesting working life should integrating new citizens in a situation where, for the past couple not stand in the way of a healthy family life. On the contrary, we of years, a significant number of refugees from Syria and other believe that they should go hand in hand. For this reason, for countries have been arriving and beginning new lives in Denmark. more than 13 years we have endeavoured to make it attractive for our new fathers to spend time with their children, as we offer Links with the labour market are often the key to successfully them up to 14 weeks of paternity leave with full pay. In this way, integrating new citizens in the community. TDC Group was one of we have successfully included fathers taking paternity leave as a the first companies in Denmark to set up and offer newly arrived natural part of our culture. In 2017, an impressive 85% of new refugees a so-called basic two-year integration course (IGU) that fathers in TDC Group in Denmark accepted the offer of paternity combines a paid work placement with school education, including leave with pay. language training. 85% of new fathers took We find employees are happier and more balanced when they have more time for family life. Mothers and fathers who share the This initiative was launched in close collaboration with the professional organisations at TDC Group, and the project is a parternity leave with pay task of parenthood are on a more equal footing in terms of success as TDC Group is already a diverse workplace, and as everyday life, career opportunities and the outside world. It is managers and employees can see that it is purposeful and wish easier for these families to plan when to focus on their careers or to take on corporate social responsibility. Fortunately, a number family life – for the benefit of their workplace and the family. of TDC Group employees have eagerly signed up as mentors and interpreters for the IGU trainees. The mentors are not just a great So naturally, TDC Group was fully supportive of the Government’s source of support in everyday life, but also from the outset campaign “Orlov – ta’ det som en mand” (Leave – take it like a contribute to the IGU trainees’ integration at TDC Group. man), which was launched in November 2017 and will run till 2020. In that connection, TDC Group joined the declaration on We are convinced that by helping them become integrated in creating cultural change, so that many more fathers in Denmark Denmark through the IGU project, we are not only making a will take parental leave. Through our efforts to support fathers in difference for the individual refugees, but also for TDC Group taking paternity leave, TDC Group also wishes to encourage employees. It is evident that when we go the extra mile, the greater gender equality in society as a whole. reward is excellent manpower. 28 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 29 Climate and environment We have only one planet to share and our environment is currently challenged by climate changes, pollution and other consequences of human activity. On the other hand, ICT and digitalisation hold great potential, as Environmental impact society can achieve a considerably higher degree of sustainability At TDC Group, environmental concerns are given high priority together with economic gains. throughout our business, and have been for many years. We systematically monitor our energy and resource consumption Consequently, at TDC Group, we constantly work to minimise our based on the principles of the ISO 14001 environmental impact on the climate and environment. At the same time, we standard, and continuously seek to reduce our resource would like to inspire the world at large to use digital opportunities consumption and environmental impact. in a way that reduces environmental impact, saves valuable resources and creates benefits for society in the form of e.g. Back in 2011, we set a target to reduce our CO2 emissions by a improved health, increased access to education and higher total of 40% by 2020 compared with 2010. Although our productivity. business is not particularly CO2 intensive in relation to other industries, CO2 emissions are nonetheless one of our most We have drawn up a sustainability policy with four dimensions: significant environmental impacts. However, we achieved this focus in-house (minimise consumption of electricity, heating and target back in 2015. We therefore decided to raise our reduction fuel), focus on customers (ecoand energy-friendly products), target for CO2 emissions from 40% to 60% in 2020 compared focus on the supply chain (sustainability requirements with 2010. throughout the value chain and product lifecycles) and focus on society (reduce energy consumption and climate impact through In 2017, our CO2 emissions totalled 59,968 tons – equalling the communication technologies). total CO2 emissions from around 4,100 Danish households. This result represents a decrease of 16% compared with 2016, and compared to 2010, we have now reduced our CO2 emissions by as much as 60%. In the light of this, we have decided once again to raise our reduction target to 70% compared with 2010, example, in connection with the roll-out of gigabit broadband, Regarding our PSTN network (traditional landline telephony) we equalling a reduction of just over 25% compared to our CO2 TDC Group has partnered with the company DKT to collect and have once again achieved significant energy savings by consoliDigital technologies emissions in 2017. reuse equipment that must be replaced with new equipment dating active subscriber lines on fewer network units. In 2017, we can facilitate a based on DOCSIS 3.1 technology. More specifically, when we migrated about 21,000 lines and achieved an annual reduction of Our reduction in 2017 was especially driven by lower power install new equipment, we make sure to collect used amplifiers, nearly 3,000 MWh. Furthermore, we amalgamated nine 20% global reduction consumption (-11%), which is described in further detail below, optical nodes, cables and packet filters. These are placed in exchanges and other systems, thus generating annual energy and lower consumption of diesel (-12%). Our result is also containers at various locations in Denmark, and are subsequently savings of more than 1,200 MWh. At the same time, we have positively impacted by a lower emission factor for power used in collected for recycling and reuse. The remaining waste is scrapped achieved annual savings of around 300 MWh by phasing out Denmark compared to the year before. In fact, the significant in a safe and proper manner. other forms of telecom equipment. in the world’s carbon improvement since 2010 in the emission factor for power used in Denmark has been among the biggest drivers of our reductions in In Denmark, we also reduced our paper consumption by a total of We have also worked on optimising our energy consumption for footprint by 2030 CO2 emissions. In other words, the power we use has on the 89 tons compared with 2016, equalling an annual reduction of both heating and cooling. This involves e.g. using heat pumps to whole become more climate-friendly since 2010. 37%. Thus in 2017, we reduced our consumption of paper to channel surplus heat from the equipment to heat buildings and under 2% of the quantity we used in 2003. making use of naturally existing cooling to reduce the need for We will continue to focus on streamlining and reducing our further cooling of equipment. Finally, we have increased the consumption of electricity for operating our various networks and Energy efficiency improvements efficiency of our rectifier systems (which convert electricity from data services. However, the challenge is to become more In 2017, we continued to implement in-house projects to ensure AC to DC) by switching to newer models in order to achieve energy-efficient while expanding our networks and increasing optimisation and replacement of the most energy-intensive parts annual savings of around 400 MWh. connection speeds to benefit customers and society at large. of our network and to continually satisfy the needs of our Furthermore, towards 2020, improvements in the emission factor customers. As one of our most important initiatives in 2017, we Externally, we take responsibility for minimising our customers’ for power in Denmark are expected to be lower than those seen have phased out almost 4,000 units with older ADSL equipment, environmental impact in various ways, for example, by continusince 2010. which has resulted in annual energy savings of over 14 GWh. The ously upgrading the equipment at customer premises. In this remaining units on this platform are expected to be deactivated context, it is particularly important for us to focus on minimising In addition to our focus on power consumption, at TDC Group we during the first quarter of 2018. the electricity consumption that our products incur on our are also continuing our efforts to minimise resource consumption customers. It is also vital that the equipment we use is and ensure that a high percentage of our waste is recycled. For 30 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 31 driving around in Copenhagen. Consequently, as a pilot trial, bikes have been introduced at four of our locations to help make life easier for our technicians. A total of six bikes have been purchased, two of which are electric carrier bikes. Initially, the bike models will be tested and experiences gained, including where the bikes should be located. Know-how from the pilot trial will also be shared concerning use in other cities. The first feedback from the technicians is positive, and the bikes are used every day. Huge environmental potential in digitalisation The information and communications technology (ICT) at the core of TDC Group’s business represents huge potential for both the Pilot trial with bikes for our field technicians environment and climate. E.g. through increased use of video conferencing, which reduces the need for transportation, or through machine-to-machine (M2M) technology, i.e. telecommunication between machines, also known as the Internet of Things cutting-edge with regard to both national and international (IoT), which allows for monitoring processes in real time or requirements. In 2017, we have for example replaced more than measuring on machines that are difficult to access in order to 25,000 TV set top boxes with a new and more energy efficient increase production efficiency and reduce consumption of natural model, which has generated annual energy savings of around 3.7 resources. GWh for our customers. The SMARTer2030 report from the international organisation Transport and technology GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative) – of which TDC Group is a At TDC Group, we utilise the technologies we work with to reduce member – shows that ICT and digitalisation can facilitate a 20% our own transportation needs, especially through video conferglobal reduction in the world’s carbon footprint by 2030. This ences and home offices. Besides reducing our CO2 emissions, would mean the emission level from 2015 could be maintained these solutions optimise our efficiency and can improve while simultaneously creating economic gains to the tune of conditions for employee by minimising the number of days spent China’s GDP. Additional improved societal benefits include better travelling instead of being with family and friends. Our transport education, improved health and even more efficient and policy encourages the use of trains and other forms of public sustainable food production. transport rather than cars. In the light of this, we yet again succeeded in reducing the number of kilometres travelled in cars. As described in detail under the focus area of Digital Denmark, Within Denmark, our distances driven in private or rented cars TDC Group, together with a number of partners in the public and have thus decreased by over 750,000 km – although we are not private sectors, is currently developing and implementing able to isolate the causes behind this. solutions that exploit technological opportunities to create more environment-friendly and sustainable solutions. In 2017, we commenced trials with solar cells to supplement the batteries in our many technicians’ vans, since many tasks require the use of electrical equipment. Besides the environmental benefits from using solar power, we are also hoping to save recharging time and the need for assistance when vans fail to start if batteries become flat. As another initiative, we now also only use energy class B cars or higher, rather than class C or higher. In 2017, we also set up a pilot trial with bikes for our field technicians. This is based on the fact that our technicians have experienced increasing difficulty in finding parking spaces and 32 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 33 Results & objectives Environmental Accounts 2017 Coverage of households in Denmark with * Measured according to the EU definition (“up to” speeds) Customer trust index for consumer brands in Denmark 1000 Mbps 100 Mbps* 10 Mbps* 96% 97% ~100% ( ) 74 63 63 61 70% 70% 66% >50% Emissions (tonnes) Waste (tonnes) 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 21% 0% CO2 70,081 71,769 59,968 Total 3,529 4,334 3,704 2015 2017 2018 2015 2017 2018 2015 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 SO2 22 23 19 Recycled of total waste 72% 76% 73% Reduction of CO2 emissions Employee Public opinion of TDC Group as a NOx 63 56 53 70% reduction from 2010 to 2020 (tonnes CO2) satisfaction (ESAT) socially responsible company Recycled of 42% 40% 43% Maintain position as “best in class” among companies in Scandinavia combustible waste 149,789 ( ) 45% -60% 38% 75 * Current level for 74 74* ”best in class” 36% 35% Our emissions reductions in 2017 were especially driven by lower power consumption (-11%) and lower consumption of diesel Waste totals are for TDC Group, while percentages for recycling 59,968 44,937 (-12%). Our result is also positively impacted by a lower emission are for waste from operations in Denmark only. factor for power used in Denmark compared to the year before 2010 2017 2020 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 (-13%). Coverage of households in Denmark Employee satisfaction with 1000 / 100 / 10 Mbps broadband Our job satisfaction index score of 74 is considerably higher than On top of further enhancements to our award winning mobile the average for the Danish labour market in general, and among network, in 2017 we focused specifically on an extensive upgrade the best companies in Scandinavia. As always, we work systeof our cable network. In this way, we will be able to offer 50% of all matically to identify and implement improvements so that in Danish households speeds of up to 1,000 Mbps by the end of future we remain among the best regarding job satisfaction and 2018. We have also enhanced our DSL network with new and commitment. upgraded network hubs. Use of resources Data transported (million GB) Public opinion of TDC Group as a 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Customer trust socially responsible company In 2017, we chose to insource customer service and support from Seen over the course of 2017, the average share of the populaElectricity (GWh) 292 257 228 Denmark 5,952 8,971 11,340 an external supplier to simplify our work processes and make tion in Denmark that viewed TDC Group as a socially responsible Oil (GWh) 1 0.4 0.6 Norway 79 325 434 being a customer with TDC Group easier. We have also worked on company increased. It is worth noting that the share of the improving product stability and customer-centric processes. population that viewed TDC Group positively in terms of social Natural gas (GWh) 3 2 2 Sweden 87 119 109 However, we must acknowledge that further improvements are responsibility (38%) is significant larger than the share that needed. viewed us negatively (23%), while 38% were uncertain. We will District heating (GWh) 33 26 26 Finland 16 6 6 therefore be increasing our efforts to strengthen our CSR profile Fuel (GWh) 41 47 42 Total 6,134 9,654 12,200 Reduction of CO2 emissions among the general public. In 2017, our CO2 emissions totalled 59,968 tonnes – equalling Paper (tons) 278 237 148 the total CO2 emissions from around 4,100 Danish households. This result represents a decrease of 16% compared with 2016, Water (m3) 66,000 66,000 70,300 The amounts of data we move through our networks are and compared to 2010, we have now reduced our CO2 emissions increasing every year, especially driven by streaming of video by as much as 60%. In the light of this, we have decided once content. Please note that the figures for Norway, Sweden and again to raise our reduction target to 70% compared with 2010, Please note that data for paper and water consumption only Finland only include data transported to and from these equalling a reduction of just over 25% compared to our CO2 cover operations in Denmark. countries, i.e. not within these countries. emissions in 2017. 34 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 TDC Group CSR Report 2017 35
