2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT Global Investment Partner 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT About this report Contents Management Discussion & Analysis: Social/Environmental MD&A The 2018 Mirae Asset Daewoo Integrated Report was created with an aim of reviewing our sustainability management activities and our achievements, and thus disclosing stakeholders 60 Human Resources Management with information in a transparent manner. 66 Customer Satisfaction Management 70 Social Contributions Reporting Status Introduction 74 Environmental Management This report is the seventh sustainability report since we published sustainability reports for 04 Mirae Asset Daewoo at a Glance the first time in the industry in 2006 and is the second after the merger with Mirae Asset Securities in December 2016. In addition, this report is developed as an Integrated Report Group Overview which consolidate an annual report and a sustainability report. Company Overview 76 Mirae Asset Group 06 CEO Message Reporting Method and Period 78 Mirae Asset Global Investments 08 Company Profile This report was compiled in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, a 79 Mirae Asset Life Insurance global guideline for sustainability reports, and the framework of the International Integrated 12 G.I.D.P Innovation Reporting Council (IIRC). It is also aligned to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, which the company has been upholding since 2006. Financial Review Sustainability Issue The reporting period of this report is from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 and some 81 Independent Auditors’ Report topics disclose three-year data from 2015 for trend comparison. Both financial information 16 Materiality Test (Consolidated Financial Statements) and non-financial information are reported according to the company’s fiscal years following 18 Protecting Financial Consumers 82 Consolidated Financial Statements our disclosure policy, and information that do not fit such criteria have footnotes added. This 22 Developing Sustainable Society 88 Independent Auditors’ Report report also includes information on major activities executed in the first half of 2018. through Finance (Separate Financial Statements) 26 Leading Digital Finance 89 Separate Financial Statements Reporting Scope The scope of information in this report encompasses the company headquarters, Customer Support Center, Human Resources Development Center, IT Center, domestic branch network, Governance Appendix I and overseas subsidiaries and offices and other areas where Mirae Asset Daewoo performs business activities. The reporting scope of the data provided in this report satisfies at least 32 Transparent and Efficient Operation 96 Independent Assurance Statement 75% of the company’s sales on a consolidated basis. However, as for overseas business of BOD 98 Verification of GHG Emissions sites, such as overseas subsidiaries and offices, the scope of reporting includes business 36 Stakeholder Engagement Data Reports performance only for data collection is difficult due to physical limitations in terms of 37 Strengthening Ethical Management 99 GRI Index material management and assessment. 39 Advancing Risk Management 103 UNGC & UN SDGs Independent Assurance 104 Social Performance To enhance the internal and external credibility of this report, the company commissioned Management Discussion & 106 Environmental Performance an independent assurance statement from the DNV GL, which is a professional assurance Analysis: Financial MD&A 107 Tax Policy organization. Also, credibility and fairness in the compilation process, disclosure data and TM other content have been ensured by the VeriSustain , which is an assurance protocol of 42 Performance Analysis 108 Organization Chart DNV GL in accordance with international standards including International Standard on 44 Business Review 109 Membership in Associations Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. Detailed assurance opinions are outlined on page 9697 of this report. Appendix II 111 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Contact Information Statements Address Mirae Asset CENTER 1 Bldg., 26, Eulji-ro 5-gil, Jung-gu, Seoul 04539, Korea Tel +82-2-3774-6755 Fax +82-2-3774-1343 E-mail irteam@miraeasset.com Mirae Asset Daewoo at a Glance Mirae Asset Securities Mirae Asset Investment (UK) Ltd. Advisory (BEIJING) Co. Ltd. Global Network Mirae Asset Securities (As of the end of March, 2018) Mongolia UTsK LLC Beijing Representative Domestic network Office 162 Mirae Asset Securities (USA) Inc. Mirae Asset Wealth Management Mirae Asset Securities Holdings Global Investment Partner — (USA) Inc. (USA) Inc. (including IWCs) Mirae Asset Daewoo At Mirae Asset Daewoo, we do not rest on our leading Representative offices positions as Korea’s No. 1 financial institution, instead 3 we are making relentless endeavor to make a leap forward into becoming a top-tier investment bank in Asia by expanding our global business. Overseas subsidiaries (As of December 31, 2017; Consolidated figures basis) 12 Total Assets KRW 90.6 trillion Equity Capital 7.4 South Korea KRW trillion Mirae Asset Capital Markets * KRW 8.1 trillion as of the end of March, 2018 (India) Private Limited Shanghai Representative Office Total Client Assets Mirae Asset Securities 245.1 (Vietnam) LLC Mirae Asset Securities KRW trillion (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd. Mirae Asset Investment Asia Limited Market Share in Brokerage Commissions for PT. Mirae Asset Sekuritas Ho Chi Minh Equity Securities Indonesia Representative Office No.1 10.1 % Shareholder Composition1) Credit Ratings (As of December 31, 2017) Bonds Commercial Paper Shareholder Name Number of shares Ownership (%) Mirae Asset Wealth Management Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd. 124,096,307 18.62 AA0 Korea Investors Service A1 Korea Ratings, (Brazil) CCTVM National Pension Service NAVER 65,867,371 47,393,364 9.89 7.11 NICE Information Service Employee Stock Ownership Plan 2,077,291 0.31 Treasury Stock 110,377,511 16.57 Baa2 Moody’s Others Total 316,504,564 666,316,408 47.50 100.00 1) Based on ordinary shares 04 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT INTRODUCTION 05 CEO Message Dear clients, shareholders and other stakeholders of Mirae Asset Daewoo, I would like to express my sincere appreciation for your unwavering support We will further expand our social contribution activities. Together with the Mirae Asset and encouragement which has made possible our continued growth. Park Hyeon Joo Foundation, which oversees Mirae Asset Group’s CSR operations, we have been conducting scholarship, social welfare and programs to share our success It is my great pleasure to share with you the achievements we made in 2017 in creating with local communities. In particular, ‘I Love You’ donation, ‘Mirae Asset 1% Donation’, economic, social and environmental values as well as our vision for the future through and regular community service programs are organized and conducted by voluntary and this Integrated Report. active participation of our employees. The year 2017 marked a first year in which Mirae Asset Daewoo conducted its business In addition, by implementing the one-company-one-school program organized by as a newly integrated company. In the business year one, we have established a stable the Financial Supervisory Service in a consistent and sincere manner, we have formed income structure based on the stable growth performance we had achieved in all sisterhood relationships with 386 schools nation-wide; and for these efforts, in business areas and swiftly integrated the corporate cultures and operating systems, thus 2016 and 2017 we received the FSS Commissioner award. While continuing to carry laying the foundation to grow into a global investment bank. out community service activities, Mirae Asset Daewoo will further bolster its social contributions by leveraging its financial expertise to develop programs for educating Now, Mirae Asset Daewoo sets its sight on the global market. Looking beyond being youths and counseling military service personnel on finance. the No. 1 financial investment company in Korea, we aim to become a top-tier investment bank in Asia by 2020 through investment. In addition, we will contribute to Dear client, shareholders and stakeholders, customer happiness and societal wellbeing also through investment. Mirae Asset Daewoo never forgets the priceless truth that clients’ and shareholders’ interests come before the company’s. As mentioned earlier, the main reasons why we Mirae Asset Daewoo’s decision-making standard is ‘for the client’, and if any quality seek to become a global investment bank are to achieve an optimal asset diversification, asset meets this standard, we will offer it to our clients regardless of its market base. In to grow clients’ investments and thus help secure a better retired life for clients by fact, we have strengthened global equity investment services and been offering clients offering outstanding products and services. Moreover, by sharing with shareholders the opportunities to invest in overseas assets of high quality since last year as part of our fruit produced from these processes, we aim to enhance shareholder value. business strategy. Through the ceaseless ‘Permanent Innovation and Investment’, Mirae Asset Daewoo In particular, by expanding our pension business and diversifying investment in global will prepare itself for the coming of a new era and create a new road to national assets, we will make continued efforts to help our clients plan their financially secured prosperity. In addition, we will double our efforts and passion to become a more post-retirement lives through stable wealth aggrandizement. For, in the era of ageing transparent, ethical, and socially responsible corporate citizen. society, it is our vital social responsibility as a global investment specialist to grow the assets of clients who have worked as hard as anyone else for their economic and Your continued support and encouragement would be most appreciated. financial security. Thank you. Also will be continued are investment efforts at helping create opportunities for the younger generation to develop their dreams, solve local community problems, and deal Choi Hyun Man with environmental issues affecting all stakeholders. A fund has already been set up to Executive Vice Chairman, support start-ups, and investment projects are well under way to plant a Korean Silicon Mirae Asset Daewoo Valley on the outskirts of Seoul. Furthermore, we will contribute to creating a pleasant environment for all to live in by investing in new renewable energy projects through diverse investment banking. 06 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW 07 Company Profile Mirae Asset Daewoo has been taking a step forward with sincerity to grow into a global IB Philosophy As a global investment expert and based on its global BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY network, Mirae Asset Daewoo has been taking the lead in providing products with distinctive values by proactively We value our people and embrace the future with an open mind. identifying assets of high quality all around the world and Putting our clients’ needs first, we aspire to be a consistent partner. Business philosophy is actively pursuing overseas investment opportunities. what guides us and is a never-changing value of Mirae Asset. VISION As emerging market experts with a global perspective, we pursue excellence in investment management to help our clients achieve their long-term objectives. We strive for our clients’ lifetime well-being. Our Group Vision presents Mirae Asset’s evolving role and strategy as a global investment company working towards our clients’ lifetime well-being. CORE VALUES Our four core values – Clients First, Objectivity, Team Play and Citizenship – should be the key decision making criteria for all Mirae Asset employees. Clients first Objectivity Team Play Citizenship Our clients’ success is We assess opportunity We grow through respect Profoundly aware of our success. We will nurture impartially. Our independence for each individual and belief our responsibilities as good long-term relationships by helps ensure our decisions in team spirit. We aim to corporate citizens, we give helping our clients build are aligned with the needs of create an ethical meritocracy back to the communities that wealth for life with proven our clients. in which talent is rewarded nurture us and pledge to investment strategies. and opportunity is equally continue to support a range of available to all. community initiatives. Subsidiaries Name Location Capital stock Main business Ownership Company Company name Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. Mirae Asset Venture Korea KRW 24.9 billion SME start-up 77.5% Investments investments Overview Headquarters Mirae Asset CENTER 1 Bldg., 26, Eulji-ro 5-gil, Jung-gu, Seoul 04539, Korea Mirae Asset Life Korea KRW 831.5 billion Insurance business 19.9% Insurance Co., Ltd. CEOs Choi Hyun Man, Cho Woong Kee Mirae Asset Securities Brokerage, investment and UK USD 78,364,700 100% Business type Financial investment (UK) Ltd. investment advisory Number of employees 4,659 Mirae Asset Securities U.S. USD 261,999,480 Brokerage and investment 100% (USA) Inc. Global network U.S., UK, Brazil, China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Indonesia, Vietnam, etc. Mirae Asset Securities Hong Kong USD 553,670,968 Brokerage and investment 100% (HK) Ltd. (As of December 31, 2017) Mirae Asset Realty Real estate investment and Singapore USD 180,000 100% (Singapore) Pte. leasing (As of December 31, 2017) 08 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW 09 Investment As Korea’s leading financial institution, our investment activities are firmly based on solid Value Chain Mirae Asset Daewoo is committed to doing our business in a sustainable way throughout the investment principles and know-how accumulated with our professional experiences. Furthermore, entire business lifecycle from product development to sales, customer care, investment, and asset Principles we strive to provide our clients with greater value and contribute to creating a vibrant society management. This enables us to maximize our business performance, while providing clients with through investment. long-term and systematic asset management services. APPROACH MAJOR ISSUES We develop products from long-term • Develop products to meet societal Mirae Asset identifies Mirae Asset invests perspective aimed at protecting financial needs and changes such as aging the sustainable competitiveness of with a long-term perspective. consumers. In particular, we take a society companies. Product A long-term perspective is needed comprehensive approach encompassing development • Develop eco-friendly products such Companies with “sustainable when determining whether a company’s customer, product, and channel, and as a product responding to climate competitiveness” refer to those competitiveness is sustainable. Though thus develop products that meet change companies with a competitive share prices may be volatile over customer needs. advantage in market share, business the short-term, earnings growth is model, corporate governance and the main driver behind long-term earnings growth. It is the Mirae Asset price movements. We make sure that clients can enjoy our • Operate diverse sales channel belief that share prices eventually products and services more conveniently platforms Investing in individual company’s converge with earnings growth and and access to our diversified sales intrinsic competitiveness and generating • Comply with ethics and compliance subsequent cash flow. Sales channels more easily. In particular, we stable cash flow is the very essence of are compliant with our sales practices Thus, our efforts to identify companies long-term investment. and pursue complete selling. with sustainable competitiveness are a search for high quality factors in a company that will lead to stable earnings growth. We offer customized wealth • Provide customers with management services as well as a customized products variety of services specific to online and Customer • Promote communication with mobile channels, which in turn, leads to management customers differentiated customer experience. • Protect private and financial information of customers Mirae Asset assesses investment Mirae Asset values a team-based risks with expected return. approach in decision-making. Investment risks should always be Successful investment management We enhance the value of client asset • Generate stable cash flow simultaneously assessed with expected at Mirae Asset is not based on an through successful asset management • Pursue sound asset management return. Key factors such as valuation, individual’s decision-making but rather from long-term perspective. In particular, Investment we are committed to fulfilling our social • Expand socially responsible investment corporate governance and liquidity on a team’s decision to firmly adhere to and asset management responsibility by engaging in socially should be constantly monitored for any our investment principles and process. responsible investment such as new and potential damage on the long-term Mirae Asset does not rely on star renewable energy. competitiveness of a company. managers. Portfolios in accordance with Exposure to assets that may incur our investment principles are created too much risk should be limited while through extensive discussions and the Risk Management Division should teamwork among division members. constantly monitor whether actual investment adheres to our investment principles. 10 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW 11 G.I.D.P Innovation We will continue to change and innovate in G.I.D.P – global, investment, digital and pension. The Permanent We are forward-looking and never stop innovating – this is the core of our strengths. Innovator’s DNA runs in our vein based on which we continue to expand our business to include global Innovator brokerage, investment into the industry 4.0, digital finance, pension and other new business areas. GLOBAL INVESTMENT DIGITAL PENSION Expand global management to Differentiate our investment Establish a base for innovative growth Strengthen our comprehensive build a base for growing into business by expanding through digitalization marketing as a life financial planner a global IB investment capabilities to support clients with stable retirement financing INNOVATIVE ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017 INNOVATIVE ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017 INNOVATIVE ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017 INNOVATIVE ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017 • Launched online and mobile trading systems in • Secured prime investment asset • Formed a partnership with NAVER for the Fourth • Became the first in the industry to achieve KRW 10 Vietnam and Brazil Industrial Revolution trillion in pension assets by strengthening pension • Discovered and invested in companies with asset management services and investor services • Obtained derivatives sales license and expand limited new growth potential in the era of Industry 4.0 • Improved customer convenience and established a partnership (LP) business in Hong Kong base for online customer management • Improved infrastructure to enhance convenience of pension customers • Gained approval for establishing a subsidiary in India – Launched non-face-to-face account opening service and executed establishment capital (USD 300 million) which is available 24/7 and introduced mobile OTP for the first time in the industry – Launched ‘m.Club’ – a big data-based service to provide investment information and recommend products PLAN FOR INNOVATION IN 2018 PLAN FOR INNOVATION IN 2018 PLAN FOR INNOVATION IN 2018 PLAN FOR INNOVATION IN 2018 We will increase the global asset allocation for our We will continue to grow through investment by We will stay focused on laying the foundation for We will promote the total marketing activities for pension clients and the company while strengthening the bolstering our investment business through full use of future growth through digitalization by expanding our channel, one of our future growth engine. In particular, competitiveness of our overseas subsidiaries through our total equity secured by increased net revenue and digital customer base to be more than 300,000 and we will expand upsell opportunities within our corporate capital increase and other measures. We will also expand paid-in capital increase. strengthening digital asset management products and pension clients, make our pension to be WM clients as our global IB business in an effort to globalize our services. well, and strengthen activities to enhance the stability of business structure clients’ return. G I D P 12 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW 13 16 Materiality Test SUSTAINABILITY 18 Protecting Financial Consumers 22 ISSUE Developing Sustainable Society through Finance 26 Leading Digital Finance 14 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 15 Materiality Test Protecting Financial Consumers Developing Sustainable Society through Finance Leading Digital Finance Materiality Test Mirae Asset Daewoo selects issues of keen interest to our business and stakeholders through the materiality Selecting Core Sustainability Issues test, and reports them in a balanced manner. We conducted the materiality test in comprehensive consideration of business relevance and impact on the company’s direct and indirect stakeholders. As a result of the test, 10 out of 43 issues were selected as having materiality and our business activities related to such issues are outlined in pages Conducting We carried out the materiality test based on various standards, such as Five–Part Materialist Test marked in below table. by AccountAbility and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. We analyzed our corporate the Materiality Test vision and strategies, global IB and other industry issues, global standards and media exposure in a comprehensive manner. In addition, a survey was conducted to internal and external stakeholders, Materiality Map with an aim to listen to their voices. Core Issues Stakeholder Interest 4 8 Materiality Test Process Develop eco-friendly products 1 Lead digital finance to respond to climate change To determine areas for materiality test, a total of 43 issues were identified as a result of analysis Ethics and compliance into international standards, global benchmark studies, review on internal materials, stakeholder 3 survey, and media research. 9 Foster global talents Ensure sound governance 2 system 6 STEP1 Expand in the Identify internal issues Identify external issues Strategic social development of socially Forming contribution activities responsible investment a major issue pool 5 (SRI) •Analyzed the existing pool of issues on sustainable •Analyzed major issues and activities found in 7 management of Mirae Asset Daewoo, and leading companies in the industry in terms of Work-life balance 10 collected internal issues sustainable management Protect personal and financial information of customers Economically, socially, •Reviewed business strategies and risk issues •Analyzed new issues raised under international environmentally comprehensive standards and latest trends risk management •Reviewed the webzine of the company •Conducted media research Reporting Issues (Potential Issues) STEP2 Internal and external stakeholder survey Collecting stakeholder Business Impact opinions •Conducted surveys to employees, customers, partners and CSR experts •Such issues as ‘identifying global investment asset’, ‘ensuring sound governance system’, ‘developing products and services based on customer needs’, and ‘develop eco-friendly products’ received good Impact No. Core Issues Page Major Stakeholders Business Case Evaluation feedbacks Marketing Protect personal and financial P.18 Protecting financial Customer, Communications; Product and 1 Operation information of customers consumers Shareholder/Investor service labeling; and Customer STEP3 privacy Evidence of Relevance Evidence of Impact Conducting Customer, Expand in the development of socially the materiality test 2 Finance Shareholder/Investor, •Reviewed internal materials, such as strategies •Analyzed the result of the survey to major responsible investment (SRI) Economic performance; P.22 Developing sustainable Local Community of Mirae Asset Daewoo, company magazine and stakeholders, such as customers, partners, Product portfolio; and society through finance Customer, Develop eco-friendly products to Assurance accomplishment letters local community, NGOs, shareholders and the 3 Finance Shareholder/Investor, government respond to climate change •Identified common industry issues, such as Local Community preemptive risk management, governance •Analyzed 1,811 news articles in 2017 to Customer, structure, contribution to the local community, identify three topics which earned the most 4 Lead digital finance Finance P.26 Leading digital finance Shareholder/Investor, nurturing talent, and ethics and compliance, media exposure – leading digital finance, Local Community by conducting a benchmark study into seven strengthening global finance business, and P.32 Transparent and leading global investment banks ethics and compliance Shareholder/Investor, 5 Ensure sound governance system Operation efficient operation of Employee •Reviewed the UN Global Compact that we the BOD support and other sustainability management P.37 Strengthening ethical Shareholder/Investor, 6 Ethics and compliance Operation Anti-corruption guidelines, such as GRI Standards, SASB, DJSI management Employee and ISO26000 Customer, Economically, socially, environmentally P.39 Advancing risk 7 Finance Shareholder/Investor, comprehensive risk management management Employee STEP4 8 Foster global talents Operation Employee Training and education •Level of impact from financial operational and reputational perspectives were evaluated and weighted P.60 Human resources Selecting and approving management •Prioritized the materiality level to separately highlight key issues and categorized issues to be managed in 9 Work-life balance Operation Employee final reporting issues a continuous basis 10 Strategic social contribution activities Operation P.70 Social contributions Local Community Local Communities 16 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 17 Materiality Test Protecting Financial Consumers Developing Sustainable Society through Finance Leading Digital Finance Protecting Financial Governance to Protect Financial Consumers Complete Selling throughout Product Lifecycle Consumers Under the guiding principle of ‘Customer First’, Mirae Asset Daewoo has established a system to protect financial consumers. We have a complete selling process in place for financial investment products throughout the product lifecycle in order to Chief Customer Officer (CCO) is appointed directly under the strengthen protection of consumers and investors, and thus earn CEO and is commissioned to lead a team dedicated to policies, their trust. trainings, evaluation, and compensation to protect financial consumers. In addition, we have integrated the complaint Conducting On-site Inspection handling team and the VOC team with the consumer protection Mystery shopping system has been established to ensure policy organization so as to cohesively reflect customers’ complete selling with a goal of protecting our customers. In complaints and voices from the field throughout the product 2017, on-site inspection was conducted against all sales offices planning and development stage. to evaluate whether product sales procedures and investment Furthermore, Financial Consumer Protection Council meetings advertisement materials are appropriate. Once areas for are held on a quarterly basis to identify issues related to improvement are identified, immediate actions and trainings consumer protection and evaluate and improve related cases were taken on the spot and the findings are reflected into and our response status. A total of four council meetings were the comprehensive evaluation of sales offices. Similar on-site convened in 2017 and carried out reporting and discussion inspection will be conducted in 2018 as well against all sales activities on 38 items such as ‘Review on how to operate a offices with reinforced evaluation criteria including protection KEY PERFORMANCE Why it matters? process to reflect financial consumer’s opinions’ and ‘Ways to of marginalized investors such as the senior and fulfillment of There have been inappropriate sales practices of financial institutions, protect professional individual investors’. complete selling, in a bid to strengthen our consumer protection which in turn bring about financial consumers’ damage and privacy efforts. infringement, such as leakage of personal data. Financial authorities, on the other hand, are expanding measures to protect consumers’ Strengthening Self-inspection interest by strengthening regulations aimed at reinforcing customer There are five risk indicators which will enable us detect value and reducing complaints. Against this backdrop, financial exposure to mis-selling, such as appropriateness principles and institutions ought to establish a healthy business environment based non-compliance of obligatory explanation. Frontline sales offices on autonomous regulations and execute business operations with refer to these indicators to conduct self-evaluation whether they consumer-centric mindset which focuses on principles and foundations. are abiding by the complete selling criteria for early detection and prevention of mis-selling. Major issues 8,505 persons • Strengthen policies to protect financial consumers Financial authorities are bolstering measures and systems to protect consumer rights in order to stabilize financial systems and protect financial Complete Selling throughout Product Lifecycle (accumulated figure) consumers. Product Development Product Sales Post-sales Management Education on financial consumer • E nsure customer trust Prevent mis-selling, provide services for protection (As of 2017) the financial minority, and expand a culture of financial consumer • Establish and operate a procedure • Operate a standard complete • Run a happy call system to ensure protection, in order to solidify customers’ trust, thus improving the for pre-discussion on new products selling system which provides whether explanations on the corporate sustainability. to review whether there is a standard sales manual and product structure and risks are fully possible violation against customer checklists for each product delivered to and understood by rights and rectify any potential customers Our responses problems 100 • Conduct on-site inspection and Selling financial products according to the right process and helping mystery shopping at all sales customers make appropriate investment decisions are the foundation % for financial company’s sustainability. In particular, Mirae Asset Daewoo offices is focused on enhancing consumers’ rights and interests throughout VOC handling rate the entire sales process from product development to sales and aftersales customer management. We do our utmost to protect financial consumers by establishing a stringent internal control system, operating an IT system to prevent customer data leakage and hacking attacks, and proactively rolling out campaign activities to eliminate mis-selling. 18 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 19 Materiality Test Protecting Financial Consumers Developing Sustainable Society through Finance Leading Digital Finance Promote to Listen to VOCs Culture of Financial Consumer Protection Customer Complaints Management Education to Prevent Mis-selling Financial Consumer Protection Day In an effort to efficiently and promptly handle customer Mirae Asset Daewoo is actively rolling out internal trainings Every Wednesday on the first week of each quarter is designated complaints and protect the rights and interests of financial aimed at consumer protection, such as on-site training, in-class as ‘Financial Consumer Protection Day’ to diffuse the culture consumers, we have consolidated our complaints management training and online training. To promote complete selling, of financial consumer protection across the company. All such system. There are a number of programs in place to settle a in-class training, sales office training, online training take place efforts indicate our management’s strong will to boost the company-wide culture of consumer protections including ‘visiting around the year, complemented by internal mystery shopping consumer protection mindset among the entire workforce and complaints handling service’, a consulting training service to and role-playing activities for sales offices to ensure all the dedication to customer protection. prevent complaints conducted year-round, special lectures to trainings provided to reinforce standard sales processes will be prevent complaints delivered by external lecturers from Financial firmly adhered to. Supervisory Service, and online training for entire workforce. Furthermore, new hires are required to attend financial In addition, critical complaints of each month are disclosed consumer protection courses as part of their onboarding via ‘complaint detail disclosure’ system and ‘complaints early Integrated customer complaint management system training, and existing employees are also required to attend warning’ system. trainings customized for their level of jobs. There are also lectures provided by external experts for an update on latest Customer Service Improvement Council trend in consumer protection and major issues, all in an effort ‘Customer Service Improvement Council’ has set in place to to change employee’s mindset fundamentally and enhance their enable prompt response to various customers’ opinions collected competency level. via customer contact points, such as our VOC system. The In particular, when such critical issues as customer complaints council meetings take place each month where responsible take place, we provide mandatory trainings to prevent customer employees from related departments discuss and analyze complaints, and training results are reflected in the evaluation customers’ suggestions and complaints and the outcome of the ‘Financial Consumer Protection Day’ to make sure consumer protection activities are properly carried meeting is reflected in our business processes. In particular, we Letter out. We plan to expand the training in 2018 to include standard targeted to adopt 40% of customer opinions and incorporated Education on financial consumer protection sales process, prevention of complaints, and support for them into our business processes in 2017 and the adoption rate financially marginalized people alongside a variety of programs turned out to be 54% – 1,367 out of 2,533 opinions – demonto fully establish a culture of consumer protection. strating the council’s contribution to enhancing consumer rights and interests. Expanding a Culture of Financial Consumer Protection BUSINESS CASE Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Education on complete selling process and Opening The new VOC system has been set in place to financial consumer protection Education hour Hour 16 13 13 the New VOC System enhance customer trust and expand their rights and Q1 99 98 87 interests, based on faithful response, trustworthy Q2 97 97 95 handling and prompt response. Result of mystery shopping Point Q3 99 99 95 Staying attentive to our customers’ voice is our first step towards customer satisfaction. The Q4 94 87 94 new VOC system was launched in 2017, for in-depth analysis of how VOCs are received, assigned, handled, and responded so that the new system can be run with efficiency. VOC handling Receiving and handling of VOCs % 100 100 100 rate Departments in charge assigned with handling specific customer inquiries, suggestions, and complaints carry the obligation to offer answers directly to the customer. The new VOC system was run to enhance customer trust and expand their rights and interests, under three criteria of quality, trustworthiness and promptness of the response. 20 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 21 Materiality Test Protecting Financial Consumers Developing Sustainable Society through Finance Leading Digital Finance Developing Sustainable Society SRI Fund and Investment Principles Jeju Gimnyung Wind Power Generation Project We are involved in a wind power generation project in Gimnyung through Mirae Asset Daewoo plans products, while making direct coast, Jeju Island by providing financial advisory, brokerage, and and indirect investments in eco-friendly industries, in order to agent services. This project is about operating 30 MW on-land consider the future generation and customers and also to create Finance wind power generation and GS EPS is in charge of design, new business opportunities. construction, and procurement of the project. Geogum Island Solar Power Generation Project A 25MW Eco-Friendly Investment solar power generator operated in Geogum Island is constructed A number of financial products such as SRI, clean energy funds, and run by KEPCO KPS and Mirae Asset Daewoo is also donation-type funds are under review for the interest of our providing financial advisory, brokerage, and agent services. customers and stakeholders. We are also involved in new and renewable energy generation not only to secure new growth New and Renewable Energy Funds engine but also to respond to global climate change. The ‘Multi Asset S&P Clean Energy Fund’ invests in the S&P Global Clean Energy Index consisting of new and renewable Investment into New and Renewable Energy energy players, and customers can make various investments KEY PERFORMANCE Shinan Solar Power Plant Project We are providing financial through Mirae Asset Daewoo including general fund purchase, Why it matters? advisory and brokerage services to the Shinan solar power plant retirement pension, and tax-exempt overseas stock investment Our society is faced with a multitude of problems, such as project located in the salt fields of Shinan, South Jeolla province, fund. In addition, we also provide financial advisory and marginalization due to information gap, low birth rate and aging which is an energy business for residents of Jeungdo, an island brokerage services in Floating Solar Power Blind Fund which population, and environmental pollution. Social issues call for off the coast of Shinan, based on the feed-in tariff (FIT) program. primarily invests in domestic floating solar power generation corporates’ greater responsibility, and at the same time, present new We expect this project to contribute to expanding new and business. opportunities. In particular, socially responsible investment (SRI) has renewable energy and generating local revenue. emerged as a global keyword and is a major means of fulfilling the social responsibility of corporates and financial institutions, an area highlighted by the current Korean government. Major issues •  Various investment risks There are risks against eco-friendly 36 investment due to issues caused by licensing and national risks, credit uncertainty of business counterparts, and expanding market KRW billion volatility, while investment opportunities are decreasing owing to reduced number of large-scale SOC business. Amount of socially responsible Sustainable Value Investment investment •  Reinforced legislations and systems Develop and adopt Stewardship Code which is focused on active SRI participation and corporate involvement by public pension fund; and promote government activities to support and ease the burden of the financially marginalized. 10 times (510 persons) Our responses When making investment decisions, we are not only considering our return on investment but also pursuing to execute investments with SRI funds Investment in green technology Investment in eco-friendly industry positive social impact. We strive to make eco-friendly investments, for Financial education for example on the area of new and renewable energy, develop products financial minorities and services to deal with the aging population, and provide funding for small medium enterprises (SMEs). In particular, in order to enable We are fulfilling our social We support companies holding We strive to create new values by those without proper access to information, such as the disabled responsibilities through SRI funds, green technologies with paid-in enhancing the society’s capability to and senior to have easy access to financial services and financial such as the Mirae Asset Green Index capital increase and initial public respond to environmental risks and information, we carry out activities to enhance financial accessibility Fund and Allianz Corporate Value offering (IPO), and make direct climate change and invigorating the and provide financial education programs. Enhancement Fund. investments in them. green business. 22 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 23 Materiality Test Protecting Financial Consumers Developing Sustainable Society through Finance Leading Digital Finance Joint Growth through Finance Services for Financial Minorities As a financial investment company, Mirae Asset Daewoo Providing Financial Products Customized Increasing Accessibility to Finance Offering Fee Discounts for the Visually Impaired strives to contribute to the establishment of a sustainable for SMEs and Small Giants We are exerting our best efforts to ensure financial minorities, Customers who are financially marginalized, such as the society through finance. As part of these efforts, we have We are offering financial services that are specialized for SMEs including the disabled and senior, can receive financial services visually impaired, are experiencing inconveniences when developed ESG (Environment, Social, Governance)-related and small giants, thereby making contributions to the policy of in any circumstances by obtaining web accessibility certification trading via online channel. To eliminate such difficulties, we are financial products that reflect social issues, such as response to joint growth through finance. In particular, through Partners for our website and operating ARS services, voice recognition offering a special service to allow online commission fee when aging society and funding support for SMEs. Club, a collaborative business model between SMEs and Mirae service, and chatting service for the visually impaired. In they are making Korean stock purchases in offline channels, Developing Products for Aging Society Asset Daewoo, we are providing total financial services that are addition, guidelines on protecting financial consumers were such as branch offices or customer centers. specialized for SMEs so that senior management at SMEs can specially printed for the visually impaired and distributed The population has been aging worldwide, and we are facing focus more on management. Various seminars and gatherings to all sales branches. Given the rising number of foreigners Financial Education for the Financial Minorities challenges in caring for our life after retirement, accordingly, of the Partners Club will equip SMEs with new knowledge residing in Korea, we have located Englishand ChineseFraudulent practices have been becoming increasingly it has become important to supply long-term investment that helps their respective business and taking advantage of speaking employees in the customer center, to provide services sophisticated and diversified. We therefore offer education products that prepare customers for old age. Mirae Asset opportunities to widen their network by industry and region. dedicated to the foreign consumers. Our plan for 2018 is programs to the financial minorities, such as the disabled, Daewoo therefore has been diversifying customer choices by to diversify financial accessibility by rolling out a ‘Visual ARS homeless, low-income class, and the senior to raise their offering investment products to prepare for life after retirement Service’. financial understanding and prevent financial frauds. based on our unique investment know-how. A good example Furthermore, we are providing guides on how to make use of this is a target date fund (TDF), which changes asset Increasing Accessibility to Our Website of financial services reasonably to enhance their right to allocation proportions with the passage of time. It is designed for the Visually Impaired knowledge. There are special trainings provided to the youth, for investors with a specific long-term objective, such as to set Mirae Asset Daewoo is the first in the Korean financial financial consumers of tomorrow, to help them build right aside retirement savings or tuition by a specific target date. investment industry to apply the web standards and web understanding and make career decisions. By supplying TDF with diverse target dates (Year 2020-2045) accessibility to its web trading system (WTS) and all of the and strategies (asset allocation, strategic allocation, etc.), we company’s websites, which entitled the company to the ‘Web are fulfilling our mission as a financial investment company Accessibility (WA)’ certification. The websites have a screen by helping customers prepare for their senior years in Korea, reader program for the visually impaired, and are also designed a quickly aging society. We also established various monthly to help investors with color blindness or weakness easily check paid funds and derivatives-linked product line-up, such as ELS the web contents. Since gaining the initial certification, we and DLS, that help those retired pay for living expenses. For have managed to renew the certification consecutively until example, there is the monthly paid Brazil bond trust, which February 2018 and plan to renew the certification for the pays monthly interests for high-interest Brazil bonds, and recruitment website in June 2018. the Mirae Asset Daewoo Golden Age WRAP, which makes monthly yield payments and makes distributed investments in Partners Club various assets. BUSINESS CASE Education Programs Mirae Asset Daewoo provides education programs Mirae Asset In collaboration with Mirae Asset Venture Investments, we have released the Mirae to Prevent People Asset New Growth Venture Investment Association Trust in 2017. Mirae Asset Group for those with poor accessibility to financial New Growth with Poor Accessibility makes joint investment with customers with strong reliability as Mirae Asset Venture information, in order to minimize damages caused Venture Investment to Information from Investment, with over 300 accumulated investment experiences for 20 years as a by financial frauds and thus establish Association Trust dedicated investment house, will tolerate losses to a certain extent. Financial Fraud a healthy financial environment. In addition, we provide individual customers with investment opportunities into medium-sized enterprises and small giants with high growth potential while helping One of our core values lies at acknowledging and fulfilling the company’s social SMEs raise their funds. In 2018, we plan to expand the products included in the responsibility. As part of this effort, we visited 10 welfare facilities across the nation in 2017 ‘Mirae Asset New Growth Venture Investment Association Trust’ along with KOSDAQ and delivered lectures on how to prevent financial frauds by introducing types of fraud venture funds and will actively communicate the investment result of the trust with incidents such as voice phishing and smishing, and how to prevent and respond to such customers. incidents. Lectures were given by our Financial Consumer Protection Team to the disabled, seniors and other people with a lack of accessibility to information. 24 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 25 Materiality Test Protecting Financial Consumers Developing Sustainable Society through Finance Leading Digital Finance Leading Digital Building Framework for Digital Finance Finance Strategy to Lead Digital Finance In particular, the Innovation Lab Team studies and identifies We are implementing three execution strategies to fulfill potential areas in securities business to apply fintech, while the vision of becoming the leading player in the digital the Big Data Team performs analysis and leverages various finance market. This will help us become better equipped to customer data. All sources of measurable data, including changes in the digital environment and ensure continuity and internal customer data, external market and social data, are consistency in promoting digital finance. analyzed and processed by the Big Data Team to provide customers with customized product recommendation services, Digital Finance Organization and we also plan to offer a stock price forecast service. In 2017, we became the first securities firm in Korea to Fostering Talents with Expertise in Digital establish and run a digital finance unit. The unit consists of four directly-run digital innovation teams – identifying new Mirae Asset Daewoo focuses on fostering digital talent to business, combining fintech, analyzing big data, and building strengthen our leadership in digital finance. In January 2018, platforms; the Digital Biz Department – promoting existing we signed an agreement to collaborate with Korea University business in domestic and overseas stocks, financial products, in running a Digital Finance Talent Development Program, KEY PERFORMANCE and asset management as well as providing customer services, where attendees can learn various issues related to digital Why it matters? such as m.Club; and the Client Care Department which finance. The agreement will serve as an opportunity for our In the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, fintech, big data, artificial employees to participate in master courses in engineering such is responsible for identifying customer needs and fulfilling intelligence (AI) and other emerging digital technologies are expected communication at customer contact points. as digital technology management, data science and artificial to become sources of core competitiveness as well as survival strategies intelligence and for the company to identify and secure talents for financial institutions. To respond to upcoming changes, financial to strengthen future growth engine. companies at home and abroad digitally transforming themselves in terms of customer service, provision of digital products/services/ information, and the establishment of digital platforms. Recently, they Digital Finance Strategy have focused on building digital ecosystem by developing start-ups and strengthening organization-wide capabilities to plan and execute digital transformation. Vision No.1 in the digital finance market 92 Major issues persons • Intensifying competition in digital finance Changes in the business Make easy and quick online transactions landscape are accelerating, such as digital finance technologies Mission available anytime, anywhere Number of emerging as key competitiveness. The convergence of industries has digital finance personnel been further intensifying competition in the digital financial market. (As of June 7, 2018; excluding the Client Care Department) • Positive changes in the external environment The development of advanced digital technology and deregulation is creating an environment conducive to promoting diverse innovation in terms of Financial services Digital, Digitalize customized to new technology products, channels and services. the way of work customers innovation Our responses As the largest securities company in Korea, Mirae Asset Daewoo • Develop systems that enable • Conduct big data analysis • Leverage the Mirae Asset 3 Strategic account opening and on investment areas and Fintech Hub to explore ideas is exerting all of its capabilities to lead the fast-changing digital Directions immediate transactions transaction attributes of for digital innovation finance business. In particular, we are developing and serving digital 24 hours a day, seven days customers to provide tailored based platforms under the mission “to provide easy and quick online • Build platforms for digital a week investment information transactions anytime, anywhere” and fostering talents with digital innovation in partnership expertise. • Continually improve • Provide customized asset with fintech companies non-face-to-face work management services to • Provide financial services process to enhance customer customers such as AI-based to which diverse digital convenience robo-advisor technologies, such as AI, block chain and big data, are applied 26 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 27 Materiality Test Protecting Financial Consumers Developing Sustainable Society through Finance Leading Digital Finance Strengthening Digital Services and Infrastructure Promoting Cooperation to Implement Digital Finance As Korea’s leading securities firm, we are focusing our capabilities in leading the rapidly changing digital finance business. We are utilizing non-face-to-face accounts to attract new customers and expanding digital customer management programs and asset Academic-Industrial Cooperation management services to provide better convenience for our customers. Mirae Asset Daewoo has signed an MOU with Seoul National University Statistical Research Institute in January 2017 to develop stock price forecast model based on big data. Since • In 2017, we have built a system that enables account installation and immediate transactions then, efforts are under way to develop a service to recommend through non-face-to-face channels across the full range of customer accounts, including personalized products based on individual customer’s areas of personal pensions, IRP and overseas derivatives. We also introduced mobile one time password interest and preferences and the stock price forecast model (OTP) and improved the authentication process for account opening (small amount transfers) Academic-industrial cooperation regarding big data for better customer convenience. based on corporate performance, major economic index, stock Building a non-face-to-face price trend, and social big data. Forecasting information of system for “all” account • In 2018, we will improve service convenience by automating ID authenticity and providing domestic and international stock prices derived by the forecast for the first time in wider options for self-authentication services (physical OTP, credit card, etc.) and multiple model will be disclosed on our online channels and any other the industry corporate accounts. Such new functions will strengthen our ability to provide convenient quality services developed will be commercialized promptly. In services 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 2018, we plan to sign a design academia-industry MOU with Hongik University to launch activities to innovate digital finance designs in our website, HTS and MTS. • In 2017, we have developed a ‘digital only’ customer management program, which identifies customer attributes by customer lifecycle (new, active, dormant) and transaction types (heavy Mirae Asset Daewoo Big Data Festival trader, online VIP, and pension). In June 2017, we hosted the first ‘Mirae Asset Daewoo Big Fintech Idea Contest • In 2018, we will expand the ‘digital only’ customer management program by digitizing our Data Festival’, the first of its kind in the Korean financial operations by streamlining the processes and introducing new technologies to enable all Developing a “digital only” industry. This festival is a competition to provide college customer management business functionalities to be conducted online. In addition, digitization will take place in the Fintech Idea Contest students with an opportunity to analyze financial data and program customer care perspective by introducing digital channels (kiosk), expanding chat service across From September to November in 2017, we hosted a fintech nurture big data experts of the future. Undergraduate students all channels, and introducing visual ARS service. idea contest for non-professional investors including college and graduate students were qualified to participate in this students to discover creative ideas that can be applied for event consisting of two leagues of stock buy recommendation digital finance businesses. This event was as part of our and index prediction where 164 teams from 57 schools • In 2017, we have expanded global portfolio solution (GPS) towards individual pensions, endeavor to build a new business model to pioneer financial participated in an intensive competition. Participants have released online-only ELS, expanded online-only fund lineup, and allowed IRP accounts for ETF innovation based on fintech and offer new values to the demonstrated their exceptional skills not only in developing investment, in a bid to further bolster digital asset management services. customers. Outstanding ideas with high business potential and new ideas but also expert-level analytical skills by writing • In 2018, we will launch m.Robo, an integrated platform for global stock recommendation and viability will be commercialized. algorithms based on big data. Expanding digital asset investment advisory, consisting of Robo Pick, which provides stock and fund recommendations management services and investment information, Robo Port, an investment advisory service, Robo Auto, delegated investment advisory service, and Asset Management GPS. BUSINESS CASE • Mirae Asset Daewoo has formed a partnership with KT for its voice-activated AI service, Launched m.Club, m.Club is a new online financial service platform that ‘TV Giga Gini’ and NAVER for its voice-activated ‘Clova’ speaker service, to deliver innovative an Online Financial helps customers assess their investment habit and financial services. Once financial services based on voice recognition matures and are in Service Platform full-throttle, customers can search for stock price and index, receive information on market offers investment advices based on big data analysis. conditions, and ask for stock buy and financial product recommendation all through a voice recognition system. Financial institutions, including securities firms, have been focusing on the importance of Introducing AI-based mobile platform business, and thus making efforts to boost the platform business that cater voice recognition financial • Our plan for 2018 is to consolidate customer database by creating voice data asset, establish a services to the needs of the fourth industrial revolution. To meet such trends, Mirae Asset Daewoo process to promptly respond to issues as they emerge, and expand financial services tailored to launched the m.Club platform in November 2017. The most popular functions of this service each customer in conjunction with big data analysis. are Investment Guru’s Best Buys, which share stock buys of high-yield individual investors, and My Transaction Patterns, where users can check their monthly investment patterns. Thanks to these functions, customers now can conduct a self-check of their investment habit and make investment decisions based on big data analysis. 28 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 29 32 Transparent and Efficient Operation of BOD GOVERNANCE 36 Stakeholder Engagement 37 Strengthening Ethical Management 39 Advancing Risk Management 30 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT GOVERNANCE 31 Transparent and Efficient Operation of BOD Stakeholder Engagement Strengthening Ethical Management Advancing Risk Management Transparent and Efficient Operation of BOD Efficient Operation of BOD and decide key management and operational affairs. This is to ensure that major decisions of the company go through internal deliberation of the Steering Committee, established based on Role and Status of BOD Appointment and Expertise of Directors the Commercial Act and Articles of Incorporation, to enhance Mirae Asset Daewoo has built sound and transparent corporate The BOD at Mirae Asset Daewoo ensures its integrity and Based on expertise, the BOD of Mirae Asset Daewoo the adequacy and legitimacy of managerial decisions as well as governance structure in order to promote long-term growth and expertise. In particular, industry and other professional is faithfully fulfilling its role of providing advices and transparency and fairness of the decision-making process. This protect the interest of shareholders, financial consumers and experiences of candidates are taken into consideration during keeping checks and balance to promote the company’s also allows us to deliver values of sound corporate governance other stakeholders. In addition, we have made continued efforts the appointment process to secure expertise and diversity in growth and protect financial consumers’ interest. and responsible management. to improve transparency in management and build a robust our decision-making process. In compliance with Article 5 of In 2017, a total of 14 board meetings were held, with an framework for responsible business management. The Board the company’s Internal Corporate Governance rules, we have average 98% attendance rate. Meeting agenda was distributed of Directors (BOD) consists of seven directors – three executive strengthened qualification requirements of non-executive prior to the meetings, allowing the directors to review items in directors and four non-executive directors. We maintain the directors, such as expertise, fairness, integrity, accountability The BOD and subcommittees under the board are Mirae Asset advance and if necessary, obtain details from working-level staff independence of the BOD from management by composing a and faithfulness, to ensure a fair and transparent appointment. Daewoo’s key decision-making entity and are fully executing to enhance their understanding of the issues at hand. Directors majority of directors with qualified non-executive directors. Candidates referred by the Committee for Recommending their roles and responsibilities. Five subcommittees are in place, from various professional backgrounds have actively taken part Candidates for Officers are also scrutinized for qualification. As such as Committee for Recommending Candidates for Officers, in the BOD meetings last year. As a result, all of the agenda have of April 2018, the Board consists of five directors with expertise Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee, Compensation been approved without modified votes, deferrals or other abnorin finance, business and management, and two directors with Committee and Steering Committee. In particular, the Steering malities. background in law, public administration, tax and government, Committee has been established within the BOD to deliberate ensuring a balanced representation of career background, gender and professional expertise. Subcommittees under the BOD Board of Directors Number of Meetings Held (As of April 30, 2018) Classification Roles & Responsibilities Composition in 2017 (Handled Agenda) Classification Name Expertise Key Profile Tenure Committee • Recommend candidates for non-executive directors, members of Executive director: 1 Financial investment for Recommending 1 time (3 agenda) • Executive Vice Chairman, Mirae Asset Life Insurance the Audit Committee and CEO Non-executive directors: 2 13 years Candidates for Officers Choi Hyun Man Economics and business • Currently Executive Vice Chairman & CEO, Mirae Asset Daewoo 11 months administration Compensation • Determine compensation amount and payment method Executive director: 1 2 times (5 agenda) Executive Financial investment Committee • Develop and disclose an annual report on compensation payment Non-executive directors: 2 Cho Woong • President & CEO, Mirae Asset Securities 6 years directors Economics and business Kee • Currently President & CEO, Mirae Asset Daewoo 11 months • Supervise comprehensively and create control environment to enable administration Risk Management efficient risk management and build internal control framework Executive director: 1 • Managing Director in Charge of Corporate Finance, Eugene Investment 5 times (22 agenda) Kim Sang Tae Financial investment 1 month Committee • Build integrated risk management policies, and assign roles and Non-executive directors: 2 • Currently Head of IB Division1, Executive Vice President, Mirae Asset Daewoo responsibilities for supervising Financial investment • Chairman, Korea Financial Investment Association 3 years • Build propriety of the overall internal control system Hwang Kun Ho Economics and business • Currently Visiting Professor, Sogang Business School 1 month Audit Committee • Establish and execute internal audit plans to evaluate and Non-executive directors: 3 9 times (26 agenda) administration improve the company’s business performance Law and administration • Administrative Chief Official & Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Economy 2 years Kim Byeong Il • Deliberate and vote on matters delegated by the BOD, including Accounting and tax • Currently Professor, Tax Economics Department, Kangnam University 2 months Steering Committee Executive directors: 3 11 times (15 agenda) Non-executive overall corporate affairs and related matters directors Economics and business administration • Deputy Minister of Trade Investment, Ministry of Knowledge Economy 1 year Kwon Tae Kyun • Currently Advisor, Yulchon LLC 1 month Government authority Key Agenda for 2017 Board Meetings Financial investment • Assistant Superintendent, Financial Supervisory Service Park Chan Soo 1 month Government authority • Currently CEO, Pinestone 1st Finalized 2017 business plans and budget proposal; and reported 8th Proposals of paid-in capital increase for overseas subsidiaries in audit results for 2016 Hong Kong and the U.S. (LA), and approval on transaction with 2nd Decided appointment of chairman of annual general meeting key shareholders Non-executive Director Appointment Process (AGM) and delegation order of duties; and enacted internal 9th Proposal of the appointment of core business execution officers control guidelines 10th Proposal of paid-in capital increase for overseas subsidiary in UK; 3rd Proposals of the appointment of chairman of the BOD and CEO, and reported evaluation results regarding financial consumer and composition of committees under the BOD protection in 2016 Expertise Recommended 4th Proposals of granting retirement benefits for executives and 11th Proposal of the approval on shareholder agreement of Expert pool for by the Committee Put to vote at treatment for outside directors Mirae Asset Life Insurance Independence non-executive for Recommending an annual general Industry and directors Candidates for meeting (AGM) 5th Proposals of granting retirement benefits for staff and 12th Proposals of the appointment and dismissal of core business work experiences Officers delegation of BOD roles to the CEO execution officers and risk management officer 6th Proposals of the acquisition of NHN Corporation shares following 13th Proposal of the approval on large-volume internal transaction strategic alliance and disposal of treasury stock according to the Fair Trade Act Persons that do not violate Requires the attendance of a majority of 7th Proposal of dismissal and appointment of 14th Proposal of the approval on special incentive payout system for independence ineligibility or the Committee members, and the concurrence of stakeholder conflicts a majority of the members present Compliance Officer executive directors’ and reported regarding the inspection results of internal control system and its operation status Directors with special interests are not eligible to exercise voting rights 32 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT GOVERNANCE 33 Transparent and Efficient Operation of BOD Stakeholder Engagement Strengthening Ethical Management Advancing Risk Management Independence and Diversity of BOD Preventing Conflict of Interest Evaluation and Compensation of BOD Audit Committee To build sound corporate governance system, Mirae Asset Directors who wish to leverage business opportunities that Mirae Asset Daewoo reviews the composition and operation of Daewoo adheres to the principle of appointing independent benefit or may benefit the company’s interests are required to the BOD and its internal committees prior to an AGM every year. The Audit Committee supervises the propriety and legitimacy of and professional non-executive directors. Qualifications for obtain prior approval. Activities related to conflict of interest A comprehensive evaluation is carried out, assessing whether the management’s actions to help deliver rational management appointing competent candidates are as follows: We comply are managed and monitored in compliance with Article 398 the BOD has adequately performed its roles to contribute to decisions. Comprised of three non-executive directors qualified with the appointment procedures and principles, and thus secure and 397 of the Commercial Act. Accordingly, the 2nd, 3rd, 8th the interests of internal and external stakeholders, as well as in terms of independence, the Committee members have profesindependence. and 14th board meetings in 2017 deliberated on the fairness their expertise, understanding of work duties, ethical and social sional backgrounds in financial investment, financial supervisory, of transactions and unanimously voted on the ‘Comprehensive responsibilities and demonstrated fairness in conflict of interests. and accounting and finance. There are grounds to leverage I. Person with sufficient job experience or professional expertise Approval of the Transactions with Key Shareholders, etc.’ The This is initiated by the BOD, but specific duties are commisadvisory from external experts, if necessary. To reinforce indepenin such fields as finance, economy, business management, Fair Trade Act mandates prior approval from the BOD if affiliates sioned and independently performed by supporting divisions. In dence and fairness, of particular note, the Committee members accounting and law, required to perform duties as the company’s or conglomerates banned from doing cross-investment among addition, the Compensation Committee has set in place under are appointed and dismissed by an AGM, and they execute non-executive director or audit committee member affiliates engage in transactions exceeding KRW 5 billion or 5% the BOD to build and run a fair compensation framework. The duties in a stance independent from the BOD or execution II. Person capable of performing duties without being restricted by of the larger between total capital and capital with a person Committee is responsible for reviewing whether the compenbodies. Resolutions made by the Audit Committee cannot be certain interests for the interests of all shareholders or financial with a special relationship. In line with the regulation, we have sation framework for management and specific positions are objected by the BOD. consumers as the company’s non-executive director or audit obtained approval from the 2nd, 5th, 6th, 8th, 9th, 11th, 13th reasonably developed against risk structure, and monitors the committee member and 14th board meetings in 2017 on large-scale internal transconnection among the compensation framework, the company’s III. Person with appropriate sense of ethics and responsibility to actions of affiliates in accordance with the Fair Trade Act. financial position and risks on a regular basis. The Committee perform duties as the company’s non-executive director or audit also runs an independent probe to monitor whether governance committee member best practices of a financial company are adequately complied, thus strengths the objectivity of evaluation. In addition, we leverage strategic decision-making to review candidates from various fields to contribute to flexible and efficient management. Compensation of Directors I. A ppoint a person with relevant experience with business management, law, administration and other fields that may comprehensively contribute to the business, despite lack of direct Classification Headcount1) (Person) Total amount paid2) (KRW million) Per capita (KRW million) relevance in the financial and securities industries Executive Director 3 3,365 1,121 II. Build a dedicated team that consistently provides training and Non-executive Director 1 72 72 business support to non-executive directors to support expertise in financial industry, and hold regular and irregular meetings to Audit Committee Member 3 184 61 encourage and complement individual expertise Total 7 3,621 517 1) Headcount: Number of registered directors as of December 31, 2017 2) Total amount paid: Total compensation amount paid to directors of the BOD during 2017 Criteria for Determining Independency of Non-executive Directors (Disqualification of Independence, Article 382 of the Commercial Act) 01 Directors, executive directors and employees who are engaged in the regular business of the relevant company; or Employee Compensation against Highest Paid Director directors, auditors, executive directors and employees who have engaged in the regular business of the relevant company within the latest two years Highest paid director Average employee compensation Ratio Year-on-year change (KRW million) (KRW million) (%) (%) 02 The largest shareholder, his or her spouse, lineal ascendants and lineal descendants 03 Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of the corporation, in cases where the largest shareholder is a 1,688 93 5.5% -4.5% corporation 04 Spouse, lineal ascendants and lineal descendants of directors, auditors and executive directors 05 Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a parent company or a subsidiary company of the relevant company 06 Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a corporation which has a significant interest in the relevant company, such as business transactional relationship 07 Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of another company where directors, executive directors and employees of the relevant company serve as directors and executive directors 34 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT GOVERNANCE 35 Transparent and Efficient Operation of BOD Stakeholder Engagement Strengthening Ethical Management Advancing Risk Management Stakeholder Engagement Strengthening Ethical Management Definition of Stakeholders Stakeholder Communication Channel Ethical Management System Ethics and Compliance Report Mirae Asset Daewoo defines its key stakeholders as the Mirae Asset Daewoo has established various communication Amendment of Code of Ethics At Mirae Asset Daewoo, diverse ethics and compliance reporting individuals or groups that have a direct or indirect influence on channels to listen to stakeholder opinions and expectations. In Mirae Asset Daewoo upholds ethical management as the first channels have been established, including company intranet, the company and vice versa. This also includes shareholders, particular, the company undertakes stakeholder interviews and and foremost priority of the financial industry and pursues ethical telephone and emails through which employee’s ethics violation group institutions with legal, financial and operational responsisurveys to establish what they believe is important, and uses the practices to take a firm root in employees’ business activities and compliance failure are submitted and handled. Reports bilities, the media, labor union, NGOs, social organizations, local results to determine major issues. Information on these is also through the Code of Ethics. In 2017, Mirae Asset Daewoo has are treated with complete anonymity, and whistle-blowers are community, competitors, opinion leaders and the academic. disclosed in our integrated report. revisited its Code of Ethics, the foundation for practicing ethical entitled to a maximum of KRW 100 million worth of incentive to management and Code of Conduct, which details the criteria for encourage employees’ participation, thereby creating a culture ethical business, in order to present a clear vision and judgment of ethics. Classification of Stakeholders guidelines on ethical management for the company and its Stakeholders of Mirae Asset Daewoo are categorized based on employees. The Code of Ethics takes its firm root on principles Financial Irregularities and their role, level of impact, and relations. We have designated and trust and sets the standard on which employees can make Corruption Report Center customers, shareholders and investors, employees, and local We operate various channels through which our customers ethical decisions and act properly. community as four key stakeholders, and then manage them in report matters related to any employee financial irregularities a systematic manner. We identify key issues and events for each and corruption, thus customers can engage in financial transstakeholder group and this is reflected on our business activities. Code of Ethics Code of Conduct actions without worry – these channels include the Voice of We have overhauled our Code We have newly enacted Code Customer (VOC) system at our Customer Center, the complaints of Ethics to declare the ethical of Conduct to present detailed section on our website run by the Financial Consumer Protection responsibilities and obligations guidelines to practice ethical we hold for our customers, management, such as fair execution Department, and the Corruption Reporting Center of the Stakeholder Communication Channels and Key Issues shareholders and investors, of job duties, prohibition on Compliance Team. The Compliance Team also operates the employees and the company, obtaining unfair benefits and internal reporting system – Red Whistle-Helpline. Through these as well as the nation and society as fostering a healthy corporate a socially responsible corporation. culture. methods, we are striving to prevent financial irregularities and to contribute to eradicating corruption. Organization for Ethical Management A Compliance Officer has been appointed to independently supervise corporate-wide ethics and compliance. The Compliance Department is in charge of ethical management of the company, and it manages rules on ethics and compliance, policies and conformity with procedures. CUSTOMERS SHAREHOLDERS·INVESTORS LOCAL Ethical Management Organization (Retail Customers, (Stockholders, EMPLOYEES COMMUNITIES Consumer Organizations) Evaluation Organizations) These stakeholders purchase These stakeholders own shares Earning trust from customers Mirae Asset Daewoo conducts Board of Directors and use Mirae Asset Daewoo’s of Mirae Asset Daewoo and requires complete integrity its social contributions by financial products and services take part in the company’s and expertise from our collaborating with various CEO by engaging in transactions with decision-making process. We employees. Mirae Asset Daewoo organizations, including NGOs, the company. We make efforts strive to maximize shareholder is strengthening employee and thus strives to fulfill its role Compliance Officer Audit Committee to leverage our expertise in and investor value by generating competencies, and engages in as a member of local communities which financial consumers can competitive financial returns. diverse activities to build and deliver positive social impact. Compliance Department Audit Department undertake convenient and safe a healthy corporate culture. transactions. Compliance Advisory Team Compliance Team Financial Consumer Protection Team Continuous Consulting Team •Establish and operate the internal •Conduct monitoring on regulation •Establish and support the consumer control system compliance protection system Audit Team 1 COMMUNICATION CHANNEL COMMUNICATION CHANNEL COMMUNICATION CHANNEL COMMUNICATION CHANNEL •Review compliance in advance •Operate non-electronic information •Review investment advertising Customer Service Improvement AGM, Public disclosure, Labor-management Council, Partner institutions for Audit Team 2 Council, Voice of Customers (VOC), Company forums, Investor relations WM Community social contribution activities, •Establish and operate a system to protection policies •Conduct field inspection Website, Investment Forum Website prevent conflict of interest •Operate an anti-money laundering •Manage standard sales process Audit Team 3 •Operate a system to prevent errors system •Handle customer complaints and in trade orders •Operate the FATCA/CRS system provide education to prevent them •Provide employees with education •Take measures on illegal and •Plan and operate VOCs on compliance and ethics unfair activities •Run ethical management programs •Operate the internal reporting system 36 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT GOVERNANCE 37 Transparent and Efficient Operation of BOD Stakeholder Engagement Strengthening Ethical Management Advancing Risk Management Culture of Ethics and Compliance Mirae Asset Daewoo strives to enhance the value of employees’ 2017 PERFORMANCE Strengthened Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Activities Advancing Risk Management integrity and spread a culture of ethics and compliance through • Improved AML system (improvements to blacklist filtering and high continuous training and self-evaluation. volume cash transaction report system) • Conducted AML trainings (customized by position, such as executives, Strengthening Risk Management System strengthen total risk management system. By doing so, we have staff, customer-facing staff) built the foundation for calculating total capital at risk, managing Internal Control System Risk Management Governance • Conducted self-inspection of ‘actual owner verification system’, one of risk, the risk adjusted performance measurement (RAPM) We have established a corporate-wide internal control system the top ten key inspection area of FSS Mirae Asset Daewoo has set the Risk Management Committee and stress test. We have also formulated a long-term plan for in order to manage the ethical and compliance process, as part • Made amendment to internal regulations to prevent money-laundering in place under the Board of Directors. The Committee, consisting integrating and improving risk management systems to flexibly of our endeavor to create value of fairness and transparency. and fund-raising for terrorism more than three directors of which a majority is outside respond to changes in the net operating capital ratio (NCR) • Conducted security inspection of AML system Employees are banned from engaging in political activities directors, is the prime decision-making entity on the company’s • Evaluated AML obligation fulfillment status of overseas subsidiaries and system, to increase collaboration efficiencies between business during business hours, and all company premises are assessed risks and is in charge of formulating risk management strategy distributed relevant manuals departments and Risk Management Department personnel, and for exposure to corruption to further grow the company into • Earned 60 scores from 2017 evaluation on comprehensive AML in line with the company’s management strategy and supervising to enhance our overall risk management competencies. Based one that fulfills its ethical responsibilities. implementation (grade system abolished) whether risk management operations are properly carried out. on this plan, we have been overhauling and improving our risk 1) AML:PLAN 2018 자금세탁방지 (Anti-Money Laundering) Major matters deliberated and decided by the Committee management systems in a phased manner. Upgrade the AML and establish the Risk Based Approach (RBA) include establishing a basic risk management direction and strategies and inspecting implemented matters; establishing, Integrated Crisis Management System Mirae Asset • Enhance internal AML system and procedures (first half of 2018) • Establish the RBA system (third quarter of 2018) amending, and abolishing general regulations related to risk Daewoo has a total crisis management system in place to management; setting the company’s risk-adjusted capital and preemptively and actively respond to crisis situations, including minimum line of asset soundness; establishing the compathe spread of risks and market shocks. We have classified crisis Activities to Spread a Culture of Ethics and Compliance ny-wide risk appetite and loss limits and approving excess limits; situations into four categories – attention, caution, deterioration approving and monitoring stress tests; and handling other and emergency – based on ‘financial market stability indicators’ • Trainings were conducted under the topic of the company’s ethics and compliance system, basic obligations significant issues related to the company’s risk management and ‘internal soundness indicators’, and set detailed execution Ethics for employees, hands-on compliance monitoring, and ethics and compliance issues system. The Committee members are appointed and dismissed plan for each level, in order to prepare for crisis situations. In and compliance • Training program: Visiting training to sales offices on ethics and compliance; collective training for by the BOD, with one non-executive director chairing the addition, we closely monitor financial markets for any sign training compliance managers; collective training on ethics and compliance for major sales activities, such as (165 trainings took IB, trading, wholesale, and research; and training on unfair transaction at the headquarters and branches Committee. In an effort to assist the effective operation of the of instability by applying specific indicators that reflect the place with 4,659 • Plan to develop education programs to enable employees to share and experience the value of ethics and Committee, we have established two steering committees – characteristics of each department, and regularly report to senior participants) compliance in their day-to-day activities, such as online ethics and compliance training course and video broadcast regarding ethics and compliance campaign through our internal IPTV the Investment Review Committee and the Risk Management management. To prevent risks that arise from natural disasters, Steering Committee. such as fire, floods and earthquakes, as well as risks that are • Each year, the entire workforce at Mirae Asset Daewoo shall submit a written oath to practice ethical caused by IT system failure, we have developed a Business Written oath management which stipulates that employees ought to ‘conduct fair and transparent ethical management on ethical to contribute to enhancing the corporate value and developing a healthy financial industry and to fulfill Risk Management System Continuity Plan (BCP) and share it company-wide. As for risks management the corporate’s social responsibilities’ Integrated Risk Management System Mirae Asset Daewoo related to an IT system failure, we have created an emergency IT practice • New hires as well as outside directors are required to submit the oath, in a bid to promote the ethics and manual centering on seamless provision of IT services, to ensure has established an integrated risk management system to meet Major activities compliance mindset across the entire workforce ‘Minimal Requirements for Risk Management at Brokerage Firms’ the continuity and stability of business activities. in 2017 • The entire workforce is required to conduct self-evaluation on their ethics and compliance practice on recommended by the financial supervisory authorities, and to a regular basis, in order to establish a culture of ethics and compliance culture Self-evaluation • Assess whether each employee conforms to ethical standards, such as ‘fair job execution’ and ‘prohibition on ethics and on receiving unfair money and valuables’ compliance Risk Management Organization • A monthly ‘Ethics and Compliance Day’ is designated when departments and branches meet to share and discuss about key issues on ethics and compliance Review • Conduct evaluation whether any transactions among affiliates are made in a fair manner in order to Risk Management Committee the fairness eliminate unfair transactions in products and services on affiliates’ • Ensure to abolish discrimination between affiliates and non-affiliates based on evaluation criteria of transaction for Investment Review Steering ‘normal transaction condition’, ‘provision of business opportunity for affiliates’, and ‘reasonable comparison Risk Management Steering Committee Subcommittee products and on business conditions’ Committee services ROLES ROLES ROLES •Deal with material issues and •Deal with working-level issues and items delegated by the •Make quick decisions and conduct Transaction Monitoring System items delegated by the Committee Committee concerning risk management of proprietary and specialized risk management in concerning the review of client assets, and report the outcome and progress of major various fields within the authority investments, and report the outcome activities to the Committee granted to the Risk Management Customer verification and DB integration Anti-money laundering solution Interface with internal and external systems and the progress of major activities to Steering Committee and Investment MAJOR TASKS KYC Data extraction Internal the Committee Review Steering Committee MAJOR TASKS •Establish, amend, and abolish detailed rules related to risk •Customer management, risk evaluation Behavior detection engine •Suspicious Transaction Report (STR) program COMPOSITION management and management, watch list management, •Establish, amend, and abolish CTR report, etc. •Scenario management, behavior detection External •Assign risk profiles to divisions and business sectors that fall •Currently consisting of the Valuation detailed rules related to assessment within the risk appetite approved by the Committee engine, each scenario’s extraction threshold •Receive report template from KoFIU and Subcommittee and Investment and follow-up management ETL management provides feedback on result •Set and change risk limits commissioned by the Committee Evaluation Subcommittee, and plan •Handle matters related to financial and approve cases that exceed risk limits to establish the Financial Product •KYC data, transaction data, and account data Investigate suspicious transactions investments of a certain size and their •Approve and monitor the appropriateness of company-wide Subcommittee in 2018 in Data Warehouse follow-up management •Suspicious transaction management and alert risk measurements management •Check temporary changes to and the status of the risk management system STR status management •Develop guidelines for risk-adjusted evaluation on the •Report and related information management, performance results of departments in charge of transactions online report to Korea Financial Intelligence •Set the risk appetite for client asset management Unit (KoFIU), encryption of reports 38 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT GOVERNANCE 39 Risk Management Framework In order to systematically manage risks faced by the company, we have categorized risks to be managed into market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, and operation risk. In addition, management system and guidelines are established that are appropriate for the characteristics of each risk to execute appropriate recognition, analysis, evaluation, and control of risks. MANAGEMENT Market Risk Credit Risk DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS • We use standardized methods set in the Financial Investment Industry • We set acceptable exposure limits by counterparty type or credit Regulations to measure market risks. rating. We also maintain an appropriate level of capital adequacy by • We calculate market value at risk (VaR) by using an internal model controlling credit VaR limits based on standard models. based on the market risk-measuring system of SAS. • In addition, we identify and closely manage counterparties in the high risk category through regular monitoring of our credit risk status. Liquidity Risk Operational Risk Financial MD&A • We use liquidity gaps and ratios as key indicators to measure liquidity • We manage and control operational risks through risk & control self risks. Also, departments related to risk management or funds regularly assessment (RCSA), key risk indicator (KRI) management, loss data monitor risks and report them to senior management. management, establishment of countermeasures, and calculation of • In addition to general liquidity risk management, we formulate operational VaR based on internal models. contingency plans to deal with any liquidity crises that may arise. We • Regular RSCAs are carried out to gauge the level of risks of classify crisis situations into four levels – attention, caution, deterioration concern facing each department. If an indication of risk is found, and emergency–depending on the condition of the company’s liquidity countermeasures are established to control it preemptively. and the level of stability in financial markets. Specific action plans are • There is growing importance in risk management that is related established for each level to prepare for crisis situations. to protection of a financial company’s personal information and countermeasures against IT-related infringements. In response, we established an organization that is dedicated to information security and responses to infringements, and thus strengthened our response system. 42 Performance Analysis BUSINESS CASE 44 Managing Mirae Asset Daewoo analyzes social and environmental changes on Emerging Risks Business Review a regular basis, and thus establishes and executes measures that allow us to effectively respond to long-term risk factors that influence our overall business. Potential Risk Business and Social Environment Impact from Risk Countermeasures Expanding • Due to the limited growth potential of • Although overseas assets and new • Abide by deliberation process prior to investment traditional investment asset (such as growth industries can present appealing investment according to the policies into overseas domestic stock and low interest rate), profit opportunity, they also involve risks • Follow-up monitoring and formulation of asset and the need arises to continuously expand such as sovereign risk, exchange risk, exit plan to maximize risk-adjusted profit venture investment into new growth industry and individual company’s default risk ratio capital such as the fourth industry and overseas • Possible risks are increased investment asset (stock, bond, and alternative assets) • Expand relevant pool of professional loss caused by expanding investment reviewers and risk management asset exposure and deteriorating capital personnel adequacy ratio Financial • The financial investment industry is • Lower asset market fluctuations result • Making efforts to continually generate market considerably influenced by the market in the loss of investment opportunities. stable profits by diversifying profit fluctuation environment, so that there are severe Also, the coupling of asset prices has structure fluctuations in profits depending on the reduced traditional effects of asset • Enhancing employee capabilities by environment allocation providing the industry’s best internal • Compared with other brokerage • On the other hand, extreme market training companies, the company has the highest fluctuations cause greater fluctuations • Leading the money move and increasing fixed income balance and fixed income in customer assets and the company’s market dominance through thorough issued offshore which means that our profits and losses preparation and bold execution, ranging business portfolio is very sensitive to • There is a dire need for alternative from entering into new markets to interest rate fluctuations investments owing to the loss of developing innovative products and • Rapidly aging population – greater investment opportunities services and creative thinking beyond importance in building a portfolio • Increasing uncertainties in the global conventional financial framework that preserves investors’ assets after investment environment due to recent • Preemptively reducing bond assets that retirement and increases profitability exchange rate fluctuations and changing are sensitive to interest rates political landscape–there are concerns over a global interest rate hike and a downward trend in the domestic real estate market 40 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 41 Performance Analysis Business Review WM IWC Pension IB Trading Wholesale Global Digital Finance Performance Analysis 2017 Market Review and 2018 Outlook is likely to persist in the first half while the burden posed by Generating Economic Values Distributing Economic Values BOK’s additional base interest rate raise will prolong the window Securities Market Business Performance and Plan Mirae Asset Daewoo pursues a fair and transparent distribution of interest rate volatility. However, Korea’s domestic economic Korea’s stock market grew significantly in 2017 backed 2017 marks the first year of the newly established Mirae of values we have generated to enhance customer value and momentum, which is likely to decline in the second half by enhanced fundamentals in terms of global economic Asset Daewoo after the merger and witnessed a record-high promote sound social growth. In 2017, a total of KRW 1,517 triggered by downturn in facility and construction investment, environment and domestic corporate performance. KOSPI hit performance in 10 years with KRW 664.7 billion in pre-tax billion was spend to be distributed to key stakeholders, such as and concern for potentially sluggish export and inflation due a record high level in seven years by rising by 21.8%, and net income in consolidated basis and KRW 504.9 billion in net customers, shareholders, investors, executives and employees, to strong Korean Won and possibility of prolonged quantitative income for KOSPI recorded KRW 136.3 trillion, a year-on-year income. We managed to achieve a balanced performance and local community, while supporting their values. easing by the ECB will drive down and stabilize the interest rate increase of 42.9%, also reaching an unprecedented level. in the second half. increase across all business units, such as brokerage, wealth management, IB, trading, and interest profit or loss, and thus Fulfillment of Tax Payment Obligations Such growth momentum for the Korean’s stock market is laid the foundation to grow into a global investment bank. Mirae Asset Daewoo complies with our tax payment obligations projected to persist in 2018 with the global economy expected Changes in Laws and Regulations for for domestic business sites as well as our overseas business sites to grow by 3.9%, an increase from previous year’s 3.7%, and In 2018, we will continue to focus on expanding our global the Financial Market in 2017 based on criteria set forth by the respective local government. KOSPI net income is forecast to record KRW 157.2 trillion. business and doing our utmost to move beyond a leading When tax laws are unclear to us, we receive help from external However, continued interest rate increase in the U.S. and Strategy for Financial Innovation investment company in Korea towards a top-tier investment professional organizations to satisfy legal standards. We the possibility of growing political and economic uncertainty The importance of trust is far greater in the financial services bank in Asia. In doing so, we have set four areas of innovation – disclose income tax-related information through an audit report between U.S. and China may become destabilizing factors to industry than any other industries, but the industry has failed Global, Investment, Digitalization and Pension. that is made available on the Financial Supervisory Service’s increase volatility of the stock market. to live up to the public expectation in terms of support for electronic official notice system. Financial statement and the underprivileged and consumer support. The government, Operation Review footnote information on the audit report includes the criteria Bond Market therefore, has determined that the people’s level of trust across As of December 31, 2017, there were 164 branches (including for calculating income tax expenses, deferred tax assets and The long-term market interest rate has only shown narrow the financial industry including the government authorities IWCs), three overseas representative offices and 11 overseas liabilities. We manage risks that may arise in relation to taxation, fluctuation until the third quarter of 2017 and turned highly and financial institutions has dropped considerably to the level subsidiaries (excluding the ones subject to liquidation or sales). and prevent tax-related risks by fulfilling our tax payment volatile in the fourth quarter. Since the second half of 2017, of hitting the limit in terms of competitiveness of the industry In addition, we are striving to provide shareholders and investors obligations in a fair and transparent way. For international foreign investors started to reduce the balance level of Korean and has come up with and is executing four financial industry with successful asset management performance and best transactions with overseas subsidiaries, we observe domestic Won denominated bonds, which is deemed to be the result innovation execution strategies. services. The merger between Mirae Asset Securities and Mirae tax laws as well as the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines, and of not only external factors such as the burden following the Asset Daewoo has enabled us to become the No. 1 brokerage execute tax payment obligations based on local laws. We have In order to regain people’s confidence in finance, the strategy Federal Reserve Bank’s base interest rate raise, but also internal company in Korea. Total client assets reached KRW 245 trillion overseas subsidiaries in the US, Brazil, Hong Kong, and other outlines major tasks such as financial authorities’ innovation, factors such as concern for base interest rate rise by Bank of in 2017. WM assets grew steadily to record KRW 111 trillion, countries, and we transparently disclose the amount of taxes we financial industry’s reform, and pursuing economic democracy Korea in approximately seven years and geopolitical risks in and the number of high net worth individuals (HNWI) with pay in each region. to establish a fair market order. The four financial industry relation to North Korea. investments of KRW 100 million or more exceeded 140,000 at innovation execution strategies include financial industry’s the end of 2017. Korea’s bond interest rate for 2018 is projected to show a reform, productive finance, inclusive finance, promotion of Tax Payment Others trajectory of high-start and low-end throughout the year. competition, and they are now in full swing. Credit Rating 0.68% Concerns for the four-time base interest rate raises by the FRB In 2017, we received AA grade from Korea Ratings, the Korea Investors Service, and NICE Information Service for our Strategies and Key Tasks for Financial Innovation non-guaranteed corporate bonds. We also received Baa2 grade Korea Asia As-is and Issues Strategy for Financial Innovation for foreign currency-denominated long-term fixed income from 94.9% 3.0% Deteriorating Trust Level Insufficient Role of Brokerage Moody’s, an overseas credit rating agency, and are maintaining Americas that rating. 1.4% Reform financial Regain trust in finance Productive finance Support for innovative growth industry Europe ① Innovate the financial authorities: Pursue fair and transparent ④ Foster innovative entrepreneurial ecosystem: Strengthen the role 0.02% financial administration of finance throughout a company’s growth stages Distribution of Economic Value in 2017 ② Reform the financial industry: Boldly renovate unreasonable ⑤ Strengthen the core functions of finance: Expand fund brokerage (Unit: KRW 100 million) practices, such as recruitment irregularity into productive areas ③ Economic democracy in the financial sector: Establish fair market order Customers Shareholders and Employees Local Communities Government Investors and NGOs Greater Need for Supporting the Underprivileged Lack of Healthy Competition in the Market and Protecting Consumers Strengthen protection for Enhance financial convenience Incisive finance Promote competition the underprivileged and consumers for the people ⑥ Support the underprivileged and marginalized: Address the ⑨ Licensing system overhaul: Promote emergence of new and funding difficulties and ease the financial burden for the underprivileged innovative players in the financial sector Interest expenses Dividends Salaries and employee Social contribution Income taxes and welfare expenses other taxes ⑦ Tighten protection for financial consumers: Revamp the system to ⑩ I nvigorate Fin-Tech: Contribute to the launch of innovative financial put customer at the center ⑧ Social finance: Strengthen the role of the finance institutions to services ⑪ Financial regulations innovation: Conducive to enhancing 5,814.5 1,246.9 6,472.7 40.3 1,595.2 reinvigorate the social economy the financial industry’s competitiveness and increasing overall market size 42 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 43 Performance Analysis Business Review WM IWC Pension IB Trading Wholesale Global Digital Finance Business Review Wealth We provide top-tier wealth management services that are well suited for WM CUSTOMER ASSETS customer’s purpose and propensity of investment, backed by our global network Management Total WM customer assets grew KRW 24.8 trillion year-on-year to record KRW 124 trillion. The net – largest among Korean brokerage companies. growth of brokerage assets was KRW 24.5 trillion, totaling KRW 88.8 trillion in brokerage asset under management, further solidifying our stature as the industry-leading brokerage house. In particular, our overseas stock asset, which remained around KRW 700 billion at the beginning of the year grew by KRW Overview Providing convenient and customized integrated consulting services 1.8 billion, to rank top in the industry in terms of overseas stock asset and contracts. Mirae Asset Daewoo leads the wealth management market based on customer-oriented, advanced Asset under management for pension and global brokerage, our strategic assets to strengthen ties with business models. As of end of December 2017, number of our branches stood at 164, largest customers, grew by KRW 3 trillion, of which pension asset grew by KRW 470.1 billion, enhancing the value of customer’s retirement asset, and global asset grew by KRW 2,535.5 billion, successfully allocating among Korean brokerage firms which enable us to offer enhanced customer accessibility and customer’s asset across the global channel. convenience. We not only provide customers with tailored portfolio suited for their investment (Unit: KRW trillion) propensity and purpose but also provide a comprehensive consulting services incorporating tax, Classification Beginning of the Year End of the Year Change real estate, and legal services along with inheritance/gift and succession of family business. Funds 7.8 8.3 0.5 WM Others 27.5 27.2 △0.3 Enhancing global consulting capabilities Sub Total 35.3 35.5 0.2 We run a program to nurture global investment professionals to fortify our advisory competences on global stocks from a long-term perspective. Backed by differentiated investment information Domestic Brokerage 63.6 86.3 22.8 based on our leading research center and global network, we are able to support our customers Global Securities Overseas Brokerage 0.7 2.5 1.8 with high quality global brokerage services. In addition, all branches of Mirae Asset Daewoo provide customers with asset allocation recommendation suited for their investment propensity Sub Total 64.3 88.8 24.6 and financial plan and professional advisory services on overseas prime stocks. Total Customer Assets 99.6 124.3 24.8 Pension Assets 2.7 3.2 0.5 Making lager-size branches 2017 was the first year after the completion of the merger between two companies, so that we Strategic Assets Global Assets 2.5 5.0 2.5 integrated 15 adjacent branches and expanded them into larger-size branches. This enabled us to Total 5.2 8.2 3.0 prevent customer’s confusion and enhance the level of our comprehensive consulting services. Three new WM branches opened up in Gangneung, Central Post Offfice, and Bundang Post Office in 2017 in order to efficiently expand customer contact points. 2018 Plan Our top three initiatives for 2018 are strengthening WM competitiveness, expanding tangible asset, 2017 Performance In 2017, we endeavored to build a foundation for growth through post-merger integration. Stable and Strategy and securing long-term growth potential, and these will help us further solidify our leading position WM revenue, an area where we have long been strong at, was combined with gradually increasing in asset management. brokerage revenue to achieve KRW 501.3 billion in net operating revenue. By promptly responding to global market changes, total customer assets under management grew by KRW 24.8 trillion, and the growth of pension and global brokerage asset under management was notable at KRW 3 Business Strategy trillion, solidifying our relationship with customers. Strengthen Competitiveness in WM Expand Tangible Assets Ensure Long-term Growth • Improve efficiency of the organization •  Expand investment in global assets • Solidify an absolute position in wealth Detailed Key Performance (channel) with a focus on global equity management Our WM business saw an incremental growth in net operating revenue thanks to stable WM revenue – Improve customer’s profitability by • Enhance competitiveness of WM (staff) • Increase quality in assets and profits and increased brokerage revenue. In particular, our overseas brokerage revenue is on a steady increase accelerating ‘account restructuring’ – Provide one-stop services through as a result of our proactive response to the paradigm shift in global investment landscape. focused on global assets the strengthening of consulting capability • Improve organizational productivity by (Unit: KRW billion) (Unit: KRW billion) – Diversify asset groups to include overseas focusing on HNWI business • Provide differentiated products bonds, overseas funds and global wrap Quarterly trend of Quarterly trend of accounts net operating revenue overseas brokerage revenue 5.4 127.1 130.5 139.8 •  Accumulate long-term yield asset focused 103.8 on pension asset 3.6 – Individual Pension: Strengthen fee-based 3.0 revenue by focusing on attracting new and 2.7 transferred customers – Retirement Pension: Attract new DC and IRP customers and related VIP customers •  Establish a foundation for mid-to long-term growth by attracting new VIP customers 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 44 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 45 Performance Analysis Business Review WM IWC Pension IB Trading Wholesale Global Digital Finance Investment Investment Wealth-management Center (IWC) is a mega-scale financial complex located in major cities all across Korea, and offers distinctive, one-stop financial SYNERGY CREATION BY LINKING PRIVATE CLIENT SERVICES AND IB Wealth-management services to corporate and individual customers. 1) Increase in VIP customers who have more than KRW 100 million in customer assets: 1,650 Center 2) Increase in WM customers: 4,952 3) Generate synergy by linking to IB: 89 cases – achieved 178% compared with the target of Overview Comprehensive financial solution services 50 cases and contributed KRW 3.12 billion in the company’s profits IWC is a brand-new concept envisioned and realized by Mirae Asset Daewoo, offering comprehensive Synergy in private client services Performance financial services through the convergence of retirement pensions, wealth management and corporate Increase in VIP customers 1,650 persons finance in seven locations around the nation in Pangyo, Yeouido, Gangnam, Busan, Daegu, Daejeon and Gwangju. In 2017, we expanded our IWC organization to become seven IWCs, seven WM Increase in WM customers 4,952 persons Departments, 15 RM Departments and 35 Teams, and increased professional staff from 375 to 459 persons. Synergy by linking to IB Contribution to the company’s profits 89 cases KRW 3.12 billion Corporate client services We provide consulting services and efficient policy operation in terms of human resources, labor affairs, finance and accounting related to the retirement pension policy. A number of corporate financial services are provided aimed at boosting corporate value such as corporate financing, investment and M&A. 2018 Plan In 2018, we will focus on enhancing integrated marketing based on cross-selling pensions, Private client services and Strategy strengthening client alliance by managing returns for DC plan subscribers and stabilizing IWC We offer comprehensive one-stop wealth management consulting services through which pension profits and losses. assets and financial assets of individuals can be comprehensively managed. Our own specialized retirement asset consulting services such as integrated consulting for public and private pensions are Business Plan provided as well. Turn to profit in IWC 2017 Performance Launched in 2017, our IWC (Investment Wealth-Management Center) successfully attracted retirement pension assets of KRW 1 trillion in the first year of its operation, which enabled the company to expand its pension assets to KRW 10 trillion. IWC also made significant contributions to improving the company’s profitability by successfully expanding VIP client base and creating synergy with IB business in its joint sales performance of private and corporate clients which is based on retirement pension customers. Manage profitability of Generate stable Cross-selling DC customers profits in IWC Detailed Key Performance NET INCREASE IN FINANCIAL/PENSION ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT 1) Financial assets: Net increase of KRW 4,170.3 billion DC customer Diversify income Corporate finance 2) Retirement pension assets: Net increase of KRW 1,018.2 billion management sources (fund management) – DC (Corporate level +KRW 498.8 billion, IWC +KRW 475.5 billion): 66% increase compared with the net increase of balance in FY 2016 (KRW 300.8 billion) Net increase in pension assets Improvements Fund management – DB (Corporate level +KRW 447.5 billion, IWC +KRW 453.3 billion): 9% increase compared with and dividends of marketing efficiency for corporate clients the net increase of balance in FY 2016 (KRW 412.3 billion) – IRP (Corporate level +KRW 183.1 billion, IWC +KRW 89.4 billion): Approximately 87% compared with Turning pension customers to Optimization of the net increase of balance in FY 2016 (KRW 209.7 billion) Global asset allocation become WM customers as well, human resources management VIP marketing – Performance-based Products (Corporate level +KRW 624.1 billion, IWC +KRW 490 billion): Increase in balance through the sales of DB performance-based products and the rebalancing of DC plan subscribers (Unit: KRW billion) 5,723.0 2017 performance in net increase in assets 2017 goal for net increase in assets Mid-to Long-term Business Strategy 4,170.3 INTRODUCTION STAGE GROWTH STAGE MATURITY STAGE (2018) (2020) (2022) 1,018.2 • Expand IWC business • Become one of Big 5 in retirement • Contribute to the establishment of 534.4 • Generate stable profits pension the company’s position as a top-tier 453.3 475.5 89.4 • Contribute to profit diversification of investment bank in Asia 81.8 the company through total marketing activities based on pension 2,940.0 1,140.0 1,300.0 300.0 600.0 500.0 200.0 200.0 Customer Financial Pension BK DB DC IRP Individual Assets Assets Assets Assets Pension 46 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 47 Performance Analysis Business Review WM IWC Pension IB Trading Wholesale Global Digital Finance Pension We help our customers manage their assets to prepare for a stable post-retirement (Unit: KRW trillion) life through the efficient management of their retirement and individual pensions based on our distinctive global market asset allocation capabilities. Pension Assets as of 2017 10.2 9.1 9.3 8.9 2.5 2.3 2.4 2.2 Overview Competitive product offerings and distinctive consulting services 7.7 On the back of competitive product offerings and distinctive consulting services, Mirae Asset 6.8 6.8 6.9 Daewoo has grown into a top-tier pension management company with KRW 10.4 trillion in pension assets under management. Our competitive product offerings and distinctive consulting services have built a solid foundation, thereby enabling seamless client solutions to expand our retirement pension business in conjunction with other related services. Supported by a pool of experts with diverse specialties, including certified labor attorneys, tax attorneys and CFA license holders, and the Individual Pension next-generation retirement pension system, we efficiently manage pension assets on behalf of our Retirement Pension (DC+DB+IRP) clients, while providing a full scope of retirement planning services and diverse retirement pension education programs such as online training, group sessions and dedicated seminars. 1Q 2017 2Q 2017 3Q 2017 4Q 2017 3) Received awards for retirement pension by media Strengthening global asset allocation (The Korea Economic Daily, Maeil Business Newspaper, Money Today) We provide well-diversified products leveraging our outstanding global asset allocation capabilities. 4) Largest product line-up which include deposits, ELS, domestic funds and overseas funds By pursuing both stability and profitability, we help our customers create and manage pension 5) Provide automatic rebalancing services through the Global Asset Allocation Retirement assets that will ensure their comfortable retirement. Pension Wrap – 23,503 subscribers and KRW 790.4 billion of assets under management as of the end of 2017 2017 Performance In 2017, Mirae Asset Daewoo maximized synergy effects between its Wealth Management (WM) and IWC channels, and proactively coped with regulatory changes. We promptly adapted to changing market landscape by enhancing our customized consulting services for personallymanaged pension programs, such as DC, IRP and other individual pension plans. Thanks to these 2018 Plan In Korea, the needs for pensions to prepare for retirement has been increasing. According to the efforts, the value of our cumulative retirement pension reserves reached KRW 7,691.1 billion as and Strategy Mirae Asset Retirement Research Institute, the size of the Korean pension market will rapidly grow of December 31, 2017. According to the annual return disclosures, Mirae Asset Daewoo was from KRW 168 trillion at the end of 2017 to KRW 430 trillion (KRW 275 trillion for DC plans/ ranked first among the top ten retirement pension managers (measured by the size of cumulative IRPs and KRW 155 trillion for DB plans) by 2024. The focus of this growth will be pinpointed by a retirement pension reserves under management) with an annual return of 4.93% for defined movement from DB plans to DC plans, and performance-based products will take up an increasing contribution (DC) products and 3.90% for individual retirement pension (IRP) products. proportion of the product portfolio. Mirae Asset Daewoo will therefore proactively adapt to changing market landscape by maximizing synergy effects between our WM and IWC channels, proactively coping with regulatory changes Detailed Key Performance and enhancing our customized consulting services for personally-managed pension programs, such PENSION ASSETS as DC, IRP and individual pension plans. 1) As of December 31, 2017, the company’s pension assets stood at KRW 10.4 trillion In addition, we will fully leverage our stable asset management capabilities and comprehensive (KRW 7.7 trillion for retirement pension plans and KRW 2.7 trillion for individual consulting expertise to solidify our position as a leading pension management company and stay pension plans), which is the largest among retirement pension managers (based on the fully committed to providing top-tier pension services to contribute to comfortable retirement of figure excluding reserves attributable to affiliates) our clients. 2) Achieved the highest returns for pension plans (DC/IRP) among top ten retirement pension managers in 2017 Business Strategy Balance of Retirement Pension Assets for Past 3 Years (Unit: KRW billion) Establish an absolute position as Generate more synergies by Strengthen ties with customers by Classification 2015 2016 2017 a leading company in pension business innovating infrastructure and system enhancing customer value Retirement Pension 5,638.8 6,561.0 7,691.1 Provide diverse dividend products, Pursue innovation in pension customer Strengthen after-sales services for Individual Pension 1,832.6 2,039.2 2,794.3 including real estate funds and bonds management and work-handling services pension customers Total 7,471.4 8,600.2 10,485.4 Strengthen asset allocation through Improve system with a focus on Strengthen profitability management of the Global Asset Allocation Retirement retail customers and branches pension products and promote sales Pension Wrap and others 48 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 49 Performance Analysis Business Review WM IWC Pension IB Trading Wholesale Global Digital Finance Investment Our Investment Banking (IB) business offers financial solutions catered to a client’s STRUCTURED FINANCE, REAL ESTATE PF, ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT financing needs and seeks various investment opportunities as an investment Banking We undertook a number of transactions in various forms, including structure finance products such as partner to pursue mutual growth with our clients. We will establish a business RCPS for POSCO Energy and TRS for SK E&S, real estate projects such as construction of public rental model where a growth of a company is translated into benefits for investors and housing complex in Mapo, Seoul and various alternative investment projects. share the with our clients. IPO Performance in 2017 RANKING PERFORMANCE Overview Customer-centric and expertise-based operations Our IB business consists of three divisions according to their target customer base and area of No. 1 1,741,932 KRW million expertise CASES MARKET SHARE IB Division1 It provides full services for corporate initial public offerings (IPO) and various corporate financing solutions, such as pre-IPO investments, paid-in capital increase and issuance of equity-linked notes and corporate bonds. It also offers such diverse financial services as structured 15 21.84 % finance and credit exposure. IB Division2 It undertakes onshore and offshore real estate projects in various forms that require Underwriting/Refinancing Performance in 2017 large-scale financing. In addition, it conducts diverse alternative investments including aviation and ship finances, and also provides financial advisory and funding services for power & energy and RANKING PERFORMANCE infrastructure projects. IB Division3 It leverages its domestic and overseas networks to participate in the acquisition No. 1 1,885,367 KRW million finance market and provides M&A advisory services. It invests in oversea real estate and SOC financings through global investments, and also provides top-tier PEF management services as a CASES MARKET SHARE general partner (GP). 18 13 % 2017 Performance In 2017, the first year of integrating IB services of the company, Mirae Asset Daewoo made impressive performance across all IB segments. In the ECM, we delivered solid performances for overall ECM operations, making it to the top IPO league with total deal volumes of KRW 1.7 trillion and a 22% market share. In the M&A market, we were ranked first by arranging a total of 18 deals valued at KRW 1.8 trillion. In other areas such as real estate and alternative investments, we successfully led a number of landmark projects, exhibiting our strength as the most well-capitalized 2018 Plan In 2018, Mirae Asset Daewoo will strive to enhance its total financial solution capabilities as a securities house of Korea. and Strategy leading global IB, while also establishing a differentiated global business model to proactively address and lead rapidly-changing market trends. Detailed Key Performance Business Strategy IPO IB Division1 IB Division2 IB Division3 In addition to the IPO of Celtrion Healthcare, a landmark listing of the year at more than KRW 1 trillion, we successfully listed JinAir, Studio Dragon and Samyang Optics to be recognized as a true IPO leader. We will expand our coverage for new-growth We will participate in diverse markets In relation to acquisition finance, we will expand companies and improve less-developed including investment development projects collaboration with Korean commercial banks M&A coverages to achieve market competitiveness and policy/public/municipal projects to and securities companies, while establishing We became the No. 1 in the M&A financing by arranging a total of 18 deals, including acquisition and will diversify our profit sources by continuously identify potential deals and pipelines for oversea deals based on our finance and refinancing, such as deals for Coway (valued at KRW 1.25 trillion), Netmarble Games offering financing plans utilizing companymaximize our returns centering on new global network. By enhancing our global and Halla Cement Corporation. owned assets and corporate restructuring projects at home and abroad. We will also IB capabilities through cross-border deals, schemes. We will expand our IPO efforts into strive to source diverse deals by interrelating we will work with global leading GPs in ECM/DCM outstanding overseas corporations and the our sales efforts with existing investment global project tenders. As a newly launched We consolidated our market position by serving as a lead arranger for paid-in capital increase Industry 4.0 companies and promote pre-IPO projects and through our vest network of business unit, we will also put our priority of Hanwha General Insurance as well as corporate bond offerings of high-grade issuers such as sales, as well as expanding our position customers, construction companies and on building up high-grade assets to ensure Hyundai Steel. Our market presence was further solidified by successfully executing a number of in high-grade assets to improve returns developers. stable returns. landmark transactions, such as issuance of hybrid securities of Hanwha Life insurance and bonds centering on mezzanine and alternative with warrants of Doosan Infracore. investments. 50 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 51 Performance Analysis Business Review WM IWC Pension IB Trading Wholesale Global Digital Finance Trading Our trading business is equipped with globally competitive human network and 2017 Performance In 2017, we delivered a solid performance driven by proactive trading. Equity trading, in particular, financial infrastructure. Our bonds, derivatives and multi-strategy management was focused on domestic IT stocks and overseas equity portfolios. For derivatives trading, the redemption of KRW 24.2 trillion in 2017 contributed to higher returns and strategic hedging is empowered by our team-oriented approach and strategic decision making, in preparation of increasing volatility enabled extra returns. In the meantime, bond trading was and based on which we develop financial products with an aim to improve our maintained conservatively amid an increase in domestic interest rates, with a heavy focus on profitability while also increasing customer’s assets. overseas bond trading. Detailed Key Performance Overview Organizational realignment to ensure distinctive competitiveness (Unit: KRW billion) (Unit: KRW trillion) Mirae Asset Daewoo undertook organizational realignment in 2018 to enhance responsible management of the trading business and distinguish the group’s expertise and capabilities. Trading Profits Bonds Accordingly, our trading business has been reorganized from previous one division for eight Portion of foreign currency bonds departments and one office for 26 teams to two divisions, five departments and 17 teams. Trading Balance of bonds Division is in charge of derivatives and multi-strategy trading, and Trading Division2 is in charge of bond trading. 10.5% 10.9% 86.8 94.1 10.2% 72.3 71.3 8.4% Trading Division Trading Division consists of the Global Market Strategy Department, FICC Derivatives Department and Equity Derivatives Department. On the back of the state-of-the-art 26.5 26.8 25.8 financial engineering methodologies and expertise accumulated for over a decade, Trading Division 21.8 develops in-house models, and monitors and analyzes derivatives-related positions. In addition, it provides full support for the derivative product system and internal IT system to upgrade product offerings and trading process. Trading Division2 Trading Division2 is composed of the Fixed Income Trading & Product Department, Fixed Income Distribution Department and Global Fixed Income Team. Based on distinguished management process, Trading Division2 carries out product-linked trading for bonds 1Q 2017 2Q 2017 3Q 2017 4Q 2017 1Q 2017 2Q 2017 3Q 2017 4Q 2017 dominated in KRW and foreign currencies along with proprietary trading. It also supplies bonds dominated in Korean won and foreign currencies to retail customers. TRADING DIVISION We developed bonus-paying ELS products, and obtained exclusive licenses from the Korea Financial Product-linked trading Investment Association. We also expanded supply of loss-limiting products with enhanced stability and We offer diverse investment opportunities with our in-house developed equity-linked securities expanded line-ups of stable knock-in type and lizard products. For those products offered by our WM (ELS), derivative-linked securities (DLS) and exchange-traded notes (ETN) with such various business, we increased proportions of stability-oriented and principal-protected (partial) products in an effort to ensure comfortable life after retirement of our customers. underlying assets as stocks, indices, foreign currencies, credit and commodities, to meet client needs for medium-risk medium-return investments in the current low interest rate environment. These financial products are linked to our hedging investments as well. Furthermore, we operate TRADING DIVISION2 repurchase agreement (RP) in a stable manner which has enabled us to provide our clients with Despite interest rates rise in the global market observed in 2017, we generated profits based on preemptive risk management and aggressive investment in emerging markets. We provided retail short-term fixed interest directly or through cash management accounts (CMA). customers with foreign currency-denominated bonds from various country origins and promoted international bonds in the public market by analyzing and exploring new products. Principal investments We are making investments in global companies with high competitiveness at home and abroad, from mid-to long-term perspectives, based on our global network, largest among Korean brokerage firms. A thorough risk management system has been in place to pursue stable profitability and generate return on capital. A number of advanced trading methodologies are applied to the 2018 Plan Trading Division will focus on creating stable profits from derivatives and multi-strategy trading, and management of bond, foreign exchange and derivatives products, pursuing proprietary trading and Strategy it also plans to provide innovative products to the sales channel. Considering that trading business which generates stable and consistent return on capital. may significantly affect profitability of the company, we will optimally and prudently manage our profit/loss volatility. Additionally, to diversify profit sources, we will continue our efforts to expand our portfolios to cover derivatives linked to overseas ETFs, ETNs and hybrid products combining commodity, FX, or two and/or more FICCs as underlying assets. Lastly, to enhance product-supply capability, we will develop and introduce overseas equity-paying global ELS products and create inhouse indices. Amid global interest hikes expected in 2018, Trading Division2 will focus on stable trading on KRWand foreign currency-denominated bonds, and will expand its global investments and customer assets. In particular, by upgrading and systemizing trading processes, we will ensure our trading to be carried out in organized manners and will explore new investment targets by analyzing sales environments and new markets. 52 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 53 Performance Analysis Business Review WM IWC Pension IB Trading Wholesale Global Digital Finance Wholesale We provide institutional investors and corporations with a series of products and solutions, including equity, bonds as well as futures and options, suited to their MULTI SOLUTION DEPARTMENT 1) Solidified the company’s position as a market leader by offering competitive products to institution-level financial management. institutional clients through foreign asset managers and deal sourcing 2) Continued to sell derivatives to build a foundation for future profit sources 3) Continued to build a leading reputation in the industry by expanding the sales of Overview Securities and brokerage services alternative investment products For Korean institutional investors covering both Korean and foreign corporations, rich research – InterContinental Hanoi Landmark72, overseas office buildings (Vodafone, T8 in Frankfurt, etc.), contents and services are provided to optimize their decision-making and investment execution Bundang Square processes. Furthermore, we offer foreign fund brokerage services to overseas central banks and institutional investors and provide clear guides on local and overseas interest rates to help both of Arrangement of financial bonds by Balance of financial products our Korean and foreign investor clients diversify their bond investment portfolios and achieve higher the Fixed-income Sales Department returns. Classification Performance AMOUNT OF ISSUANCE Derivatives-linked products 10,267.3 KRW billion Multi Solution Department KRW 48 trillion We offer top-tier service in brokering domestic and foreign equities and derivatives, creating and redeeming exchange-traded funds (ETF), and serving as a liquidity provider for ETFs and derivativeslinked products. Financial products sales 2018 Plan In 2018, we will focus on entering into the ETF market of Hong Kong, which will pave a way For Korean institutional investors and legal entities, we offer customized investment solutions and Strategy to launch arbitration transactions based on overseas ETFs and expand our global business. including trusts, wrap accounts, collective investment securities, derivatives-linked securities, such as Furthermore, we will promote oversea alternative investment business by levering our global ELS and DLS, and real estate and aircraft funds. networks of foreign asset managers and foreign real estate projects, thereby responding to everincreasing needs for foreign alternative investment products. 2017 Performance In 2017, we have newly established a dedicated team for overseas brokerage to reinforce our expertise in overseas stock trade, developed additional overseas platform for futures and option, Business Strategy and implemented an integrated over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives system. In the meanwhile, we were marked with highest grade in terms of stock brokerage from major pension funds and asset Equity Sales Passive Solution Fixed Income Sales Multi Solution managers in Korea and became the No.1 arranger for financial bonds, further solidifying our stature Department Department Department Department as Korea’s leading securities company. In the alternative investment market, we have expanded our sales activities for alternative products to reaffirm our market-leading position. Detailed Key Performance ∙ Expand cooperation ∙ Initiate arbitration ∙ Promote trading of ∙ Continue to expand with IB, WM IWC and transactions based international bonds new transaction EQUITY SALES DEPARTMENT multi solution businesses on foreign (onshore, issued by key pension counterparties; and 1) Received top grades from public pension funds, such as Korea’s National Pension Service to develop new deals offshore) ETFs funds and institutions, develop and sell and Korea Post, in their biannual or quarterly brokerage house ratings such as the Bank of differentiated new ∙ Explore new business ∙ Expand the Delta One – Remarkable growth in block deals for corporations and trading of non-listed stocks Korea products opportunities with business by leveraging – A promotion to the Outbound Equity Sales Team paved a way for developing into global equity newly established our global network ∙ Strengthen sales for the ∙ Continue to expand brokerage house private equity firms and offering of international business with placement ∙ Develop a swap 2) Parallel sales efforts for overseas ETFs, such as Horizons and BetaShares, to create companyinvestment advisory bonds issued by public agents of foreign asset platform for flow wide synergy companies and financial institutions managers trading – Focused sales efforts to earn trust from institutional clients ∙ Substantially increase ∙ Enhance profitability ∙ Strengthen efforts to – Pursuing new business opportunities by developing new overseas futures, option platforms, etc. foreign equity sales by providing FX hedge attract assets for the trading counterparties total services for trading global wrap services of KRW-denominated PASSIVE SOLUTION DEPARTMENT bonds by non-Korean 1) Laid a foundation to advance into the ETF market of Hong Kong institutions 2) Successfully launched the Delta One business FIXED INCOME SALES DEPARTMENT 1) Ranked first in the arrangement of financial bonds 2)  Successful sales of KDB Global Bonds which enhanced Mirae Asset Daewoo’s position in the global bond market 54 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 55 Performance Analysis Business Review WM IWC Pension IB Trading Wholesale Global Digital Finance Global Based on our competitive global network, we are determined to proactively find Global presence prime assets distributed across the globe while pursuing localization, and thus Mirae Asset Daewoo operates its business, such as IB, trading, PI, PBS and WM, in 10 countries grow into an IB which has an exclusive global network. around the world, including the U.S., Hong Kong, UK and Brazil. Customization strategy for local markets U.S. (New York) Overseas Overview Run a PBS business Subsidiaries We strive to earn a stature as a full-service securities firm by achieving a high level of localization. China 12 Mirae Asset UK Mongolia Perform cross-border In advanced nations, we are rolling out our own internal investment products and differentiated Securities Holdings deals between (USA) Inc. Run IB Organize IPOs of global products by discovering and structuring globally healthy assets in order to focus on core Korean and China U.S. (LA) Established and trading business local companie business areas and thus secure a firm profit model. In emerging markets, on the other hand, we are Expand WM and in March 2018 Representative Korea expanding our presence into the IB and trading based on brokerage for local retail and institutional IB businesses Offices investors, while establishing a well-balanced income structure based on thorough localization. Mirae Asset Daewoo globally operates 12 subsidiaries and three representative offices in ten 3 countries across Asia, Europe and the U.S. with 700 employees engaged in IB, global brokerage, trading, WB, and prime brokerage businesses. We have set up specialization strategies customized to the unique regional characteristics to sharpen our competitive edge in the global market. Hong Kong Rolled out derivatives product brokerage 2017 Performance As a specialist in the emerging market, we continue to make investments in overseas business from a long-term perspective. As of May 31, 2018, there were 12 overseas subsidiaries (in ten countries, Vietnam including the U.S., Hong Kong, Brazil, Vietnam, Indonesia and India) and three representative Expand the local IB business offices (Beijing, Shanghai and Ho Chi Minh City). Thanks to our competitive product portfolio for India Singapore the local customer base and stable growth of the emerging market, the pre-tax income for overseas Brazil Began operation Obtained fund sales license Indonesia subsidiaries in 2017 grew approximately 300% year-over-year, with the income from the IB sector in March 2018 in November 2017 Maintain strong growth pace Maintain strong growth grew by over 30%, accounting for 20% of the total income generated by overseas subsidiaries. in global bond trading pace in retail brokerage (As of March 2018) Detailed Key Performance 1) Improve profitability of overseas subsidiaries and expand IB assets 2018 Plan Our strategic business directions for 2018 are as follows: – In FY 2017, the pre-tax income for overseas subsidiaries grew more than 300% over and Strategy the previous year, in particular IB business income grew over 30%, accounting for 20% of Increase profitability by growing into a global IB the total income generated by overseas subsidiaries Backed by our accumulated deal execution experiences in advanced countries, we will expand – Achieved more than 70% growth in the local brokerage thanks to localization strategy our investment into and product offering in prime assets. In particular, we will strengthen our IB – Diversified revenues by fully launching the PBS business and expanding local IB deals, such business in the U.S. to create synergy between IB and WM by offering competitive investment as IPO in emerging markets products targeting local customers. In addition, we will expand our local IB business in emerging markets in Asia, such as India, Indonesia and Vietnam. 2) Ensure capital strength and advance into new markets to enhance business drivers – Established a subsidiary in India in October 2017 Grow into a local top-tier securities company through localization – Completed capital increase of subsidiaries in LA, Vietnam and Indonesia, in order to expand IB and trading businesses In Asia and Latin America, we will focus on respective local retail market to pursue stable growth consistently while growing into a top-tier securities firm in the market by ramping up talented IB 3) Create global synergy among headquarters, overseas subsidiaries and the Group and WM resources to secure high level of localization and stable income structure. – Expand collaboration on IB deals and global stock business, such as alternative investment, acquisition and investment finance Strengthen digitalization and identify businesses to secure new profit sources 4) Diversify profit sources by expanding new businesses By adopting advanced IT infrastructure for emerging markets, we will intensify digitalization efforts – Rolled out derivatives product brokerage in Hong Kong, obtained license for fund trust in while aggressively expanding derivative brokerage business and pursuing local IB business in the Brazil, and obtained fund sales license in Indonesia and Singapore emerging markets in full swing. Business Strategy Expand synergy among Group affiliates Pursue internal innovation and identify new businesses • Generate more synergy in such diverse business areas as • Break away from a linear matrix and instead promote brokerage, trading ad IB, through cooperating between cooperation like a spider web in IB, investment, bond different divisions and among Group affiliates and brokerage • Advance into a local PBS business in the U.S.; and complete • Continue to provide structured products suited to customers’ the establishment of overseas securities trading platform for needs through innovation investors in Korea and began to offer products 56 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 57 Digital Finance Equipped with competitive investment solution platforms such as the home trading system (HTS) and mobile trading system (MTS), we provide differentiated MANAGEMENT customer services by analyzing big data. Overview Competitive investment solutions DISCUSSION & Mirae Asset Daewoo was the first in the industry to launch an online asset management system of global portfolio solution (GPS) as well as other investment solutions, such as HTS and MTS, in order to offer a variety of functionalities to boost convenience and provide investment contents so that ANALYSIS customers can have an easy access to the financial services anywhere anytime. Our MTS received the iF Design Award for outstanding design for user convenience. Social/Environmental MD&A Differentiated customer services Scientific customer analysis based on big data enables in-depth understanding of customer asset and characteristics to provide customers with high quality investment information in various investment areas such as global investment, financial products, and pension products. In particular, investment information tailored to customers are provided to expand financial services optimized for individual investor’s lifecycle. 60 Leading the innovation of digital finance Human Resources Amid fast-changing financial environment, we are offering customers a new level of financial Management experience backed by innovative digital financial solutions. In particular, partnership with fintech companies and ICT companies allow us to pioneer into discovering innovative digital finance technologies and develop differentiated financial services, such as digital advisory service. 66 Customer Satisfaction 2017 Performance By introducing a mobile OTP system and improving the authentication method, we have established Management an environment for non-face-to-face account opening and real-time transaction services available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The number of new non-face-to-face direct accounts reached 277,000 in 2017 alone, and the m.Club, our online financial service platform based on big data 70 analysis has attracted over 60,000 subscribers within first six months after its launch. We have Social Contributions strengthened our digital asset management service line-ups, such as global asset allocation service, GPS, and realized a voice-activated investment based on AI-based financial services. 74 2018 Plan Our efforts to spearhead the fast-changing digital financial environment will continue throughout Environmental and Strategy 2018. We will establish Mirae Asset Daewoo’s digital innovation platform on which a fin-tech hub Management will be created with fin-tech players both at home and abroad, in order to develop and introduce new fin-tech ideas and technologies. We will also launch m.Robo, an integrated platform for global stock recommendation and investment advisory, to expand our digital asset management services. We will also execute digitalization of customer advisory services by introducing digital kiosks, expanding chat-based counseling throughout the entire customer-facing channels, and introducing a visual ARS system. Business Strategy Vision No. 1 in Digital Finance Market Mission Enable quick and easy online transaction anytime, anywhere 3 Strategies Digitalize the way of work Provide customized Innovate a new digital Attract new customers through non financial services technology face-to-face or face-to-face digital Enhance customers’ convenience Overhaul global investment process channels; and pursues customer in asset allocation by strengthening and strengthen contents in order to management innovation global asset allocation solutions expand the base 58 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS GOVERNANCE 59 Human Resources Management Customer Satisfaction Management Social Contributions Environmental Management Human Resources Management Global Equity Expert Fostering Course We provided a and financial products, and enhanced their competencies course to foster global brokerage experts on two occasions through role-playing that was based on actual cases. The WM It is most important for Mirae Asset Daewoo to secure KEY ACHIEVEMENT to build a pool of global brokerage experts from a long-term Master course was provided on seven occasions in 2017 and outstanding talent to develop into a global IB. To this end, Fostering internal experts perspective and to enhance competitive WM competencies. 18 staff members completed the training. This was followed we are providing systematic training programs to pursue and develop them into the best in class (IB, global asset Research and case learnings were carried out on various equities by a Global Innovation & Culture course (understanding global employee diversity and strengthen their financial expertise management, global securities, of the U.S., China, advanced countries, and emerging markets. auction and real estate) for staff who completed the training. and global competitiveness. We are also working on building financial data analysis) Professional competency training was provided on eight WM Academy WM Academy is an intensive training a flexible, creative organizational culture, in addition to occasions for a total of 120 hours in 2017. This resulted in the fostering of 63 global brokerage experts. program specialized for improving customer counseling providing a safe work environment to employees and helping Continued increase competencies and was conducted on specific topics, such as them enjoy a healthy life. in number of employees Fostering experts in global asset management ‘corporate analysis based on financial statement’, ‘analysis of with professional certificates in asset management, such global companies’, and ‘asset management consulting’. These Wealth Manager Master We provide the WM Master as CFP and FP courses are open for application on a voluntary basis. The WM course to foster global top class WM who will lead the area of Academy course was provided three times in 2017, with 11 comprehensive asset management services and thus strengthen themes covered each time the course was offered, including the customer partnerships. Employees with excellent skills apply global market and retirement consulting, with the participation for the WM Master course, after which a selection process of around 2,000 staff members. We will continually help staff is implemented to choose staff who will receive the training. Recruiting Outstanding Talents based on Fairness Strengthening the Financial Expertise of Staff strengthen their asset allocation and management competency. Trainees studied various cases related to tax affairs, real estate, Principles of fair employment Strengthening professional expertise We hold blind interviews during public recruitment as part of Mirae Asset Daewoo is dedicated to offering high-quality and BUSINESS CASE open recruitment that does not place a restriction on academic well-structured training programs suited for employee’s job to background, gender, age, etc. We created an interview process enable them to boost their own job expertise on a regular basis. that evaluates only the job skills and competencies of applicants Our training courses and support programs – aimed at ensuring Fostering Talent which form the basis of executing work. We are implementing the best talent and continuously nurturing their skills from three to Strengthen We operate various training programs to strengthen a strategy that involves measuring factors that are adequate for perspectives of global, innovation, and investment – have settled the characteristics of each duty and recruiting talent with job as the source of our competitive edge. Competitiveness competency in professional goal IB. competency. in Global IB Strengthening capabilities in global securities To enhance global professional IB competency, we provided competency-strengthening training Pursuing employee diversify through overseas recruiting by making a categorization into different sessions – startup, financial modeling, and real estate Global Equity Start-up Program We provided the Global We strive to recruit talent with global capabilities to develop PF expert course. The curriculum was designed to provide training that is based on actual Brokerage Start-up Program to 329 applicants among WM staff, various investment opportunities overseas. We place priority on cases so that staff can immediately apply what they learned in their actual work. We promoted aiming to publicize and raise awareness across the company on recruiting outstanding local personnel with global investment effective training through case studies, such as directly designing a valuation model for an the need and usefulness of foreign equity investment as a tool experience in Vietnam, India, Singapore, Hong Kong and other actual investment case. Around 270 IB staff completed 15 hours of training per session. Also, a of global asset allocation. Through this training, staff were able countries. Our plan is to operate extensive expert recruitment language competency-improvement course was provided, covering the theme of financial and to gain insight on new growth industries in Korea and promising channels by preparing a global talent screening process and global issues, to enhance global communication skills. Through this course, staff were able to global companies. Also, the training enhanced the global overseas job fairs. strengthen global business skills that are essential for work, including email writing, business brokerage competencies of WM staff who manage customer assets. speaking, and presentation. It was participated in by 12 staff members on two occasions for a total of 34 hours. Expert Status STARTUP COURSE FINANCIAL MODELING (Unit: Person) Enhance basic key knowledge and COURSE Classification 2015 2016 2017 practical work competencies that Professional modeling training 1) AFPK 1,789 1,802 1,805 global IB experts need to have based on actual M&A cases CFP 2) 327 328 329 Strengthening competitiveness 3) FP 1,480 1,495 1,499 in Global IB REAL ESTATE PF EXPERT LANGUAGE SKILL * 2015 and 2016 figures are based on the figures of Mirae Asset Daewoo after the merger COURSE IMPROVEMENT COURSE 1) AFPK: Associate Financial Planner Korea 2) Learn about examining the Strengthen business English skills CFP: Chartered Financial Planner 3) feasibility of a development project that are essential for work, including FP: Financial Planner and about PF loan analysis presentation and business English 60 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 61 Human Resources Management Customer Satisfaction Management Social Contributions Environmental Management Fully Establishing Work-life Balance an Innovative Corporate Culture Promoting labor-management communication Maternity protection system Sharing a culture of innovation Staff Idea Contest Labor-Management Council Representing all staff, the To encourage childbirth and protect mothers’ rights against the Mirae Asset Daewoo has in place a number of programs aimed Labor-Management Council is in charge of engaging in disbackdrop of a low birthrate in Korea, we guarantee maternity We gathered the ideas of staff for our digital finance business. at establishing a corporate culture of innovation and investment cussions with top management on major issues related to and childcare leaves that are stipulated in laws. In 2017, the A contest was held for corporate-wide staff for two weeks from and share the culture at the corporate-level. staff. In 2017, several labor-management discussions were number of employees who took a childcare leave reached 242, June 30 through July 14. Around 280 ideas were submitted, held, including the Labor-Management Council, and included and the retention rate after childcare leave was 89.7%. Also, from which ideas with high business potential were chosen and discussions on adopting a new HR system (position system, we have been operating child care centers since 2011 to help Mind-Changing Thursday will be implemented. promotion, evaluation, etc.). We respect staff members’ employees feel less burdened from childbirth and childcare and Special lectures are provided to enhance corporate-wide digital decision to become a labor union member and their union help them achieve balance between work and personal life. competency with the emergence of the need for innovative ideas Customized Competency Building Training activities. As of the end of 2017, there are 2,096 members of on digitalization. In 2017, 480 staff members attended a total of the labor union on the basis of check off. Establishment of healthy work conditions In order to enhance core work competencies for each business six special lectures. Through dialogue with digital experts, staff By adopting the concentrated work system, minimizing overtime area, we are crafting customized training courses in coordination Improving communication culture To foster a vibrant and members learned about cases of business innovation in the era work, and promoting the use of vacations, we are enhancing with the corresponding business unit. These programs have engaging meeting culture which can contribute to enhanced of Fourth Industrial Revolution. work efficiency and helping staff achieve balance between designated detailed curriculum and lecturers based on the actual team performance, we have conducted specialized facilitation work and personal life. In particular, we designated the second needs of the training recipients and the HRD PMO is in charge courses targeting team managers at headquarter office. 2017 Trend Academy Friday and last Wednesday of each month as ‘Family Day’ and of day-to-day exchange of opinions and discussion for course was a pilot stage when eight team managers were designatencourage staff to leave work on time to increase concentration A special lecture under the topic of ‘Art and Innovation’ was openings. ed and assigned the role of evangelist to promote productive on work during work hours and to reduce unnecessary held to diversify the viewpoint and broaden the perception of meeting style and we also received feedback from the employees overtime. our employees. A workshop named ‘Design Thinking Process’ Book Meeting & Book Square to bring a tangible change to the way meetings are held. was held to boost the ability to form consensus with customers Regular book meetings are held to share new insights and ideas Programs to promote team activities ‘Separately and based on integrated thinking. We chose 40 employees out of and encourage employees to read and discuss. Book Square is a Together’ is a program that promotes the team-level organiRetention rate after childcare leave 264 who attended the special sessions to run a workshop where venue to enhance self-motivated reading. In 2017, a collection zation, which is the source of an organization. Through this prototype was created based on actual customer advisory and then validated by the customer, in an attempt to differentiate our internal training to bring a real customer satisfaction. of employees’ book reviews, titled ‘Knowledge Library’, was published. program, we have created an arena for communication and harmony, and are looking for ways to generate synergy of the entire organization. In 2017, a total 12 teams and branches 89.7 % took part in the program on eight occasions. By taking part in team assessment and team-building activities, organizational Healthy work conditions members were able to increase mutual understanding and strengthen relations. Family Day Second Friday and last Wednesday of every month BUSINESS CASE Adopting a ‘Smart Working Zone’ for By operating a smart working zone, we are Enhanced Work making the work environment flexible and enhancing Efficiency sales autonomy and efficiency. In response to the spread of non-face-to-face channels, we adopted the smart working zone in the Investment Wealth Management Center (IWC). A smart working zone means to build an IT system that allows staff to handle work using smartphones or tablet PCs outside the office, rather than assigning seats to staff. This had made the work environment flexible, resulting in increased sales autonomy for sales employees, who frequently work outside the office, and reduced fixed costs for branches. We plan to expand the smart working zone with focus on the IWC to increase work efficiency. 62 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 63 Human Resources Management Customer Satisfaction Management Social Contributions Environmental Management Fair Performance Evaluation and Compensation Employee Safety and Health Human Rights Management Performance Evaluation Principle Health management programs for employees Human rights management principle Process to identify human rights risks and Mirae Asset Daewoo pursues to become a “company that We make continued efforts to protect staff from grievance and Mirae Asset Daewoo supports the human rights principles improvement measures evaluates according to performance and provides compensation psychological stress that may occur in the process of handling presented by the ‘UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights’ We identify potential human rights issues throughout our according to performance”. By adopting a new HR system in work. We launched the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and the ‘UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights’ business activities and take corrective measures for identified 2017, we innovated the past ‘evaluation practice of providing in 2010 to provide professional psychological counseling and of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. After issues. We identify the issues by comprehensively considering high evaluation scores based on long service’ and are impartially coaching services for resolution of various issues that staff come joining the UNGC: UN Global Compact in June 2006, we have whether human rights issues occurred in the past, their evaluating staff achievement and competency based on a across inside and outside of work. We also offered ‘TodakTodak’, been observing the ten major principles on human rights, labor, frequency, as well as financial and non-financial seriousness. We transparent process and reasonable grounds. Performance a psychological counseling program, and ‘Inside Out’, a self-rethe environment, and anti-corruption, thereby fulfilling social continually manage vulnerabilities for each identified issue, and evaluations are conducted on all staff, excluding staff on leave, flection program, for staff who provide customer services. By responsibilities that are in line with global standards. By estabdesignate a division to continually manage relevant matters. staff planned to leave the company, and staff who have been providing the ‘Begin Again’ program, which is an arena for lishing and distributing human rights protection principles, we with the company for less than six months. We directly/indirectly understanding and communication, we encouraged staff to seek to protect the human rights of all stakeholders, including all Outcome of a human rights audit differentiate staff’s salaries and bonuses based on the evaluation enjoy a positive, enterprising life. staff. We conduct voluntary audits on staff and stakeholders, and outcome. We strictly abide by domestic legal standards on In 2017, we held HR interviews and interviews of staff on I. Mirae Asset Daewoo believes that protecting human rights is its regular audits through an outside, third-party organization. salary and do not discriminate based on gender, etc. In this way, the promotion list per organization to encourage staff. We most basic responsibility in running its business, and has adopted, In case of voluntary audits, we comprehensively evaluate we are motiving staff and increasing work efficiency. also listened to staff on their grievances and improvement as its basic principles for running its business, respect for comprecompliance with the Labor Standards Act, salary, and non-disFostering-type performance evaluation process We conduct suggestions, and reflected them in our systems and culture. Our hensive human rights principles, including prohibition of child crimination principle. In case of regular audits by a third-party plan for 2018 is to implement such programs as ‘Separately and labor and forced labor, and prohibition of discrimination. organization, actual implementation of labor/human rights ‘fostering-type evaluations’ by facilitating communication between team heads and staff. In 2017, we held an official Together’, an organization facilitation program, and provide II. Mirae Asset Daewoo’s principle on protecting human rights rules is examined. Results of the voluntary audit and regular mid-term feedback session and a year-end final evaluation regular counseling on staff grievance to actively manage applies equally to staff at our business sites, shareholders, third-party organization audit conducted in 2017 indicated session on two occasions (April, September) to provide compregrievance and stress of staff. investors, customers, trading organizations, collaborative organishortcomings in relation to compliance with operation of the hensive feedback. In addition to the official mid-term feedback zations, and local communities. grievance handling process. We completed 100% corrective session, we are recommending our team heads to provide staff measures for these shortcomings. We are particularly making III. Mirae Asset Daewoo does not discriminate customers based on Performance evaluation efforts to improve work conditions for service counseling with coaching and feedback on a regular basis. A computer gender, religion, race, political leaning, etc., and strives to protect screen is provided to enter online memos on regular feedback. customers’ information and to achieve stable revenue generation. employees, which has recently become a social issue. We will Promotion system based on job competency Mirae Asset Daewoo previously had ‘graduation-type promotion’, in which 91.6 % IV. M irae Asset Daewoo respects the basic rights of individual employees, and strives to provide a work environment that strikes strengthen the human rights protection system for service counseling employees by continually strengthening such programs as mental health diagnosis and stress management for balance between work and personal life. employees were qualified to move up to the respective higher service counseling employees. position after a certain number of years of continuous service. V. Mirae Asset Daewoo examines compliance with the human rights Our current promotion system is a ‘selection-type promotion’ protection principle, and in the event of a human rights violation approach where employees who can perform higher roles are and discrimination, the company implements a process that resolves the issue in accordance with a set procedure. chosen from among employees with outstanding achievements and competencies. We have thus institutionalized a structure that evaluate employees’ performance only by their achievements regardless of backgrounds, gender and age, so that capabilities of those who continuously generate performance are recognized. In addition, our efforts to foster female employees have been increasing, and the percentage of female managers as of 2017 stood at 33.3%. Emotion Management Programs Risk Analysis Process Staff Interviews TodakTodak • Held interviews with promoted employees at each sub-organization, • This psychological counseling program helps staff understand and meetings on the HR system, etc. control their emotions and develop a sense of pride in their work Conduct Corrective • More than 30 times in 2017, with participation of more than • Once in 2017, with participation of 46 people Identify Perform an assessment measure 500 people improvement points a risk evaluation Have a third party Identify and implement Implement corrective Conduct a voluntary perform an evaluation measures based on improvement measures audit on staff and in relation to voluntary the outcome of the Inside Out Begin Again based on the results of stakeholders audit shortcomings third-party evaluation the voluntary audit • Healing therapy and meditation yoga help staff control their emotions • Designed to enable staff restore their passion and original resolution and promote introspection towards their work by identifying and communicating with colleagues • Total of 14 times in 2017, with participation of more than 259 people • Total of 19 times in 2017, with participation of 829 people 64 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 65 Human Resources Management Customer Satisfaction Management Social Contributions Environmental Management Customer Satisfaction Management Customer Satisfaction Management It has been becoming increasingly important to develop KEY ACHIEVEMENT Advancing the CS system products that are adequate for customer and market trends For customer-centered management, we established service Establishing a CS evaluation and to provide higher profitability as a result of fiercer system based on customer standardization criteria and built a CS infrastructure by circumstances in the domestic financial market and increased satisfaction survey integrating our CS systems. We are improving our customer customer interest in asset management and preparation service levels by diversifying CS assessment methods and for old age due to the rapidly aging population. Setting expanding CS programs to improve branches’ CS capabilities. enhancement of customer profitability as our top-priority goal, The result of survey conducted to customers who visited our we continue to implement customer-centered management Improving a customer service branches in 2017 stood at 94.2%, indicating high level of mindset of employees customer satisfaction. Our plan for 2018 is to expand the CS activities, such as continually communicating with customers, through CS leaders motivation program and implement other various approaches developing diverse products that satisfy customer needs, and that can enhance the service mindset of staff. providing distinctive financial services. Operation of a customer panel Customer panel – Membership Idea Supporters We operate the Membership Idea Supporters, an offline customer panel, to actively incorporate financial consumer Developing Customer-centric Products needs in the planning and development phase of products and Product development process services. An offline customer panel consisting of 41 members Customer profitability improvement committee from across the nation was formed in 2017. The panel Mirae Asset Daewoo has a product selection process in place The Customer Profitability Improvement Committee is a council evaluated and monitored our financial products and shared to build an excellent product line-up that is suited for the that was voluntarily formed so that team heads of 16 relevant opinions on improvements and suggestions. Of the 48 opinions long-term future, customer needs, and the global investment departments, including product solution, sales and marketing, submitted by the panel, 26 were adopted for the actual product environment. First of all, we perform a quantitative evaluation come together to analyze the status of customer products and development process and were thus used as a resource for a on funds in the entire market, and implement the first scoring to manage customers’ asset portfolio in a more stable manner. virtuous cycle of business. by applying our internal selection criteria on upper-tier funds A Customer Profitability Improvement Committee meeting has in the quantitative evaluation. We then conduct the second been held every month since 2017 through which we have In addition, an online panel survey was conducted to collect the scoring based on the internal qualitative evaluation criteria, been analyzing low-profitability products and strengthening the opinions of a wider variety of customers. We received a total and choose the final new product and recommended product intensity of rebalancing. The Committee also examines customer 257 customer suggestions, after which customer opinions were line-up. In 2017, we engaged in regular communication with profitability-related issues and presents an asset management delivered to relevant divisions and feedback was provided on a product advisory group that consisted of customers to reflect direction for WM to improve customer profitability, and shares whether the opinions were reflected. In this way, we actively customer opinions in the product selection process. meeting content with branches to increase product policy communicated with our customers. We will continually operate transparency and to use as a means for communication. the customer panel system in 2018 as part of our efforts to reflect various customer opinions in our product and service Process Public equity fund of private equity fund adoption process. Final We released the ‘Mirae Asset Smart Hedge Fund Selection selection Fund’, which is the first public equity fund of private equity fund CS System Operation in Korea that allows diversified investments in specialty private equity funds. This public equity-type fund allows anybody Establishment of Full establishment Diversification of Objective to invest in private equity hedge funds, which presented a CS Infrastructure of CS standards CS Assessment Methods identification of CS subscription hurdle due to a minimum subscription amount of KRW 100 million or KRW 300 million. It enables diversified · Develop service execution standards and create a manual · Conduct customer satisfaction surveys Second scoring (external professional organization) investments in Korea-type hedge funds with diverse strategies · Operate the CS leader system (qualitative evaluation) · Perform service monitoring (visits) · Operate the CS DAY (twice a month) with a small amount (minimum subscription amount of KRW 5 million), without any restriction on the number of subscribers. First scoring Based on synergy with affiliate asset management companies, (criteria for selecting mutual fund) we have developed the portfolio to consist of carefully-selected Expansion of Enhancement CS Motivation Strengthening CS Programs of CS capabilities Program of CS execution hedge funds and diversified investment targets to ensure stable performance even amid diverse market circumstances. · Customized CS training for WM (branch) · Reward outstanding WM and excellent CS leaders (quarterly) · Training for CS leaders · Reward HCMP for outstanding CS leader (yearly) Quantitative · CS standard training for new employees evaluation (entire market) 66 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 67 Human Resources Management Customer Satisfaction Management Social Contributions Environmental Management Providing customer satisfaction services Protecting Customer Information Mobile asset management services We launched the Robo-Port Service Strengthening information protection Spreading a culture of information protection ‘Robo-Port’ and ‘Robo-Pick’ services, which are mobile infrastructure Mirae Asset Daewoo implements diverse activities to spread a communication-only asset management services, for small Investment advisory service investors. The ‘Robo-Port’ service provides qualitative and Customers’ personal information is more than a means to culture of information protection at the corporate-wide level, quantitative online advisory services as well as a convenient identify a customer in that it is a part of customer assets that including protecting information and preventing risks of leakage • Provide real-time portfolio advisory services order function to small investors. The ‘Robo-Pick’ service companies should protect with a sense of responsibility. To incidents. (Mobile push notifications) discovers promising stocks for investment through an algorithm strengthen the safety of customer information protection, • Instant order is available via mobile devices that is based on a robot engine. Through these services, we we received ISO 27001 certification, which is an international expect to provide services that satisfy diverse investment styles information protection management system standard, and Information Security Management System (ISMS) certification, Customized information protection training and needs. Robo-Pick Service Information is provided for each type of trainee, including which is a domestic certification system. We also encrypt protection general staff, IT staff, information protection Future planning education support service The future Recommendations for stock and fund, resident registration numbers in accordance with the Personal training managers, executives, and partner companies planning education support service is a customized financial and investment information Information Protection Act, and make other efforts to protect education service that is provided to employees of corporations information and prevent leakage of personal information. • Provide six stock-related services Built a system for quick review and that have subscribed to retirement pensions. It consists of • Bolio – a fund-related service Share sharing of the latest security issues through tax-saving guidelines for workers, essential financial knowledge (Change client fund asset every month in a proactive manner) security 24/365 internal control by an information for those who have recently joined the working population, and issues protection-specializing company and external ways to use individual retirement pension (IRP) for prospective control through the Financial Security Institute retirees. Our consulting personnel, including tax accountants, accountants, and Chartered Financial Analysts (CFAs) who We designated a ‘Day of Information have experience with providing pension consulting to various Enhanced Security Inspection’ to have all staff members customers, suggest ways to expand retirement assets and security conduct a security inspection and independently ways to reduce tax payments for year-end tax adjustments and awareness enhance their awareness of the importance of security early retirement packages. We plan to continually offer diverse retirement education services so that our customers can prepare for a happy and peaceful post-retirement life. BUSINESS CASE Measure to Manage Stakeholder Information Customers Mirae Asset Daewoo MTS Integration Mirae Asset Daewoo launched the ‘m.Stock’, a new integrated mobile trading system (MTS) to offer customers with convenient, stable services after the merger between Mirae Asset for Enhanced Securities and Daewoo Securities. The upgraded m.Stock is a domestic market-only trading • Encouraging change into OPT tokens to prevent the exposure and • Operating prevention measures against DDOS attacks and intrusion leakage of security cards detection systems to safeguard our internal IT system against intrusion Customer system that has applied the high level of convenience and convenient content of the previous and hacking attacks, and adopting high level of data encryption to • Detecting and analyzing customers’ login information in real time by Convenience MTSs, which are m.Stock (Mirae Asset Securities) and Smart Neo (Daewoo Securities). As a establishing the FDS for e-financial transactions. Identifying the truth prevent data leakage result, Mirae Asset Daewoo won the Excellence Award in the customer service category at the by immediately contacting customers, if deemed fraudulent. Establishing • Strengthening countermeasures against external hacking and internal ‘5th Best MTS Awards’ held by Moneytoday in 2017. Through industry-academia cooperation a system for the registration of incidences linked with the internal information leakage incidents by separating the IT Center and the entire with Hongik University, we will determine a direction for improvements to the HTS and MTS information protection unit, Customer Support Center, and other work network and Internet network of headquarters and branches financial institutions • Establishing the Data Loss Prevention (DLP) system to prevent external design as part of our continued efforts to promote customer convenience. breaches of any document containing personal information and encrypting automatically (Digital Rights Management) if any document Key feature of the integrated ‘m.Stock’ system is breached to block external viewing of information • Categorizing trainees into general staff, IT staff, information protection Convenient screen search enabled by the organization of screens that are seamlessly managers, executives, and partner companies, and conducting connected according to useful financial information Partners information protection training that is adequate for each group Customer-tailored trading content • Conducting training on information protection for staff as well as • Obtaining and maintaining both international standard (ISO27001) and (Current price display setting, order screen style setting, order-only keypad setting, etc.) major partner company employees to enhance awareness of information domestic standard (ISMS) for information protection and management protection system as part of our continued endeavor for data protection Reformed the security/futures asking price order screen to enhance satisfaction of • Operating an anti-APT system to block malicious attacks, such as • Presenting a guideline for outsourced companies entrusted with customers who place importance on quick speed and accuracy ransomware, and to prevent subsequent loss of data personal information, and taking actions against companies failing to meet minimum standards for correction or their replacement Various functions, including the ‘automatic order change by time slot’ and ‘chart news’, which provides information on causes for stock price changes 68 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 69 Human Resources Management Customer Satisfaction Management Social Contributions Environmental Management Social Contributions Nurturing Talent Enabling bigger dreams on the world stage – Mirae Asset’s overseas exchange program Our talent development program began based on the belief that education opportunity should be granted to anyone regardless Mirae Asset aspires to go beyond our role to contribute to KEY ACHIEVEMENT of one’s economic circumstances. Mirae Asset Overseas raising the wealth of customers as a Korea’s representative Accumulated number of Exchange Student program, our core CSR activity, began in financial institution, and create a greater social value by Mirae Asset scholarship 2007 and has ever since supported 4,517 university students to practicing ‘warm-hearted, caring capitalism’. We therefore study abroad in 45 countries in the U.S., Europe, Middle East, carry out various social contribution activities based on Exceeded 7,800 and Asia. A total of 500 scholarship recipients are chosen twice a year with up to KRW 7 million granted per person. From the three pillars of ‘Nurturing Talent’, ‘Social Welfare’, and ‘Culture of Sharing’. autumn semester 2018, the number of students will grow to Number of participants in 600 a year so that help more Korean young adults grow into a talent development programs global talent in the future. Exceeded 220,000 Furthermore, our scholarship recipients are making their own contributions in return for what they have received. 84 students in seven classes of ‘Mirae Asset Global Correspondents’ were selected so far and have shared on a dedicated blog their unique experiences and knowhow on overseas life with Social Contribution Strategies students preparing for exchange programs. ‘Scholarship Mirae Asset’s overseas exchange program Recipient Sharing Day’ is an event where students who have CSR Directions CSR Milestones of Mirae Asset Group received the grant serve as mentors for prospective exchange With the ‘Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation’ performing We are continuously practicing sharing of values from long-term students about to start their overseas adventure and also carry central roles, Mirae Asset is rolling out CSR activities through perspective to promote hope in the young generation and the out voluntary activities on their local communities. cohesive cooperation among affiliates. Three main areas of the society as a whole. Mirae Asset will stand by the side of youths at all times, company’s CSR activities are nurturing talent, social welfare, encouraging them to develop a flexible way of thinking and and culture of sharing. We are systematically and continually Hope relay Current insight into the future by gaining diverse knowledge and executing scholarship and education support programs based cultural experiences. on the slogan, ‘Mirae Asset will serve as hope for the youth’. • Number of people who have participated in Mirae Asset We will return the profits earned through our business activities talent development programs exceeded 220,000 at the to the society, and strive to build a healthy and sound society end of 2017 VOICE OF STAKEHOLDERS where we stand by the side of the underprivileged through Valuable sharing through books 2013 volunteering. • Book project to donate books Being chosen for Mirae Asset’s global exchange Nurturing Talent scholarship program gave me the confidence that Developing global talents of the future The spreading of sharing 2008 someone was giving me a supporting hand because through scholarship programs • Launched the Mirae Asset employee volunteer group of their belief in my dream and my potential. I was Social Welfare • ‘I Love You’ donation campaign and the company’s able to grow thanks to the scholarship. matching grant Supporting social welfare with a sincere interest Providing more opportunities for Mirae Asset’s overseas exchange student program was my wings to fly into the broader world and gave me the courage and 2007 global cultural experience and overseas education confidence. The program enabled me to continue my study in Poland without giving up on my dream as well as broaden my Culture of Sharing perspective by getting to know friends from around the world and open my eyes into different cultures and languages. As • Selected overseas exchange students conducted the slogan for the Park Hyeon Joo Foundation which is ‘Mirae Asset will serve as hope for the youth’, I hope more students Making employee donations and participating in global cultural experience program the volunteer group can receive their own wings from the foundation just as I did. Seyup Kim Fostering financial talents 2006 (selected in June 2017 as the 20th Class to study in Poland) • Chose students for the Mirae Asset global investment Thanks to Mirae Asset’s overseas exchange student program, I was able to concentrate on my study and experience the expert scholarship greater world without any financial burden. The fact that there was someone who believed in my dream and potential has Began scholarship projects 2000 boosted my self-confidence. Throughout the remaining days of my exchange student period, I will live up to my plan and commitments detailed in my application form and do my best learning and trying new things with courage. I also wish there • The Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation, are more students like myself who are given an opportunity to broaden their limitless possibilities into the world. a social welfare foundation, was established Yeonjae Choi • Selected scholarship students in Korea (selected in December 2017 as the 21st Class to study in Sweden) 70 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 71 Human Resources Management Customer Satisfaction Management Social Contributions Environmental Management Social Welfare Global cultural experience In addition, we have devised and conducted many participationThe Global Cultural Exchange Program, launched in 2007, based hands-on programs such as inviting elementary and offers opportunities for the youth to broaden their view and middle school students to Mirae Asset headquarters for financial grow into global leaders through visits to Shanghai, China. In education and career counseling program jointly conducted particular, the focus of the program in 2018 will be Industry with FSS for the young people serving their military duties. All 4.0 where participants can have a hands-on experience of the these activities demonstrate our commitment to fulfilling our emerging technologies and changing world environment in their daily lives. Youth vision project The Youth Vision Project is one that helps students turn their ideas into products to enhance creative thinking and Received the FSS Governor Award professionalism. In 2017 the project conducted coding training at the One Company, One School Category and physical computing activities applying the learned coding knowledge and in 2018 finance-related coding training and 3D printing experience will be provided. social responsibility as a financial institution. Book project Under the Book Project, participants are presented with books Employee donation and volunteering activities which suit their areas of interest in order to give them a chance Our CSR activities are firmly grounded upon the mind-sharing to learn and experience the greater world and diverse values so and voluntary participation of our employees. ‘Mirae Asset 1% that they can construct a sound sense of values and improve Donation’ is a campaign where executives donate 1% of their thinking power. In addition, we also provide reading training salary and ‘I Love You’ is a campaign where employees donate workshops to professionals in social welfare facilities so that on a regular basis and the company offers one-on-one matching they can conduct a much more efficient reading programs and grant. Funds raised through these programs are used to help create a quality reading environment. the underprivileged in forms of support for the youth cultural experiences, support for the socially marginalized people during Bilingual learning materials national holidays and year-end holiday season, and sponsorship Children from multicultural families where parents are from for social welfare facilities. Furthermore, our volunteer group, different national backgrounds are given bilingual learning consisting of executives and employees, was formed to carry textbooks through which they can learn the different languages out regular volunteering activities in connection with facilities and culture of their parents and grow into talents with greater for children, the disabled, and seniors and to conduct various communication capabilities. We have recently added Indonesian themed voluntary activities such as baking, wall-painting, materials and multicultural families can enjoy the program helping hands for the famers, and giving packages. through 217 multicultural family support centers around the nation. Education environment improvement projects Mirae Asset Daewoo pursues to become a global finance group Culture of Sharing and perceives the entire world as our regional community. It is in this regard that we are pursuing many programs to improve One Company One School financial education the education environments for overseas children in need Mirae Asset Daewoo appreciates the adolescent as the financial of help. Together with the Korea International Cooperation consumers of the future and thus is carrying out various Agency (KOICA) and Plan Korea, an NGO for international financial education programs to help them choose their career aid, we have conducted ‘Safe School’ program under which path. In particular, we have expanded the ‘One Company, elementary schools were repaired and middle schools are One School’ financial education by the Financial Supervisory expanded or newly established in Indonesia and the Philippines, Service (FSS) into ‘One Company, Three Schools’ program under nations prone to natural disasters such as earthquakes and which we have signed sisterhood ties with 382 schools around typhoons. For three years from 2015 through 2017, 15 schools the nation. This sisterhood is the largest scale in the financial in Indonesia and four schools in the Philippines received our industry and contributed to invigorating the financial education support to help create a safe school environment for the young for the youth, and earned the recognition by winning the FSS generation. Additionally, we conducted information-sharing Governor Award in 2017. workshops with school students, faculty members, and local community to increase their ability to respond to and cope with natural disasters and thus minimize damages. 72 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 73 Environmental Management GROUP Continued international efforts are being made to counter KEY ACHIEVEMENT OVERVIEW environmental and climate change issues, such as an increase in GHG emissions intensity wastes and abnormal climate. Companies in the financial sector are fulfilling their social responsibilities in relation to environmental issues by implementing diverse policies, such as green financing 3.81 tonCO2eq/FTE and the carbon emission trading scheme. We seek to create new business opportunities by adopting and executing environmental policies. Based on our eco-friendly management system, we do GHG emissions our utmost to fulfill our environmental responsibilities by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption, and waste 17,715 tonCO2eq discharge. Environmental management Management of water, resources and waste We are enhancing environmental awareness among staff Mirae Asset Daewoo has a system in place for using greywater 76 through corporate-wide eco-friendly management, and and rainwater. Clean water that is used once as rainwater Mirae Asset Group engaging in activities that reduce environmental impact for are purified for reuse in bathrooms and for landscaping, and sustainable development. We systematically manage diverse thus saving water. There is a sewage treatment facility inside environmental data, such as greenhouse gas emissions, waste the Mirae Asset CENTER 1 Building that handles internal 78 discharge, and energy consumption, and report our status on purification to minimize our impact on the environment. In Mirae Asset countering climate change to the Carbon Disclosure Project addition, we are refraining from unnecessary printing and using Global Investments (CDP). By doing so, we actively take part in the global effort to an electronic reporting system to reduce paper use. Given the counter climate change. nature of the financial industry, all the waste discharged is domestic waste, which is treated by an outsourced company. 79 Management of GHG and energy Wastewater is batch treated at a sewage treatment plant of Mirae Asset To reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, Seoul Metropolitan Government, and the environmental impact Life Insurance Mirae Asset Daewoo has been reducing unnecessary energy is minimized through thorough separation of garbage disposal consumption and continually managing energy use. There is and recycling. almost zero direct GHG emission caused by energy sources directly owned or managed by Mirae Asset Daewoo, given the nature of the financial industry. We mainly manage Scope 2, which refers to indirect emissions. We also manage Scope 3 by reducing paper use and wastes and increasing business trip efficiency. We encourage employees to take part in GHG emissions reduction activities in their daily work, including when they commute, carry out work, and provide customer service. In addition to conducting corporate-wide campaigns, such as turning off lights during off hours and refraining the use of air-conditioning units and heating devices, we are replacing outdoor advertisements with LED lighting and carrying out other such measures to reduce energy consumption. We will expand the scope of eco-friendly management to cover branches in addition to headquarters, thereby preventing potential environmental risks and strengthening the fulfillment of environmental responsibilities. 74 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT GROUP OVERVIEW 75 Business Milestones Mirae Asset Group Our mission is to develop a long-term, stable source of revenue In 2017, which marked the 20th anniversary of Mirae Asset, for a happy and stable life after retirement of our clients, making Mirae Asset Daewoo was designated as a mega-sized a difference not only to Korea’s capital market but also to the investment bank by Korea’s financial authorities and signed society as a whole. It is in this regard that we are actively discovstrategic business partnership with Naver, further strengthening Group Profile Subsidiaries ering high-quality assets across the world. In 2003, we became its global competitiveness. Our global success story was honored Mirae Asset has always pursued strong entrepreneurship, Mirae Asset is an independent investment group consisting of the first Korean financial institution to establish a subsidiary to be covered by a global academic institution, ‘The Case unwavering principle, and relentless innovation to grow asset management, securities, and life insurance. in Hong Kong and have expanded ever since to operate in 15 Centre’. Moving forward, Mirae Asset will remain committed to into Asia’s representative investment group ever since its countries with KRW 433 trillion in total asset under management managing various assets, such as PEF and tangible assets as well establishment in 1997 as a venture capital. Mirae Asset was at the end of March 2018. as stock and bond in a stable manner through continued innothe first financial institution that brought such new products • Mirae Asset Global Investments Korea, Australia, Brazil, vation. to Korea as mutual fund, real estate fund, and PEF and now Canada, China, Colombia, Hong Kong, India, Taiwan, UK, U.S., Vietnam have increased its size into a global financial group with over 20 subsidiaries and offices in 15 countries as of the end of • Mirae Asset Daewoo Korea, Brazil, China, Hong Kong, 2017 2008 2017. Mirae Asset has established high level of trust with clients India, Indonesia, Mongolia, Singapore, UK, U.S., Vietnam DEC.  Mirae Asset Life Insurance received the final approval on the merger OCT. Establishment of Mirae Asset Securities (UK) upholding the principle of ‘Client First’ based on our insight into with PCA Life Insurance (Financial Services Commission) AUG. Establishment of Mirae Asset Wealth Management (U.S.) • Mirae Asset Life Insurance NOV. Mirae Asset Daewoo was designated as a mega-sized IB – with over the Korean and global financial market. Establishment of Mirae Asset (Shanghai) Investment Consulting Co., Ltd. KRW 4 trillion in total equity) (Financial Services Commission) • Strategic Subsidiaries Multi Asset Global Investments, APR. Establishment of Mirae Asset Global Investments (U.S.) OCT. Mirae Asset Capital Markets (India) Private Limited was established Energy Infra Asset Management, Mirae Asset Financial Establishment of Mirae Asset Global Investments (Brazil) Asset under Management SEP. Mirae Asset’s disruptive innovation story was covered by Services, Mirae Asset Mobile, Mirae Asset Venture FEB. Establishment of Mirae Asset YiCai Investment Consulting (China) (As of March 31, 2018; based on net assets) a global academic institution ‘The Case Centre’ JAN. Acquisition of the online real estate information portal Realtors 114 Investment, Mirae Asset Capital, Mirae Asset Consulting, JUL. Mirae Asset Daewoo signed an MOU with Navor Asset management KRW 135,238.0 billion Mirae Asset Fund Services Mirae Asset life Insurance signed to buy stake 2007 in Prevoir Vietnam Life Insurance DEC. Establishment of Mirae Asset Wealth Management Securities Investment banking KRW 258,138.7 billion • Institute/Foundation Mirae Asset Retirement Institute, (Vietnam) Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation 2016 JUL. Opening of the Beijing Representative Office Insurance KRW 40,403.9 billion DEC. Merger between Mirae Asset Daewoo and Mirae Asset Securities of Mirae Asset Securities to launch the integrated Mirae Asset Daewoo MAR. Establishment of Mirae Asset Global Investments (UK) SEP. Purchase of the Hyatt Regency Waikiki Beach Resort and Spa JAN. Establishment of Mirae Asset Wealth Management (HK) 2015 2006 DEC. Purchase of San Francisco’s landmark hotel, NOV. Establishment of Mirae Asset Global Investments (India) the Fairmont San Francisco JUL. Mirae Asset Life Insurance’s IPO on the Korean Composite Stock SEP. Opening of the Hanoi Office of Mirae Asset MAPS Mirae Asset Organization Global Investment Price Index MAY Acquisition of the Fairmont Orchid resort hotel in Hawaii MAY Korea’s first investment in Mainland China with its investment in Mirae Asset Shanghai Tower Mirae Asset is composed of around 20 affiliates with 7,600 investment 2014 FEB. Mirae Asset Securities’ IPO on the Korea Composite Stock Price DEC. Purchase of an office building, 1801 K Street, where the U.S. Index experts mainly operating in asset management, comprehensive financial Federal Reserve Board is a tenant, in Washington D.C. 2005 investment, investment into new growth industries, and life insurance. APR. Establishment of a financial product sales specialist company – DEC. Establishment of the Mirae Asset Retirement Pension Institute Mirae Asset Financial Service Mirae Asset affiliates ensure to obtain their own competitive advantages JUN. Launch of Mirae Asset Life Insurance 2013 through stringent risk management while cooperating closely on behalf of SEP. Participation in the consortium to invest in the U.S. Headquarters 2004 of the coffee brand Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf FEB. Establishment of the Mirae Asset Investment Education Institute clients’ interest thus creating synergy. Acquisition of the world’s leading hotel brand, Four Seasons Hotel Sydney 2003 DEC. Establishment of Mirae Asset Global Investments (Hong Kong), JAN. Launch of Mirae Asset Retirement Institute the first overseas subsidiary by any Korean financial institution 2012 2001 JUL. Launch of Mirae Asset Huachen Fund Management (China) as JUL. Launch of Korea’s first front-end loading mutual fund, the first Korea-China joint venture asset manager the Mirae Asset Discovery Equity-type Fund MAR. Mirae Asset Global Investments acquired Mirae Asset MAPS FEB. Launch of Korea’s first opened mutual fund, Global Investments the Mirae Asset Independence Equity-type Fund 2011 2000 Asset Investment New growth engine Life Consulting Social NOV. Mirae Asset Global Investments acquired Canada’s leading management bank investment insurance service contributions MAR. Establishment of the Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation ETF operator, Horizons ETFs AUG. Acquisition of the world’s top golf brand, Titleist 1999 Mirae Asset Global Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Venture Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Mirae Asset JUN. Launch of Mirae Asset Global Investments (Taiwan) DEC. Establishment of Mirae Asset Securities Investments Daewoo Investment Life Insurance Fund Services Park Hyeon Joo 2010 1998 Multi Asset Global Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Foundation SEP. Mirae Asset Global Investments (U.S.) launched Korea’s first mutual DEC. Establishment and registration of Korea’s first asset management Investments Capital Financial Services Mirae Asset fund company in the American market company, Mirae Asset Global Investments Energy Infra Asset Mirae Asset Retirement AUG. Establishment of Mirae Asset Wealth Management (Brazil) Mirae Asset Global Investments launched Korea’s first mutual fund Management Consulting Institute Mirae Asset Global Investments became the first to introduce product, the Park Hyeon Joo No. 1 Fund SICAV, an open-ended collective investment fund, Realtors 114 to the Korean market 1997 AUG. Establishment of Korea’s first specialized asset management 2009 company, Mirae Asset Investment Advisory Brand Move SEP. Mirae Asset Global Investments signed an agreement JUL. Establishment of Mirae Asset Venture Capital for a joint venture with a Chinese partner 76 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT GROUP OVERVIEW 77 We pursue investment by principal. We strive to make your future happier. Mirae Asset Global Investments Mirae Asset Life Insurance Mirae Asset Global Investments is dedicated to providing innovative financial products, including Mirae Asset Life Insurance is a company that lays the ground for clients’ happy life equity, fixed income, ETF, and alternative investment, such as real estate, PEF, and SOC, to clients after retirement. All investments are made in line with the principle of protecting client’s at home and abroad. The company operates its business in 30 countries across the globe, including base asset, and the company makes diversified investment to flexibly adapt to market Canada, U.S., and European nations as well as Korea. It provides over 1,600 financial products, volatility. In addition, it provides a comprehensive and professional retirement planning service and formulates 216 fund products in the global market with KRW 21 trillion under management. based on pensions for happy life after retirement, coverage for healthy life after retirement, In addition, Mirae Asset Global Investments is the only Korean investment company that directly sells and additional asset management service for a prosperous future. funds and manages assets in the overseas market. MAJOR Equity-type fund, Bond-type fund, Hybrid fund, Real-estate fund, SOC fund, MAJOR BUSINESS AREAS BUSINESS AREAS Insurance, Fund, Trust, Retirement pension, Real estate service, VIP consulting Index fund, Financial engineering fund, PEF, ETF Leader in Pensions Management Mirae Asset global ETF Providing stable asset management and and variable insurances, leading to an overall increase of total Mirae Asset Global Investments is the largest pension – Innovator in the overseas market professional services number of new policies. Revenue generated based on the management business ranked No. 1 in Korea in terms of assets The company operates the Mirae Asset Global ETF (Exchange Mirae Asset Life Insurance does its utmost to help clients two-track strategy now accounts for 97% of total revenue. under management (AUM) for individual pension and retirement Traded Funds) in six countries – Korea, Canada, Australia, Hong increase their profits and enhance shareholder values through As demonstrated in the number of new policies, this strategy pension with over 20% share of the pension fund market. As of Kong, U.S. and Columbia – with KRW 20 billion in AUM backed high-quality products and full-hearted customer services. has improved the fundamentals of the company, solidifying December 2017, its total AUM for pension fund stood at KRW by 237 ETF line-ups. Mirae Asset Global ETF has a diverse lineTo adhere to the investment principles and strengthen its revenue sources to respond to future changes such as the 5.25 trillion, placing the company into No. 1 in the industry. In up ranging from sector ETF to global index, leverage, inverse, competency to respond to changing market situation, the adoption of IFRS 17. particular, its portfolio consisting of various products enables and active ETF and is evaluated to have broadened the client’s company is engaged in distributed investment for a stable asset globally distributed investment while its product line-up enables choice. Furthermore, the company has launched an AI ETF, that management. At the same time, it offers professional advisory Pursuing to become a ‘Permanent Innovator’ asset allocation across investment region as well as investment invests in the global market, for the first time in the world and service on areas, such as taxation, law and real estate, in order Based on its commitment to enhancing value-oriented business assets. In addition, the company established marketing other innovative products, and thus takes the lead in pioneering to provide clients with a comprehensive and professional efficiency, Mirae Asset Life Insurance has achieved qualitative organizations dedicated to individual pension and retirement the market. retirement planning service. In additional, Mirae Asset Life growth as shown in the improvement of indices, such as pension respectively for the first time in the industry, to align Insurance provides various financial products including not only value of new business (VNB), pre-tax profit and loss, APE, and the organization structure with professional pension business. life insurance products but also variable insurance, fund, trust premium income. In particular, the company firmly settled its (Unit: KRW billion; As of December 31, 2017) position as top 5 life insurers in Korea with KRW 35 trillion and IRP, and makes sure that insurance benefits are paid in a Pioneer in Korea’s Alternative Investment Market Total net assets (left) prompt and accurate manner. in total asset after the merger with PCA Life Insurance. The Asset value of overseas funds (right) business landscape of today calls for the sales strategy to adapt Mirae Asset Global Investments stands out in the alternative investment business, which emerged as the next investment 140,000 25,000 Two-track-based distinctive business strategy in agile manner to external changes, such as introduction of destination in the low-interest rate era. In 2004, the company Mirae Asset Life Insurance implements a “tow-track” strategy IFRS 17 and K-ICS, emergence of digital finance with the Fourth 20,000 became first Korean financial institution to launch PEF and real with protection-type insurance and variable insurance as two Industrial Revolution, and different work environment for 100,000 estate fund, and in 2009 it also launched an overseas SOC fund 15,000 pillars, in order to grow the company’s tangible values while also special staff, such as financial planners while showing signs of for the first time in the industry, thereby leading the market. ensuring long-term stability. This strategy aims to increase the recovery in the global and domestic economy. Mirae Asset Life 60,000 10,000 sales of high-margin protection-type insurance products while Insurance will continue to pursue the value-oriented business In terms of real estate fund business, the company has been 5,000 expanding the sales of variable and retirement pension, major strategy and the two-track strategy focused on protectiontaking the lead in domestic investments, while also making 20,000 sources of its fee-based revenue. By executing such strategy, the type insurance, variable insurance, and retirement pension to active investments in overseas real estates. Starting with the 2000 2004 2008 2012 2016 company was able to record an increase of 48.8% growth in create synergy with PCA Life Insurance. At the same time, the purchase in 2006 of the Mirae Asset Tower in Shanghai, China, annual premium equivalent (APE) for its variable savings in 2017 company will introduce insure-technologies such as chatbot and the company has rolled out aggressive investments into global and the total asset of fee-based business, mostly generated smart healthcare with an aim to improve its work efficiency and real estates in Brazil, U.S., and Australia, in order to diversify (Unit: KRW billion; As of December 31, 2017) from variable insurance and retirement pension, exceeded profitability. By doing so, Mirae Asset Life Insurance will achieve its revenue source. In addition, the company has opened up Total Asset under Management both qualitative and quantitative growth, and thus grow into a overseas real estate, which had been dominated by institutional KRW 10 trillion. In addition, investment for 33% of general investors, to individual investors in the form of public offering fund, expanding individual client’s investment opportunities. In 123,637.4 account asset was distributed across U.S. investment grade corporate bond, U.S. government bond, and real estate, and Permanent Innovator which leads the insurance market. 2018, Mirae Asset Global Investments plans to invest in megaFixed-income ETF Overseas sales investment for 66% of variable insurance asset was allocated 29,671.7 8,093.8 20,641.1 across mid-to long-term global asset, to expand the portion of sized construction of building complex featuring Industry 4.0 with the aim of establishing an innovation platform where overseas investment. In terms of new policies by product, the creative talent and innovative companies can coexist. Equities AI Others company managed to boldly reduce the portion of savings18,002.0 11,689.8 35,539.0 type products while increasing the portion of protection-type 78 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT GROUP OVERVIEW 79 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors’ Report FINANCIAL Based on a report originally issued in Korean REVIEW The Board of Directors and Shareholder Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient statements of Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. (collectively the “Group”), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as of December 31, 2017, and the Opinion consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated In our opinion, the separate financial statements present fairly, in statement of changes in equity and cash flows for the year then all material respects, the separate financial position of Mirae Asset ended, and notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting Daewoo Co., Ltd. as of December 31, 2017, and its financial policies and other explanatory information. performance and separate cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Management’s Responsibility for Standards. the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentaEmphasis of Matters 81 tion of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to Note No. Independent Auditors’ Report Korean International Financial Reporting Standards and for such 50 to the separate financial statements of the Company regarding internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the merger between Mirae Asset Securities Co., Ltd. and Mirae (Consolidated Financial the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. that was completed on December 29, Statements) from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 2016 pursuant to the resolution of the shareholders meeting on November 4, 2016. While Mirae Asset Daewoo Corporation, a Auditors’ Responsibility surviving company, legally absorbed Mirae Asset Securities Co., 82 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial Ltd, a non-surviving company, in accounting, the acquisition Consolidated Financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in of Mirae Asset Securities Co., Ltd by Mirae Asset Daewoo Statements accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing. Those standards Corporation was treated as a reverse acquisition where Mirae require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan Asset Securities Co., Ltd was the accounting acquirer while Mirae and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. was the accounting acquiree. 88 whether the separate financial statements are free from material misstatement. Other Matters Independent Auditors’ Report The accompanying separate statements of financial position of (Separate Financial An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. as of December 31, 2016, and the Statements) about the amounts and disclosures in the separate financial related separate statements of comprehensive income, changes in statements. The procedures selected depend on our judgment, equity and cash flows for the year ended, were audited by other including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement auditors in accordance with Korean Standard on Auditing, whose 89 of the separate financial statements, whether due to fraud or report thereon dated March 15, 2017, expressed an unqualified error. In making those risk assessments, we consider internal opinion. Separate Financial control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation Statements of the separate financial statements in order to design audit The procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not audit such separate financial statements may differ from those for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness generally accepted and applied in other countries. of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp. well as evaluating the overall presentation of the separate financial Seoul, Korea statements. March 7, 2018 This report is effective as of March 7, 2018, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying separate financial statements and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that the above audit report has not been updated to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any. 80 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 81 Consolidated Financial Statements As of December 31, 2017 and 2016 For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (In Korean won) Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (In Korean won) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Assets Operating revenue Cash and cash equivalents W 1,374,448,969,904 2,006,028,721,163 Commissions received W 895,239,308,614 671,222,415,974 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 30,267,532,823,491 33,187,791,804,858 Gains on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 7,002,686,182,399 5,389,594,262,532 Available-for-sale financial assets 8,838,520,107,354 8,739,716,750,682 Gains on available-for-sale financial assets 114,486,993,943 70,376,854,980 Loans and receivables 46,923,425,478,459 10,080,235,049,571 Interest income 1,152,767,665,404 925,526,978,508 Investments in associates 673,055,861,630 415,153,973,382 Gains on loans and receivables 5,031,242,135 8,747,892,954 Property and equipment, net 198,576,441,900 347,756,015,529 Gains on foreign currency transactions 742,658,913,994 576,584,477,540 Investment properties, net 1,140,599,627,851 1,115,086,366,329 Others 385,779,522,179 191,968,918,195 Intangible assets, net 650,053,632,828 655,881,350,831 10,298,649,828,668 7,834,021,800,683 Other assets 113,910,623,579 120,706,828,457 Operating expenses Income tax receivable 1,785,334,715 121,631,480,207 Commissions expense 161,043,126,453 127,067,469,462 Deferred tax asset 444,690,399,842 477,787,620,118 Losses on financial instruments at fair value 6,856,852,969,311 6,037,776,179,123 through profit or loss Total assets W 90,626,599,301,553 57,267,775,961,127 Losses on available-for-sale financial assets 52,226,218,053 80,282,269,808 Liabilities Interest expense 581,452,620,235 382,955,584,133 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss W 17,432,460,637,775 22,049,093,636,416 Losses on loans and receivables 2,141,545,956 20,205,744,278 Deposits due to customers 5,118,877,230,489 4,125,075,297,990 Losses on foreign currency transactions 898,308,939,487 373,253,646,009 Borrowings 49,390,196,184,989 18,946,893,914,201 Salaries 647,272,403,418 459,943,075,143 Debentures 3,085,496,672,057 2,725,625,017,560 Selling and administrative expense 436,918,970,835 332,930,441,260 Provisions 20,377,052,332 15,152,116,522 Others 34,680,464,383 16,436,704,006 Other liabilities 8,171,135,639,184 2,737,601,397,324 9,670,897,258,131 7,830,851,113,222 Income tax payable 22,782,013,768 2,569,874,200 Operating income 627,752,570,536 3,170,687,461 Deferred tax liabilities 768,141,323 Non-operating income, net Total liabilities 83,242,093,571,917 50,602,011,254,213 Non-operating income 111,624,182,081 47,747,862,361 Equity Non-operating expense 74,627,745,824 29,977,608,799 Capital stock 3,401,960,790,000 3,401,960,790,000 36,996,436,257 17,770,253,562 Capital surplus 2,164,649,228,172 1,813,265,000,459 Profit before income tax expense 664,749,006,794 20,940,941,023 Retained earnings 1,874,982,489,194 1,397,747,543,513 (Regulatory reserve for credit losses of W50,848,967,579 Income tax expense 159,815,280,306 5,240,039,881 and W82,105,710,218 as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 Profit for the year respectively) Equity holder of the Company 503,175,503,631 39,291,499,005 (Provision for (reversal of) regulatory reserve for credit losses amounted to W37,732,034,291 and W(-)31,256,742,639 Non-controlling interests 1,758,222,857 (23,590,597,863) as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 respectively) W 504,933,726,488 15,700,901,142 Capital adjustment (7,714,262,282) (103,038,495,934) Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year, net of tax Accumulated other comprehensive income (77,205,546,703) 128,929,761,111 Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Non-controlling interests 27,833,031,255 26,900,107,765 Net change in unrealized valuation of available-for-sale financial assets W (24,346,294,579) 22,268,817,392 Total equity 7,384,505,729,636 6,665,764,706,914 Equity in other comprehensive income of associates (8,193,453,933) (2,301,018,762) Total liabilities and equity W 90,626,599,301,553 57,267,775,961,127 Hedges of a Net Investment in Foreign Operations 12,599,573,133 Gain or loss on translation of foreign operations (186,417,906,574) 34,691,575,000 (206,358,081,953) 54,659,373,630 Total comprehensive income for the period Equity holder of the Company 297,040,195,817 100,011,677,589 Non-controlling interests 1,535,448,718 (29,651,402,817) W 298,575,644,535 70,360,274,772 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share W 944 116 82 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 83 For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (In Korean won) Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (In Korean won) Attributable to equity holders of the Group 2017 2016 Accumulated Non-controlling Total Cash flows from operating activities Capital Capital Capital other Retained Total interests equity stock surplus adjustment comprehensive earnings Profit for the year W 504,933,726,488 15,700,901,142 income Adjustments: Balance at W 1,698,077,585,000 321,046,945,146 (56,924,982,587) 68,209,582,527 1,398,258,400,458 3,428,667,530,544 23,369,739,335 3,452,037,269,879 Interest income (1,152,767,665,404) (925,526,978,508) January 1, 2016 Total Dividend income (220,313,095,925) (144,722,341,564) comprehensive Interest expense 581,452,620,235 382,955,584,133 income for the year: Profit for the year 39,291,499,005 39,291,499,005 (23,590,597,863) 15,700,901,142 Income tax expense 159,815,280,306 5,240,039,881 Net changes in Loss on valuation of financial assets held for trading 111,300,620,278 88,231,372,221 unrealized valuation 37,523,131,837 37,523,131,837 (15,254,314,445) 22,268,817,392 Loss on valuation of financial liabilities held for trading 21,511,487,771 3,457,877,316 of AFS financial assets Equity in other Loss on valuation of financial assets designated 52,623,031,178 33,014,236,142 comprehensive (2,865,511,399) (2,865,511,399) 564,492,637 (2,301,018,762) at fair value through profit or loss income of associates Loss on valuation of financial liabilities designated Gain or loss on 468,735,340,889 1,422,926,326,505 at fair value through profit or loss translation of foreign 26,062,558,146 26,062,558,146 8,629,016,854 34,691,575,000 operations Loss on valuation of derivatives 1,128,513,534,990 822,368,876,680 Transaction with Loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 25,058,425,258 29,679,888,491 owners, etc.: Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets 27,167,792,795 50,602,381,317 Dividends paid (39,802,355,950) (39,802,355,950) (39,802,355,950) Loss on valuation of investments in associates 3,224,192,264 4,409,546,241 Adjustment due to 1,703,883,205,000 1,491,689,033,227 (2,427,845,006) 3,193,144,393,221 26,107,929,134 3,219,252,322,355 business combination Loss on disposal of investments in associates 28,132,093 Increase in treasury Loss on disposal of investments in subsidiaries 6,791,201,528 2,315,271,024 (43,730,328,254) (43,730,328,254) (43,730,328,254) stocks Depreciation 22,718,086,404 15,060,921,324 Stock option 44,659,913 44,659,913 7,073,842,113 7,118,502,026 Depreciation on investment properties 29,115,730,988 10,249,307,773 Changes in scope of 529,022,086 529,022,086 529,022,086 consolidation Loss on disposal of property and equipment 289,046,322 338,400,738 Balance at Amortization 42,901,954,200 25,225,622,493 December 31, 2016 W 3,401,960,790,000 1,813,265,000,459 (103,038,495,934) 128,929,761,111 1,397,747,543,513 6,638,864,599,149 26,900,107,765 6,665,764,706,914 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 17,431,920 124,633,823 Balance at W 3,401,960,790,000 1,813,265,000,459 (103,038,495,934) 128,929,761,111 1,397,747,543,513 6,638,864,599,149 26,900,107,765 6,665,764,706,914 January 1, 2017 Impairment loss on intangible assets 152,715,509 Total Stock option expense 7,365,438,269 9,347,331,314 comprehensive income for the year: Rent expense 2,912,487,630 2,095,215,856 Profit for the year 503,175,503,631 503,175,503,631 1,758,222,857 504,933,726,488 Bad debt expense 1,966,765,028 20,205,744,278 Net changes in Other bad debt expense 1,653,079,039 8,236,491,778 unrealized valuation (24,123,520,440) (24,123,520,440) (222,774,139) (24,346,294,579) of AFS financial assets Loss on foreign currency translation 235,981,266,357 1,779,280,995 Equity in other Provision of allowances for litigation 12,402,576,548 61,901,690 comprehensive (8,193,453,933) (8,193,453,933) (8,193,453,933) income of associates Loss on restoration 68,938,720 Hedges of a net Other operating expenses 7,226,595,543 261,042,894 investment in foreign 12,599,573,133 12,599,573,133 12,599,573,133 operations Gain on valuation of financial assets held for trading (161,133,276,663) (73,404,560,555) Gain or loss on Gain on valuation of financial liabilities held for trading (7,955,205,898) (17,415,437,489) translation of foreign (186,417,906,574) (186,417,906,574) (186,417,906,574) operations Gain on valuation of financial assets designated (58,874,322,184) (288,924,940,449) at fair value through profit or loss Transaction with owners, etc.: Gain on valuation of financial liabilities designated (376,139,857,576) (214,849,432,766) Dividends paid (25,940,557,950) (25,940,557,950) (25,940,557,950) at fair value through profit or loss Increase in treasury Gain on valuation of derivatives (1,364,624,758,347) (1,514,798,801,902) 351,445,658,768 33,096,916,634 384,542,575,402 384,542,575,402 stocks Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets (114,486,993,943) (70,376,854,980) Stock option (83,572,665) (83,572,665) (83,572,665) Gain on disposal of investments in associates (79,734,357) (19,274,121) Others (61,431,055) 62,310,889,683 62,249,458,628 (602,525,228) 61,646,933,400 Gain on valuation of investments in associates (50,787,176,636) (21,381,903,905) Balance at December 31, 2017 W 3,401,960,790,000 2,164,649,228,172 (7,714,262,282) (77,205,546,703) 1,874,982,489,194 7,356,672,698,381 27,833,031,255 7,384,505,729,636 Gain on disposal of investments in subsidiaries (8,403,873,610) (677,484,890) 84 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 85 For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (In Korean won) Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (In Korean won) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Gain on disposal of property and equipment W (1,805,011,499) (34,694,084) Cash flows from financing activities Gain on disposal of intangible assets (89,178,000) (1,060,170,000) Proceeds from borrowings, net W 3,040,699,405,955 Reversal of bad debt allowances (1,477,834,881) (8,543,118,353) Proceeds from debentures, net 382,541,028,869 Reversal of other bad debt allowances (715,261,956) (358,000,324) Proceeds from disposal of treasury stock 498,499,990,230 Gain on foreign currency translation (67,477,826,955) (162,897,368,395) Increase in other liabilities 179,520,346,595 16,057,382,706 Gain on restoration (15,486,485) Decrease of borrowings, net (2,759,279,173,110) Reversal of allowances for litigation (3,404,459,429) (8,517,281,396) Decrease of debentures, net (313,892,096,130) (639,610,699,921) (515,267,896,539) Acquisition of treasury stock (25,940,557,950) (150,824,057,784) Changes in: Dividends paid (172,801,387) (113,805,572,290) Due from financial institutions for customer accounts (470,479,042,077) 515,304,469,637 Decrease in other liabilities (24,545,342,752) (41,774,538,582) Financial assets held for trading 333,741,534,637 4,982,193,623,957 Decrease in non-controlling interests (602,525,228) Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 2,737,051,329,492 1,923,208,686,498 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 4,049,999,544,332 (3,363,518,055,190) Loans and receivables (8,902,982,471,849) (413,620,061,840) Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and (78,412,741,390) 17,889,869,376 Other assets 18,607,768,190 2,827,280,836,818 cash equivalents held Deposits due to customers 996,338,089,654 330,501,028,503 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (631,579,751,259) 1,615,007,896,780 Financial liabilities held for trading 192,076,848,963 119,950,030,491 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,006,028,721,163 391,020,824,383 Financial liabilities designated at fair value Cash and cash equivalents at end of year W 1,374,448,969,904 2,006,028,721,163 (4,908,975,621,420) (2,765,402,576,730) through profit or loss Other liabilities 5,288,053,347,849 (2,634,354,284,800) Provisions (4,263,116,089) (4,479,310,781) (4,720,831,332,650) 4,880,582,441,753 Interest received 1,101,197,090,473 937,532,222,818 Interest paid (572,210,250,197) (368,853,150,370) Dividends received 216,004,048,640 144,366,200,578 Income tax paid (34,063,456,901) (79,433,561,030) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (4,144,580,874,068) 5,014,627,158,352 Cash flows from investing activities Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 7,229,759,117,774 14,240,820,947,161 Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates 46,829,663,293 2,418,228,562 Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 10,476,407,369 236,618,953 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 1,912,359,980 1,293,171,676 Decrease in deposits 9,770,782,962 1,900,381,282 Increase in withdrawals 5,542,232,310 Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (7,391,671,283,378) (12,336,928,887,777) Acquisition of investments in associates (272,295,013,851) (18,621,054,000) Acquisition of investments in subsidiaries (950,326,444,746) Acquisition of property and equipment (46,562,286,746) (52,619,976,979) Acquisition of investment properties (913,116,553,799) Acquisition of intangible assets (41,657,356,373) (20,832,905,175) Increase in deposits (8,191,373,473) (8,214,600,916) Decrease from withdrawals (2,498,930,000) Net cash used in investing activities (458,585,680,133) (53,991,075,758) 86 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 87 Separate Financial Statements Independent Auditors’ Report Separate Financial Statements Based on a report originally issued in Korean As of December 31, 2017 and 2016 Separate Statements of Financial Position The Board of Directors and Shareholders Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (In Korean won) 2017 2016 Assets We have audited the accompanying separate financial statements We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient of Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd., which comprise the separate and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Cash and cash equivalents W 848,986,514,634 658,906,021,573 statement of financial position as of December 31, 2017, the Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 27,791,775,259,746 30,727,665,843,798 separate statement of comprehensive income, changes in equity Opinion Available-for-sale financial assets 8,040,524,984,525 8,081,368,566,383 and cash flows for the year then ended, and notes, comprising a In our opinion, the separate financial statements present fairly, in Loans and receivables 14,053,568,958,115 9,042,789,486,372 summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory all material respects, the separate financial position of Mirae Asset information. Daewoo Co., Ltd. as of December 31, 2017, and its financial Investments in subsidiaries 4,724,056,202,313 5,320,900,371,576 performance and separate cash flows for the year then ended Investments in associates 362,271,349,884 338,589,431,766 Management’s Responsibility for in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Property and equipment 167,809,205,230 314,037,234,747 the Separate Financial Statements Standards. Investment properties 256,276,723,969 94,134,544,289 Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these separate financial statements in accordance with Emphasis of Matters Intangible assets 638,283,576,844 654,131,645,048 Korean International Financial Reporting Standards and for such Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to Note No. Other assets 92,704,533,504 110,447,713,603 internal control as management determines is necessary to enable 50 to the separate financial statements of the Company regarding Income tax receivable 120,447,761,640 the preparation of separate financial statements that are free from the merger between Mirae Asset Securities Co., Ltd. and Mirae Deferred tax assets 441,028,324,626 485,280,589,860 material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. that was completed on December 29, 2016 pursuant to the resolution of the shareholders meeting on Total assets W 57,417,285,633,390 55,948,699,210,655 Auditors’ Responsibility November 4, 2016. While Mirae Asset Daewoo Corporation, a Liabilities Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial surviving company, legally absorbed Mirae Asset Securities Co., Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss W 17,462,103,172,600 22,354,042,352,353 statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in Ltd, a non-surviving company, in accounting, the acquisition Deposits due to customers 5,083,222,114,515 4,102,699,771,303 accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing. Those standards of Mirae Asset Securities Co., Ltd by Mirae Asset Daewoo require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan Corporation was treated as a reverse acquisition where Mirae Borrowings 18,612,446,620,185 18,334,736,892,206 and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about Asset Securities Co., Ltd was the accounting acquirer while Mirae Debentures 2,880,759,775,243 2,243,898,419,518 whether the separate financial statements are free from material Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. was the accounting acquiree. Provisions 20,377,052,332 15,152,116,522 misstatement. Other Matters Other liabilities 5,931,767,122,084 2,302,711,919,448 An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence The accompanying separate statements of financial position of Income tax payable 19,766,660,800 about the amounts and disclosures in the separate financial Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. as of December 31, 2016, and the Total liabilities 50,010,442,517,759 49,353,241,471,350 statements. The procedures selected depend on our judgment, related separate statements of comprehensive income, changes in Equity including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement equity and cash flows for the year ended, were audited by other Capital stock 3,401,960,790,000 3,401,960,790,000 of the separate financial statements, whether due to fraud or auditors in accordance with Korean Standard on Auditing, whose error. In making those risk assessments, we consider internal report thereon dated March 15, 2017, expressed an unqualified Capital surplus 2,163,224,953,445 1,811,898,689,162 control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation opinion. Retained earnings 1,765,094,658,016 1,366,607,094,836 of the separate financial statements in order to design audit (Regulatory reserve for credit losses of W50,848,967,579 and procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not The procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to W82,105,710,218 as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness audit such separate financial statements may differ from those respectively) of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating generally accepted and applied in other countries. (Provision for (reversal of) regulatory reserve for credit losses amounted to W(-)37,732,034,291 and W31,256,742,639 the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively) reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the separate financial KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp. Capital adjustment 1,364,758,700 (93,647,213,914) statements. Seoul, Korea Accumulated other comprehensive income 75,197,955,470 108,638,379,221 March 7, 2018 Total equity 7,406,843,115,631 6,595,457,739,305 Total liabilities and equity W 57,417,285,633,390 55,948,699,210,655 This report is effective as of March 7, 2018, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying separate financial statements and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that the above audit report has not been updated to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any. 88 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 89 For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Separate Statements of Comprehensive Income Separate Statements of Changes in Equity Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (In Korean won) Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (In Korean won) 2017 2016 Capital Capital Capital Accumulated other Retained comprehensive income Total Operating revenue stock surplus adjustment earnings (loss) Commissions received W 845,768,008,497 304,467,907,890 Balance at W 1,698,077,585,000 320,815,318,724 (49,954,604,089) 83,480,254,271 1,378,587,188,307 3,431,005,742,213 January 1, 2016 Gains on financial instruments at fair value 6,844,214,618,543 3,036,883,348,108 through profit or loss Total comprehensive income for the year: Gains on Available-for-sale financial assets 90,996,846,426 17,852,459,317 Profit for the year 27,822,262,479 27,822,262,479 Interest income 864,032,115,384 495,850,664,054 Net changes in Gains on loans and receivables 1,477,834,881 5,268,940,545 unrealized valuation 20,768,099,746 20,768,099,746 Gains on foreign currency transactions 551,737,696,441 171,958,969,202 of AFS financial assets Others 266,579,373,122 113,174,640,399 Transaction with owners, etc.: 9,464,806,493,294 4,145,456,929,515 Dividends paid (39,802,355,950) (39,802,355,950) Operating expenses Adjustments due to 1,703,883,205,000 1,491,083,370,438 4,390,025,204 3,199,356,600,642 Commissions expense 129,973,748,618 62,288,264,061 merger Losses on financial instruments at fair value Acquisition of treasury 6,737,147,149,262 3,342,726,631,340 (43,730,328,254) (43,730,328,254) through profit or loss stock Losses on Available-for-sale financial assets 40,535,714,825 44,724,532,240 Stock option 44,659,913 44,659,913 Interest expense 327,800,628,351 189,376,707,748 Others (6,941,484) (6,941,484) Losses on loans and receivables 1,875,572,707 17,513,949,467 Balance at W 3,401,960,790,000 1,811,898,689,162 (93,647,213,914) 108,638,379,221 1,366,607,094,836 6,595,457,739,305 December 31, 2016 Losses on foreign currency transactions 750,400,228,238 133,559,548,326 Balance at W 3,401,960,790,000 1,811,898,689,162 (93,647,213,914) 108,638,379,221 1,366,607,094,836 6,595,457,739,305 Salaries 585,645,625,576 175,147,873,901 January 1, 2017 Selling and administrative expenses 315,390,428,942 127,128,979,845 Total comprehensive income for the year: Others 22,818,148,109 9,698,006,898 Profit for the year 424,428,121,130 424,428,121,130 8,911,587,244,628 4,102,164,493,826 Net changes in Operating income 553,219,248,666 43,292,435,689 unrealized valuation (33,440,423,751) (33,440,423,751) of AFS financial assets Non-operating income, net Transaction with Non-operating income 15,651,415,111 2,734,070,155 owners, etc.: Non-operating expense 14,584,563,476 8,968,247,976 Dividends paid (25,940,557,950) (25,940,557,950) 1,066,851,635 (6,234,177,821) Disposal of treasury 351,445,658,768 33,096,916,634 384,542,575,402 Profit before income tax expense 554,286,100,301 37,058,257,868 stock Income tax expense 129,857,979,171 9,235,995,389 Stock option (83,572,665) (83,572,665) Profit for the year 424,428,121,130 27,822,262,479 Others (119,394,485) 61,998,628,645 61,879,234,160 Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year, net of tax Balance at W 3,401,960,790,000 2,163,224,953,445 1,364,758,700 75,197,955,470 1,765,094,658,016 7,406,843,115,631 December 31, 2017 Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Net change in unrealized valuation of Available-for-sale financial (33,440,423,751) 20,768,099,746 (33,440,423,751) 20,768,099,746 Total comprehensive income for the year W 390,987,697,379 48,590,362,225 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share W 797 82 90 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 91 For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Separate Statements of Cash Flows Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (In Korean won) Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (In Korean won) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Cash flows from operating activities Gain on disposal of investments in associates W (3,600,840,649) Profit for the year W 424,428,121,130 27,822,262,479 Gain on disposal of property and equipment (1,805,011,499) (21,580,000) Adjustments: Gain on disposal of intangible assets (89,178,000) Interest income (864,032,115,384) (495,850,664,054) Reversal of bad debt allowances (1,477,834,881) (5,268,940,545) Dividend income (248,072,020,048) (110,895,398,673) Reversal of other bad debt allowances (715,261,956) (346,552,268) Interest expense 327,800,628,351 189,376,707,748 Gain on foreign currency translation (57,497,748,418) (43,936,853,359) Income tax expense 129,857,979,171 9,235,995,389 Reversal of provisions (3,404,459,429) Loss on valuation of financial assets held for trading 104,100,355,278 36,943,143,960 Gain on restoration (15,486,485) Loss on valuation of financial liabilities held for trading 21,511,487,771 4,429,658,925 (638,096,381,063) (300,882,789,853) Loss on valuation of financial assets designated Changes in: 52,169,130,340 35,014,989,539 at fair value through profit or loss Deposits (566,947,941,182) 127,491,157,861 Loss on valuation of financial liabilities designated Financial assets held for trading (1,996,800,576,199) 668,089,711,811 471,132,045,371 615,057,666,649 at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets designated at fair value Loss on valuation of derivatives 1,096,823,832,808 659,612,250,116 5,239,846,407,690 1,455,176,268,054 through profit or loss Loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 21,534,331,722 7,159,780,426 Loans and receivables (4,600,503,059,590) (141,836,649,276) Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets 19,001,383,103 37,564,751,814 Other assets 25,291,522,868 1,870,908,740,673 Impairment loss on investments in associates 5,432,350,157 Deposits due to customers 979,205,524,161 384,829,249,292 Impairment loss on investments in subsidiaries 1,787,864,769 Financial liabilities held for trading (133,542,972,385) (9,897,757,785) Loss on disposal of investments in subsidiaries 3,895,552,019 291,672,210 Financial liabilities designated at fair value (4,864,503,533,393) (462,912,748,469) Loss on disposal of investments in associates 28,290,432 through profit or loss Depreciation 20,675,859,565 4,220,342,523 Other liabilities 3,622,489,884,381 (1,841,990,340,943) Depreciation of Investment properties 1,960,505,148 Provisions (4,263,116,089) (125,854,000) Loss on disposal of property and equipment 231,743,312 128,038,232 (2,299,727,859,738) 2,049,731,777,218 Amortization 34,799,754,176 3,153,570,031 Interest received 861,027,600,847 496,125,070,609 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 17,431,920 24,224,600 Interest paid (326,178,088,833) (189,187,398,626) Stock option expense 7,198,180,951 58,918,091 Dividends received 247,733,456,249 109,607,408,673 Rent expense 2,912,487,630 834,820,510 Income tax paid (15,811,306,318) (52,181,841,254) Bad debt expense 1,703,859,058 17,513,949,467 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (1,746,624,457,726) 2,141,034,489,246 Other bad debt expense 1,187,123,666 7,357,731,930 Loss on foreign currency translation 221,429,052,415 20,161,808,342 Provisions 12,402,576,548 Loss on restoration 68,938,720 Other operating expenses 14,003,087,583 35,557,894 Gain on valuation of financial assets held for trading (136,510,645,302) (20,625,235,761) Gain on valuation of financial liabilities held for trading (7,955,205,898) (9,880,065,282) Gain on valuation of financial assets designated (57,065,693,331) (109,673,437,209) at fair value through profit or loss Gain on valuation of financial liabilities designated (378,557,718,228) (159,511,090,814) at fair value through profit or loss Gain on disposal of financial assets designated (1,751,750,000) at fair value through profit or loss Gain on valuation of derivatives (1,353,102,535,643) (977,050,657,370) Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets (90,996,846,426) (17,852,459,317) Gain on disposal of investments in subsidiaries (1,377,809,078) (1,879,485,989) 92 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 93 APPENDIX I Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (In Korean won) 2017 2016 Cash flows from investing activities Decrease in available-for-sale financial assets W 7,371,258,317,903 728,622,674,504 Decrease in investments in subsidiaries 1,411,114,982,972 233,073,284,297 Decrease in investments in associates 10,119,674,452 Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 6,508,388,535 24,449,000 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 1,912,360,000 85,000,000 Decrease in deposits for rent 9,745,436,981 2,488,766,834 Increase in guarantee for rent 6,106,932,310 Increase in cash due to merger 549,782,422,094 Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (7,348,343,030,410) (633,250,868,405) Acquisition of investments in subsidiaries (825,723,310,274) (2,498,957,357,051) 96 104 Acquisition of investments in associates (30,290,844,028) (9,014,000,000) Independent Assurance Social Performance Acquisition of property and equipment (43,342,200,444) (3,356,299,440) Statement Acquisition of intangible assets (20,792,299,892) (15,072,359,405) Increase in deposits for rent (7,702,796,898) (3,545,589,071) 106 Decrease in guarantee for rent (3,063,630,000) 98 Environmental Performance Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 537,507,981,207 (1,649,119,876,643) Verification of Cash flows from financing activities GHG Emissions Data Reports 107 Increase in borrowings, net 289,962,247,791 604,878,981,469 Tax Policy Increase in debentures, net 639,799,380,000 99 Disposal of treasury stock 498,499,990,230 GRI Index 108 Decrease of debentures, net (520,278,600,000) Dividends paid (25,940,557,950) (39,802,355,950) Organization Chart Acquisition of treasury stock (172,801,387) (43,720,938,977) 103 Decrease of other capital adjustment (6,941,484) UNGC & UN SDGs 109 Net cash provided by financing activities 1,402,148,258,684 1,070,145,058 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and Membership in Associations (2,951,289,104) 28,517,001 cash equivalents held Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 190,080,493,061 493,013,274,662 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 658,906,021,573 165,892,746,911 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year W 848,986,514,634 658,906,021,573 94 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX 95 Independent Assurance Statement Introduction Sustainability Context The Report shows that Mirae Asset Daewoo defines ‘Social responsibility’ as one of its core values. Mirae Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (“Mirae Asset Daewoo”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part Asset Daewoo adheres to the its investment principles and implements approaches in which stakeholders’ sustainability is taken of DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of 2018 Mirae Asset Daewoo Integrated Report (the “Report”). DNV GL’s intoaccount when it passes through the value chain. The 10 material topics determined from the materiality assessment and the assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review key sustainability performances achieved in 2017 are presented in the Report, which would help the stakeholder understand the have been prepared in good faith. management approaches toward the material topics. Scope of assurance Materiality Mirae Asset Daewoo has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. The issue pool with relevant 43 topics are formed by analysing the key topics from the global sustainability standards, the topics which industry peer group consider The scope of assurance includes a review of sustainability activities and non-financial performance data over the reporting period material and the subjects covered by journalist reports and stakeholder’s survey was used to rate the level of impacts on its financial from 1st January to 31st December 2017. This also includes: situation, operation and reputation. Finally, 10 material topics were prioritized and Mirae Asset Daewoo has mapped the material • Evaluation of the Report on the adherence to the principles for defining the sustainability report content set forth in the Global topics out with the disclosures as defined in GRI Standards. Management approaches on the respective material topics are addressed Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016 (“GRI Standards”) in the Report. The assurance team has reviewed the materiality assessment process. Nothing comes to our attention that would • Evaluation of the process for determining material topics for reporting and the management approach to material topics and the cause us to believe that material topics determined from the materiality assessment are not reported. process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. Completeness The Report covers the sustainability strategy, management approach and sustainability performances of Mirae Basis of our opinion Asset Daewoo for the reporting period. The reporting boundary is set to include headquarters, customer support center, IT center, domestic branches as well as overseas subsidiaries and offices over which Mirae Asset Daewoo has business control. In case of The assurance engagement was planned and carried out using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1), which is based on overseas subsidiaries and offices, only economic performance is included in the reporting scope due to the limitation of data our professional experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 gathering. Nothing comes to our attention that would cause us to believe that the performance results of material topics within the (ISAE 3000). We provided the limited level of assurance. The audit was carried out in June 2018 and the site visits were made to reporting boundary were not complete . Mirae Asset Daewoo’s headquarters in Seoul. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: • challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying Further opinions on the report quality is as follows; data management system, information flow and controls; Accuracy and Reliability The data presented in the report were gathered and processed by the teams responsible for data control • interviewed representatives from the various departments; in Mirae Asset Daewoo headquarters to meet the purpose. The assurance team interviewed the data owner, reviewed the process of • reviewed the materiality assessment report. gathering and processing data and information, and the supporting documents and records. The depth of data verification is limited to the aggregated level of data. Based on sampling verification, nothing comes to our attention that would cause us to believe that Limitations the data and information presented in the Report have any intentional error or material misstatement. The assurance engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of Mirae Asset Daewoo’s Any errors or misstatements identified during the assurance engagement were communicated and corrected prior to the Report subsidiaries, associated companies, suppliers and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external being published. Mirae Asset Daewoo could get raw data generated by respective teams to be verified in order to improve accuracy stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Financial statements of Mirae Asset Daewoo, data announced on DART system and reliability of the data handling process. of the Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) and data on the website of Mirae Asset Daewoo (www.miraeassetdaewoo. com) are not included in the scope of assurance. Data assurance was conducted by checking the basis in a limited scope, including Competence and Independence inquiry, analysis, and limited sampling method, on the data collected by Mirae Asset Daewoo. Economic performances including DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:2011 financial data has been verified against the internal documents of Mirae Asset Daewoo and the consolidated financial statements Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly maintains a audited by certified public accountant and the aggregation and calculation process for building economic performances was comprehensive system of quality control, including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, reviewed by the assurance team. Also, the environmental and social data were verified using the aggregated data. The directors professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the DNV GL Code of Conduct2 during of Mirae Asset Daewoo have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance engagement and maintain independence where required by relevant ethical requirements. DNV GL was not involved the assurance work is to the management of Mirae Asset Daewoo in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL expressly in the preparation of statements or data included in the report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the assurance process. DNV GL certifies Mirae Asset Daewoo to ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Information Security Management System. In our opinion, this does not affect the independence or impartiality of our work. Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report is not prepared ‘in accordance’ with GRI Standards Core option. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the following Principles in the GRI Standards June 2018 are made below; Seoul, Korea Stakeholder Inclusiveness Mirae Asset Daewoo has identified 4 internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers, In Kyoon Ahn Shareholders and Investors, Employees and Local communities and engages with them regularly and periodically to understand their expectations and interests through various communication channels. Major communication channels and interests of each Country Representative DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. stakeholder is described in the Report. 1) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL Website (www.dnvgl.com) 96 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX 97 Verification of GRI Index GHG Emissions Data Reports 1. General Disclosures Introduction Korea Productivity Center was required to verify ‘2017 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions Statements (hereinafter ‘Statement’)’, of Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note which reporting years was defined as January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017, by Mirae Asset Daewoo. 102-1 Name of the organization 8 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8, 9, 44-58 Levels of Assurance 102-3 Location of headquarters 4, 5, 8 A reasonable level of assurance was agreed. 102-4 Location of operations 4, 5 Refer to page 527-534 102-5 Ownership and legal form Verification Scope in the business report 102-6 Markets served 4, 5, 44-58 In 2017 GreenHouse Gas emissions throughout domestic 13 company buildings of Mirae Asset Daewoo’s own Organizational 102-7 Scale of the organization 4, 5, 8, 42-58 profile Verification Criteria Refer to page 538 102-8 Information on employees and other workers in the business report • GHG Energy Target Management Guideline 102-9 Supply chain 11 • IPCC Guideline: 2006, WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol: 2004 Refer to page 18 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain • ISO14064-3: 2006 standard in the business report 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 39, 40 Limitation 102-12 External initiatives 103 Having investigated by sampling method, the Statement might have errors and uncertainties. Final GHG estimates may contain 102-13 Membership of associations 109 uncertainty for the reasons such as unspecified standard and method, although no exceptional factors has been reported. 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6, 7 Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 18, 22, 26 Conclusion 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 9 Ethics and integrity • The verification team confirmed that the ‘Statements (2017)’ was being reported in accordance with self-inspection guideline 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 37 based on GHG Energy Target Management Guideline and IPCC Guideline. Governance 102-18 Governance structure 32, 33 • Appropriate corrective action was taken by Mirae Asset Daewoo in accordance with investigation results from the verification team. 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 36 • The verification team confirms that the ‘Statements (2017)’ was being reporting ‘appropriately’ in accordance with relevant 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 101 Stakeholder standards. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 36 engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 36 Classification Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 16, 17 Direct Emissions(Scope 1) 1,075 ton CO2e 82-94, 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Refer to page 3-5 Indirect Emissions(Scope 2) 16,640 ton CO2e in the business report Other Indirect Emissions(Scope 3) 681 ton CO2e 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 16, 17 102-47 List of material topics 16, 17 Total Emissions 18,395 ton CO2e Stated separately 102-48 Restatements of information at the related content 7th June 2018 Stated separately 102-49 Changes in reporting Reporting practice at the related content Korea Productivity Center, 102-50 Reporting period 2 Sustainability Management Center 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 Director Dong-Soo, Kim 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 95 102-55 GRI content index 97-99 102-56 External assurance 96-98 98 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX 99 2. Topic-specific Disclosures 3. Diclosures for Non-material Issues Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note MA Economic Performance Economic performance Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 201-2 23 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 42, 43 climate change Economic MA 37 performance Refer to page 247 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans in the business report Anti-corruption Refer to page 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 567-570 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to Refer to page 538 Market presence 202-1 in the business report local minimum wage in the business report MA 60 Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 70-73, 102 economic impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 23 Training 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 105 and education 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 37, 38 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 404-2 60, 61 transition assistance programs Refer to page Anti-corruption Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 34, 37, 38 MA 22 205-2 and procedures in the business report, Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts 523-526 413-2 4, 5, 23 Local communities on local communities Anti-competitive Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Initiatives to improve access to financial services 206-1 No such case FS14 24, 25 behavior and monopoly practices for disadvantaged people MA 18, 20 Environmental Performance Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 106 417-2 No violation information and labeling 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 106 Marketing and Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing Energy 417-3 No violation 302-3 Energy intensity 106 labeling communications 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 106 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products FS15 21 and services 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 106 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy 24, 25 Water All from tap water 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water and sewage MA 18, 20 Customer privacy 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 106 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 418-1 No violation privacy and losses of customer data 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 106 Policies with specific environmental and social components, Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 106 assessing, monitoring, improving staff competency, and 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 106 MA 22 environmental and social risks and opportunities, applied to business lines (FS1, FS2, FS3, FS4, FS5) 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 106 Product portfolio Wastewater is treated Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver FS7 23-25 by a wastewater social benefits for each business line Effluents 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 106 treatment plant Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver operated by a local FS8 23 and waste environmental benefits for each business line autonomous entity MA 22, 39 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 106 Audit Review is underway Environmental Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No violation FS9 23, 39, 40 by the Risk Management compliance environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures Committee 100 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX 101 UNGC & UN SDGs Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note UNGC Social Performance (GRI 400) Mirae Asset Daewoo joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), a voluntary corporate initiative that calls for corporations to assume 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 104 social responsibility, in October 2006. By abiding by its ten principles concerning human rights, labor, the environment, and antiBenefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided corruption, we are taking part in global standards on corporate social responsibility and declaring our strong determination to practice Employment 401-2 63 to temporary or part-time employees sustainability management. We will continue to abide by the ten principles of UNGC to fulfill our social responsibilities as a global 401-3 Parental leave 104 financial investment company. Occupational health Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 403-2 104 and safety lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Classification Principles Activities of Mirae Asset Daewoo Page 104, Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Refer to page 535-538 protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and We establish human rights protection principles, Diversity and equal in the business report Human Rights and provide training on preventing various human 65 opportunity Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights violations, including sexual harassment. Refer to page 538 rights abuses. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men in the business report Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No violation We operate the Labor-Management Council based association and the effective recognition of the right to on communication. Freedom of association collective bargaining; Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom and collective 407-1 104 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and We establish principles on protecting human rights of association and collective bargaining may be at risk bargaining compulsory labour; concerning the eradication of child labor and forced Labour Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents labor, and implement the principles throughout our 61-64 Child labor 408-1 No violation Standards Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and of child labor business activities. Forced or Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents Prohibition on discrimination based on gender, 409-1 No violation Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of age, religious belief, social status, region of origin, compulsory labor of forced or compulsory labor employment and occupation. school, childbirth, medical history, etc. is specified Rights of on the Rules of Employment. 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples No violation indigenous peoples Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews We develop alternative energy through the Green 412-1 65, 105 approach to environmental challenges; or impact assessments Index Fund and Clean Energy Fund, participate Human rights Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater in new & renewable energy power generation 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 65, 105 Environment 74, 106 assessment environmental responsibility; and projects, including the floating photovoltaic on Significant investment agreements and contracts that include Hapcheon Dam, as part of efforts to save energy, 412-3 65, 105 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening and build a green office. environmentally friendly technologies. Socioeconomic Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 419-1 No violation We conduct compliance and ethical management compliance and economic area Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in Anti-Corruption activities, such as blocking the inflow of illegal 37-38 all its forms, including extortion and bribery. funds. UN SDGs Mirae Asset Daewoo is conducting activities to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that were established by the UN for the sustainable development of the international community. The following lists the activities we perform for each goal. Details concerning the goals are available at http://sustainabledevelopment.un.org. Classification Goals Activities of Mirae Asset Daewoo Page Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education Goal 4. Social contributions (Scholarship) 71 and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Achieve gender equality and empower all Goal 5. Career development of female employees 61, 63, 64 women and girls Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable Participating in new & renewable energy Goal 7. 74 and modern energy for all power generation projects Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic Socially responsible finance and fund Goal 8. growth, full and productive employment and decent work 23, 27-29, 60 management; and leading digital finance for all Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive Providing financial services customized to Goal 9. 24 and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation medium-sized enterprises and small giants Goal 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries Increasing financial accessibility for minorities 25 Goal 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Energy saving efforts 74 Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable Goal 16. development, provide access to justice for all and build Protecting personal information 69 effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels 102 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX 103 Social Performance Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 1) Total number of employees Person 2,995 4,818 4,659 Employee Training Domestic 2,955 4,782 4,642 Total training hours Hour 102,675 181,309 198,542 By region Person Overseas 40 36 17 Number of employees received training Person 4,978 12,463 16,584 Executives 40 201 280 KRW Total training expenses billion 2.6 6.6 6.6 Head manager 423 439 760 Education on Human Rights and Ethics Senior manager 902 1,840 1,534 Training hours for education programs on human rights Hour/ By position2) Manager Person 1,258 848 695 167 126 165 and ethics Person Assistant manager 78 896 807 Number of people who participate in education programs 4,857 4,818 4,659 Staff level 216 527 543 on human rights and ethics Others (Stock consultants, etc.) 78 67 40 Number of people who participate in education programs Person 2,903 4,304 4,592 on prevention of sexual harassment Full-time 2,430 4,063 3,953 Number of people who participate in education programs Part-time 565 755 706 2,854 2,882 4,421 By type Person on information protection Number of employees converted from 66 118 139 Social Contribution Expenditures and Participants part-time to full-time KRW New hires 290 306 259 Expenditures in social contributions1) 3.7 6.3 4.0 Person billion Recruitment and Female new hires 147 177 120 Hours for volunteer activities Hour 6,731 8,166 428 retirement Turnover rate 9.5 6.5 7.8 2) % Participants in volunteer activities Person 2,096 2,836 140 Voluntary turnover rate 7.6 4.2 6.2 * 2015 figures are based on the data of Mirae Asset Daewoo (former Daewoo Securities); and figures since 2016 are based on the data of Mirae Asset Daewoo after the merger Male 1,784 2,722 2,614 1) CSR expenditures consist of 79% in cash donation and 16% in goods donation, and include operating expenses for voluntary activities; Expenses for voluntary activities per employee By gender Person = Total hours of participation x average hourly wage per person Female 1,211 2,096 2,045 2) Data prior to 2016 is an aggregation of both weekend and weekday volunteers and from 2017 the data is based on the number of weekday volunteers. Disabled people 34 24 23 Minorities Person Foreigners 20 26 24 Number of people returning to work Person 105 307 201 after parental leave Major Association Expenses in 2017* (Unit: KRW million) Parental leave Number of people staying at work for 12 months since returning to work % 89.6 94.9 93.9 Korea Financial Korea Financial Korea Capital Market Korea Chamber of Financial Security Agency Telecommunications & Others Total after parental leave Investment Association Institute Commerce and Industry Clearings Institute Labor union 4,205 740 247 167 57 361 5,777 membership % 70 44 45 percentage * Mirae Asset Daewoo strictly bans any forms of donation or aid towards political campaigns and election funds, political parties/political entities/politicians, and lobbying organizations/lobbyists. Number of absentees due to injuries Person 18 134 12 or illness Occupational injury Lost work days Day 683 8,133 271 Number of injuries Person 0 0 0 * 2015 figures are based on the data of Mirae Asset Daewoo (former Daewoo Securities); and figures since 2016 are based on the data of Mirae Asset Daewoo after the merger 1) Number of employees including registered executives 2) Corrections made due to the change in employee position classification standards 104 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX 105 Environmental Performance Tax Policy Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Governing Message Energy Consumption Mirae Asset Daewoo understands that compliance with tax laws and responsible, transparent tax payments that go beyond observance of laws is an important factor in contributing to national finance, enhancing shareholder value, and maximizing stakeholder profits, and LNG 10,513 13,426 20,401 that it is a fundamental condition that needs to be met for the company’s long-term growth. We have therefore established tax rules Gasoline, diesel 337 216 143 and policy, and pursue cooperative, constructive relations with taxation authorities for faithful implementation of our tax policy. We Kerosene GJ 308 340 442 make transparent tax payments and disclose relevant information according to the following rules. Electricity 278,233 332,680 342,610 District heating 6,289 6,600 6,629 Principles on Tax GHG Emissions – We recognize that compliance with tax laws and transparent tax payments are important parts of management. – We faithfully report and pay taxes in accordance with responsible tax rules. Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 578 719 1,075 – We do not abuse differences in tax laws among countries to avoid taxes. Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) tonCO2eq 13,750 16,402 16,640 – We evaluate the adequacy of transfer price in accordance with the arm’s length principle. Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 543 502 681 – We do not manage a legal entity for the purpose of avoiding taxes at a tax haven where sharing of tax information is impossible Water Consumption and where we do not have any economic activity. Tap water and sewage m3 117,776 105,101 97,545 – We make utmost efforts to fulfill cooperation obligations that are stipulated in tax laws to maintain constructive and cooperative Weight of Waste relations with taxation authorities. General wastes kg 111,900 63,750 39,848 – We conduct preemptive management and monitoring to reduce tax risks. * 2015 figures are based on the data of Mirae Asset Daewoo (former Daewoo Securities); and figures since 2016 are based on the data of Mirae Asset Daewoo after the merger – We document and store tax reports, documentary evidence, and materials related to decision-making on accounting issues. – We perform regular monitoring of tax issues. Disclosure of Tax Payment Information 2018 Target In Korea, we responsibly disclose income tax-related details through an audit report which is available on the Financial Supervisory Total energy consumption intensity GHG emissions intensity Water consumption intensity Service’s electronic official notice system (Dart.fss.or.kr). Disclosed content includes the following. (Including Scope 1 and Scope 2) 1. Accounting criteria for calculating income taxes 83.8 GJ/FTE 4.04 tonCO2eq/FTE 24.9 m3/FTE 2. Deferred tax asset and liability details 3. Composition details regarding temporary differences 4. Income tax expense composition details and tax rate information Energy Consumption GHG Emissions In addition, through our annual Sustainability Report and Audit Report, we disclose revenue and tax payment amount information by Total Total country, the difference between the valid tax rate and statutory tax rate of income taxes, and the reason for this difference. 370,225 370,225 GJ 353,262 17,715 tonCO2eq Base Erosion and Profit Shifting 295,680 Energy consumption intensity GHG emissions intensity Taxation authorities have made it mandatory to submit a report by country, which is Action 13 (Transfer Pricing Documentation) of the 79.5 GJ/FTE 3.81 tonCO2eq/FTE Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project, for multinational companies through the Adjustment of International Taxes Act. Parties obligated to submit a report, such as a controlling entity in Korea of a multinational company with sales exceeding KRW 1 trillion based 17,715 17,121 on consolidated financial statements of the preceding tax year, is obligated to submit a report by country that includes revenue details, 98.7 14,328 79.5 pre-tax profits and losses, and other such information by country for affiliated companies within the multinational company group. 73.3 Mirae Asset Daewoo is faithfully fulfilling this obligation. 3.81 4.78 3.55 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 * Total GHG emissions and GHG emissions intensity are based on Scope 1 and Scope 2 106 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX 107 Organization Chart Membership in Associations Name of organization IB Division1 IB Division2 IB Division3 Asia Society Korea Center ISDA Korea Management Association Trading Division1 Trading Division2 Association of Compliance Officers K-OTC Korea Money and Finance Association Capital Market Association of Korea Association of Korea Options, Swaps & Derivative Wholesale Division Securities Companies Real Estate Investment Trusts Association Center for Financial Law of Business Innovation Korea Capital Market Institute Korean Pension Association CEO Seoul National University Division Committee on Financial Informatization Korea Center for International Finance Korean Securities Association Promotion Business Support Division Korea Chamber of Commerce and Financial Information Business Korean Securities Law Association Industry Global Division Financial Information Security Council Korea Economic Research Institute National Strategy Institute Digital Finance Financial Law Center, Sogang University Korea Employers Federation Seoul IB Forum Division BOD Financial Security Forum Korea Federation of Banks The Institute of Internal Auditors IT Division Financial Security Institute Korea Financial Investment Association UN Global Compact Korea Financial Telecommunications CRO Global Finance Society & Clearings Institute Compliance Officer Institute for Global Economies Korea Listed Companies Association Equity Investments CEO Department Alternative Principal Investments Department Research Center Audit Committee Mega Investment Banking Department Audit Department New Business Development Group Listed on the DJSI World for Participated in the CDP for 6 consecutive years 9 consecutive years Investment Strategy Divison WM Officer WM∙Pension Support Divison 2018 Mirae Asset Daewoo WM Division Integrated Report IWC Division Mirae Asset CENTER 1 Bldg., 26, Eulji-ro 5-gil, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea www.miraeassetdaewoo.com 108 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX 109 APPENDIX II Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 1. Reporing Entity (1) Parent company Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (the “Company”) was originally incorporated on September 23, 1970, under the name of Dong yang Securities Co., Ltd. and changed its name to Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd. on October 20, 1983. The Company merged with Sambo Securities Co., Ltd. on December 19, 1983, and changed its name to Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. on May 13, 2016. In addition, the Company merged with Mirae Asset Securities Co., Ltd. on December 29, 2016. The Company is headquartered in Suha-dong, Jung-gu, Seoul and also operates a network of 164 domestic branches, 3 overseas liaison offices, 14 overseas subsidiaries and 1 overseas investment consulting company as of December 31, 2017. The shares of the Company were listed on the Korea Exchange in September 1975, and the Company has increased its capital by issuing new paid-in shares, bonus issue, stock dividend, etc. The Company’s outstanding capital (including preferred shares) as of December 31, 2017, amounted to ￦3,401,961 million, and major shareholders of the Company as of December 31, 2017, are as follows: Name of shareholder Number of Shares Percentage of ownership (%) Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd. 124,096,307 18.62 Treasury stock 110,377,511 16.57 111 Employee stock ownership association 2,077,291 0.31 Notes to the Consolidated Others 429,765,299 64.50 Financial Statements Total 666,316,408 100.00 (2) Subsidiaries 1) Mirae Asset Venture Investment Mirae Asset Venture Investment Co., Ltd. was founded on June 8, 1999, to primarily support the establishment of smaller businesses and registered as a small investment business company with the Small and Medium Business Administration on June 28, 1999. The entity is mostly engaged in projects regarding investments and venture capital fund managements for small businesses. The Company’s headquarter is located at Seongnam City, Gyeonggi Province. The entity had ￦10,000 million as capital at the time of establishment, and with issuances of new stocks, the entity has ￦24,362 million of common stocks and W500 million of preferred stocks of paid-in capital, as of December 31, 2017. 2) Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. (Daewoo Securities (Europe) Ltd.) was founded by the Company’s contribution, established on May 3, 1991, and it is engaged in securities brokerage, sale, acquisition and arrangement of proprietary assets, etc. The company changed its name from Daewoo Securities (Europe) Ltd. to Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. on November 28, 2016. 3) Mirae Asset Securities (USA) Inc. Mirae Asset Securities (USA) Inc. (Daewoo Securities (America) Inc.) was founded by the parent company’s contribution, established on July 7, 1992, and it is engaged in securities brokerage, sale of proprietary assets, etc. The company changed its name from Daewoo Securities (America) Inc. to Mirae Asset Securities (USA) Inc. on November 28, 2016. 4) Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Limited Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Limited was founded by the Company’s contribution, and it gained a permissions for operation from Hong Kong relevant authorities on January 11, 2007. It is engaged in securities brokerage, sale of proprietary assets, corporate finance consulting, and asset management 110 2018 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX 111 etc. Due to the merge with Daewoo Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd,. the company changed its name from Mirae Asset (3) Functional and presentation currency Wealth Management (HK) Limited to Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Limited. The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates (its functional currency). The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in Korean won 5) Mirae Asset Wealth Management (Brazil) CCTVM (“￦”), which is also the Company’s functional and presentation currency. Mirae Asset Brazil Holdings was established with the invested capital from Mirae Asset Securities Hong Kong Limited, a 100% owned subsidiary of the Company. Mirae Asset Securities (Brazil) CCTVM LTDA. was established with 100% of (4) Use of estimates and judgments capital from Mirae Asset Securities (Brazil), and received local business authorization on August 26, 2010. Mirae Asset Brazil Holdings and Mirae Asset Securities (Brazil) CCTVM LTDA were merged to improve management efficiency on The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with K-IFRS requires management to make February 25th, 2014. The company name, Mirae Asset Securities (Brazil) CCTVM LTDA, was changed to Mirae Asset judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of Wealth Management (Brazil) CCTVM on February 9, 2015. assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 6) PT. Mirae Asset Sekuritas Indonesia Estimates and underlying assumptions are evaluated on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized PT. Mirae Asset Sekuritas Indonesia (PT. Daewoo Securities Indonesia) was established by the Daewoo Securities (Hong in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future years affected. Kong) Ltd.’s contribution on May 3, 1991, and it is engaged in securities brokerage, sale, acquisition and arrangement of proprietary assets, consulting, etc. The company is renamed from PT. Daewoo Securities Indonesia to PT. Mirae Asset 1) Management’s judgement Sekuritas Indonesia on December 26, 2016. Information about critical judgments in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements is included in the following notes: 7) Mirae Asset MAPS Frontier US Private Real Estate Investment Trust 6-2 Note 3. (7) – Non-derivative financial assets It is a beneficiary securities granted in order to invet in Fairmont Hotel located in San Fransisco, USA. The parent company Note 3. (8) – Derivative financial assets holds its equity on the amount of ￦141,500 million (book value) which is correspond to 99.92% from its total prortion as Note 3. (9) – Fair value of financial instruments of December 31, 2017. Note 3. (10) – Impairment of financial assets Note 3. (13) – Investment property 8) Mirae Asset Maps Frontier US Private Real Estate Investment Trust 7 Note 3. (17) – Hybrid financial instruments It is a beneficiary securities granted in order to invest in Hyatt Regency Waikiki Hotel located Oahu Waikiki beach in Note 3. (21) – Provisions Hawaii, USA. The Company holds its equity in the amount of ￦338,135 million (book value) which is correspond to Note 3. (27) – Income tax 99.83% of its total shares as of December 31, 2017. 2) Uncertainty of assumptions and estimations Information about assumptions and estimation uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment within the next financial year are included in the following notes: 2. Basis of preparation Note 3. (27): Income tax Note 11: Loans and receivables (1) Application of international accounting standard Note 12: Fair value of financial asset and liability The Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) have prepared the consolidated financial statements in accordance with Note 24, 46: Provisions, commitments and contingencies the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”), as prescribed in the Act on External Audits of Stock Note 47: Share-based payments Companies in Republic of Korea. The consolidated financial statements were authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on January 31, 2018, which will 3. Significant accounting policies be submitted for approval to the shareholders’ meeting to be held on March 27, 2018. The significant accounting policies applied by the Group in preparation of its consolidated financial statements are included The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been translated into English from the Korean language financial below. The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods in these separate financial statements. In the event of any differences in interpreting the financial statements the Korean version, which is used for statements. regulatory reporting purposes, shall prevail. (1) Basis of consolidation (2) Basis of measurement The consolidated financial statements integrate the financial statements of the parent and those of its subsidiaries. The The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following material items Group controls an investee if the Group has 1) Power over the investee 2) Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from in the consolidated statement of financial position: its involvement with the investee, and 3) The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns. The Group reevaluates whether or not it controls over an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value more of the three elements of control. Non-derivative Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”) are measured at fair value Available-for-sale (“AFS”) financial instruments are measured at fair value The Group with less than a majority of the voting rights has rights that are sufficient to give it power when the investor Liabilities for cash-settled share-based payment arrangements are measured at fair value has the practical ability to direct the relevant activities unilaterally. When assessing whether the Group’s voting rights are Share-based payments are measured at fair value sufficient to give it power, the Group considers all facts and circumstances, including: 112 113 The size of the investor’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders. net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. If, after reassessment, Potential voting rights held by the investor, other vote holders or other parties. the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of a) Rights arising from other contractual arrangements, and the consideration transferred, b) the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and c) the fair value of the ‌Any additional facts and circumstances that indicate the investor has, or does not have, the current ability to direct acquirer’s previously held interest in the acquiree (if any), the excess is recognized immediately in profit or loss as a bargain the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders’ purchase gain. meetings. Non-controlling interests that are current ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the Income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the statement of entity’s net assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ comprehensive income from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary. proportionate share of the recognized amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis The carrying amount of the non-controlling interests is proportionate share of the recognized amount of the identifiable net is made on a transaction-by-transaction basis. Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at fair value or, when assets at the acquisition date and the amount of change in equity related to non-controlling interest thereafter. The Group applicable, on the basis specified in another K-IFRS. shall also attribute total comprehensive income to the owners of the parent and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and is If a subsidiary of the Group uses accounting policies other than those adopted in the consolidated financial statements included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination. Changes in the fair value of the contingent for like transactions and events in similar circumstances, appropriate adjustments are made to the subsidiary’s financial consideration that qualify as measurement-period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments statements in preparing the consolidated financial statements. against goodwill. Measurement-period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the ‘measurement period’ (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) about facts and circumstances that Every transactions between the group members and its relevant assets, liabilities, revenues and costs are eliminated when existed at the acquisition date. the consolidated financial statements are made. The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as The transaction of the change in the Group’s ownership interest that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as measurement-period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent consideration equity transactions. The carrying amount of controlling interest form the Group and non-controlling interest are adjusted by that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted reflecting changes in the relative change of the equity from the subsidiary. The differences between the adjusted amount of for within equity. Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting the non-controlling interest and the fair value of the considerations are directly recognized to equity and it is attributable to dates in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1039, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, or K-IFRS No. 1037, the parent. Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognized in profit or loss. If a parent loses control of a subsidiary it will recognize the gains or losses from the disposal of its subsidiaries to the differences of the book value between (i) the fair value of the considerations received and (ii) the carrying amounts of the When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group‘s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is assets (including any goodwill), a liabilities of the subsidiary and non-controlling interests at the date when control is lost. If remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date (i.e., the date when the Group obtains control) and the resulting gain or loss, a parent loses control of a subsidiary, the parent shall account for all amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive if any, is recognized in profit or loss. Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have income in relation to that subsidiary on the same basis as would be required if the parent had directly disposed of the previously been recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where such treatment would be related assets or liabilities. The fair value of investment assets of the subsidiaries before the date of losing control is appropriate if that interest were disposed of. deemed to recognize the fair value of the initial recognition of the assets by “IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurements” or, if possible, recognize its initial investment cost of associates and joint ventures If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional (2) Business combinations amounts are adjusted during the measurement period (see above), or additional assets or liabilities are recognized to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in affected the amounts recognized at that date. a business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the fair values of the assets transferred by the Group at the acquisition date, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are generally recognized in (3) Investments in associates and joint ventures profit or loss as incurred. An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies. At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognized at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net ‌Deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognized and assets of the joint arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists measured in accordance with K-IFRS 1012, Income Taxes, and K-IFRS 1019, Employee Benefits , respectively; only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. ‌Liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or share-based payment arrangements of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in The results and assets and liabilities of associates or joint ventures are incorporated in these consolidated financial accordance with K-IFRS 1102, Share-based Payment , at the acquisition date; and statements using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance with K-IFRS 1105 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. Under Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of a) the consideration transferred, b) the amount of any non-controlling the equity method, an investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognized in the consolidated statement of interests in the acquiree and c) the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any), over the financial position at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognize the Group’s share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive 114 115 income of the associate or joint venture. When the Group’s share of losses of an associate or a joint venture exceeds the A cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when Group’s interest in that associate or joint venture (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of there is indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its the Group’s net investment in the associate or joint venture), the Group discontinues recognizing its share of further losses. carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the Additional losses are recognized only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognized directly in profit or loss. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of an associate or a joint venture recognized at the date of acquisition is recognized as goodwill, which On disposal of the relevant cash-generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the is included within the carrying amount of the investment and it undergoes impairment test as a part of the investment profit or loss on disposal. assets. Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognized immediately in profit or loss. (5) Foreign currency transactions Upon disposal of an associate or a joint venture that results in the Group losing significant influence over that associate or 1) Foreign currency transactions joint venture, any retained investment is measured at fair value at that date and the fair value is regarded as its fair value on Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of the Group entities at exchange initial recognition as a financial asset in accordance with K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. rates at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to The difference between the previous carrying amount of the associate or joint venture attributable to the retained interest the functional currency using the report date’s exchange rate. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign and its fair value is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal of the associate or joint venture. In addition, currencies that are measured at fair value are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the Group accounts for all amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income in relation to that associate or joint the fair value was determined. venture on the same basis we would be required if that associate or joint venture had directly disposed of the related assets Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange or liabilities. Therefore, if a gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income by that associate or joint rate at the date of the transaction. venture would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the Group reclassifies the gain or loss from equity to profit or loss (as reclassification adjustment) when it loses significant influence over that associate Foreign currency differences arising on translation are recognized in profit or loss, except for differences arising on the or joint venture. translation of available-for-sale equity instruments, a financial liability designated as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation, or in a qualifying cash flow hedge, which are recognized in other comprehensive income. Translation When the Group reduces its ownership interest in an associate or a joint venture but the Group continues to use the equity differences on Non-monetary items whose fair value gain or loss is recognized in other comprehensive income or profit method, the Group reclassifies to profit or loss the proportion of the gain or loss that had previously been recognized in other or loss is also recognized in other comprehensive income or profit or loss, respectively. comprehensive income relating to that reduction in ownership interest if that gain or loss would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities. In addition, the Group applies K-IFRS 1105 Non-current Assets Held 2) Foreign operations for Sale and Discontinued Operations to a portion of investment in an associate or a joint venture that meets the criteria to If the presentation currency of the Group is different from a foreign operation’s functional currency, the financial be classified as held for sale. statements of the foreign operation are translated into the presentation currency using the following methods. The requirements of K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are applied to determine whether Unless the functional currency of foreign operations is in a state of hyperinflation, assets and liabilities of foreign it is necessary to recognize any impairment loss with respect to the Group’s investment in an associate or a joint venture. operations are translated at the closing exchange rate at the end of the reporting period. Revenues and expenses on When necessary, the entire carrying amount of the investment (including goodwill) is tested for impairment in accordance the statement of comprehensive income are translated at average rate for the accounting period. Foreign currency with K-IFRS 1036 Impairment of Assets by comparing its recoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value less differences that arise from translation are recognized as other comprehensive income, and recategorized as profit or loss costs to sell) with its carrying amount; any impairment loss recognized forms part of the carrying amount of the investment. when foreign operations are disposed and the disposal profit or loss is recognized. Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognized in accordance with K-IFRS 1036 Impairment of Assets to the extent that the recoverable amount of the investment subsequently increases. Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition of that foreign operation is treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign The Group continues to use the equity method when an investment in an associate becomes an investment in a joint operation. Thus, they are expressed in the functional currency of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate. venture or an investment in a joint venture becomes an investment in an associate reversely. There is no remeasurement to fair value upon such changes in ownership interests. When a foreign operation is disposed of, the relevant amount in the translation is transferred to profit or loss as part of the profit or loss on disposal. In any other partial disposal of a foreign operation, the relevant proportion is reclassified to When a group entity transacts with an associate or a joint venture of the Group, profits and losses resulting from the profit or loss. transactions with the associate or joint venture are recognized in the Group’s consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the associate or joint venture that are not related to the Group. 3) Translation of net investment in the foreign operation Monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, with none or little possibility of being settled in the (4) Goodwill foreseeable future, are considered a part of the net investment in the foreign operation. Therefore, the exchange Goodwill resulting from an acquisition of a business is carried at cost as established at the date of acquisition of the difference is recognized as comprehensive profit or loss in the financial statement, and recategorized to profit or loss as of business less accumulated impairment losses, if any. the disposal of the related net investment. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (or groups of cash-generating units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. 116 117 (6) Cash and cash equivalents measured and derivatives those are linked to and must be settled by delivery of such unquoted equity instruments Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits, and short-term, highly liquid investments that are are measured at cost. When the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in their fair value, and loss previously accumulated in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss. Dividends on AFS equity are used by the Group in the management of its short-term commitments. instruments are recognized in profit or loss when the Group’s right to receive the dividends is established. Equity investments are excluded from cash equivalents unless they are, in substance, cash equivalents, for example, in the 5) Derecognition of financial assets case of preferred shares when it has a short maturity with a specified redemption date. The Group derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows of the financial asset in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred. Any interest in transferred financial assets that is (7) Non-derivative financial assets created or retained by the Group is recognized as a consolidated asset or liability. The Group recognizes and measures non-derivative financial assets by the following four categories: financial assets at FVTPL, held-to-maturity (“HTM”) investments, loans and receivables and AFS financial assets. The Group recognizes If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred financial assets, the Group financial assets in the consolidated statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual continues to recognize the transferred financial assets and recognizes financial liabilities for the consideration received. provisions of the instrument. 6) Offsetting between financial assets and financial liabilities Upon initial recognition, non-derivative financial assets are measured at their fair value plus, except for a financial asset at Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the consolidated statement of FVTPL, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the asset’s acquisition or issuance. financial position only when the Group currently has a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts, and there is the intention to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 1) Financial assets at FVTPL Financial assets are classified as of FVTPL when the financial asset is either held for trading or is designated at FVTPL. (8) Derivative financial instruments Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value upon initial recognition and changes therein are recognized in profit or loss. Upon initial recognition, attributable transaction costs are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are accounted for as described below. A financial asset is classified as held for trading if: it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling it in the near term; or 1) Hedge accounting ‌on initial recognition, it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has Derivative instruments are accounted for differently depending on whether hedge accounting is applied, and therefore, are a recent actual pattern of short-term profit taking; or classified into trading purpose derivatives and hedging purpose derivatives. A fair value hedge is a hedge of the exposure it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument. to changes in fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, or an identified portion of such an asset, liability or firm commitment, that is attributable to a particular risk and could affect profit or loss. A cash A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be designated at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows that (i) is attributable to a particular risk associated with ‌such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise a recognised asset or liability (such as all or some future interest payments on variable rate debt) or a highly probable arise; or forecasted transaction and (ii) could affect profit or loss. For trading purpose derivatives transactions, changes in the fair ‌the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its value of derivatives are recognized in profit or loss. performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group’s documented Risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or The Group does not hold any derivatives designated as hedging derivatives as of December 31, 2017. ‌it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives and K-IFRS No. 1039, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement , permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated at FVTPL. 2) Embedded derivative instruments Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments are treated as separate derivatives and recorded at fair value if 2) HTM investments their economic characteristics and risks are not clearly and closely related to those of the host contract and the host If the non-derivative assets have a fixed maturity with fixed or determinable payments, and the Group has the positive contract is not itself held for trading or designated at FVTPL, unless the Group aggregately designates the host contract intent and ability to hold them until maturity, then such financial assets are classified as HTM. Subsequent to initial and embedded derivative as a financial instrument at FVTPL. These embedded derivatives are separated from the host recognition, HTM financial assets are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. contract and are carried at fair value, with changes in their fair value recognized in profit or loss. 3) Loans and receivables 3) Other derivative financial instruments Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Changes in the fair value of other derivative financial instrument not designated as a hedging instrument are recognized Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest immediately in profit or loss. method. (9) Fair value of financial instruments 4) AFS financial assets The fair values of financial instruments not actively traded in markets (e.g., OTC derivatives) are determined by using AFS financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as AFS or are not classified as financial valuation techniques. The Group determines valuation methods and assumptions based on significant market conditions at assets at FVTPL, HTM investments or loans and receivables. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair the end of each reporting period. Diverse valuation techniques are used to determine the fair value of financial instruments, value, with changes in fair value, net of any tax effect, recorded in other comprehensive income in equity. Investments from general market accepted valuation models to internally developed valuation models that incorporate various types of in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably assumptions and variables. 118 119 The Group classifies and discloses fair value of the financial instruments into following three-level hierarchy. The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for loans and receivables that Level 1 : Financial instruments measured at quoted prices from active markets are classified as fair value level 1. are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. If ‌Level 2 : Financial instruments measured using valuation techniques where all significant inputs are observable market the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, data are classified as level 2. whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and ‌Level 3 : Financial instruments measured using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are not based collectively assesses them for impairment. on observable market data are classified as level 3. Impairment losses on loans reduces the carrying amount of the assets through the use of an allowances account, The method of measuring fair value of financial instruments are as follows: and when a loan becomes uncollectable, it is written off against the related allowances account. If, in a subsequent recognition of impairment, the previously recognized impairment loss is reversed by adjusting an allowance account, Type Fair value measurement method the amount of the reversal is recognized in profit or loss. The carrying amount and fair value is the same for cash, and the carrying amount is determined to be the Deposits fair value for deposits. Individual assessment of impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan at Financial instruments held The quoted prices are applied to financial instruments held for trading traded in active markets, like listed its original effective interest rate and comparing the resultant present value with the loan’s current carrying amount. for trading stocks. This process normally encompasses management’s best estimate, such as estimating the operating cash flows of the Financial instruments The active market prices are applied to financial instruments traded in active markets, while hybrid financial borrower, and the net realizable value of any collateral held, and the timing of anticipated receipts. designated at FVTPL instruments apply the fair values determined by valuation techniques. The quoted prices are applied to in-market derivatives, and as of off-market derivatives, fair values Derivatives For the purpose of a collective assessment of impairment, loans are analyzed on the basis of the Group’s internal credit determined by external evaluation specialized agency are applied. The quoted prices are applied to securities traded in active markets, like listed stocks, and if quoted prices rating system that considers credit risk characteristics such as asset type, industry, geographical location, collateral AFS financial assets are not available, fair values determined by external evaluation specialized agency are applied. type, past-due status and other relevant factors. Loans The carrying amount is determined to be the fair value. Deposits due to customers The carrying amount is determined to be the fair value. Future cash flows of the loans collectively assessed are estimated on the basis of historical loss experience for loans Borrowings The carrying amount is determined to be the fair value. with similar credit risk characteristics. Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data Debentures The fair value is calculated using discounted cash flow model. to reflect the effects of current conditions on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects Other financial assets and The carrying amount is determined to be the fair value for other financial assets and liabilities that are of conditions in the historical period that no longer exists. Estimates of changes in future cash flows reflect, and are liabilities derived from various transactions, since they are relatively short term. directionally consistent with, changes in related observable data from year to year (such as changes in unemployment rates, property prices, commodity prices, payment status or other factors that are indicative of incurred loss in the Group and their magnitude). The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash flows are reviewed (10) Impairment of financial assets regularly to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience. A financial asset not carried at FVTPL is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that it is impaired. A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial 2) AFS financial assets recognition of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that When a decline in the fair value of an AFS financial asset has been recognized in other comprehensive income can be estimated reliably. However, losses expected as a result of future events, regardless of likelihood, are not recognized. and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognized in other comprehensive income shall be reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment even though Objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired includes, but is not limited to, the following events: the financial asset has not been derecognized. Significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor A breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments Impairment losses recognized in profit or loss for an investment in an equity instrument classified as AFS shall not ‌The lender, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a be reversed through profit or loss. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as AFS concession that the lender would not otherwise consider increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognized in It becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganization profit or loss, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognized in profit or loss. The disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties ‌Observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows from a group of (11) Day 1 profit or loss recognition financial assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identified with the individual financial assets in the group In cases where fair value is determined using data which is not observable in the market, the difference between the transaction price and initial value is amortized in the statement of comprehensive income by using the straight line method In addition, for an investment in an equity security, a significant or prolonged decline in its fair value below its cost is over an appropriate period. objective evidence of impairment. (12) Property and equipment If financial assets have objective evidence that they are impaired, impairment losses are measured and recognized. Property and equipment are initially measured at cost and after initial recognition, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost of property and equipment includes expenditures arising 1) Loans and receivables directly from the construction or acquisition of the asset, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location Loans and receivables are measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management and the initial estimate of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located. asset’s original effective interest rate. 120 121 Subsequent to initial recognition, an item of property and equipment shall be carried at its cost less any accumulated (14) Intangible assets depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Intangible assets are measured initially at cost and after initial recognition are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. Subsequent costs are recognized in the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment at cost or, if appropriate, as separate items if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of Amortization of intangible assets is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. The costs of the day-to-day from the date that they are available for use. The residual value of intangible assets is zero. However, as there are no servicing are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. foreseeable limits to the periods over which memberships and settlement system right of use are expected to be available for use, these intangible assets are determined as having indefinite useful lives and not amortized. Property and equipment, except for land, are depreciated on a straight-line basis over estimated useful lives that appropriately reflect the pattern in which the asset’s future economic benefits are expected to be consumed. A component Descriptions Useful lives (years) that is significant compared to the total cost of property and equipment is depreciated over its separate useful life. Goodwill Indefinite useful lives Development cost 4 The estimated useful lives of the Group’s assets by categories are as follows: Software 4 Memberships Indefinite useful lives Descriptions Useful lives (years) Structures 20, 40 Settlement system right of use Indefinite useful lives Vehicles 4 Others 7 Furniture and fixtures 4 Data processing equipment 4 Amortization periods and the amortization methods for intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed at the end of each reporting period. The useful lives of intangible assets that are not being amortized are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances continue to support indefinite useful life assessments for Each part of an item of property, plant and equipment with a cost that is significant in relation to the total cost of the item those assets. Changes are accounted for as changes in accounting estimates. are depreciated separately. Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and are recognized in Expenditures on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and profit or loss. understanding, are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. Development activities involve a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes. Development expenditures are capitalized only if development Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each financial year-end and adjusted if appropriate. costs can be measured reliably, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits The change is accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. are probable and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete development and to use or sell the asset. Other development expenditures are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. Property and equipment is impaired when its carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. The Company assesses residual value and economic life of its assets at each reporting date and makes adjustments to its useful life when necessary. Any gain or loss arising from the disposal of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal (15) Impairment of non-financial assets proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is recognized in profit of loss. The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than assets from employee benefits and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such (13) Investment property indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. Goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet available for use, irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, are tested for Property held for the purpose of earning rentals or benefiting from capital appreciation is classified as investment impairment annually by comparing their recoverable amount to their carrying amount. property. Investment property is measured initially at its cost. Transaction costs are included in the initial measurement. Subsequently, investment property is carried at depreciated cost less any accumulated impairment losses. The Group estimates the recoverable amount of an individual asset. If it is impossible to measure the individual recoverable amount of an asset, then the Group estimates the recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit (“CGU”). A CGU is Investment property is derecognized upon disposal or when the investment property is permanently withdrawn from use the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from and no future economic benefits are expected from the disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the property other assets or groups of assets. The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its value in use and its fair (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the assets) is included in profit value less costs to sell. or loss in the period in which the property is derecognized. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Depreciation of investment property is calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives as follow: Impairment losses are recognized in profit or loss. Descriptions Useful lives (years) Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate Buildings 20, 40, 50 of its recoverable amount, so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognized immediately in profit or loss. 122 123 (16) Non-derivative financial liabilities of debt instruments. Financial guarantee contract liabilities are initially measured at their fair values and amortized during The Group classifies non-derivative financial liabilities into financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities in the contractual term. accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement and the definitions of financial liabilities. The Group recognizes financial liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party to the Financial guarantee contract liabilities are subsequently measured at the higher of: contractual provisions of the financial liability. The amount determined in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1037, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets , and The initial amount less amortization of fees recognized in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1018, Revenue 1) Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial liabilities are classified as of FVTPL when the financial liability is either held for trading or is designated as (19) Employee benefits FVTPL. A financial liability is classified as held for trading if: it has been acquired principally for the purpose of repurchasing it in the near term; or 1) Short-term employee benefits ‌on initial recognition, it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and Short-term employee benefits are employee benefits that are due to be settled within 12 months after the end of the has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit taking; or period in which the employees render the related service. When an employee has rendered service to the Group during it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument. an accounting period, the Group recognizes the undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expected to be paid in exchange for that service. A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may be designated at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: ‌such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would 2) Retirement benefits otherwise arise; or The Group operates defined contribution plans for the qualified employees and defined benefit plans for the qualified ‌the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its executives, directors, part timers, etc. performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group’s documented Risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or When an employee has rendered service to the Group during a period, the Group recognizes the contribution payable to ‌it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives and K-IFRS No. 1039, Financial Instruments: a defined contribution plan in exchange for that service as a liability (accrued expense), after deducting any contribution Recognition and Measurement , permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated at FVTPL. already paid. If the contribution already paid exceeds the contribution due for service before the end of the reporting period, the Group recognizes that excess as an asset (prepaid expense) to the extent that the prepayment will lead to a 2) Financial liabilities measured at amortized costs reduction in future payments or a cash refund. Financial liabilities that are not classified as of FVTPL are measured at amortized costs. Deposits, borrowings and debentures that are not designated at FVTPL are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized costs. The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost are recognized initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in the current and prior periods, discounting that amount They are subsequently carried at amortized cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and and deducting the fair value of any plan assets. When the calculation results in a potential asset for the Group, the the redemption value is recognized in the statement of comprehensive income over the period of the other financial recognized asset is limited to the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds liabilities using the effective interest rate method. from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. To calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any applicable minimum funding requirements. 3) Derecognition of financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When 3) Termination benefits an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms Termination benefits are recognized as an expense when the Group is committed demonstrably, without realistic of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the possibility of withdrawal, to a formal detailed plan to either terminate employment before the normal retirement date, original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference between the carrying value of the original financial or to provide termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Termination benefits liability and the consideration paid is recognized in profit or loss. for voluntary redundancies are recognized as an expense if the Group has made an offer of voluntary redundancy, it is probable that the offer will be accepted and the number of acceptances can be estimated reliably. If benefits are (17) Hybrid financial instruments payable more than 12 months after the reporting period, then they are discounted to their present value. The hybrid financial instrument issued by the Group is classified as a financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement. (20) Share-based payments The Group has granted shares or share options to its employees and other parties. For equity-settled share-based The liability component of a convertible bond shall be recognized as the fair value of a similar liability on initial recognition payment transactions, the Group measures the goods or services received, and the corresponding increase in equity as a and be measured in amortized cost by the effective interest method until it is extinguished. The equity component is capital adjustment at the fair value of the goods or services received, unless that fair value cannot be estimated reliably. If determined by deducting the fair value of the financial liability from the fair value of the hybrid financial instrument as a the Group cannot reliably estimate the fair value of the goods or services received, the Group measures their value, and the whole on initial recognition. The tax effect shall be reflected and the instrument is not remeasured afterward. Transaction corresponding increase in equity, indirectly, by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted. costs that relate to the issuance of a hybrid financial instrument are allocated to the liability and equity components of the instrument in proportion to the allocation of proceeds. For cash-settled share-based payment transactions, the Group measures the goods or services acquired and the liability incurred at the fair value of the liability. Until the liability is settled, the Group remeasures the fair value of the liability at (18) Financial guarantee contract liabilities each reporting date and at the date of settlement, with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss for the period. A financial guarantee contract refers to a contract that requires the issuer to pay the specified amounts to reimburse the holder for a loss because the specified debtor fails to make payment when due under original or revised contractual terms 124 125 (21) Provisions liabilities. When financial instruments are classified as financial instruments at FVTPL, fees and commission are Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is recognized as revenue upon initial recognition. probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 2) Fees and commission from services Fees and commission income charged in exchange for services to be performed during a certain period of time such as The risks and uncertainties that inevitably surround many events and circumstances are taken into account in reaching the underwriting commissions, underwriting commissions on debentures and asset management fees are recognized as best estimate of a provision. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined at the the related services are performed. present value of the expected future cash flows. 3) Fees and commission from significant transaction Provisions are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. If it is no Fees and commission from significant transactions, such as trading stocks and other securities, negotiation and longer probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, the mediation activities for third parties, for instance business transfer and takeover, are recognized when the transactions provision is reversed. Provisions are used only in the expenditures related to initial recognition. are completed. (22) Regular way trades (25) Net gains (losses) on financial instruments at FVTPL Equity securities, debt securities and derivatives, which are traded in Korea Exchange or qualified foreign exchange Net gains (losses) on financial instruments at FVTPL include the following profit and loss (including changes in fair value, markets, are treated as regular way trades. The Company’s accounting policies about regular way trades are described interest rate, dividends, and profit and loss from translation of foreign currency). below. Net gains and losses related to financial assets and liabilities at FVTPL ‌Net gains and losses related to derivative financial instruments held for trading (including derivative financial instruments 1) Proprietary Trading that are held for Risk management objectives, but do not meet the criteria as a fair value hedge) As a proprietary trading, purchases or sales of asset that require delivery of asset within a time frame established by regulation or convention in the marketplace are recognized or derecognized on the trading date. (26) Dividends Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive income is established. 2) Brokerage For a brokerage, the Company serves a customer who trades listed stocks and other securities and recognizes the (27) Income tax brokerage fee on the trading date. Until the settlement date of the trading on consignment, the Company does not offset the receivables and payables to customers and offsets the receivables and payables to Korea Exchange. Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current and deferred taxes are recognized in profit or loss, except to the extent that they relate to a business combination, or items recognized directly in equity or in other comprehensive income. (23) Interest income and expense Effective interest method is the way of calculating amortized cost of financial assets and liabilities and allocating interest 1) Current tax income and expenses through relevant period. If expected duration of the financial instrument is appropriate, the effective Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable profit or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or interest rate makes present value of future expected cash outflows and inflows exactly equal to net carrying amount of substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. financial assets and liabilities. The taxable profit is different from the accounting profit for the period since the taxable profit is calculated excluding the temporary differences, which will be taxable or deductible in determining taxable profit (tax loss) of future periods, and When calculating the effective interest rate, the Company estimates future cash flows considering all contractual terms non-taxable or non-deductible items from the accounting profit. of the financial instrument, but not future credit losses. The calculation of the effective interest rate includes all fees and points paid or received that are an integral part of the effective interest rate. Transaction costs include incremental costs 2) Deferred tax that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issuance of a financial asset or liability. Exceptional case of where the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset cash flow or expected lifetime of the financial instruments is not reliably estimated, the interest rate is calculated by its is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted contractual cash flows from contractual period. by the end of the reporting period. If financial instruments or the group of relevant financial instruments are reduced by recognizing impairment, the interest The Group recognizes deferred tax liabilities for all taxable temporary differences associated with investments in income is measured using interest rate on measuring impairment of discounting future cash flows. subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, except to the extent that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in (24) Fees and commission income the foreseeable future. The Group recognizes deferred tax assets for all deductible temporary differences arising from Fees and commission income and expense are classified as follows according to related regulations: investments in subsidiaries and associates, to the extent that it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilized. 1) Fees and commission from financial instruments Fees and commission income and expense that are integral to the effective interest rate on a financial asset or liability The carrying amount of a deferred tax asset is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduces the carrying are included in the measurement of the effective interest rate. It includes those related to evaluations of the borrowers’ amount to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow the benefit of financial status, guarantees, collateral, other agreements and related evaluations as well as business transactions, part or all of that deferred tax asset to be utilized. rewards for activities, document preparation and recording and setup fees incurred during issuance of financial Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset 126 127 is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted 4. Change in accounting policies by the end of the reporting period. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only if there is a legally enforceable right to offset the related current tax (1) New standards and interpretations adopted liabilities and assets, and they relate to income tax levied by the same tax authority and they intend to settle current tax The Group is applying the following new accounting standards as from January 1. 2017. liabilities and assets on a net basis. 1) K-IFRS No. 1007 ‘Cash Flow Statements’ (Amended) Additional income taxes arising from dividend payments are recognized when expenses related to dividend payments The amendments require that changes in liabilities arising from financial activities are disclosed. This amendment has no are recognized. material impact on the Group’s financial statements. 2) K-IFRS No. 1012 ‘Income tax’ (Amended) (28) Operating segments The amendments clarify that unrealized losses on fixed-rate debt instruments measured at fair value and measured at An operating segment is a component of the Group whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s chief cost for tax purposes give rise to a deductible temporary difference regardless of whether the holder expects to recover operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, the carrying amount of the debt instrument by sale or by use and that the estimate of probable future taxable profit may and for which discrete financial information is available. Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as include the recovery of some of assets for more than their carrying amount. When the Group assesses whether there will well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. be sufficient taxable profit, the Group should compare the deductible temporary differences with future taxable profit that excludes tax deductions resulting from the reversal of those deductible temporary differences. This amendment has no (29) Earnings per share material impact on the Group’s financial statements. The Group calculates basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share for profit or loss and discloses them at the comprehensive income statements. Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to (2) New standards and interpretations not yet adopted ordinary equity holders of the Group by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, The following new standards have been published and are mandatory for the Group for annual periods beginning after adjusted for own shares held. Diluted earnings per share are determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to January 1, 2017, and the Group has not early adopted them. ordinary shareholders and the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. 1) K-IFRS No. 1109 ‘Financial Instruments’ K-IFRS No. 1109, Financial Instruments which was published on September 25, 2016, is effective for periods beginning (30) Accounting for trust accounts on or after January 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted. K-IFRS No. 1109 will replace the current K-IFRS No. 1039, The Group manages trust accounts and its own account separately in accordance with the Financial Investment Services Financial Instruments: recognition and measurement. The Group plans to adopt K-IFRS 1109 for the year beginning on and Capital Market Act. The Company recognizes trust fees earned from the trust accounts as income from trust January 1, 2018. operations. In principle, K-IFRS 1109 should be applied retrospectively. However, there are clauses that exempt restating comparable information with respect to classification, measurement and impairment of financial instruments. For hedge accounting, (31) Regulatory reserve for loan loss the new standard will be applied prospectively except for certain cases such as accounting for the time value of options. In the case that the total sum of allowance for loan losses does not meet the amount prescribed in the regulations on financial investment business, the Group is required to compensate the difference, if any, at the reporting date during the Main characteristics of K-IFRS No. 1109 are the classification and measurements of financial assets in accordance with interim periods when the year-end reserve amount is not determined, the regulatory reserve for loan losses are projected the entity’s business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial as a regulatory reserve for loan losses. asset, impairment model of financial instruments based on expected credit losses, expansion of hedged item and the hedging instrument qualifies for hedge accounting and changes to the methods for assessing hedge effectiveness. For In case the amount of existing regulatory reserve for possible loan losses exceeds the amount needed to be laid aside as smooth implementation of K-IFRS No. 1109, it generally requires preparation processes such as analysis of financial of the current period, the difference, if any, shall be reversed. If there is undisposed deficit, the Group can accumulate effect and establishment of accounting policies, establishment of accounting system, system stabilization and others. reserves for possible loan losses after disposing deficit. Aside from the accounting policies and judgments, the impact of this standard on the financial statements for the accounting period for the first time of application depends on the accounting policy chosen and judgments made related (32) Treasury stocks to financial instruments owned by the Group, economic conditions and others. Own equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury shares) are recognized at cost and deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of For the application of K-IFRS No.1109, the Group implemented changes in its accounting processes and internal controls the Group’s own equity instruments. Any difference between the carrying amount and the consideration is recognized in related to financial instruments. The Group assessed the potential financial impact of the initial adoption of K-IFRS 1109 other capital surplus or capital adjustment. based on the circumstances and available information as of December 31, 2017 as follows: 128 129 i) Classification and measurement of financial assets among available-for-sale securities are expected to be classified as assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. The Group shall classify financial assets as measured at amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income The portion of assets measured at fair value through profit or loss is expected to increase to 38.37% under K-IFRS No. or fair value through profit or loss on the basis of both the Bank’s business model for managing the financial assets 1109 as of January 1, 2018 from 34.61% under K-IFRS No. 1039 as of December 31, 2017; and the volatility of profit and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset as shown in the below table when the new standard or loss is expected to increase due to the changes in classification of financial assets. K-IFRS No. 1109 is adopted. Furthermore, if a hybrid contract contains a host that is an asset within the scope of this standard, an embedded derivative shall not be separated from the host and accounted for as financial assets. ii) Classification and measurement of financial liabilities In accordance with the new standard K-IFRS No. 1109, the amount of change in the fair value of the financial liability Contractual cash flow characteristics designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability Business model objectives Principal and interest Others will be presented in other comprehensive income, not profit or loss. Amounts presented in other comprehensive To collect the contractual cash flows Measured at amortised cost(AC)(*1) income shall not be subsequently transferred to profit or loss. However, when the treatment of the effects of changes Measured at fair value through other Fair value through profit in the liability’s credit risk would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch, the related change in the fair value can be To collect the contractual cash flows and to sell comprehensive income(FVOCI)(*1) or loss(*2) presented in profit or loss. To sell and others Measured at fair value through profit or loss(FVPL) As some portion of the changes in fair value of the financial liability that is designated at fair value through profit or loss, (*1) ‌The Group may irrevocably designate a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or loss to eliminate or significantly reduce accounting mismatch. which was recognized as profit or loss under K-IFRS No. 1039, will be presented as other comprehensive income, the (*2) ‌The Group may make an irrevocable election for equity instruments that are not held for trading as measured at fair value through other comprehensive profit or loss related to fair value of financial liability may decrease. income. The Group designated financial liabilities amounting to ￦15,295,424 million from the total financial liabilities of Conditions to measure financial assets at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income under ￦81,579,605 million as measured at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2017. On the date of initial K-IFRS No. 1109 are more stringent than the conditions under K-IFRS No. 1039. As a result, the portion of financial application of K-IFRS No. 1109, the loss recorded in opening retained earnings for these financial liabilities will be assets measured at fair value through profit or loss will increase which may lead to increase in volatility of profit or loss. changed by W3,427 million related to the change in fair value as a result of change in credit risk of the financial liabilities. The expected impacts on the classification and measurement of financial assets as of December 31, 2017 based on the information from the revised accounting system are as follows: iii) Impairment: Financial assets and contract assets Under the current standard K-IFRS No. 1039, impairment is recognized based on incurred loss model only when there Amount measured Amount measured Classification under K-IFRS 1039 Classification under K-IFRS 1109 is an objective evidence of impairment. However, under the new standard K-IFRS No. 1109, impairment is recognized under K-IFRS 1039 under K-IFRS 1109 Loans and receivables based on expected credit loss impairment model for the debt instruments, lease receivable, contract assets, loan Financial instruments measured at amortized commitments, and financial guarantee contracts measured at amortized cost or financial assets that are measured at Cash and cash equivalents ￦ 1,374,449 1,374,449 cost fair value through other comprehensive income. Financial instruments measured at fair value 313,623 through profit or loss Unlike the current standard K-IFRS No. 1039 which is based on incurred loss model, credit losses may be recognized Loans and receivables Financial instruments measured at amortized earlier under K-IFRS No. 1109. As shown below, this standard requires to measure the amount for loss allowance in 3 46,923,425 46,609,802 cost stages based on the 12-month expected credit losses or lifetime expected credit losses depending on the degree of Financial instruments measured at amortized Other financial assets cost 56,203 56,203 increase in credit risk of the financial assets since initial recognition. 48,354,077 48,354,077 Description Expected Credit Loss Financial assets at FVTPL 12-month ECL: 12-month expected credit losses: the expected credit Financial instruments measured at fair value No significant increase in credit risk since Financial assets held for trading 28,199,027 28,199,027 Stage 1 losses that result from default events on a financial instrument that are through profit or loss their initial recognition possible within the 12 months after the reporting date. Financial instruments measured at fair value 2,019,294 Significant increase in credit risk since Financial assets designated at fair through profit or loss Stage 2 their initial recognition Lifetime ECLs: the expected credit losses that result from all possible value through profit or loss Financial instruments designated at fair 2,068,506 49,212 Assets are non-performing and therefore default events over the expected life of a financial instrument. value through profit or loss Stage 3 considered as credit-impaired 30,267,533 30,267,533 (*) The ‌ Group may assume that the credit risk on a financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition if the credit risk is low at the Available-for-sale financial assets reporting date. Financial instruments measured at fair value 2,975,857 through profit or loss Available-for-sale financial assets According to K-IFRS No.1109, the Group will only recognize the cumulative changes in lifetime expected credit losses Fair value through other comprehensive 8,838,520 5,862,663 since initial recognition as a loss allowance for financial assets impaired at its initial recognition. income 8,838,520 8,838,520 Total ￦ 87,460,130 87,460,130 Based on management’s evaluation to date, upon adoption of K-IFRS No. 1109 as of January 1, 2018, financial assets amounting to ￦313,623 million among loans and receivables and held-to-maturity securities, ￦2,975,857 million 130 131 Based on management’s evaluation to date using the information from the revised accounting system as of December financial statements. 31, 2017, the expected impacts on the allowance for loan losses are as follows: 3) K-IFRS No. 1116, ‘Lease’ Amount measured Amount measured K-IFRS No. 1116, ‘Leases’ which was published on May 25, 2017, is effective for periods beginning on or after January Classification under K-IFRS 1039 Classification under K-IFRS 1109 under K-IFRS 1039 under K-IFRS 1109 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. K-IFRS No. 1116 will replace the current K-IFRS No. 1017, ‘Leases’, K-IFRS Loans and receivables Interpretations No. 2104, ‘Determining whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease’. Companies applying the K-IFRS No. Deposits Financial instruments measured at amortized cost ￦ 1115 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ can adopt K-IFRS No. 1116 early. Loans and receivables Financial instruments measured at amortized cost 108,388 90,788 Other financial assets Financial instruments measured at amortized cost K-IFRS No. 1116 suggests principle of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases and requires a Available-for-sale financial assets lessee to recognize for all leases similar to financing lease accounting under K-IFRS No. 1017. The lessee may elect not Bonds Fair value through other comprehensive income 2,018 to apply the requirements to short-term lease of which has a term of 12 months or less at the commencement date and Total (Provision loss allowances) 108,388 92,806 low value assets. The lessee is required to recognize a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying Financial guarantee contract leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments. As a consequence, the lessee Financial guarantee contract Financial guarantee contract 83,663 91,903 required to recognise depreciation of the right-of-use asset and interest on the lease liability. Total ￦ 83,663 91,903 Accounting treatment for lessor is similar to the existing standard which classifies lease into finance and operating lease. The Standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted iv) Hedge accounting for a Group which has adopted to the K-IFRS No. 1115. New standard K-IFRS 1109 retains the mechanics of hedge accounting: fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, and hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation) of current standard K-IFRS No. 1039. However, this standard mitigated As of December 31, 2017, the total amount of minimum lease payment is ￦132,069 thousand and the amount K-IFRS No. 1039 by amending the complex and rule-based requirements related to hedge accounting under K-IFRS discounted by the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is ￦124,696 thousand for operating leases of the Group. No. 1039 to principle-based requirements to align hedge accounting more closely with risk management. Furthermore, this standard expanded the eligible hedged item and the hedging instrument and eased the requirement for the hedge The Group is in the process of evaluation impacts from K-IFRS No. 1116 and may choose as its accounting policy not to accounting by removing quantitative threshold (80~125%) and changing hedge effectiveness test method. reassess all the contracts before the date of initial application, as a practical expedient. When applying hedge accounting under K-IFRS No. 1109, the hedge accounting can be applied to certain transactions 4) K-IFRS No. 1102, ‘Share-based Payment’ that do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting under K-IFRS No. 1039 and volatility of the profit or loss can The amendments include: 1) when measuring the fair value of share-based payment, the effects of vesting and be decreased. non-vesting conditions on the measurement of cash-settled share-based payment should be consistent with the measurement of equity-settled share-based payment, 2) Share-based payment transaction in which the Group settles As December 31, 2017, no hedge accounting is applied under K-IFRS No. 1109 for risk management activities for the share-based payment arrangement net by withholding a specified portion of the equity instruments per statutory tax which no hedge accounting has been applied under the existing K-IFRS No. 1039. withholding requirements would be classified as equity-settled in its entirety, if otherwise would be classified as equitysettled without the net settlement feature, and 3) when a cash-settled share-based payment changes to an equity2) K-IFRS No. 1115, ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ settled share-based payment because of modifications of the terms and conditions, the original liability recognized K-IFRS No.1115, published on November 6, 2015, is a new accounting standard about revenue recognition, is effective is derecognized and the equity-settled share-based payment is recognized at the modification date fair value. Any for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018, with earlier application permitted. difference between the carrying amount of the liability at the modification date and the amount recognized in equity at the same date would be recognized in profit and loss immediately. The amendments are effective for annual periods It replaces existing revenue recognition standards, including K-IFRS No.1018, ‘Revenue’, K-IFRS No.1011, ‘Construction beginning on or after January 1, 2018. The Group does not expect the application of K-IFRS No.1102 will have a material Contracts’, K-IFRS No.2031, ‘Revenue-Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services’, K-IFRS No.2113, ‘Customer impact on the consolidated financial statements. Loyalty Programmes’. K-IFRS No.2115, ‘Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate’ and K-IFRS No.2118, ‘Transfers of Assets from Customers’. The Group plans to adopt K-IFRS No. 1115 from January 1, 2018 using the cumulative effect method and the effect of 5. Risk management initially applying this standard is recognised at the date of initial application (i.e. January 1, 2018). As a result, the Group will not restate the comparative period presented upon adoption of K-IFRS No. 1115. (1) Risk management organizations and its policies The Group maintains a comprehensive Groupwide risk management system through specific internal regulations (e.g. Risk The existing standards suggest revenue recognition guidance by type of transactions such as sale of goods, rendering of Management Regulations, Risk Management Committee Regulations, Market Risk Management Guidelines, Credit Risk services, interest revenue, royalty revenue, dividends revenue and construction contracts. However, according to K-IFRS Management Guidelines, Liquidity Risk Management Guidelines, Operational Risk Management, Overseas Network Risk No.1115, all types of contracts recognize revenue through five-step revenue recognition model (① ‘Identifying the contract’ Management and Trust Asset Management Guidelines etc.). In addition, the Group has drawn up a set of Assessment → ② ‘Identifying performance obligations’ → ③ ‘Determining the transaction price’ → ④ ‘Allocating the transaction price Regulations, Investment Review Committee Regulations, Principal Investment Management Guidelines, Acquisition Review to performance obligations’ → ⑤ ‘Recognizing the revenue by satisfying performance obligations’). Guidelines, NPL Management Guidelines and Real Estate Project Financing Risk Management Guidelines to enhance stability of investment and credit support business, and efficiency of post-investment monitoring. The Group has prepared for the adoption of K-IFRS No. 1115 and set up the relating accounting policies and processes. As a result of the analysis of financial impact based on the current situation and available information as of December Risk Management Regulations set members, conference and resolutions of the Risk Management Committee which 31, 2017, the Group does not expect the application of K-IFRS No.1115 will have a material impact on the consolidated 132 133 functions as the highest authority in the hierarchy of the risk management structure, and also set members, process and (2) Credit risk business details of Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council and Trust Asset Risk Management Council which are Credit risk refers to the possibility losses that would incur if a counter party or an issuer of financial instruments fails to fulfil installed to treat details about Risk Management Committee’s decisions and items delegated by the committee. its contractual obligations, or is deteriorated in the credit quality. The Group measures credit exposure and credit risk amount by utilizing the standard model provided by Financial Investment Regulation. To manage appropriate level of credit risk, the The Group sets its own risk management standards in order to achieve capital adequacy and stable risk management via the Group assign exposure limits by each quarter and year. Total limit of credit risk of the Group is finally set through approval of efficient management of risks and distribution of available investment resources. the Committee. Assessment Regulations is developed to manage the Group’s investment position consistently by setting up detail Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council resolves the credit risk amount allocated to each front department. In addition, monitoring procedures for proprietary investment and credit support business. Investment Review Committee Regulations Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council sets appropriate level of credit exposure limit considering counterparty’s describe member, conference protocol and resolution items of Investment Review Committee. credit rate depending on the type of business. Investment & Credit Assessment Department manages credit risk of each investment position by operating pre-assessment process on investment transactions. The Group established detailed guidelines to effectively manage risk according to the type of asset management and risk exposure. The guidelines include Market Risk Management Guidelines, Credit Risk Management Guidelines, Liquidity The Risk Management Department reports total exposure of the Group’s credit risk to the management on a regular Risk Management Guidelines, Operational Risk Management Guidelines, Overseas Network Risk Management Guidelines basis and reports the analysis of credit risk exposure to executive management. In addition, credit risk Stress-Testing is and Trust Asset Management Guidelines. In addition, Principal Investment Management Guidelines, Acquisition Review performed on a regular basis based on various scenarios for the financial market. Enhanced monitoring is carried out to the Guidelines, NPL Management Guidelines and Real Estate Project Financing Risk Management Guidelines manage steadily significant counterparties. the Group’s investment position by providing detailed assessment procedures and monitoring procedures. 1) Maximum exposure to credit risk 1) Risk Management Committee The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk refers to the net book value of its financial assets, net of provisions, which The Committee, comprised of three registered directors including at least two outside directors, heads the Group’s risk shows the uncertainties of maximum changes in the net value of financial assets attributable to a particular risk without management structure. The Committee prepares risk management strategies that correspond to the Group's strategies considering collateral and other credit enhancements obtained. and supervises the risk management process. Major topics that the Committee resolves include enacting and revising Risk Management Regulations and Guidelines, setting adequate capital ratio level and mandating total risk limits by year The maximum exposure to credit risk as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as follows: and quarter. The Committee is held regularly once per quarter (if necessary, on a spot basis). Nomination and dismissal of the Committee members is determined by the Board of Directors (“BOD”) and the Committee chair is selected from 2017 2016 among outside directors of the Committee members. The chair presides over the meetings on behalf of the Committee Held for trading (*) ￦ 18,537,249 22,779,721 and in the event of a risk-related urgent situation, is entitled to authorize appropriate actions to the pertinent department. Financial assets at fair value Designated at FVTPL (*) 1,922,396 3,696,778 through profit or loss Derivative assets 1,125,230 1,451,471 2) Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council & Trust Asset Risk Management Council 21,584,875 27,927,970 The Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council and the Trust Asset Risk Management Council deal with details and the AFS financial assets AFS financial assets (*) 5,431,865 6,656,667 delegated items determined by the Committee and report the results to the Committee. The Council is held quarterly (if Deposits 3,580,259 3,133,175 necessary, on an as-needed basis). The chairman of Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council and Trust Asset Risk Management Council is Chief Risk Officer and the Council members are appointed by the Committee. Loans 35,744,986 4,421,643 Loans and receivables Other loans and receivables 7,598,180 2,525,417 3) Investment Review Committee 46,923,425 10,080,235 The Investment Review Committee is the body responsible for conducting reviews of the Group’s investments and 73,940,165 44,664,872 is composed of executive officers. The Investment Review Committee convenes irregularly to facilitate investment Asset-backed commercial paper and asset backed 1,438,500 746,000 short-term bond purchase commitments decision. The chairman of Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council and Trust Asset Risk Management Council is Chief Guarantees and Guarantees 1,769,876 1,380,240 Risk Officer and the Council members are appointed by the Committee. commitments Unused line of credit 86,027 4) Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”) 3,294,403 2,126,240 The CRO serves as chair of the Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council and Trust Asset Risk Management Council ￦ 77,234,568 46,791,112 and presides over the meetings of the two bodies and has authority over the risk management organization. The CRO is (*) Equity securities are excluded. also entitled to take appropriate measures in the event of an urgent situation in relation to the Group’s risk management. 5) Risk Management Department The Risk Management Department operates independently from other departments, executes the risk management policies determined by the Risk Management Committee or the Proprietary and Trust Asset Risk Management Council through appropriate procedures and systems, plans and controls all risk management-related issues and supports the operation of the Risk Management Committee or the Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council. The department also reports the current status of the Group’s asset management and overall risk management issues to the executive management. 134 135 2) Credit risk of loans and receivables ii) ‌The Group manages its loans and receivables that are neither overdue nor impaired through an internal system. Loans i) The credit risk of loans and receivables by loan conditions as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as follows: and receivables with appropriate level of collateral and credit enhancements are classified to investment grade and subordinated loans and receivables without collateral and credit enhancements and are highly risky are classified 2017 to non-investment grade. Credit quality of loans and other receivables that are neither overdue nor impaired as of Loans neither Loans overdue December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as follows: Allowances for Carrying overdue nor but not Impaired loans Total credit losses amount impaired impaired 2017 Loans Investment grade Non-investment grade Total Call loans ￦ 1,280 1,280 1,280 Loans Broker’s loans 6,473,333 1,189 6,474,522 (1,189) 6,473,333 Call loans ￦ 1,280 1,280 Loans receivable(*) 898,444 898,444 898,444 Broker’s loans 6,473,333 6,473,333 Securities purchased under 28,104,834 28,104,834 28,104,834 Securities purchased under resale agreements 898,444 898,444 resale agreements Loans to employees 52,679 18 52,697 -18 52,679 Loans receivable 28,104,834 28,104,834 Purchased loans(*) 121,655 88,265 209,920 (61,326) 148,594 Loans to employees 52,679 52,679 Advances for customers 1,340 1,340 (1,340) Purchased loans 121,655 121,655 Privately placed bonds 55,994 29,758 85,752 (19,931) 65,821 Privately placed bonds 55,994 55,994 Dishonored bills receivable 122 122 (121) 1 35,708,219 35,708,219 35,708,219 120,692 35,828,911 (83,925) 35,744,986 Other loans and receivables Other loans and receivables Accounts receivable 7,227,630 7,227,630 Accounts receivable(*) 7,227,630 13,716 7,241,346 (13,048) 7,228,298 Accrued income 242,040 242,040 Accrued income 242,040 11,212 253,252 (10,254) 242,998 Guarantee deposits 126,075 126,075 Guarantee deposits(*) 126,075 1,970 128,045 (1,161) 126,884 7,595,745 7,595,745 7,595,745 26,898 7,622,643 (24,463) 7,598,180 ￦ 43,303,964 43,303,964 ￦ 43,303,964 147,590 43,451,554 (108,388) 43,343,166 2016 (*) Deferred loan originated costs/ fees and present value discounts are considered. Investment grade Non-investment grade Total Loans 2016 Call loans ￦ 340 340 Loans neither Loans overdue Allowances for Carrying overdue nor but not Impaired loans Total Broker’s loans 3,115,633 3,115,633 credit losses amount impaired impaired Securities purchased under resale agreements 310,755 310,755 Loans Loans receivable 666,746 666,746 Call loans ￦ 340 340 340 Loans to employees 30,279 30,279 Broker’s loans 3,115,633 37 3,115,670 (37) 3,115,633 Purchased loans 134,741 134,741 Loans receivable(*) 310,755 310,755 310,755 Privately placed bonds 116,132 116,132 Securities purchased under 666,746 666,746 666,746 4,374,626 4,374,626 resale agreements Other loans and receivables Loans to employees 30,279 2 30,281 (2) 30,279 Accounts receivable 2,126,704 2,126,704 Purchased loans(*) 134,741 105,809 240,550 (68,510) 172,040 Accrued income 262,298 262,298 Advances for customers 1,310 1,310 (1,310) Guarantee deposits 134,942 134,942 Privately placed bonds 116,132 32,306 148,438 (22,589) 125,849 2,523,944 2,523,944 Dishonored bills receivable 122 122 (121) 1 ￦ 6,898,570 6,898,570 4,374,626 139,586 4,514,212 (92,569) 4,421,643 Other loans and receivables Accounts receivable(*) 2,126,704 13,601 2,140,305 (12,941) 2,127,364 Accrued income 262,298 9,631 271,929 (9,649) 262,280 Guarantee deposits(*) 134,942 1,970 136,912 (1,139) 135,773 2,523,944 25,202 2,549,146 (23,729) 2,525,417 ￦ 6,898,570 164,788 7,063,358 (116,298) 6,947,060 (*) Deferred loan originated costs/ fees and present value discounts are considered. 136 137 iii) Individually impaired loans and receivables as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: period and given a specified degree of confidence level when the market price moves in an adverse direction under normal market conditions. The Company has implemented and operates SAS’s system which can calculate the internal 2017 2016 market VaR. Loans Broker’s loans ￦ 1,189 37 The Group has set a limit of market risk on a quarterly and yearly basis to manage appropriate level of market risk. Loans to employees 18 2 The total limit of market risk of the Company is decided by the Risk Management Committee. Proprietary Asset Risk Purchased loans 88,265 105,809 Management Council also sets reasonably the limit for market risk exposure by considering the type of business. Advances for customers 1,340 1,310 The Company produces assessment and analysis reports on current market risk on a weekly, monthly, and quarterly basis Privately placed bonds 29,758 32,306 for brief to the executive management. In addition, market risk Stress-Testing is performed on a regular basis based on Dishonored bills receivable 122 122 various scenarios for the financial market. 120,692 139,586 Other loans and receivables The details of the risk factor VaR as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Accounts receivable 13,716 13,601 Accrued income 11,212 9,631 Factors 2017 2016 Guarantee deposits 1,970 1,970 Foreign currencies ￦ 129,529 75,189 26,898 25,202 Interest rates 364,790 447,721 ￦ 147,590 164,788 Stock prices 509,621 250,161 Commodities 2,739 9,863 3) Credit quality of debt securities Collective investment securities 656,458 370,604 i) ‌The Group manages debt securities based on the external credit rating. Credit soundness of debt securities on the Options 153,590 82,059 basis of External Credit Assessment Institution’s rating as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as follows: Total risk ￦ 1,816,727 1,235,597 2017 The correlation and diversification effect between each risk factor causes the differences between the total risk above Grade Financial assets at FVTPL AFS financial assets Total and the sum of each risk factor VaR. Held for trading Designated at FVTPL (1) AAA ~ BBB￦ 18,158,468 370,131 5,258,197 23,786,796 (2) BB+ ~ B 5,169 1,417 36,179 42,765 (4) Liquidity risk (3) Lower than B665 665 Liquidity risk refers to the “Market Liquidity Risk” that would incur when a firm is unable to offset or settle a position without (4) Unrated 372,947 558,266 137,489 1,068,702 significantly affecting the market price because of inadequate market depth or market disruption. Also, it refers to the ￦ 18,537,249 929,814 5,431,865 24,898,928 “Prudential Liquidity Risk” that would incur when a firm is unable to meet the minimum requirement rate of liquidity. To measure liquidity risks, the Company operates a liquidity risk management system and uses liquidity gap and liquidity 2016 ratios as key indicators. The Company reports the liquidity risk status on a weekly and monthly basis to the executive Grade Financial assets at FVTPL AFS financial assets Total management while the treasury department also reports the current liquidity situation to the management regularly. Held for trading Designated at FVTPL (1) AAA ~ BBB￦ 22,533,913 1,571,224 6,404,184 30,509,321 (2) Unrated 245,808 252,483 498,291 ￦ 22,779,721 1,571,224 6,656,667 31,007,612 ii) The ‌ carrying amounts of debt securities impaired as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are ￦461 million and ￦1,877 million, and the Group recognized provisions of ￦2,873 million for impairment loss in debt securities as of December 31, 2017. (3) Market risk Market risk is the risk of changes in the fair value or future cash flows of the financial instruments arising from trading activities in the volatility of market factors, such as interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates. 1) Market risk management Market risk refers to the possibility of losses that may incur in proprietary investments and short-term management of idle money due to changes of market price (e.g. equity price, interest rate and exchange rate and other). The Group monitors the standard market Value at Risk (VaR), measured according to Financial Investment Regulations set by Financial Supervisory Service (“FSS”). VaR represents the maximum loss expected on an investment, over a given time 138 139 1) Maturity analysis of financial liabilities Asset-backed commercial paper (“ABCP”) is issued or refinanced based on the underlying assets for securitization i) The ‌ Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities by residual contractual maturity as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are that are purchased by SPEs, including SPEs under the Asset-Backed Securitization Act and companies under the classified as follows: Commercial Law. In this case, ABCP purchase commitments guarantee the Group’s purchase of ABCP when all or a portion of ABCP are not sold in the market. 2017 Within 3 months 3 to 6 months 6 to 9 months 9 to 12 months 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total iii) Expected maturity cash flows of the derivative financial liabilities as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Financial liabilities at ￦ 816,883 816,883 FVTPL 2017 Deposits due to Within 3 3 to 6 6 to 9 9 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5,118,877 5,118,877 Total customers months months months months years 5 years Borrowings(*1) 48,684,061 122,624 6,221 15,678 629,617 2,035 49,460,236 Stock ￦ 36,767 10,722 9,087 16,840 73,318 146,734 Debentures(*1) 971,115 267,676 216,394 14,344 1,841,892 3,311,421 Interest rate 5,483 9,695 11,720 28,648 105,425 219,763 380,734 Other financial Currency 244,165 88,187 54,695 42,930 52,029 482,006 6,452,965 2,700 1,090 2,675 6,319 3,424 6,469,173 liabilities(*2) Credit 48 13,459 13,507 ￦ 62,043,901 393,000 223,705 32,697 2,477,828 5,459 65,176,590 Commodity 9,169 354 67 9,590 Others 23 36 19,676 19,735 2016 Derivative-linked securities in Within 3 months 3 to 6 months 6 to 9 months 9 to 12 months 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total 570,203 1,768,668 282,410 4,305,492 6,483,271 1,692,763 15,102,807 short position Financial liabilities at ￦ 865,787 1,877,649 357,948 4,393,958 6,747,245 1,912,526 16,155,113 ￦ 615,896 615,896 FVTPL Deposits due to 4,125,075 4,125,075 2016 customers Borrowings(*1) 16,859,992 622,960 9,717 38,586 683,000 779,603 18,993,858 Within 3 3 to 6 6 to 9 9 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Total months months months months years years Debentures(*1) 659,039 14,188 14,188 163,657 1,492,991 407,383 2,751,446 Stock ￦ 68,624 260,802 31,250 34,165 214,022 466 609,329 Other financial 2,372,358 4,313 1,387 3,566 2,774 57,199 2,441,597 Interest rate 9,173 11,210 8,383 14,079 260,066 299,105 602,016 liabilities(*2) ￦ 24,632,360 641,461 25,292 205,809 2,178,765 1,244,185 28,927,872 Currency 154,917 30,376 93,001 29,163 182,963 490,420 Credit 57 2,911 2,968 (*1) Amounts with maturity of more than three months from the date of acquisition include cash flows of both the principal and interests. (*2) Amounts of financial guarantee contract liabilities are excluded in other financial liabilities. Commodity 9,958 27,322 7,764 321 833 46,198 Others 160 9,559 17,095 560 5,435 32,809 ii) ‌The Group’s guarantees and commitments by residual contractual maturity as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are Derivative-linked securities in 1,137,094 1,187,084 666,357 3,328,572 11,637,946 1,350,529 19,307,582 short position classified as follows: ￦1,379,983 1,526,353 823,850 3,406,860 12,304,176 1,650,100 21,091,322 2017 (*) Derivatives traded in the Exchange are excluded because the settlement of the transactions takes place by means of the trading margins within a few days. Within 3 months Over 3 months Total Asset-backed commercial paper and asset backed (5) Operating Risk Management ￦ 1,438,500 1,438,500 short-term bond purchase commitments Guarantees 1,769,876 1,769,876 Operational risk is the possibility of losses arising from shortcomings or failures in internal processes, people or systems, Unused line of credit 369,713 369,713 and from external events. The Company manages operational risk through Risk & Control Self Assessment (“RCSA”), Key Risk Indicator (“KRI”) management, loss data management, management of countermeasures and calculation of operational ￦ 3,578,089 3,578,089 VaR using internal model. 2016 By performing RCSA on a regular basis, the Company checks the level of risk of each department, develops Within 3 months Over 3 months Total countermeasures in advance collects the financial loss data. In addition, the Company implements and operates operational Asset-backed commercial paper and asset backed ￦ 746,000 746,000 risk management system to work out operational VaR using internal model. The Company has a future plan to expand the short-term bond purchase commitments target of operational risk management to the parent company and foreign subsidiaries to measure and manage enterpriseGuarantees 1,380,240 1,380,240 wide operational risk. ￦ 2,126,240 2,126,240 The balances of purchase commitments, guarantees and commitments on loans that are potentially prone to (6) Capital management liquidity risks are reclassified to balances with less than three months’ maturity from the date of acquisition, which The Company evaluates the capital adequacy by calculating net capital ratio (“NCR”) in accordance with the Financial is the earliest possible for repayment. The guarantees are the maximum amount, which the financial institution Investments Regulations and Guidelines in order to maintain adequate capital and comply with supervisory regulation. must pay under the guarantee contracts when the counterparty defaults and principal debtor demands the amount guaranteed. Commitments on loans includes loan commitments and purchase commitments that are related to asset The Group’s Net Caplital Ratio (NCR) as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are 2,386.6% and 2,391.5%, respectively. securitizations. 140 141 (7) Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 2016 The Controlling Company applies offsetting agreements to derivatives and repurchase agreement transactions. Related amount not offset in the Net amount statement of financial position(*1) Total amount 1) ‌Categories of financial assets that offsetting agreements and other similar agreements apply to as of December Types of financial liabilities Total amount of financial Financial of recognized 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: of offsetting liabilities in the collaterals Net amount financial financial assets statement of Financial assets received liabilities financial position (cash collateral 2017 included) Related amount not offset in the Derivative financial liabilities (*2) ￦ 1,759,973 1,759,973 822,700 105,268 832,005 Net amount of statement of financial position (*1) Total amount Accounts payables (*3) 3,505,115 1,618,297 1,886,818 1,886,818 Types of financial assets Total amount financial assets Financial of offsetting of recognized in the statement collaterals Net amount Securities sold under repurchase financial Financial 14,924,737 14,924,737 14,924,737 financial assets of financial received agreements (*4) liabilities liabilities position (cash collateral Securities sold (*4) 615,895 615,895 615,895 included) ￦ 20,805,720 1,618,297 19,187,423 16,363,332 105,268 2,718,823 Derivative assets (*2) ￦ 956,837 956,837 596,437 36,508 323,892 Accounts receivable (*3) 7,472,214 3,467,824 4,004,390 4,004,390 (*1) ‌Only for cases of default, insolvency and bankruptcy are eligible to be offset, and all other transactions are considered to have not met the offsetting standards, and therefore are not offset on the statement of financial position, but instead stated separately. Securities sold under (*2) ‌Some of the Controlling Company’s OTC derivatives are traded in accordance to agreements of the ISDA. In accordance to this agreement, in case the 17,258,879 17,258,879 15,662,447 1,596,432 repurchase agreements (*4) counterparty is bankrupt or has credit issues, all derivative transactions are settled. At the point of settlement, the trading partners receive payments for each Securities purchased under transaction, or may offset payments with each other and offer a single payment to one trading partner. 66,901,248 38,796,414 28,104,834 268,800 27,310,876 525,158 repurchase agreements (*4) (*3) Transactions ‌ between exchanges, customers and other financial institutions regarding bonds and liabilities are included in the statement of financial position as total amounts in regard to the receivables and payables accounts. Receivables and payables occurring in relation to exchanges and from trading same types Assets pledged as collateral of items are eligible to be offset and are disclosed as net amounts on the statement of financial position, according to accounting policies for securities lending and 8,981,091 8,981,091 498,428 2,096,834 6,385,829 (*4) Those are in accordance with the offsetting agreements, which is similar to ISDA offsetting agreements. borrowing (*4) ￦ 101,570,269 42,264,238 59,306,031 17,026,112 29,444,218 12,835,701 6. Transfers of financial assets 2016 Related amount not offset in the Net amount of statement of financial position (*1) Transfers of financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirely as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Total amount Types of financial assets Total amount financial assets Financial of offsetting of recognized in the statement collaterals Net amount financial Financial 2017 2016 financial assets of financial received liabilities liabilities position (cash collateral Transferred financial assets included) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss ￦ 14,810,014 14,263,536 Derivative assets (*2) ￦ 1,334,519 1,334,519 822,700 43,215 468,604 AFS financial assets 2,448,865 2,622,614 Accounts receivable (*3) 3,521,816 1,618,297 1,903,519 1,903,519 ￦ 17,258,879 16,886,150 Securities sold under 16,886,150 16,886,150 14,924,737 1,961,413 Related liabilities repurchase agreements (*4) Bonds sold under repurchase agreements ￦ 15,662,447 14,924,737 Assets pledged as collateral for securities lending and 1,444,697 1,444,697 615,895 828,802 borrowing (*4) ￦ 23,187,182 1,618,297 21,568,885 16,363,332 43,215 5,162,338 7. Operating segments 2) ‌Categories of financial liabilities that offsetting agreements and other similar agreements apply to as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: (1) Reportable segments The Group’s segment information is prepared for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of each segment’s 2017 performance and is focused on the services provided. Related amount not offset in the Net amount statement of financial position(*1) Total amount Reportable segment Services provided Types of financial liabilities Total amount of financial Financial of recognized of offsetting liabilities in the collaterals Net amount Providing securities brokerage to individual customers and non-professional investors, offering products of financial WM financial assets statement of Financial assets received wealth management and financial consulting services liabilities financial position (cash collateral IB Conducting corporate finance businesses such as various funding and M&A advisory, etc. included) Bond dealing and brokerage, supplying derivatives, hedge fund management and sales, principal investment and Derivative financial liabilities (*2) ￦ 1,052,305 1,052,305 596,437 189,137 266,731 Sales & Trading proprietary trading Accounts payables (*3) 7,209,376 3,467,824 3,741,552 3,741,552 Sales of various financial instruments to corporate customers, providing domestic equity and derivatives Wholesale Securities sold under repurchase brokerage and related services to domestic institutional investors 81,929,274 38,796,414 43,132,860 15,662,447 18,241,131 9,229,282 agreements (*4) PI(Principal Investment) Conducting principal investment and supporting parts of headquarters and providing other operating activities Securities sold (*4) 816,883 816,883 498,428 318,455 & Others aside from the above mentioned activities ￦ 91,007,838 42,264,238 48,743,600 16,757,312 18,748,723 13,237,565 142 143 (2) Operating results of reportable segments (4) Information on products, services and key customers Details of the operating results of reportable segments for the years ended December 31, 2017 are as follows: The Group’s products are classified as interest, non-interest and other goods; however, since this classification has already been reflected in the component of the operating segments above, revenue from external customers by service type is not 2017 separately disclosed. The Group does not have any key customers who account for more than 10% of the Group’s sales for Sales & Intersegment the years ended December 31, 2017 or 2016. WM IB Wholesale PI & others Total Trading eliminations Operating revenue ￦ 826,895 300,781 8,111,227 941,280 115,305 3,162 10,298,650 (5) Geographical information Interest revenue 244,435 34,947 1,152,334 23,598 (299,744) (2,802) 1,152,768 Of the Group’s revenue (interest income and non-interest income) from external services, revenue from domestic Non-interest revenue 582,460 265,834 6,958,893 917,682 415,049 5,964 9,145,882 customers for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 amounted to W9,819,013 million and ￦7,573,612 million, Operating expense (752,775) (114,632) (7,873,800) (903,818) 37,384 (63,256) (9,670,897) respectively, and revenue from foreign customers amounted to W479,637 million and W260,401 million, respectively. Interest expense (95,817) (19,341) (798,296) (28,159) 351,613 8,547 (581,453) The Group’s non-current assets (investment in associates, investment properties, property and equipment and intangible Non-interest expense (656,958) (95,291) (7,075,504) (875,659) (314,229) (71,803) (9,089,444) assets) as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are ￦1,617,886 million and ￦1,577,049 million, respectively, for the Company Operating income (loss) 74,120 186,149 237,427 37,462 152,689 (60,094) 627,753 and domestic subsidiaries, and ￦1,044,400 million and W956,829 million, respectively, for foreign subsidiaries. Non-operating income (loss) (386) 3,624 5,831 25 (16,391) 44,293 36,996 Income (Loss) before tax expense 73,734 189,773 243,258 37,487 136,298 (15,801) 664,749 Income tax expense (17,102) (43,795) (55,828) (8,722) (21,146) (13,222) (159,815) 8. Restricted use of financial assets Profit (Loss) for the period ￦ 56,632 145,978 187,430 28,765 115,152 (29,023) 504,934 Details of restricted use of deposits as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Details of the operating results of reportable segments for the years ended December 31, 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 Descriptions 2016 Financial assets at FVTPL Sales & Intersegment WM IB Wholesale PI & others Total Reserve for claims of customers’ Trading eliminations ￦ 3,871,503 3,183,086 Regulation on Financial Investment Business deposits (trust) (*) Operating revenue ￦ 603,788 141,864 5,637,713 408,198 861,603 180,856 7,834,022 Loans and receivables Interest revenue 108,706 13,598 693,210 23,290 102,662 (15,939) 925,527 Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits (*) 702,334 563,164 Regulation on Financial Investment Business Non-interest revenue 495,082 128,266 4,944,503 384,908 758,941 196,795 6,908,495 Collateral on derivative transaction and Operating expense (526,376) (106,522) (5,692,080) (367,024) (846,135) (292,714) (7,830,851) Deposits for exchangetraded derivatives 567,766 843,603 others, etc. Interest expense (29,382) (6,666) (297,802) (11,278) (40,759) 2,931 (382,956) Guarantee deposit for account opening 52 73 Guarantee deposit for account opening Non-interest expense (496,994) (99,856) (5,394,278) (355,746) (805,376) (295,645) (7,447,895) Derivatives and collateral on payment and Time deposit 1,996,130 1,006,244 Operating income (loss) 77,412 35,342 (54,367) 41,174 15,468 (111,858) 3,171 settlement, etc. Non-operating income (loss) 486 3 197 147 2,072 14,865 17,770 Customer deposits, guarantee deposits for Other deposits 60,783 42,120 leases, and others Income (Loss) before tax expense 77,898 35,345 (54,170) 41,321 17,540 (96,993) 20,941 3,327,065 2,455,204 Income tax expense (20,002) (9,215) 19,038 (11,110) (5,904) 21,953 (5,240) ￦ 7,198,568 5,638,290 Profit (Loss) for the period ￦ 57,896 26,130 (35,132) 30,211 11,636 (75,040) 15,701 (*) Pursuant to the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act and Regulation on Financial Investment Business, the Group is required to deposit with the Korean Securities Finance Corporation for the payment of its customers’ deposits and those amounts are restricted for use. (3) Assets and liabilities of reportable segments Details of the assets and liabilities of reportable segments as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 Intersegment WM IB Sales & Trading Wholesale PI & others Total eliminations Assets ￦ 4,632,273 1,636,338 57,980,932 2,535,938 29,558,095 (5,716,977) 90,626,599 Liabilities 4,715,896 130,777 57,945,772 1,052,545 19,687,377 (290,273) 83,242,094 2016 Intersegment WM IB Sales & Trading Wholesale PI & others Total eliminations Assets ￦ 1,978,754 467,949 33,942,951 3,546,874 20,117,358 (2,786,110) 57,267,776 Liabilities 2,352,221 35,483 37,289,623 1,522,981 10,054,565 (652,862) 50,602,011 144 145 9. Financial assets at FVTPL 10. AFS financial assets The Group’s financial assets at FVTPL as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are classified as financial assets held for trading and (1) Details of AFS financial assets as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: financial assets designated at FVTPL. 2017 2016 (1) Details of financial assets held for trading as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Equity securities(*) ￦ 854,679 294,327 Investments in partnerships(*) 199,374 191,860 2017 2016 Government and public bonds 39,689 431,881 Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits (trust) ￦ 3,871,503 3,183,086 Special bonds 1,898,472 2,809,584 Equity securities 1,313,794 494,206 Corporate bonds 2,705,849 2,419,894 Government and public bonds 2,658,169 3,055,531 Collective investment securities 1,881,044 1,102,241 Special bonds 6,942,767 11,870,874 Securities in foreign currencies(*) 1,249,116 1,479,630 Corporate bonds 5,298,446 4,305,027 Others(*) 10,297 10,300 Collective investment securities 1,963,865 777,863 ￦ 8,838,520 8,739,717 Corporate commercial papers 2,076,104 2,616,064 (*) Equity ‌ securities with no quoted market prices in active market and for which the fair value cannot be measured reliably due to lack of basic data and experience Securities in foreign currencies 2,845,103 1,114,704 used to predict future cash flows are recorded at cost. Carrying amount of AFS equity securities’ evaluated cost is W104,463 million as of December 31, 2017, and Asset backed short-term bond 89,762 10,204 W103,018 million as of December 31, 2016. Others 14,284 23,534 Derivative assets 1,125,230 1,451,471 (2) Maturity analysis of AFS debt securities as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are follows: ￦ 28,199,027 28,902,564 2017 (2) Financial assets designated at FVTPL as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: More Than Within 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 to 10 years Total 10 years Government and public bonds ￦ 39,689 39,689 2017 2016 Special bonds 946,862 865,087 86,523 1,898,472 Reducing accounting mismatch Corporation bonds 793,676 1,818,574 53,635 39,964 2,705,849 Equity securities ￦ 19,230 186,226 Securities in foreign currencies 151,740 523,801 53,012 59,302 787,855 Government bonds 100,620 405,399 ￦ 1,892,278 3,247,151 193,170 99,266 5,431,865 Special bonds 9,955 109,793 Corporate bonds 147,176 277,408 2016 Securities in foreign currencies 539,730 603,232 More Than Within 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 to 10 years Total Exchange traded fund 122,556 401,555 10 years Time deposit 50,405 Government and public bonds ￦ 20,012 411,869 431,881 939,267 2,034,018 Special bonds 496,390 2,225,002 88,192 2,809,584 Hybrid financial instruments Corporation bonds 334,621 2,003,351 60,996 20,926 2,419,894 Redeemable convertible preference shares 1,000 500 Securities in foreign currencies 33,177 636,358 202,051 123,722 995,308 Convertible bond 135,657 125,156 ￦ 884,200 5,276,580 351,239 144,648 6,656,667 Equity-linked securities 525,854 1,657,736 Other derivative-linked securities 466,728 467,818 1,129,239 2,251,210 ￦ 2,068,506 4,285,228 146 147 (3) ‌Changes in valuation profit and loss of AFS financial assets for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 11. Loans and receivables are as follows: (1) Details of loans and receivables as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 Gain (Loss) on Beginning balance Disposal Tax effect Ending balance 2017 2016 valuation Equity securities ￦ 6,717 1,707 12,802 (6,168) 15,058 Deposit ￦ 3,580,259 3,133,175 Investments in partnerships 11,926 8,226 (9,486) 1,510 12,176 Loans 35,830,812 4,514,317 Government and public bonds (2,225) (170) 3,357 (1,517) (555) Deferred loan origination cost and fee (1,901) (105) Special bonds (6,091) 1,117 (1,313) (1,352) (7,639) Allowance for doubtful accounts (83,925) (92,569) Corporate bonds (3,400) (3,504) 3,377 (1,166) (4,693) 39,325,245 7,554,818 Collective investment securities 108,606 2,543 (31,960) (3,033) 76,156 Other loans and receivables 7,622,643 2,549,146 Securities in foreign currencies 20,401 (10,145) 5,254 5,797 21,307 Allowance for doubtful accounts (24,463) (23,729) ￦ 135,934 (226) (17,969) (5,929) 111,810 7,598,180 2,525,417 ￦ 46,923,425 10,080,235 2016 Beginning balance Gain (Loss) on Disposal Tax effect Ending balance (2) Details of deposits as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: valuation Equity securities ￦ 6,859 3,124 (3,312) 46 6,717 2017 2016 Investments in partnerships 19,210 14,759 (24,368) 2,325 11,926 Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits ￦ 702,334 563,164 Government and public bonds (516) (2,420) 711 (2,225) Trading margin of derivatives 567,766 843,603 Special bonds 2,094 (2,700) (8,098) 2,613 (6,091) Long-term deposits 1,884,491 1,490,439 Corporate bonds 7,753 (658) (14,056) 3,561 (3,400) Restricted deposits and others 52 73 Collective investment securities 55,285 53,027 17,318 (17,024) 108,606 Others 425,616 235,896 Securities in foreign currencies 7,210 16,915 489 (4,213) 20,401 ￦ 3,580,259 3,133,175 ￦ 98,411 83,951 (34,447) (11,981) 135,934 (3) Details of loans as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: (4) ‌Changes in accumulated impairment loss of AFS financial assets for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 Call loans ￦ 1,280 340 2017 Broker’s loan 6,474,522 3,115,670 Beginning balance Increases Disposal Ending balance Securities purchased under resale agreements 28,104,834 666,746 Equity securities ￦ 32,944 17,201 (595) 49,550 Loans receivable 900,648 310,980 Investments in partnerships 10 10 Loans to employees 52,697 30,281 Corporate bond 9,071 138 9,209 Loans purchased 209,617 240,430 Collective investment securities 80,471 9,773 (40,548) 49,696 Advances for customers 1,340 1,310 Securities in foreign currencies 2,854 56 2,910 Privately placed bonds 85,752 148,438 ￦ 125,350 27,168 (41,143) 111,375 Dishonored bills receivable 122 122 Deferred loan origination cost and fee (1,901) (105) 2016 Allowance for doubtful accounts (83,925) (92,569) Beginning balance Increases Disposal Ending balance ￦ 35,744,986 4,421,643 Equity securities ￦ 32,087 1,107 (250) 32,944 Investments in partnerships 10 10 Corporate bond 6,095 2,976 9,071 Collective investment securities 42,989 43,797 (6,315) 80,471 Securities in foreign currencies 132 2,722 2,854 ￦ 81,313 50,602 (6,565) 125,350 148 149 (4) Details of the other loans and receivables as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 12. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities 2017 2016 (1) ‌The carrying amount and fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2017 and Accounts receivable ￦ 7,249,676 2,146,222 2016 are as follows: Accrued income 253,252 271,929 Deposits provided 131,673 140,939 2017 2016 Present value discount (11,958) (9,944) Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Allowance for doubtful accounts (24,463) (23,729) Financial assets ￦ 7,598,180 2,525,417 Deposits ￦ 3,580,259 3,580,259 3,133,175 3,133,175 Financial assets held for trading(*1) 28,199,027 28,199,027 28,902,564 28,902,564 (5) Changes in allowance for doubtful accounts for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Financial assets designated at FVTPL (*1) 2,068,506 2,068,506 4,285,228 4,285,228 AFS financial assets(*2) 8,838,520 8,838,520 8,739,717 8,739,717 2017 2016 Loans(*3) 35,744,986 35,744,986 4,421,643 4,421,643 Beginning balance ￦ (116,298) (94,734) Other financial assets(*4) 7,598,180 7,598,180 2,525,417 2,525,417 Bad debt expenses (1,427) (19,541) ￦ 86,029,478 86,029,478 52,007,744 52,007,744 Write-off 1,235 Financial liabilities Others 9,337 (3,258) Financial liabilities held for trading(*1) ￦ 2,137,037 2,137,037 2,669,424 2,669,424 Ending balance ￦ (108,388) (116,298) Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL(*1) 15,295,424 15,295,424 19,379,670 19,379,670 Deposits due to customers 5,118,877 5,118,877 4,125,075 4,125,075 Borrowings(*3) 49,390,196 49,390,196 18,946,894 18,946,894 (6) ‌Changes in net deferred loan origination costs and fees for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are Debentures 3,085,497 3,071,069 2,725,625 2,718,608 as follows: Other financial liabilities(*4) 6,552,574 6,552,574 2,260,905 2,260,905 ￦ 81,579,605 81,565,177 50,107,593 50,100,576 2017 2016 Beginning balance ￦ (105) (20) (*1) The fair value of derivatives, etc., is the sum of book value and day 1 profit and loss. (*2) Included in financial assets classified as AFS are non-marketable equity securities that have been measured at cost. Increases (5,916) (7,129) (*3) As ‌ loans, borrowings and debentures are due in one year as of December 31, 2017, and due to other reasons, the Group regards book value is similar to the fair Amortization 4,120 7,094 value. (*4) Other ‌ assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position that do not meet the definition of financial instruments, such as advances, advance received and Adjustment due to merger (50) income in advance, are excluded. Ending balance ￦ (1,901) (105) 150 151 (2) Fair value hierarchy of financial instruments measured at fair value 2016 Changes Other Beginning Purchases/ Disposals/ in scope of Ending 1) ‌Fair value hierarchy of financial instruments measured at fair value as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as balance Profit (Loss) comprehenIssuances settlements consolidatibalance sive income follows: on, etc. Financial assets: 2017 Financial assets held for ￦ 164,370 338,060 18,416 (311,580) (61,232) 148,034 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total trading Financial assets Financial assets 1,128,707 287,562 1,453,465 (2,008,556) 814,678 1,675,856 designated at FVTPL Financial assets held for trading ￦ 14,567,513 13,486,593 144,921 28,199,027 AFS financial assets 541,478 (3,839) (14,404) 174,441 (403,861) 417,677 711,492 Financial assets designated at FVTPL 255,685 880,065 932,756 2,068,506 ￦ 1,834,555 621,783 (14,404) 1,646,322 (2,723,997) 1,171,123 2,535,382 AFS financial assets 933,099 7,153,499 751,922 8,838,520 Financial liabilities: ￦ 15,756,297 21,520,157 1,829,599 39,106,053 Financial liabilities held Financial liabilities ￦ 648,055 (221,069) 459,946 (972,229) 539,645 454,348 for trading Financial liabilities held for trading ￦ 1,135,876 881,479 119,682 2,137,037 Financial liabilities 8,099,632 1,134,899 10,363,426 (12,056,091) 5,080,797 12,622,663 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 11,425 6,223,166 9,060,833 15,295,424 designated at FVTPL ￦ 1,147,301 7,104,645 9,180,515 17,432,461 ￦ 8,747,687 913,830 10,823,372 (13,028,320) 5,620,442 13,077,011 2016 3) ‌Valuation techniques and inputs for financial assets and liabilities classified into Level 2 as of December 31, 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total and 2016 are as follows: Financial assets 2017 2016 Valuation techniques Inputs Financial assets held for trading ￦ 12,101,765 16,652,765 148,034 28,902,564 Financial assets designated at FVTPL 993,849 1,615,523 1,675,856 4,285,228 Financial assets AFS financial assets(*) 1,470,852 6,557,373 711,492 8,739,717 DCF, net asset value, Discount rates, interest Financial assets held for trading ￦ 13,486,593 16,652,765 Black-Scholes rates, volatility ￦ 14,566,466 24,825,661 2,535,382 41,927,509 Discount rates, stock Financial liabilities Financial assets designated at FVTPL 880,065 1,615,523 DCF, net asset value prices, exchange rates Financial liabilities held for trading ￦ 908,381 1,306,695 454,348 2,669,424 Discount rates, AFS financial assets 7,153,499 6,557,373 DCF, net asset value Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 11,038 6,745,969 12,622,663 19,379,670 exchange rates ￦ 919,419 8,052,664 13,077,011 22,049,094 ￦ 21,520,157 24,825,661 Financial liabilities (*) ‌Equity securities of ￦2,402 million were transferred from Level 3 to Level 1 for the year ended December 31, 2016. These equity securities, which were Interest rates, volatility, convertible preferred stocks before the conversion occurred this year, are transacted in an active market. The Group recognizes the transfer between fair value Financial liabilities at FVTPL ￦ 881,479 1,306,695 Black-Scholes, DCF discount rates levels, when an event or a change of circumstances that causes the transfer between fair value levels occurs. Interest rates, volatility, Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 6,223,166 6,745,969 Black-Scholes, DCF discount rates 2) ‌Changes in financial assets and liabilities classified into Level 3 for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 ￦ 7,104,645 8,052,664 are as follows: 2017 Other Beginning Purchases/ Disposals/ Ending Profit (Loss) comprehensbalance issuances settlements balance ive income Financial assets: Financial assets held for trading ￦ 148,034 248,819 13,137 (265,069) 144,921 Financial assets designated at FVTPL 1,675,856 57,198 474,834 (1,275,132) 932,756 AFS financial assets 711,492 (5,212) (39,429) 138,485 (53,414) 751,922 ￦ 2,535,382 300,805 (39,429) 626,456 (1,593,615) 1,829,599 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading ￦ 454,348 (153,060) 144,290 (325,896) 119,682 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 12,622,663 577,860 8,451,922 (12,591,612) 9,060,833 ￦13,077,011 424,800 8,596,212 (12,917,508) 9,180,515 152 153 4) ‌Quantitative details regarding the valuation techniques and unobservable inputs for financial assets and liabilities 5) Sensitivity analysis on changes in unobservable inputs classified into Level 3 as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Sensitivity analysis of financial instruments is separately estimated as favorable and adverse changes based on the changes in value of financial instruments coming from the changes in unobservable inputs using statistical techniques. Valuation And sensitivity analysis is calculated based on the most favorable and adverse amount in the case that the fair value is 2017 Inputs Range techniques affected by more than two inputs. Financial assets Volatility: 0.03% ~ 54.61% Sensitivity analysis on changes in inputs of the Controlling Company’s financial assets and liabilities classified into Level 3 Black-Scholes, Volatility, Correlation coefficient: -66.21% ~ 99.97% Financial assets held for trading ￦ 144,921 DCF, probability correlation Other correlation coefficient: -44.86% ~ as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as follows: model coefficient 96.22% Volatility: 0.03% ~ 54.61% 2017 Black-Scholes, Volatility, Correlation coefficient: -66.21% ~ 99.97% Profit (Loss) Other comprehensive income (loss) Financial assets designated at FVTPL 932,756 DCF, probability correlation Other correlation coefficient: -44.86% ~ model coefficient Favorable changes Unfavorable changes Favorable changes Unfavorable changes 96.22% Black-Scholes, Derivatives linked securities sold and related AFS financial assets 751,922 Discount rates Discount rates: 7.41% ~ 17.62% ￦ 26,609 (27,945) DCF hedging assets(*1) ￦ 1,829,599 Equity security(*2) 24,466 (12,915) Financial liabilities Volatility: 0.03% ~ 54.61% 2016 Black-Scholes, Volatility, Correlation coefficient: -66.21% ~ 99.97% Profit (Loss) Other comprehensive income (loss) Financial liabilities held for trading ￦ 119,682 DCF, probability correlation Other correlation coefficient: -44.86% ~ model coefficient Favorable changes Unfavorable changes Favorable changes Unfavorable changes 96.22% Volatility: 0.03% ~ 54.61% Derivatives linked securities sold and related Black-Scholes, Volatility, ￦ 70,003 (138,170) Correlation coefficient: -66.21% ~ 99.97% hedging assets(*1) Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 9,060,883 DCF, probability correlation Other correlation coefficient: -44.86% ~ Equity security(*2) 34,006 (16,431) model coefficient 96.22% ￦ 9,180,515 (*1) Change in fair value is calculated by increasing or decreasing the volatility of the underlying asset by 10%, an input that is impossible to observe. (*2) Change in fair value is calculated by adjusting the growth rate and discount rate each by -1~1%, inputs that are impossible to observe. Valuation 6) Changes in deferred day 1 profit or loss for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2016 Inputs Range techniques Financial assets Description(*) 2017 2016 Volatility: 0.09% ~ 329.68% Black-Scholes, Beginning balance ￦ (71,207) (31,890) Correlation coefficient: -30.74% ~ 97.03% Financial assets held for trading ￦ 148,034 DCF, probability Volatility Other correlation coefficient: 4.41% ~ New transactions (165,984) (203,936) model 13.72% Recognized in current profit or loss 128,755 164,619 Volatility: 0.09% ~ 329.68% Black-Scholes, Volatility, Ending balance ￦ (108,436) (71,207) Correlation coefficient: -30.74% ~ 97.03% Financial assets designated at FVTPL 1,675,856 DCF, probability correlation Other correlation coefficient: 4.41% ~ model coefficient (*) The deferred day 1 profit or loss arose from derivative financial instruments at Level 3 fair value hierarchy. 13.72% Black-Scholes, Volatility, AFS financial assets 711,492 Discount rates: 4.94% ~ 14.9% DCF discount rates ￦ 2,535,382 Financial liabilities Volatility: 0.09% ~ 329.68% Black-Scholes, Correlation coefficient: -30.74% ~ 97.03% Financial liabilities held for trading ￦ 454,348 DCF, probability Volatility Other correlation coefficient: 4.41% ~ model 13.72% Volatility: 0.09% ~ 329.68% Black-Scholes, Volatility, Correlation coefficient: -30.74% ~ 97.03% Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 12,622,663 DCF, probability correlation Other correlation coefficient: 4.41% ~ model coefficient 13.72% ￦13,077,011 154 155 (3) Fair value hierarchy of financial instruments disclosed by fair value 13. The Group’s subsidiaries 1) ‌Fair value hierarchy of financial instruments disclosed by fair value as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as (1) The Group’s subsidiaries follows: Details of subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 Percentage of ownership Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Investor Subsidiaries Main business Location Reporting date and voting rights (%) Financial assets 2017 2016 Deposits ￦ 3,580,259 3,580,259 Domestic subsidiaries: Loans 1,280 35,743,706 35,744,986 Smalland Other financial assets 632,974 6,965,206 7,598,180 medium-sized Mirae Asset Venture Investment Korea December 31 77.53 76.79 enterprise ￦ 632,974 1,280 46,289,171 46,923,425 venture capital Financial liabilities Mirae Asset MAPS India Frontier Private Real Collective Korea December 31 62.50 62.50 Deposits due to customers ￦ 5,118,877 5,118,877 Estate Investment Trust 1st investment Borrowings 600,000 48,790,196 49,390,196 Collective School Infrastructure Private Investment Trust Korea December 31 100.00 100.00 investment Debentures 3,071,069 3,071,069 Mirae Asset Securities PEF I Green Growth Other financial liabilities 632,949 5,919,625 6,552,574 Investment Korea December 31 11.76 11.76 2009 (*1) ￦ 632,949 3,671,069 59,828,698 64,132,716 Collective KDB Private Future Site Special Asset Korea December 31 68.01 investment 2016 Hyundai CVC CLO Private Equity Investment Collective Korea December 31 100.00 100.00 Trust 2nd investment Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total DB Together Private Equity Investment Trust Collective Financial assets Korea December 31 100.00 100.00 67th investment Deposits ￦ 3,133,175 3,133,175 Hyundai ING CLO Private Special Asset Collective Korea December 31 100.00 100.00 Loans 4,421,643 4,421,643 Investment Trust 1st investment Other financial assets 1,319 2,524,098 2,525,417 Collective Multiasset DW – 2nd Fund Korea December 31 100.00 100.00 ￦ 1,319 10,078,916 10,080,235 investment Financial liabilities Hyundai Private Real Estate Investment Trust Collective Korea December 31 100.00 100.00 13th investment Deposits due to customers ￦ 4,125,075 4,125,075 Hyundai Private Real Estate Investment Trust Collective Borrowings 807,300 18,139,594 18,946,894 Korea December 31 100.00 100.00 Mirae Asset 17th investment Debentures 2,718,608 2,718,608 Daewoo Co., Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Collective Ltd. Korea December 31 100.00 100.00 Other financial liabilities 1,361 2,259,544 2,260,905 Investment Trust 1st investment ￦ 1,361 3,525,908 24,524,213 28,051,482 Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Collective Korea December 31 99.28 99.28 Investment Trust 3rd investment Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Collective 2) ‌Valuation techniques and inputs for financial assets and liabilities disclosed by fair values classified into Level 2 as Korea December 31 98.43 98.43 Investment Trust 4th investment of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Hana Landchip Private Real Estate Investment Collective Korea December 31 81.91 81.91 Trust No.67 investment 2017 2016 Valuation techniques Inputs Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Collective Korea December 31 98.04 98.04 Investment Trust 5th investment Financial assets Mirae Asset Daewoo Global K Growth Private Collective Loans receivable ￦ 1,280 DCF Discount rates Korea December 31 30.30 30.30 Equity Fund(*1) investment Financial liabilities Mirae Asset MAPS Frontier US Private Real Collective Korea December 31 99.92 99.92 Borrowings 600,000 807,300 DCF Discount rates Estate Investment Trust 6-2 investment Debentures 3,071,069 2,718,608 DCF Discount rates Mirae Asset Dividend High Equity Focus 30 Collective Korea December 31 99.99 99.99 Private Balanced Investment Trust 1 investment ￦ 3,671,069 3,525,908 INMARK US Professional Private Investment Collective Korea December 31 70.91 Trust 2nd investment Samchully Dream High Professional Private Collective Korea December 31 75.00 Equity Investment Trust 2nd investment Mirae Asset Maps Frontier US Private Real Collective Korea December 31 99.83 99.83 Estate Investment Trust 7 investment Multi Asset Gateway Global Prime Convertible Collective Korea December 31 79.59 78.31 Bond Professional Private Investment Trust 1st investment 156 157 Percentage of ownership Percentage of ownership Investor Subsidiaries Main business Location Reporting date and voting rights (%) Investor Subsidiaries Main business Location Reporting date and voting rights (%) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Multi Asset The Way Multi Strategy Collective Mirae Asset Social Corporate Investment Fund Korea December 31 86.89 Investment Korea December 31 5.00 5.00 Professional Private Investment Trust 1st investment 2nd (*1) Multi Asset Always Global Macro Professional Collective Noroo-Mirae Asset Agrostar Project Venture Korea December 31 81.12 Investment Korea December 31 10.00 10.00 Private Investment Trust 1st investment Fund (*1) MAPS US Professional Investment Private Real Collective Mirae Asset Good Corporate Secondary Korea December 31 98.33 98.33 Investment Korea December 31 51.11 51.11 Estate Investment Trust 9-1 investment Investment Fund Richmond Private Gangnam Hotel Investment Collective MAVI Good Company Investment Fund #1 Investment Korea December 31 60.00 60.00 Korea December 31 99.60 99.60 Trust investment MAVI Good Company Investment Fund #2 Investment Korea December 31 67.14 67.14 Samsung H Club Global Muti-Strategy Collective MIRAE ASSET Global Investment Fund (*1) Investment Korea December 31 37.50 37.50 Professional Investment Private Investment Korea December 31 77.37 77.88 investment Trust 1st Koscom-Mirae Asset Fintech Company Investment Korea December 31 60.00 60.00 Investment Fund #1 INMARK US Professional Private Investment Collective Mirae Asset Korea December 31 99.04 Trust 8 investment Venture MIRAE ASSET Young Start-Up Investment Investment Korea December 31 17.86 17.86 Investment Fund(*1) Multi Asset Foreign Real Estate Investment Collective Korea December 31 54.73 Trust 3 investment Mirae Asset Good Corporate Secondary Investment Korea December 31 44.5 44.5 Investment Fund #2(*1) Heungkuk Balance Investment Private Collective Korea December 31 54.61 Investment Trust 1st investment 2016 KIF-MIRAE ASSET ICT Venture Fund(*1) Investment Korea December 31 30.00 30.00 My First Asset First Gift Professional Collective MIRAE ASSET Good Company Investment Korea December 31 62.60 Investment Korea December 31 10.40 10.40 Investment Private Investment Trust 3rd investment Fund#16-1(*1) LK GHC Specialized Privately Placed Collective MIRAE ASSET Good Company Investment Korea December 31 78.90 Investment Korea December 31 9.13 Investment Trust No.1 investment Fund#17-1(*1) MiraeAsset Solomon Short-Term Gov't and Mirae Asset Hi-Tech Frontier Investment Fund Collective Investment Korea December 31 24.00 Agency Bond Investment Trust (Fixed Income) Korea December 31 57.64 (*1) investment Mirae Asset Class I MIRAE ASSET Young Start-Up Investment Daewoo Co., Investment Korea December 31 28.00 MiraeAsset Corporate Emerging Dollar Prime Fund #2(*1) Ltd. Collective Gov't and Agency Bond Monthly Payment Korea December 31 50.74 Overseas subsidiaries: investment Investment Trust Securities Mirae Asset Global Bio Investment FundⅠ Investment Korea December 31 96.31 brokerage and Other financial Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. investment, UK December 31 100.00 100.00 MADW EP Co. Ltd(*2) Korea December 31 service investment consulting Other financial Good Aiming 1st Co., Ltd. (*2) Korea December 31 service Securities Mirae Asset Securities (USA) Inc. brokerage and USA December 31 100.00 100.00 Other financial Good Aiming 2nd Co., Ltd. (*2) Korea December 31 investment service Securities Other financial Good Chance 1st Co., Ltd. (*2) Korea December 31 Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Limited(*3) brokerage and Hong Kong December 31 100.00 100.00 service investment Other financial Good Chance 2nd Co., Ltd. (*2) Korea December 31 Mirae Asset Securities service Daewoo Co., brokerage and Other financial Ltd. Daewoo Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd.(*3) investment, Hong Kong December 31 100.00 Deogi Dream M.S. Co.,Ltd. (*2) Korea December 31 service investment consulting Other financial Good Chance 4th Co., Ltd. (*2) Korea December 31 service Real estate Mirae Asset Realty (Singapore) PTE. investment and Singapore December 31 100.00 100.00 Other financial Good Chance 5th Co., Ltd. (*2) Korea December 31 rent service Collective Cayman Other financial Asia Opportunity Arbitrage Fund December 31 84.38 67.98 Good Chance 6th Co., Ltd. (*2) Korea December 31 investment Islands service Collective Cayman Money Market Trust Trust asset Asia Opportunity Long Short Equity Fund December 31 58.45 Korea December 31 100.00 100.00 investment Islands (2017: 32, 2016: 43) management Collective MAF-Mirae Asset Agri-energy Investment Mirae Asset China Growth Equity Fund Luxembourg December 31 71.87 Investment Korea December 31 10.00 investment Fund 4th (*1) Securities 2010 KIF-Mirae Asset IT Investment Fund (*1) Investment Korea December 31 29.83 29.83 Mirae Asset Securities (Vietnam) LLC brokerage and Vietnam December 31 100.00 100.00 Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Social Corporate Investment Fund investment Venture Investment Korea December 31 16.66 16.66 Mirae Asset (*1) Investment Securities(HK) Securities Mirae Asset Wealth Management (Brazil) Mirae Asset Agro Project Fund (*1) Investment Korea December 31 10.00 10.00 Limited brokerage and Brazil December 31 100.00 100.00 CCTVM KoFC-Mirae Asset Pioneer Champ 2011-3rd investment Investment Korea December 31 21.82 21.82 Investment Fund (*1) Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. General UK December 31 100.00 100.00 158 159 Percentage of ownership (2) Changes in subsidiaries Investor Subsidiaries Main business Location Reporting date and voting rights (%) 2017 2016 1) Subsidiaries newly included in the scope of consolidation for the year ended December 31, 2017 Securities Mirae Asset Wealth Management (USA) Inc. brokerage and USA December 31 100.00 100.00 investment Subsidiaries Reason Mirae Asset (Shanghai) Investment Consulting Investment Multi Asset GlobalMezzanineDebt Professional Investment Private Investment Trust 1st China December 31 100.00 100.00 Co. Ltd. consulting Good Chance 5th Co., Ltd. Investment Mirae Asset Investment Advisory (BEIJING) MIRAE ASSET Good Company Investment Fund#17-1 and investment China December 31 100.00 100.00 Co., Ltd. consulting Mirae Asset Global Bio Investment FundⅠ Securities Mirae Asset Hi-Tech Frontier Investment Fund Mirae Asset Securities (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Singapore December 31 100.00 100.00 brokerage Multi Asset Foreign Real Estate Investment Trust 4 Mirae Asset Investment Good Chance 6th Co., Ltd. Securities(HK) Mirae Asset Securities Mongolia UTsK LLC and investment Mongolia December 31 83.16 83.16 Limited consulting MIRAE ASSET Young Start-Up Investment Fund #2 They are newly acquired Securities INMARK US Professional Private Investment Trust 8 investment trust and PT. Mirae Asset Sekuritas Indonesia Indonesia December 31 99.00 99.00 fund for the year ended brokerage Multi Asset Foreign Real Estate Investment Trust 3 December 31, 2017, on Mirae Asset Investment Asia Limited investment Hong Kong December 31 100.00 100.00 Heungkuk Balance Investment Private Investment Trust 1st which the Group has Collective control. South Mountain Asset Management Ltd. Hong Kong December 31 100.00 100.00 My First Asset First Gift Professional Investment Private Investment Trust 3rd investment LK GHC Specialized Privately Placed Investment Trust No.1 Securities Mirae Asset Capital Markets (India) Private MiraeAsset Solomon Short-Term Gov't and Agency Bond Investment Trust (Fixed Income) Class I brokerage and India December 31 100.00 Limited investment MiraeAsset Corporate Emerging Dollar Prime Gov't and Agency Bond Monthly Payment Investment Trust Collective Mirae Asset China Growth Equity Fund Daewoo Alpha Trust Hong Kong December 31 100.00 investment Mirae Asset Capital Markets (India) Private Limited Real estate MAPS HAWAII TWO, LLC. investment and USA December 31 100.00 100.00 MAGBI Fund Limited rent Super Delta Pte. Ltd. Mirae Asset Real estate Maps Frontier MAPS WAIKIKI HOTEL, LLC. investment and USA December 31 100.00 100.00 rent 2) Subsidiaries excluded from the scope of consolidation for the year ended December 31, 2017 US Private Real Estate Real estate Investment MAPS HOTELS AND RESORTS HAWAII 2, LLC. investment and USA December 31 100.00 100.00 Subsidiaries Reason Trust 7 rent Entity deconsolidated due Real estate Daewoo Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd. to merger with Mirae Asset MAPS ROYAL GROVE, LLC. investment and USA December 31 100.00 100.00 Securities (HK) Limited rent Multi Asset Always Global Macro Professional Private Investment Trust 1st Mirae Asset Daewoo Alpha Trust Global Bio MAGBI Fund Limited Investment Hong Kong December 31 100.00 Investment Samchully Dream High Professional Private Equity Investment Trust 2nd FundⅠ Multi Asset Foreign Real Estate Investment Trust 4 Lost control due to the disposal of LK GHC all shares in the current period INMARK US Professional Private Investment Trust 2nd Specialized Privately Placed Super Delta Pte. Ltd. Investment Singapore December 31 99.12 MAF-Mirae Asset Agri-energy Investment Fund 4th Investment Asia Opportunity Long Short Equity Fund Trust No.1 KDB Private Future Site Special Asset (*1) ‌Although the Group’s ownership is less than 50 percent, the Group has substantial power to influence related decisions of the entity and is exposed to significant Multi Asset GlobalMezzanineDebt Professional Investment Private Investment Trust 1st Reclassified as AFS financial changes in profit in which the Group can also influence, and therefore, the entity was classified as a subsidiary. assets as a result of losing control (*2) ‌The entity is a structured entity for assets securitization and although the Group’s ownership is less than 50 percent, the Group has substantial power to influence after partial disposal of interest in Multi Asset The Way Multi Strategy Professional Private Investment Trust 1st related decisions of the entity, and is exposed to significant changes in profit in which the Group can also influence, and therefore, the entity was classified as a subsidiary subsidiary. (*3) Daewoo Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd. Merged with Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Limited in March 1, 2017. (*4) ‌Nine of the collective investment securities that the Group has substantial power are excluded because they are not material to the Group’s consolidated financial information. The Group recognized the collective investment securities in the amount of W 18,771 million as available-for-sale financial assets. 160 161 (3) Financial information of subsidiaries 2017 Net Net comAssets Liabilities Equity Revenue income prehensive 1) Financial information of subsidiaries as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017, is as follows: (loss) gain (loss) Good Chance 4th Co., Ltd. ￦ 27,373 27,000 373 4,438 565 565 2017 Good Chance 5th Co., Ltd. 100,813 101,800 (987) (898) (898) Net Net comGood Chance 6th Co., Ltd. 50,093 50,301 (208) Assets Liabilities Equity Revenue income prehensive (loss) gain (loss) 2010 KIF-Mirae Asset IT Investment Fund 4th 16,283 5 16,278 5,325 1,729 909 Mirae Asset Venture Investment ￦ 97,928 6,362 91,566 18,033 6,774 5,486 Mirae Asset Social Corporate Investment Fund 1,827 14 1,813 80 (151) (151) Mirae Asset MAPS India Frontier Private Real Estate Mirae Asset Agro Project Fund 10,108 1,189 8,919 971 (844) (3,151) 54,813 411 54,402 (22) (3,037) Investment Trust 1st KoFC-Mirae Asset Pioneer Champ 2011-3rd Investment Fund 22,362 2,118 20,244 2,061 (1,837) (3,510) School Infrastructure Private Investment Trust 21,075 23 21,052 895 559 559 Mirae Asset Social Corporate Investment Fund 2nd 4,323 40 4,283 347 (132) 1,960 Mirae Asset Securities PEF I Green Growth 2009 71 7 64 (25) (296) Noroo-Mirae Asset Agrostar Project Venture Fund 13,252 244 13,008 1,475 (239) 1,530 Hyundai CVC CLO Private Equity Investment Trust 2nd 5,735 2 5,733 382 (431) (1,595) Mirae Asset Good Corporate Secondary Investment Fund 13,721 280 13,441 1,710 1,256 2,213 DB Together Private Equity Investment Trust 67th 22,141 2 22,139 945 534 496 MAVI Good Company Investment Fund #1 5,825 53 5,772 288 (361) (711) Hyundai ING CLO Private Special Asset Investment Trust 1st 6,241 3 6,238 1,262 350 (556) MAVI Good Company Investment Fund #2 5,309 47 5,262 228 (280) (777) Multiasset DW – 2nd Fund 53 53 4 4 4 MIRAE ASSET Global Investment Fund 35,328 251 35,077 2,030 (2,850) (1,723) Hyundai Private Real Estate Investment Trust 13th 15,547 12,667 2,880 1,214 467 467 Koscom-Mirae Asset Fintech Company Investment Fund #1 1,961 15 1,946 79 16 217 Hyundai Private Real Estate Investment Trust 17th 22,265 14,648 7,617 1,409 480 480 MIRAE ASSET Young Start-Up Investment Fund 10,249 94 10,155 158 (323) (33) Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Investment Trust 1st 5,819 3,022 2,797 479 252 252 Mirae Asset Good Corporate Secondary Investment Fund #2 19,242 132 19,110 207 (762) 4,427 Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Investment Trust 3rd 14,493 7,900 6,593 963 304 304 2016 KIF-MIRAE ASSET ICT Venture Fund 11,380 155 11,225 218 (845) (703) Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Investment Trust 4th 9,952 5,130 4,822 723 356 356 MIRAE ASSET Good Company Investment Fund #16-1 14,137 58 14,079 76 (581) 87 Hana Landchip Private Real Estate Investment Trust No.67 42,455 30,755 11,700 2,522 749 749 MIRAE ASSET Good Company Investment Fund #17-1 16,696 68 16,628 31 (206) 128 Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Investment Trust 5th 7,160 4,165 2,995 508 221 221 Mirae Asset Hi-Tech Frontier Investment Fund 4,986 160 4,826 7 (174) (174) Mirae Asset Daewoo Global K Growth Private Equity Fund 35,107 448 34,659 2,974 1,882 1,882 MIRAE ASSET Young Start-Up Investment Fund #2 5,000 7 4,993 (7) (7) Mirae Asset MAPS Frontier US Private Real Estate 141,099 2,662 138,437 31,362 17,581 3,928 Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. 92,735 8,639 84,096 6,885 2,047 (8,573) Investment Trust 6-2 Mirae Asset Securities (USA) Inc. 32,085,303 31,840,289 245,014 240,335 (22,776) (55,693) Mirae Asset Dividend High Equity Focus 30 Private Balanced 6,823 4 6,819 543 427 427 Mirae Asset Securities 1,135,718 86,014 1,049,704 162,764 31,585 15,764 Investment Trust 1 Mirae Asset Maps Frontier US Private Real Estate Investment Trust 7 366,465 22 366,443 71,708 14,084 33,150 Mirae Asset Realty (Singapore) PTE. 191 35 156 (8) (8) Multi Asset Gateway Global Prime Convertible Bond Asia Opportunity Arbitrage Fund 112,595 67,486 45,109 12,749 (794) (8,055) 70,439 265 70,174 23,239 3,599 3,599 Professional Private Investment Trust 1st Mirae Asset China Growth Equity Fund 74,466 68 74,398 MAPS US Professional Investment Private Real Estate Mirae Asset Securities (Vietnam) LLC 130,934 31,541 99,393 11,712 5,515 (2,673) 118,949 5 118,944 27,756 13,202 13,202 Investment Trust 9-1 Mirae Asset Wealth Management (Brazil) CCTVM 124,854 45,601 79,253 26,285 8,199 14,748 Richmond Private Gangnam Hotel Investment Trust 25,468 526 24,942 464 495 495 Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. Samsung H Club Global Muti-Strategy Professional 10,306 10,306 874 414 115 Mirae Asset Wealth Management (USA) Inc. 345,998 1,806 344,192 12,005 7,768 8,611 Investment Private Investment Trust 1st INMARK US Professional Private Investment Trust 8 104,692 7 104,685 Mirae Asset (Shanghai) Investment Consulting Co. Ltd. 930 930 6 (1) 19 Multi Asset Foreign Real Estate Investment Trust 3 142,440 107 142,333 Mirae Asset Investment Advisory (BEIJING) Co., Ltd. 3,647 126 3,521 1,066 (59) 191 Heungkuk Balance Investment Private Investment Trust 1st 6,495 1,020 5,475 Mirae Asset Securities (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 7,482 849 6,633 1,629 328 906 My First Asset First Gift Professional Investment Private Mirae Asset Securities Mongolia UTsK LLC 1,595 10 1,585 253 26 158 4,111 888 3,223 Investment Trust 3rd PT. Mirae Asset Sekuritas Indonesia 182,335 129,214 53,121 23,825 5,799 6,879 LK GHC Specialized Privately Placed Investment Trust No.1 45,370 13 45,357 Mirae Asset Investment Asia Limited 3,339 6 3,333 11,471 (497) (651) MiraeAsset Solomon Short-Term Gov't and Agency Bond South Mountain Asset Management Ltd. 970 9 961 9 (14) (13) 31,236 16 31,220 Investment Trust (Fixed Income) Class I Mirae Asset Capital Markets (India) Private Limited 967 25 942 4 (153) (153) MiraeAsset Corporate Emerging Dollar Prime Gov't and 41,402 13 41,389 MAPS HAWAII TWO, LLC. 419,757 158,046 261,711 (9,711) (9,711) Agency Bond Monthly Payment Investment Trust Mirae Asset Global Bio Investment FundⅠ 83,318 228 83,090 4 (877) (877) MAPS WAIKIKI HOTEL, LLC. 856,293 438,232 418,061 71,455 2,876 2,876 MADW EP Co. Ltd 3,546 1,286 2,260 7,061 4,306 1,476 MAPS HOTELS AND RESORTS HAWAII 2, LLC. 21,981 11,279 10,702 153,505 (1,014) (1,014) Good Aiming 1st Co., Ltd. 46,679 47,200 (521) 2,008 (14) (14) MAPS ROYAL GROVE, LLC. 28 28 166 20 20 Good Aiming 2nd Co., Ltd. 46,645 46,200 445 1,306 2,976 2,976 MAGBI Fund Limited 80,699 80,699 Good Chance 1st Co., Ltd. 121,210 122,100 (890) 3,964 (578) (578) Super Delta Pte. Ltd. 44,634 44,634 Good Chance 2nd Co., Ltd. 107 107 4,189 393 393 32 Money Market Trust 1,907,116 2,547 1,904,569 12,148 749 749 Deogi Dream M.S. Co.,Ltd. 30,945 31,454 (509) (*) The financial statements of some subsidiaries are adjusted using the accounting method of the Controlling Company. 162 163 2) Financial information of subsidiaries as of and for the year ended December 31, 2016 is as follows: 2016 Net Net com2016 Assets Liabilities Equity Revenue income prehensive (loss) gain (loss) Net Net comAssets Liabilities Equity Revenue income prehensive Mirae Asset Agro Project Fund ￦ 16,269 999 15,270 3,086 876 12 (loss) gain (loss) KoFC-Mirae Asset Pioneer Champ 2011-3rd Investment Fund 25,873 2,119 23,754 11,697 9,980 1,887 Mirae Asset Venture Investment ￦ 90,380 4,623 85,757 15,931 4,737 6,708 Mirae Asset Social Corporate Investment Fund 2nd 2,364 41 2,323 1,047 729 (322) Mirae Asset MAPS India Frontier Private Real Estate Noroo-Mirae Asset Agrostar Project Venture Fund 11,775 297 11,478 11,987 10,337 10,956 57,828 388 57,440 (111) 1,545 Investment Trust 1st Mirae Asset Good Corporate Secondary Investment Fund 16,121 173 15,948 3,756 1,911 (1,269) School Infrastructure Private Investment Trust 22,883 29 22,854 1,089 730 730 MAVI Good Company Investment Fund #1 6,536 53 6,483 185 (175) (857) Mirae Asset Securities PEF I Green Growth 2009 359 359 (20) (181) MAVI Good Company Investment Fund #2 5,745 47 5,698 (181) (489) (580) KDB Private Future Site Special Asset 2,687 2,687 1 MIRAE ASSET Global Investment Fund 29,040 241 28,799 1,035 (530) (3,102) Hyundai CVC CLO Private Equity Investment Trust 2nd 7,684 3 7,681 1,560 1,538 662 Koscom-Mirae Asset Fintech Company Investment Fund #1 1,744 15 1,729 63 10 (265) DB Together Private Equity Investment Trust 67th 22,572 2 22,570 951 902 885 MIRAE ASSET Young Start-Up Investment Fund 6,734 46 6,688 43 (143) (312) Hyundai ING CLO Private Special Asset Investment Trust 1st 8,038 4 8,034 2,198 2,179 1,994 Mirae Asset Good Corporate Secondary Investment Fund #2 4,812 129 4,683 24 (246) (317) Multiasset DW – 2nd Fund 50 50 4 1 1 2016 KIF-MIRAE ASSET ICT Venture Fund 6,004 76 5,928 4 (71) (71) Hyundai Private Real Estate Investment Trust 13th 15,660 12,815 2,845 1,176 424 424 MIRAE ASSET Good Company Investment Fund#16-1 14,004 12 13,992 4 (9) (9) Hyundai Private Real Estate Investment Trust 17th 22,538 14,801 7,737 1,502 542 542 Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. 94,277 1,608 92,669 5,939 1,275 (7,294) Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Investment Trust 1st 5,893 3,022 2,871 469 191 191 Mirae Asset Securities (USA) Inc. 302,700 1,994 300,706 2,882 (10,473) (24,433) Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Investment Trust 3rd 14,723 7,899 6,824 963 339 339 Mirae Asset Securities 373,669 4,344 369,325 8,831 2,078 36,420 Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Investment Trust 4th 10,062 5,129 4,933 715 349 349 Daewoo Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd. 451,659 8,594 443,065 36,180 3,382 2,532 Hana Landchip Private Real Estate Investment Trust No.67 42,858 30,773 12,085 2,448 678 678 Mirae Asset Realty (Singapore) PTE. 215 25 190 (9) (9) Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Investment Trust 5th 7,245 4,169 3,076 502 216 216 Asia Opportunity Arbitrage Fund 134,122 83,666 50,456 90,876 1,388 2,243 Mirae Asset Daewoo Global K Growth Private Equity Fund 26,156 409 25,747 261 (677) (677) Asia Opportunity Long Short Equity Fund 46,200 11,510 34,690 2,242 (3,131) (2,433) Mirae Asset MAPS Frontier US Private Real Estate 148,972 5,310 143,662 10,440 4,692 11,217 Mirae Asset Securities (Vietnam) LLC 40,309 3,694 36,615 4,500 1,485 2,594 Investment Trust 6-2 Mirae Asset Dividend High Equity Focus 30 Private Balanced Mirae Asset Wealth Management (Brazil) CCTVM 102,114 22,264 79,850 17,480 8,868 18,977 12,199 7 12,192 126 (228) (228) Investment Trust 1 Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. 104 (30) 134 (23) INMARK US Professional Private Investment Trust 2nd 65,429 1,406 64,023 6,276 3,019 3,019 Mirae Asset Wealth Management (USA) Inc. 16,058 263 15,795 460 (1,668) (1,888) Samchully Dream High Professional Private Equity Investment Mirae Asset (Shanghai) Investment Consulting Co. Ltd. 980 980 101 93 56 11,685 40 11,645 536 (355) (355) Trust 2nd Mirae Asset Investment Advisory (BEIJING) Co., Ltd. 3,866 86 3,780 1,317 74 (206) Mirae Asset Maps Frontier US Private Real Estate Investment 361,331 10,967 350,364 37,315 7,042 7,042 Mirae Asset Securities (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 7,075 483 6,592 1,417 16 (451) Trust 7 Multi Asset Gateway Global Prime Convertible Bond Mirae Asset Securities Mongolia UTsK LLC 1,721 1 1,720 496 86 (260) 67,804 206 67,598 2,288 (92) (92) Professional Private Investment Trust 1st PT. Mirae Asset Sekuritas Indonesia 147,647 105,314 42,333 20,393 6,997 6,251 Multi Asset The Way Multi Strategy Professional Private Mirae Asset Investment Asia Limited 212,753 10,117 202,636 26,447 5,989 10,165 61,813 2,362 59,451 7,241 (1,542) (1,542) Investment Trust 1st South Mountain Asset Management Ltd. 1,125 28 1,097 42 (52) (51) Multi Asset Always Global Macro Professional Private 49,530 139 49,391 25,707 (4,711) (4,711) Daewoo Alpha Trust 4 4 5,419 (524) (524) Investment Trust 1st MAPS HAWAII TWO, LLC. 503,441 175,757 327,684 (2,263) (2,263) MAPS US Professional Investment Private Real Estate 119,005 119,005 96 5 5 Investment Trust 9-1 MAPS WAIKIKI HOTEL, LLC. 980,862 483,172 497,690 16,313 (2,533) (2,533) Richmond Private Gangnam Hotel Investment Trust 10,497 109 10,388 MAPS HOTELS AND RESORTS HAWAII 2, LLC. 4,456 742 3,714 35,561 1,240 1,240 Samsung H Club Global Muti-Strategy Professional MAPS ROYAL GROVE, LLC. 13 2 11 45 11 11 10,123 10,123 Investment Private Investment Trust 1st Money Market Trust 3,117,781 3,623 3,114,158 24,415 10,970 10,970 MADW EP Co. Ltd 28,057 27,273 784 1,011 (1,132) (1,900) (*) The financial statements of some subsidiaries are adjusted to conform to the accounting policies of the Company. Good Aiming 1st Co., Ltd. 46,803 47,310 (507) 2,647 577 577 Good Aiming 2nd Co., Ltd. 45,694 48,225 (2,531) 3,950 224 224 Good Chance 1st Co., Ltd. 120,787 121,100 (313) 3,964 379 379 Good Chance 2nd Co., Ltd. 92,715 93,000 (285) 2,500 207 207 Deogi Dream M.S. Co.,Ltd. 32,475 32,984 (509) Good Chance 4th Co., Ltd. 53,009 53,200 (191) 580 (191) (191) MAF-Mirae Asset Agri-energy Investment Fund 4th 3,583 28 3,555 3,856 3,262 4,042 2010 KIF-Mirae Asset IT Investment Fund 4th 22,818 324 22,494 5,461 4,099 1,474 Mirae Asset Social Corporate Investment Fund 1,983 20 1,963 48 (521) (521) 164 165 14. Investments in associates 2016 Associates Main business Location Percentage of Acquisition Carrying ownership (%) cost amount (1) Details of investments in associates as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd (*1) Insurance Korea 19.87 ￦ 320,296 360,177 SMC RMB Investors II Limited. Investment China 30.73 245 6,368 2017 Cassava Investment Korea Pte. Ltd. Investment Singapore 24.53 280 Associates Main business Location Percentage of Acquisition Carrying Daewoo Global Development Pte. Ltd. Investment Singapore 39.00 19,915 21,143 ownership (%) cost amount Transwestern Corporate Properties I LLC Investment USA 28.53 9,449 9,449 Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd (*1) Insurance Korea 19.87 ￦ 320,296 394,770 Traphaco Joint Stock Company Manufacturing Vietnam SMC RMB Investors II Limited. Investment China 30.73 245 5,517 Mirae Asset-NAVER New Growth Fund I Investment Korea 45.00 9,000 9,000 Cassava Investment Korea Pte. Ltd. Investment Singapore 24.53 280 Mirae Asset-GS Retail New Growth FundⅠ Investment Korea Daewoo Global Development Pte. Ltd. Investment Singapore Mirae Asset-Celltrion New Growth FundⅠ Investment Korea Transwestern Corporate Properties I LLC Investment USA 26.88 120,745 106,610 Mirae Asset Partners PEF 4th (*2) Investment Korea 3.97 6,087 1,072 Traphaco Joint Stock Company Manufacturing Vietnam 40.00 125,332 125,332 Renaissance 1st PEF(*2) Investment Korea 16.61 5,498 5,498 Mirae Asset-NAVER New Growth Fund I Investment Korea 45.00 18,000 17,601 New Growth Engine Green Future PEF(*2) Investment Korea 9.99 2,227 2,227 Mirae Asset-GS Retail New Growth FundⅠ Investment Korea 50.00 10,000 9,685 Lotte KDB Mirae Asset Daewoo Global Investment Partnership PEF(*2) Investment Korea 10.00 9 9 Mirae Asset-Celltrion New Growth FundⅠ Investment Korea 45.00 11,250 10,764 Mirae Asset 3rd SPAC (*3) SPAC Korea 0.31 19 37 Mirae Asset Partners PEF 4th (*2) Investment Korea 3.97 6,087 1,333 Mirae Asset 5th SPAC (*3) SPAC Korea 0.29 14 27 Renaissance 1st PEF(*2) Investment Korea Daewoo SBI Special Purpose Acquisition 1 Co., Ltd(*3) SPAC Korea 0.99 70 62 New Growth Engine Green Future PEF(*2) Investment Korea 9.99 1,223 1,259 Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 2 Co., Ltd(*3) SPAC Korea 0.42 48 46 Lotte KDB Mirae Asset Daewoo Global Investment Partnership PEF(*2) Investment Korea 11.00 10 8 Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 3 Co., Ltd(*3) SPAC Korea 0.37 40 39 Mirae Asset 3rd SPAC (*3) SPAC Korea 0.31 19 37 Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC (*3) SPAC Korea Mirae Asset 5th SPAC (*3) SPAC Korea 0.29 14 27 ￦ 373,197 415,154 Daewoo SBI Special Purpose Acquisition 1 Co., Ltd(*3) SPAC Korea Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 2 Co., Ltd(*3) SPAC Korea ‌ (*1) Although the Group’s ownership is less than 20 percent, the Controlling Company has significant influence because it has voting power over the financial and operating policies of the investee and thus was included as associate. Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 3 Co., Ltd(*3) SPAC Korea 0.37 39 39 (*2) Since the Controlling Company is the General Partner, the Controlling Company has significant influence over those associates. Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC (*3) SPAC Korea 0.83 40 73 ‌ (*3) Although the Group’s ownership is less than 20 percent, the Group has determined that it has significant influence because it has participated in decision making by appointing executives. ￦ 613,580 673,055 166 167 (2) ‌Changes in the carrying amounts of investments in associates for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 2016 are as follows: Changes Share of Effect on Beginning in scope of ReclassifiDividend Ending Acquisition Disposal profits change in balance consolidacation received balance (losses) equity 2017 tion Share of Effect on Mirae Asset Life Insurance Beginning ReclassifiDividend Ending ￦344,348 (1,586) 20,811 (3,396) 360,177 Acquisition Disposal profits change in Co., Ltd balance cation received balance (losses) equity SMC RMB Investors II 7,631 (477) (138) (648) 6,368 Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd ￦360,177 (1,586) 37,427 (1,248) 394,770 Limited. SMC RMB Investors II Limited. 6,368 (2,671) 1,975 (155) 5,517 Daewoo Global 19,915 265 963 21,143 Development Pte. Ltd. Daewoo Global Development Pte. Ltd. 21,143 (19,499) (1,644) Transwestern Corporate Transwestern Corporate Properties I LLC 9,449 116,673 (1,283) (10,058) 5,781 (13,952) 106,610 9,449 9,449 Properties I LLC Traphaco Joint Stock Company 125,332 125,332 Mirae Asset-NAVER New 9,000 9,000 Mirae Asset-NAVER New Growth Fund I 9,000 9,000 (399) 17,601 Growth Fund I Mirae Asset-GS Retail New Growth Mirae Asset Partners PEF 4th 5,115 (4,084) 41 1,072 10,000 (315) 9,685 FundⅠ Renaissance 1st PEF 5,500 (3) 5,497 Mirae Asset-Celltrion New Growth 11,250 (486) 10,764 New Growth Engine Green FundⅠ 2,286 (180) 121 2,227 Future PEF Mirae Asset Partners PEF 4th 1,072 (2) 263 1,333 Lotte KDB Mirae Asset Renaissance 1st PEF 5,497 (8,942) 3,445 Daewoo Global Investment 10 10 Partnership PEF New Growth Engine Green Future PEF 2,227 (1,080) 112 1,259 Mirae Asset 3rd SPAC 37 37 Lotte KDB Mirae Asset Daewoo Global 10 (2) 8 Investment Partnership PEF Mirae Asset 4th SPAC 19 (17) (2) Mirae Asset 3rd SPAC 37 37 Mirae Asset 5th SPAC 14 (2) 15 27 Mirae Asset 5th SPAC 27 27 Daewoo SBI Special Purpose 70 (8) 62 Acquisition 1 Co., Ltd Daewoo SBI Special Purpose Acquisition 62 (62) 1 Co., Ltd Daewoo Special Purpose 48 (2) 46 Acquisition 2 Co., Ltd Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 2 46 (46) Co., Ltd Daewoo Special Purpose 40 1 (2) 39 Acquisition 3 Co., Ltd Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 3 39 39 Co., Ltd ￦357,150 27,711 18,621 (180) (17) (2,063) 16,971 (3,039) 415,154 Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC 40 27 6 73 ￦415,154 272,295 (30,850) (62) (14,315) 47,563 (16,730) 673,055 168 169 (3) Financial information of investments in associates as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as follows: 15. Property and equipment 2017 (1) Details of property and equipment as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Total ComOperating Profit (loss) Assets Liabilities Equity prehensive income for the period income 2017 Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd ￦35,527,597 33,474,018 2,053,579 4,321,774 220,684 220,684 Furniture Data ConstrucLeasehold SMC RMB Investors II Limited. 19,611 1,657 17,954 7,009 6,428 5,923 Land Structure Vehicles and processing tion in Others Total facilities fixtures equipment progress Cassava Investment Korea Pte. Ltd. 2 11,295 (11,293) Acquisition cost ￦ 84,291 22,191 1,772 133,657 87,461 8,592 19,029 3,673 360,666 Transwestern Corporate Properties I LLC 396,661 19 396,642 21,509 21,509 21,509 Accumulated depreciation (2,778) (1,498) (81,401) (68,441) (6,631) (1,341) (162,090) Traphaco Joint Stock Company 57,180 13,978 43,202 The carrying amount, net ￦ 84,291 19,413 274 52,256 19,020 1,961 19,029 2,332 198,576 Mirae Asset-NAVER New Growth Fund I 39,368 254 39,114 141 (875) (875) Mirae Asset-GS Retail New Growth FundⅠ 19,623 254 19,369 136 (631) (631) 2016 Mirae Asset-Celltrion New Growth FundⅠ 24,299 379 23,920 58 (1,080) (1,080) Data Mirae Asset Partners PEF 4th 72,134 28 72,106 (57) (57) Furniture Leasehold Land Structure Vehicles processing Others Total and fixtures facilities New Growth Engine Green Future PEF 12,605 12,605 365 1,456 1,456 equipment Lotte KDB Mirae Asset Daewoo Global Acquisition cost ￦ 228,262 49,657 1,947 121,008 102,651 8,849 2,058 514,432 84 84 1 (4) (4) Investment Partnership PEF Accumulated depreciation (2,525) (1,462) (75,500) (79,835) (6,206) (1,148) (166,676) Mirae Asset 3rd SPAC 12,995 1,206 11,789 14 14 The carrying amount, net ￦ 228,262 47,132 485 45,508 22,816 2,643 910 347,756 Mirae Asset 5th SPAC 10,405 1,057 9,348 64 64 Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 2 Co., Ltd 12,067 1,541 10,526 5 5 (2) ‌The Group did not recognized any impairment loss in property and equipment as of December 31, 2017 and Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC 9,900 1,077 8,823 19 19 2016. 2016 Total Com(3) Changes in property and equipment for the years ended December 31, 2017 are as follows: Operating Profit (loss) Assets Liabilities Equity prehensive income for the period income 2017 Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd ￦28,303,976 26,430,265 1,873,711 4,005,851 24,193 26,918 Fluctuation SMC RMB Investors II Limited 21,722 1,001 20,721 382 (82) (2,113) Beginning ReclassificaEnding Acquisition Disposal Depreciation of foreign balance tion(*1) balance Cassava Investment Korea Pte. Ltd. 2 11,295 (11,293) exchange rate Daewoo Global Development Pte. Ltd. 257,921 203,707 54,214 1,166 874 874 Land ￦ 228,262 (4,115) (139,856) 84,291 Transwestern Corporate Properties I LLC 33,121 33,121 Structure 47,132 (221) (3,251) (24,247) 19,413 Mirae Asset-NAVER New Growth Fund I 20,000 11 19,989 (11) (11) Vehicles 485 (72) (181) 42 274 Mirae Asset Partners PEF 4th 72,136 72,993 (857) (95,829) (95,829) Furniture and fixtures 45,508 20,435 (4,494) (9,265) (66) 138 52,256 Renaissance 1st PEF 34,367 1,267 33,100 3 (16) (16) Data processing equipment 22,816 5,058 (5) (8,828) 61 (82) 19,020 New Growth Engine Green Future PEF 22,292 22,292 531 1,820 1,820 Leasehold facilities(*) 2,643 808 (827) (663) 1,961 Lotte KDB Mirae Asset Daewoo Global Construction in progress 19,029 19,029 93 5 88 1 (7) (7) Investment Partnership PEF Others 910 2,025 (53) (366) (184) 2,332 Mirae Asset 3rd SPAC 12,939 1,157 11,782 63 63 ￦ 347,756 47,355 (8,960) (22,718) (164,771) (86) 198,576 Mirae Asset 5th SPAC 10,253 1,016 9,237 (43) (43) (*1) Reclassification to Investment properties by changes of leasable area. Daewoo SBI Special Purpose Acquisition 1 Co., Ltd 6,923 680 6,243 (37) (37) (*2) ￦808 million acquired from leasehold facilities through a transfer of provision of restoration incurred in relation to new lease contract. Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 2 Co., Ltd 12,049 950 11,099 9 9 Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 3 Co., Ltd 12,067 1,546 10,521 85 85 170 171 (3) Changes in property and equipment for the years ended December 31, 2016 are as follows: (3) Changes in investment properties for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2016 2017 Fluctuation Changes Reclassification Beginning balance Depreciation Others(*2) Ending balance Beginning DepreciaReclassifiof foreign in scope of Ending (*1) Acquisition Disposal balance tion cation(*1) exchange consolidabalance Land ￦ 120,257 139,856 260,113 rate tion Structures 994,829 (29,116) 24,247 (109,473) 880,487 Land ￦ (20,410) 248,672 228,262 ￦ 1,115,086 (29,116) 164,103 (109,473) 1,140,600 Structure 1 (2,420) (8,093) 57,644 47,132 Vehicles 60 407 (25) (195) 238 485 2016 Furniture and fixtures 4,575 39,082 (306) (4,684) (4) 6,845 45,508 Beginning ReclassificaData processing equipment 5,133 13,125 (233) (6,772) 39 11,524 22,816 Acquisition Depreciation Others(*2) Ending balance balance tion(*1) Leasehold facilities(*2) 808 2,153 (1) (929) 3 609 2,643 Land ￦ 56,145 20,410 43,702 120,257 Others 343 5 (231) 157 636 910 Structures 60,385 913,117 (10,250) 8,093 23,484 994,829 ￦ 10,919 54,773 (540) (15,061) (28,503) 326,168 347,756 ￦ 116,530 913,117 (10,250) 28,503 67,186 1,115,086 (*1) Reclassification to Investment properties by changes of leasable area. (*1) Reclassification from properties by changes of leasable area. (*2) ￦2,153 million acquired from leasehold facilities through a transfer of provision of restoration incurred in relation to new lease contract. (*2) Effects from changes of foreign currency exchange rates and scope of consolidation. (4) ‌The Group is leasing a portion of the buildings, including the Yeouido office building, etc., to Standard Chartered (4) Details of gain (loss) on investment properties for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Bank Korea Limited, etc., and therefore, it established the right to collateral security of ￦17,077 million and the right to lease on a deposit basis of ￦3,989 million related to the lease. 2017 2016 Rental income ￦ 147,303 14,803 Direct operating expenses for investment properties (70,244) (14,785) 16. Investment properties that generated rental income (1) Details of investment properties as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: (5) Fair value of investment properties as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as follows: 2017 2017 2016 Land Structures Total Land ￦ 217,598 77,741 Acquisition cost ￦ 260,113 920,433 1,180,546 Structures 1,008,418 1,046,652 Accumulated depreciation (39,946) (39,946) ￦ 1,226,016 1,124,393 The carrying amount, net ￦ 260,113 880,487 1,140,600 (*) Valuation ‌ was conducted by professional independent appraisers who have evaluated similar properties in the past. Valuation was based on inputs used in valuation technique and fair values is classified to Level 3. 2016 Land Structures Total (6) Valuation methods of investment property and input factor are as follows: Acquisition cost ￦ 120,257 1,006,577 1,126,834 Accumulated depreciation (11,748) (11,748) Valuation technique Inputs The carrying amount, net ￦ 120,257 994,829 1,115,086 Land Transaction comparison approach Transaction price Future cash flows (deposits, rental income, expenses, vacancy rate and Structures Discounted cash flow analysis others), discount rates (2) The Group has not recognized any impairment loss in investment properties as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. 172 173 17. Intangible assets 3) ‌As a result of an impairment test, the recoverable amount of the intangible assets exceeds its book value to ￦511,904 million, therefore no impairment was recognized. (1) Changes in intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 18. Other assets 2017 Development Goodwill cost Software Others Total Details of other assets as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Beginning balance, net ￦ 397,777 23,330 12,102 222,672 655,881 2017 2016 Acquisition 18,946 1,922 20,789 41,657 Advance payments ￦ 80,693 99,672 Amortization (13,228) (4,720) (24,954) (42,902) Prepaid expenses 25,071 18,784 Impairment (153) (153) Others 8,147 2,251 Disposal (1,841) (1,841) ￦ 113,911 120,707 Fluctuation of foreign exchange rate (116) 2 (2,474) (2,588) Transfers 1,061 (1,061) Ending balance, net ￦ 397,777 29,993 8,245 214,039 650,054 19. Pledged assets 2016 Development Details of pledged assets as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Goodwill Software Others Total cost Beginning balance, net ￦ 1,471 1,692 23,479 26,642 2017 2016 Purpose Acquisition 13,507 6,811 515 20,833 Cash and cash equivalent ￦ 394,487 Securities lending and borrowing Amortization (8,430) (3,706) (13,090) (25,226) Securities sold under repurchase agreements(*1), securities Financial assets at FVTPL 20,112,781 19,454,639 Disposal (4) (22) (332) (358) borrowing, trading with collateral on derivatives(*2), etc. Fluctuation of foreign exchange rate 1,374 11 (1,259) 126 Loans and receivables 31,489,442 898,324 Derivatives-linked securities, payments and settlements etc. Transfers(*) 1,484 1,484 Securities sold under repurchase agreements(*1), BTL (BuildAFS financial assets 4,660,612 3,008,716 Transfer-Lease)(*3), etc. Changes in scope of consolidation 397,777 13,928 7,316 213,359 632,380 ￦ 56,657,322 23,361,679 Ending balance, net ￦ 397,777 23,330 12,102 222,672 655,881 (*1) ‌The Group has a contract to repurchase the transferred assets at predetermined price or selling price, plus a certain rate of return, and therefore, financial assets (*) Prepayments were transferred to intangible assets for the year ended December 31, 2016. derecognized are provided as collaterals and the transferee can sell or practice rehypothecation. After transfer, the Group recognizes securities sold under repurchase agreements as liabilities since the transferred asset is continuously recognized. (*2) The ‌ Group provides securities or bonds as collateral that correspond to a certain percentage of amount of securities borrowed during loan transaction, and also provides (2) Impairment test of intangible assets collateral for the margin call arising due to the decline in valuation of derivative in OTC derivative transactions. (*3) ‌In connection with BTL business, 52,227 shares of Hawoon Education Corp., which is the operating company of the BTL business are provided to the National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives as collateral. 1) Details of intangible assets tested for impairment as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 Goodwill ￦ 397,777 397,777 Brand 56,614 56,614 ￦ 454,391 454,391 2) ‌The recoverable amount of the assets was evaluated based upon their respective value in use. The value was calculated by traditional DCF method with considering special aspects of financial institution. (i) Point of evaluation date and projection period Measurement date for the calculation of recoverable amount is September 30, 2017 and its projection period for cash flow estimates is adjusted to 5.25 years. Terminal growth rate is measured beyond the forecast period. (ii) Discount rate and terminal growth rate The required rates of return expected by shareholders were applied to the discount rates by calculating the cost of capital which comprises a risk-free interest rate, a market risk premium and a systemic risk(beta factor). Expected terminal growth rate after the projection period is decided to apply to 1%. (iii) The main assumptions use in estimating future cash flow are the rate of GDP growth and Consumer Price Index (CPI). 174 175 20. Financial liabilities at FVTPL 22. Borrowings The Group’s financial liabilities at FVTPL are classified as financial liabilities at FVTPL held for trading and financial liabilities (1) Details of the borrowings as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: designated at FVTPL. 2017 (1) Details of the financial liabilities at FVTPL held for trading as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Lender Interest rate (%) Amount Korea Securities Finance Corp. 1.50~1.73 ￦ 2,300,000 2017 2016 Borrowings Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. and others 3.40~5.50 69,231 Securities in short position ￦ 816,883 615,896 KDB Bank and others 1.75~6.80 842,866 Derivative liabilities 1,320,154 2,053,528 Call money Woori bank and others 1.62~1.72 600,000 ￦ 2,137,037 2,669,424 Securities sold under repurchase agreements Others 0.10~3.20 43,132,859 Others 0.10~1.75 2,445,240 (2) Details of the financial liabilities designated at FVTPL as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: ￦ 49,390,196 2016 2017 2016 Lender Interest rate (%) Amount Hybrid financial instruments Borrowings Korea Securities Finance Corp. 1.35~2.79 ￦ 2,158,391 Equity-linked securities ￦ 12,144,915 15,734,655 Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. and others 3.40~5.50 69,235 Other derivatives combine securities sold 3,150,509 3,645,015 Shinhan Bank and others 2,69~5.30 1,084,531 ￦ 15,295,424 19,379,670 Call money Woori bank and others 1.28~1.44 710,000 Securities sold under repurchase agreements Others 0.90~1.50 14,924,737 (3) Details of the securities in short position as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: ￦ 18,946,894 2017 2016 Valuation (2) Changes in borrowings for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follow: Equity securities ￦ 598,486 272,489 Fair value Bonds 218,314 342,100 Fair value 2017 2016 Others (ETF) 83 1,307 Fair value Beginning balance ￦ 18,946,894 9,715,171 ￦ 816,883 615,896 Changes from financing cash flow (*) ‌The Controlling Company treats securities lending and borrowing, manages memorandum account for the securities borrowed from the Korea Securities Depository Changes of borrowings, net 3,040,699 (2,759,279) and recognizes them as financial liabilities at FVTPL when the Controlling Company sells securities borrowed. In addition, The Controlling Company also recognizes as financial liabilities at FVTPL for short selling of securities without performing securities lending and borrowing. Effect from fluctuations in exchange rate (67,810) 13,793 Changes due to merger 11,977,209 Others 27,470,413 21. Deposits due to customers (“Deposits”) Ending balance ￦ 49,390,196 18,946,894 Details of the deposits due to customers as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 Customers’ deposits Customers’ deposits for brokerage ￦ 3,859,830 2,976,902 Customers’ deposits for exchange traded derivatives trading 385,504 535,945 Customers’ deposits for savings 62,078 37,057 Customers’ deposits for beneficiary 167,238 244,840 Others 518,143 266,701 4,992,793 4,061,445 Guarantee deposits Guarantee for broker loans 98,993 34,313 Guarantee for credit account 3,160 3,223 102,153 37,536 Others 23,931 26,094 ￦ 5,118,877 4,125,075 176 177 23. Debentures 24. Provisions Details of the debentures as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: (1) Details of provisions as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: (1) General bonds 2017 2016 Provisions: Issued date Due date Interest rate (%) 2017 2016 Provision of restoration(*) ￦ 9,751 10,114 The 4th public offering subordinated Debenture 2013.02.21 2018.08.21 4.10 ￦ 200,000 200,000 Provision of litigations 9,993 4,556 The 5th public offering subordinated Debenture 2016.07.28 2022.01.28 3.50 300,000 300,000 Others 633 482 The 38-2nd public offering Debenture 2012.11.20 2017.11.20 3.21 150,000 ￦ 20,377 15,152 The 38-3rd public offering Debenture 2012.11.20 2019.11.20 3.37 50,000 50,000 (*) Provision ‌ of restoration represents the estimated costs to restore the existing leased properties, which are discounted to the present value using the appropriate The 39-1st public offering Debenture 2015.05.28 2018.05.28 2.10 250,000 250,000 discount rate at the end of the reporting period. Disbursements of such costs are expected to occur at the end of the lease contract. Such costs are reasonably The 39-2nd public offering Debenture 2015.05.28 2020.05.28 2.39 50,000 50,000 estimated using the average lease year from initial contract date to the end of the contract as of December 31, 2017. The average restoration expense is calculated based on the actual costs incurred for the past five years using the five-year average inflation rate. The 40th public offering Debenture 2016.06.03 2019.06.03 1.86 250,000 250,000 The 41th public offering Debenture 2016.06.29 2021.06.29 1.83 80,000 80,000 (2) Changes in provisions for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: The 42th public offering Debenture 2016.07.22 2021.07.22 1.77 170,000 170,000 The 43th public offering subordinated Debenture 2016.12.08 2022.06.08 4.00 40,000 40,000 The 44th public offering subordinated Debenture 2016.12.15 2022.06.15 4.00 210,000 210,000 2017 Provision of The 45th public offering subordinated Debenture 2016.12.20 2022.06.20 4.00 150,000 150,000 Provision of litigations Others Total restoration The 46th public offering subordinated Debenture 2017.01.20 2022.07.20 3.70 220,000 Beginning balance ￦ 10,114 4,556 482 15,152 MAPS HAWAII TWO LLC Mezzanine Loan 2016.09.12 2021.09.22 5.40 155,353 175,232 Provisions provided(*) 954 12,403 346 13,703 Face Value 2,125,353 2,075,232 Reversal of unused amount (668) (2,736) (3,404) Discount on Debentures (157) 2,593 Provisions used (649) (4,230) (195) (5,074) Book Value ￦ 2,125,196 2,077,825 Ending balance ￦ 9,751 9,993 633 20,377 (*) Provisions ‌ provided for the year ended December 31, 2017, consist of provision of restoration of ￦792 million, which occurred in relation to new lease contracts (2) Asset backed short-term bond and interest expenses of ￦162 million and reversal of provision of litigations ￦12,403 million, and provisions related to point provided to customers ￦346 million. 2017 2016 Lender Interest rate (%) Amount Provision of Provision of litigations Others Total restoration Asset backed short-term bond Samsung Investment Trust Management Co., Ltd and others 1.70 ~ 2.07 ￦ 960,301 Beginning balance ￦ 4,900 119 5,019 Provisions provided(*) 2,283 62 487 2,832 2016 Reversal of unused amount (433) (8,517) (31) (8,981) Lender Interest rate (%) Amount Provisions used (199) (4,212) (93) (4,504) Asset backed short-term bond Samsung Investment Trust Management Co., Ltd and others 1.36 ~ 1.52 ￦ 647,800 Changes in scope of consolidation 3,563 17,223 20,786 Ending balance ￦ 10,114 4,556 482 15,152 (3) Changes in debentures for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follow: (*) Provisions ‌ provided for the year ended December 31, 2016, consist of provision of restoration of ￦2,153 million, which occurred in relation to new lease contracts and interest expenses of ￦130 million and reversal of provision of litigations ￦62 million, and provisions related to point provided to customers ￦487 million. 2017 2016 Beginning balance ￦ 2,725,625 1,496,066 Changes from financing cash flow Changes of borrowings, net 382,541 (313,892) Amortization of discount on debentures (2,937) (1,470) Effect from fluctuations in exchange rate (19,732) Changes due to merger 1,544,921 Ending balance ￦ 3,085,497 2,725,625 178 179 25. Other liabilities (5) ‌Details of expenses recognized in profit and loss regarding retirement benefits for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: (1) Details of other liabilities as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 Defined contribution ￦ 34,821 22,903 2017 2016 Defined benefit 298 640 Other financial liabilities: ￦ 35,119 23,543 Accounts payable ￦ 6,173,968 2,014,341 Accrued expenses 272,232 158,092 Deposits received 22,709 19,621 Financial guarantee contract liabilities 83,663 68,849 26. Derivatives Dividends payable 2 2 6,552,574 2,260,905 (1) Details of derivatives for trading as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Other liabilities: Deposits received 45,191 46,268 2017 2016 Advance received 140,668 4,531 Contracts Assets Liabilities Contracts Assets Liabilities Income in advance 16,807 15,312 Equity: Defined benefit liabilities 634 473 Futures ￦ 730,121 6,257 6,051 1,745,169 1,387 5,300 Others 1,415,262 410,112 Option 18,371,016 161,338 360,723 8,318,954 151,172 289,606 1,618,562 476,696 Swaps 10,700,826 143,622 131,808 10,194,939 435,824 578,255 ￦ 8,171,136 2,737,601 29,801,963 311,217 498,582 20,259,062 588,383 873,161 Interest rate: (2) Defined benefit liabilities as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Forwards 20,000 99 Futures 791,646 1,796 219 1,724,420 239 1,443 Option 2,102,619 22,226 75,159 2,062,324 20,842 96,375 2017 2016 Defined benefit obligation ￦ 717 570 Swaps 136,647,683 248,990 305,476 138,963,116 426,020 505,905 Transfer from national pension (83) (97) 139,561,948 273,012 380,953 142,749,860 447,101 603,723 Defined benefit liabilities ￦ 634 473 Currency: Forwards 21,270,777 357,422 379,388 6,621,247 132,624 226,629 Futures 22,488 3,659 179 258,717 1 (3) Changes in defined benefit obligation for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Option 77,034 1,766 121,515 6,512 Swaps 5,071,783 112,423 102,617 5,765,785 218,437 274,306 2017 2016 26,442,082 475,270 482,184 12,767,264 357,574 500,935 Beginning balance ￦ 570 Credit: Changes in scope of consolidation 5,573 Swaps 3,201,472 24,298 13,507 3,773,953 19,561 2,967 Current service cost 297 722 Commodity: Salaries paid (99) (1,417) Futures 25,866 670 768 42,455 2,019 119 Conversion to defined contribution plan (4,361) Option 38,570 67 192 3 Gain/loss on foreign exchange (51) 53 Swaps 152,940 1,547 9,590 214,323 3,239 46,198 Ending balance(*) ￦ 717 570 217,376 2,217 10,425 256,970 5,261 46,317 (*) The amount, which is for temporary employees was calculated using a simple method due to difficulty of reliable estimation. Others: Option 13,000 86 13,000 125 (4) Changes in plan assets for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Swaps 417,925 1,150 19,735 528,131 5,083 32,650 ELW 11,648 17,381 Others 24,431 24,929 85,124 46,866 160 2017 2016 455,356 26,165 31,383 626,255 52,074 50,191 Beginning Balance 97 Credit value adjustment (5,019) (2,319) (6,359) (8,079) Changes in scope of consolidation ￦ 10,768 Day 1 profit or loss 3,466 (94,561) (12,124) (15,687) Expected return on plan assets 82 ￦ 199,680,197 1,110,626 1,320,154 180,433,364 1,451,471 2,053,528 Benefits paid by the plan (14) (1,265) Conversion to defined contribution plan (9,488) Ending balance ￦ 83 97 180 181 (2) Details of derivatives for fair value hedges as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 28. Capital surplus 2017 2016 Details of capital surplus as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Contracts Assets Liabilities Contracts Assets Liabilities Currency: 2017 2016 Forwards ￦ 498,061 14,604 Additional paid-in capital ￦ 1,809,156 1,809,762 Gain on sales of treasury stocks 351,446 (*) The Group designated derivatives as hedging instruments to hedge the risk of foreign currency risk of available-for-sale financial asset, etc. Consideration of convertible bonds 2,623 2,743 Others 1,424 760 (3) ‌Gains or losses on valuation and transaction of derivatives for trading for the years ended December 31, 2017 ￦ 2,164,649 1,813,265 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 Valuation Transaction Valuation Transaction 29. Retained earnings and dividends Equity ￦ 261,850 517,085 910,849 206,556 Interest rate 58,455 29,216 (74,070) (20,353) (1) The Group’s legal reserve and other reserves as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Currency (31,109) 267,936 (178,591) 50,492 Credit (4,452) 7,997 2,090 12,590 2017 2016 Commodity 30,524 (13,509) 5,558 25,885 Legal reserve(*1) ￦ 109,044 30,909 Others (17,993) (19,413) 26,594 (49,355) Reserve for loss on future transactions(*2) 67 67 ￦ 297,275 789,312 692,430 225,815 Regulatory reserve for loan losses 50,849 82,105 Unappropriate retained earnings 1,715,023 1,284,667 (4) ‌Gains or losses on valuation and transaction of derivatives for fair value hedges for the years ended December ￦ 1,874,983 1,397,748 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: (*1) ‌The Commercial Law of the Republic of Korea requires the Company to appropriate an amount equal to a minimum of 10% of cash dividends paid as a legal reserve, until such reserve equals 50% of its issued capital stock. This reserve is not available for the payment of cash dividends, but may be transferred to capital stock, or used to reduce accumulated deficit, if any, with the ratification of the Company’s majority shareholders. 2017 2016 (*2) Pursuant ‌ to Article 50 of the Korean Futures Trading Act and Article 13-10 of the Enforcement Decree of the same Act, the Group reserved for loss on futures. The additional reserve for loss on futures transactions is not required according to enactment of the Act on Indirect Investment Asset Management Business and Hedging instruments ￦ 5,758 is classified as voluntary reserves. Hedged Item (5,758) (2) Changes in unappropriated retained earnings for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: (5) ‌The Group has not recognized in profit or loss on any ineffective portion of changes in net instrument in foreign operations for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. 2017 2016 Beginning balance ￦ 1,284,667 1,327,049 Net income attributable to equity holder of the Controlling Company 503,176 39,291 27. Capital stock Dividends (25,941) (39,802) Provision for legal reserve (78,136) (3,980) Provision for regulatory reserve for loan losses 31,257 (37,891) (1) Authorized shares of capital stock for the Company as of December 31, 2017 are 1,000,000,000 shares. Ending balance ￦ 1,715,023 1,284,667 (2) Details of the capital stock for the Group as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: (3) Details of dividend for the year ended December 31, 2017, are as follows: 2017 2016 Treasury stock Cash dividend per Issued shares of capital stock 666,316,408 shares 666,316,408 shares Description Issued shares Shares outstanding Total cash dividend (shares) share (in won) Issued shares of capital stock (preferred stock) 14,075,750 shares 14,075,750 shares Common stock 666,316,408 158,392,158 507,924,250 ￦ 50 ￦ 25,396 Par value per share (in Korean won) 5,000 5,000 Preferred stock 14,075,750 4,178,560 9,897,190 55 545 Capital stock ￦ 3,401,961 3,401,961 680,392,158 162,570,718 517,821,440 ￦ 25,941 (3) ‌In accordance with the board resolution on December 15, 2017 and January 4, 2018, the Group will issue participating and cumulative preferred stock of 140,000,000 shares on March 2018. 182 183 (4) ‌Statements of appropriation of retained earnings of the Company for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 31. Regulatory reserve for loan losses 2016 are as follows: (1) ‌According to the Regulation on Financial Investment Business 3-8, if the allowances for loan losses reserved 2017 2016 for the accounting purpose in accordance with K-IFRS are less than the amount of the allowances for loan Expected date of Determined date of appropriation: March 27, 2018 appropriation: March 24, 2017 losses reserving with the supervision purpose, the differences are disclosed as regulatory reserve for loan I. Unappropriated retained earnings losses. Unappropriated retained earning carried forward from the prior year ￦ 1,180,736 1,225,734 Net income for the year 424,428 27,822 (2) ‌Details of the ending balance of regulatory reserve for loan losses as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as 1,605,164 1,253,556 follows: II. Transfer from voluntary reserves, etc. Transfer form regulatory reserve for loan losses 31,257 2017 2016 31,257 Regulatory reserve for loan losses ￦ 50,849 82,106 III. Appropriation of retained earnings Estimated (transfer from) regulatory reserve for loan losses 37,732 (31,257) Legal reserve(*) 12,469 78,136 ￦ 88,581 50,849 Regulatory reserve for loan losses 37,732 Cash dividends (3) ‌Details of net income and earnings per share adjusted for regulatory reserve for the years ended December 31, Dividends per share in won 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Common stock Current year: ￦220 (4.4%) Previous year: ￦50 (1.0%) 124,692 25,941 2017 2016 Preferred stock Net income ￦ 503,176 39,291 Current year: ￦242(4.84%) Transfer from (provision for) regulatory reserve for loan losses(*1) (37,732) 54,453 Previous year: ￦55(1.1%) Net income adjusted for regulatory reserve ￦ 465,444 93,744 174,893 104,077 Earnings per share adjusted for regulatory reserve (in Korean won) 874 276 IV. Unappropriated retained earnings to be carried over to subsequent year ￦ 1,430,271 1,180,736 (*1) Amount related to Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd. is excluded from transfer form regulatory reserve for loan losses for the year ended December 31, 2017. (*) ‌Legal reserve to be appropriated for the year ended December 31, 2016, will include accumulated appropriated legal reserve of ￦75,542 million, which was appropriated by the former, Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd. before the business combination. (see note 51) 32. Fee income and expense 30. Capital adjustment and accumulated other comprehensive income (1) Fee income incurred for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: (1) Details of capital adjustment as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 Brokerage commissions ￦ 432,314 311,916 2017 2016 Underwriting commissions 85,335 35,628 Treasury stock ￦ (62,463) (89,431) Handling fee of collective investments 89,056 78,058 Loss on sales of treasury stock (6,129) Management fee on asset management 26,795 30,192 Stock options 1,836 1,920 Advisory fee 5,070 41,151 Others 52,913 (9,398) Trust fee 40,657 47,672 ￦ (7,714) (103,038) Others 216,012 126,605 ￦ 895,239 671,222 (2) Details of accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: (2) Fee expenses incurred for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 Gain on valuation of AFS financial assets ￦ 111,810 135,934 2017 2016 Gain on valuation of investments in associates 16,677 24,871 Trading commissions ￦ 47,717 28,490 Loss on foreign currency translation adjustment (218,293) (31,875) Investment solicitor fees 4,075 1,960 Gain on valuation of derivatives 12,600 Others 109,251 96,617 ￦ (77,206) 128,930 ￦ 161,043 127,067 184 185 33. Gains (Losses) on financial instruments at FVTPL 34. Gains and losses on valuation and disposal of AFS financial assets (1) ‌Details of gains on change in value of and disposal of financial instruments at FVTPL for the years ended (1) ‌Details of gains on AFS financial assets recognized for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: follows: 2017 2016 2017 2016 Disposal of financial assets held for trading ￦ 604,229 218,504 Disposal of AFS financial assets ￦ 114,487 70,377 Change in value of financial assets held for trading 161,133 73,405 Disposal of financial liabilities held for trading 76,691 72,098 (2) ‌Details of losses on AFS financial assets recognized for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as Change in value of financial liabilities held for trading 7,955 17,415 follows: Derivative transactions 4,123,010 2,746,790 Changes in value of derivative instruments 1,349,772 1,514,799 2017 2016 Disposal of financial assets designated at FVTPL 187,104 210,368 Disposal of AFS financial assets ￦ 25,058 29,680 Change in value of financial assets designated at FVTPL 57,235 287,173 Impairment loss on AFS financial assets 27,168 50,602 Disposal of financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 226,576 34,193 ￦ 52,226 80,282 Change in value of financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 208,981 214,849 ￦ 7,002,686 5,389,594 35. Interest income and expense (2) ‌Details of losses on change in value of and disposal of financial instruments at FVTPL for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: (1) Details of interest income for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 2017 2016 Disposal of financial assets held for trading ￦ 398,814 248,863 Financial assets at FVTPL Change in value of financial assets held for trading 111,301 88,231 Interest on securities ￦ 422,197 539,546 Disposal of financial liabilities held for trading 104,066 81,338 Interest on derivatives 4,944 1,615 Change in value of financial liabilities held for trading 21,512 3,458 427,141 541,161 Derivative transactions 3,333,698 2,520,975 AFS financial assets Changes in value of derivative instruments 1,052,497 822,369 Interest on securities 123,542 94,254 Disposal of financial assets designated at FVTPL 45,346 168,974 Loans and receivables Change in value of financial assets designated at FVTPL 47,561 33,014 Interest on deposits 76,510 59,058 Disposal of financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 1,306,255 647,628 Interest on loans 500,164 208,491 Change in value of financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 435,803 1,422,926 Interest on other assets 25,411 22,563 ￦ 6,856,853 6,037,776 602,085 290,112 ￦ 1,152,768 925,527 (2) Details of interest expenses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Interest on derivatives ￦ 5,977 855 Interest on deposits due to customers 28,869 25,313 Interest on borrowings 436,522 277,034 Interest on debentures 70,975 55,400 Others 39,110 24,354 ￦ 581,453 382,956 186 187 36. Gains and losses on loans 38. Other operating income and expense Gains and losses on loans for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as follows: (1) Details of other operating income for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 2017 2016 Loans Dividend income ￦ 165,327 103,986 Gain on sales of loan ￦ 3,553 205 Distribution income 54,986 40,736 Reversal of allowances for loan losses 1,478 8,543 Rental income from investment property 147,303 14,803 Loss on sales of loan (175) Reversal of other bad debt allowances 715 358 Bad debt expense (1,967) (20,206) Gains on hedged item 1,569 ￦ 2,889 (11,458) Gains on hedging instrument 7,327 Others 8,553 32,086 ￦ 385,780 191,969 37. Gains and losses on foreign transaction (2) Details of other operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: (1) ‌Details of the assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 Other bad debt expense ￦ 1,653 8,236 2017 2016 Provision of allowances for litigation 12,403 62 (In thousands of dollar, in millions of won) Foreign Currency Won Foreign Currency Won Losses on hedged item 7,327 Assets Losses on hedging instrument 1,569 Cash and cash equivalent 2,094,918 ￦ 2,244,494 958,299 ￦ 1,158,105 Others 11,728 8,139 Financial assets at FVTPL 3,712,558 3,977,635 1,975,799 2,387,753 ￦ 34,680 16,437 AFS financial assets 1,156,144 1,238,693 1,299,995 1,571,044 Loans and receivables 27,684,312 29,660,972 1,152,191 1,392,423 Other financial assets 2,914,710 3,122,820 225,163 272,109 39. Classification of financial instruments by category 37,562,642 ￦ 40,244,614 5,611,447 ￦ 6,781,434 Liabilities Financial liabilities at FVTPL 2,333,147 ￦ 2,499,734 1,279,979 ￦ 1,546,854 (1) Details of categories of financial assets as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Deposits due to customers 502,509 538,388 235,018 284,020 Borrowings 29,061,466 31,136,454 794,847 960,573 2017 Other financial liabilities 3,036,420 3,253,221 243,741 294,561 Financial assets Loans and Financial assets AFS financial designated at Total 34,933,542 ￦ 37,427,797 2,553,585 ￦ 3,086,008 receivables held for trading assets FVTPL Cash and cash equivalents ￦ 1,374,449 1,374,449 (2) ‌Gains and losses on foreign currency transactions for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as Financial assets held for trading 28,199,027 28,199,027 follows: Financial assets designated at FVTPL 2,068,506 2,068,506 AFS financial assets 8,838,520 8,838,520 2017 2016 Loans and receivables 46,923,425 46,923,425 Gains on foreign currency transactions ￦ 675,181 413,687 ￦ 48,297,874 28,199,027 2,068,506 8,830,520 87,403,927 Gains on foreign currency translations 67,478 162,897 Losses on foreign currency transactions (662,328) (371,475) 2016 Losses on foreign currency translations (235,981) (1,779) Financial assets Loans and Financial assets AFS financial designated at Total ￦ (155,650) 203,330 receivables held for trading assets FVTPL Cash and cash equivalents ￦ 2,006,029 2,006,029 Financial assets held for trading 28,902,564 28,902,564 Financial assets designated at FVTPL 4,285,228 4,285,228 AFS financial assets 8,739,717 8,739,717 Loans and receivables 10,080,235 10,080,235 ￦ 12,086,264 28,902,564 4,285,228 8,739,717 54,013,773 188 189 (2) Details of categories of financial liabilities as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2016 Gain on Loss on Interest Dividend Gain on Loss on transaction transaction Impairment 2017 income income valuation valuation and and loss (loss) Financial liabilities Financial liabilities Other financial redemption redemption Total held for trading designated at FVTPL liabilities Financial assets: Financial liabilities held for trading ￦ 2,137,037 2,137,037 Financial assets held for trading ￦ 36,175 479,098 73,405 (88,231) 218,504 (248,863) Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 15,295,424 15,295,424 (except for derivatives) Deposits due to customers 5,118,877 5,118,877 Financial assets designated at FVTPL 8,803 60,448 287,173 (33,014) 210,368 (168,974) Borrowings 49,390,196 49,390,196 AFS financial assets 99,744 94,254 70,377 (29,680) (50,602) Debentures 3,085,497 3,085,497 Loans and receivables 290,112 205 (19,541) Other financial liabilities 6,552,574 6,552,574 144,722 923,912 360,578 (121,245) 499,454 (447,517) (70,143) ￦ 2,137,037 15,295,424 64,147,144 81,579,605 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading 17,415 (3,458) 72,098 (81,338) (except for derivatives) 2016 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 214,849 (1,422,926) 34,193 (647,628) Financial liabilities Financial liabilities Other financial Total Deposits due to customers (25,313) held for trading designated at FVTPL liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading ￦ 2,669,424 2,669,424 Borrowings (277,034) Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 19,379,670 19,379,670 Debentures (55,400) Deposits due to customers 4,125,075 4,125,075 Other financial liabilities (24,354) Borrowings 18,946,894 18,946,894 (382,101) 232,264 (1,426,384) 106,291 (728,966) Debentures 2,725,625 2,725,625 Derivatives (*) 760 1,514,799 (822,369) 2,746,790 (2,520,975) Other financial liabilities 2,260,905 2,260,905 ￦ 144,722 542,571 2,107,641 (2,369,998) 3,352,535 (3,697,458) (70,143) ￦ 2,669,424 19,379,670 28,058,499 50,107,593 (*) The Group’s derivatives are classified as financial assets or liabilities held for trading except for derivatives that are not designated at effective hedging instrument. (3) ‌Details of gains (losses) on the financial instruments classified into the categories above for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 40. Employee costs 2017 Details of employee costs for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Gain on Loss on Interest Dividend Gain on Loss on transaction transaction Impairment 2017 2016 income income valuation valuation and and loss (loss) Salaries ￦ 538,513 374,923 redemption redemption Severance benefits 35,119 23,543 Financial assets: Employee benefits 73,640 61,477 Financial assets held for trading ￦ 96,719 390,114 161,133 (111,301) 604,229 (398,814) (except for derivatives) ￦ 647,272 459,943 Financial assets designated at FVTPL 8,836 32,083 57,235 (47,561) 187,104 (45,346) AFS financial assets 91,840 123,542 114,487 (25,058) (27,168) Loans and receivables 602,085 3,553 (175) (1,427) 197,395 1,147,824 218,368 (158,862) 909,373 (469,393) (28,595) Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading 7,955 (21,512) 76,691 (104,066) (except for derivatives) Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 208,981 (435,803) 226,576 (1,306,255) Deposits due to customers (28,869) Borrowings (436,522) Debentures (70,975) Other financial liabilities (39,110) (575,476) 216,936 (457,315) 303,267 (1,410,321) Derivatives (*) (1,033) 1,349,772 (1,052,497) 4,123,010 (3,333,698) ￦ 197,395 571,315 1,785,076 (1,668,674) 5,335,650 (5,213,412) (28,595) (*) The Group’s derivatives are classified as financial assets or liabilities held for trading except for derivatives that are designated at effective hedging instrument. 190 191 41. Selling and administrative expenses 43. Non-operating expense Details of selling and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Details of non-operating expense for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 2017 2016 Electronic data processing ￦ 42,091 39,167 Loss on disposal of property and equipment ￦ 289 338 Rental 70,598 46,690 Loss on intangible assets 17 125 Commission 29,509 40,142 Impairment on intangible assets 153 Entertainment 16,911 14,032 Loss on disposal of investments in subsidiaries 6,791 2,315 Advertisement 20,762 24,229 Loss on disposal of investments in associates 28 Depreciation 22,718 15,061 Loss on valuation of investments in associates 3,224 4,410 Depreciation on investment property 29,116 9,374 Donations 4,033 4,097 Training 6,426 6,667 Others 60,093 18,693 Amortization 42,902 25,226 ￦ 74,628 29,978 Taxes and dues 41,337 32,684 Others 114,549 79,658 ￦ 436,919 332,930 44. Income tax expense (1) Details of income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 42. Non-operating income 2017 2016 Details of non-operating income for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Current income tax payable ￦ 150,243 17,427 Changes in deferred income tax due to temporary differences 33,866 79,940 2017 2016 Changes in other prepaid income tax 28,901 (1,050) Gain on disposal of property and equipment ￦ 1,805 35 Changes in deferred income tax due to business combination (78,741) Gain on disposal of intangible assets 89 1,060 Income tax expense regarding to items recognized as other Gain on disposal of investments in subsidiaries 8,404 677 (53,195) (12,336) comprehensive income Gain on disposal of investments in associates 80 19 Income tax expense for the Group ￦ 159,815 5,240 Gain on valuation of investments in associates 50,787 21,382 Others 50,459 24,575 (2) ‌Profit before income taxes and income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as ￦ 111,624 47,748 follows: 2017 2016 Profit before income tax ￦ 664,749 20,941 Tax calculated at statutory tax rate 160,407 4,606 Adjustments: Non-deductible expense 3,910 6,347 Non-taxable income (1,972) (10) Effects of change in tax rate and other (2,530) (4,840) Additional income taxes and tax refund (863) Income tax expense for the Group ￦ 159,815 5,240 Effective tax rate 24.04% 25.02% 192 193 (3) ‌Changes in temporary differences and the deferred tax assets and liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2016 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Beginning balance Addition (deduction)(*) Ending balance Financial assets at FVTPL ￦ (51,216) (23,698) (74,914) 2017 Investment on subsidiaries and associates (31,478) (165,038) (196,516) Beginning balance Addition (deduction)(*) Ending balance Accrued interest receivable (56,149) (61,062) (117,211) Financial assets at FVTPL ￦ (74,914) 158,583 83,669 Impairment loss on AFS financial assets 57,208 143,710 200,918 Investment on subsidiaries and associates (196,516) 132,663 (63,853) Gain (loss) on valuation of AFS financial assets (109,567) (225,627) (335,194) Accrued interest receivable (117,211) 6,517 (110,694) AFS financial assets 2,312 6,938 9,250 Impairment loss on AFS financial assets 200,918 (23,109) 177,809 Gain (loss) on valuation of derivatives 541,920 (425,242) 116,678 Gain (loss) on valuation of AFS financial assets (335,194) 23,078 (312,116) Gain (loss) on valuation of derivative-linked securities 3,152 (74,707) (71,555) AFS financial assets 9,250 21,976 31,226 Gain (loss) on valuation of derivative-linked securities in (595,665) 523,517 (72,148) short position Gain (loss) on valuation of derivatives 116,678 (261,443) (144,765) Gain (loss) on valuation of securities in short position 1,045 (15,039) (13,994) Gain (loss) on valuation of derivative-linked securities (71,555) 49,106 (22,449) Incentive payables 22,220 (6,448) 15,772 Gain (loss) on valuation of derivative-linked securities in (72,148) 239,185 167,037 Provision of payment guarantees 13,370 2,789 16,159 short position Gain (loss) on valuation of securities in short position (13,994) 21,452 7,458 Restoration liabilities 4,900 393 5,293 Incentive payables 15,772 109,899 125,671 Gain (loss) on foreign currency translation 2,018 6,336 8,354 Provision of payment guarantees 16,159 61,796 77,955 Tangible assets (72,421) (72,421) Restoration liabilities 5,293 4,458 9,751 Intangible assets (563,466) (563,466) Gain (loss) on foreign currency translation 8,354 (26,979) (18,625) Treasury stocks 2,529,296 2,529,296 Tangible assets (72,421) (2,701) (75,122) Others (31,534) 73,202 41,668 Intangible assets (563,466) 13,089 (550,377) (227,464) 1,653,433 1,425,969 Treasury stocks 2,529,296 (740,770) 1,788,526 Not recognized as deferred tax assets (liabilities) 4,980 (529,351) Others 41,668 (29,000) 12,668 Recognized as deferred tax assets (liabilities) (232,444) 1,955,320 1,425,969 (242,200) 1,183,769 Tax rate 24.20%, etc. 24.20%, etc. Not recognized as deferred tax assets (liabilities) (529,351) (438,243) Deferred tax assets (liabilities) ￦ (54,362) 532,150 477,788 Recognized as deferred tax assets (liabilities) 1,955,320 1,622,012 (*) The increase or decrease in the temporary differences includes the increase or decrease arose due to merger. Tax rate 24.20%, etc. 27.50%, etc. Deferred tax assets (liabilities) ￦ 477,788 (33,866) 443,922 (4) ‌Temporary differences that are not recognized as deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 Investment in subsidiaries ￦ 40,466 131,574 Goodwill 397,777 397,777 Total ￦ 438,243 529,351 194 195 (5) ‌Details of deferred tax relating to items that are recognized directly in equity for the years ended December 31, 46. Commitments and contingencies 2017 and 2016 are as follows: (1) ‌The Group has entered into various agreements with various financial institutions as of December 31, 2017, 2017 2016 and the details are as follows: Deferred tax: Gain (loss) on valuation of AFS financial assets ￦ 5,929 11,981 Description Financial Institution Contract amount Changes in equity adjustments from equity-method valuation (3,177) Collateral financial support borrowings ￦ 1,700,000 Other (65,300) Agency operation borrowings ￦ 1,000,000 (62,548) 11,981 Agency operation borrowings ￦ within the range of Current income tax: (Reserve for claims of customer’s deposits) amount of deposits Korea Securities Finance Corp. Loss on disposition of treasury stock 114,160 9 Notes discounting ￦ 200,000 Stock option 1,583 346 ￦ within the range of Notes discounting (Deposits for subscription) 115,743 355 amount of deposits Income tax expense directly charged or credited to equity ￦ 53,195 12,336 Overdraft for operation (daily) ￦ 200,000 Overdraft for operation (daily) Shinhan Bank ￦ 680,000 Term loan Bank Julius Baer USD 10,000,000 Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited USD 3,870,968 45. Earnings per share (“EPS”) Overdraft Euroclear Bank SA/NV USD 1,000,000 BIDV VND 195,000,000,000 (1) Basic EPS Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited USD 19,354,839 Overdraft for operation (daily) The Bank of New York Mellon USD 100,000,000 2017 2016 Shinhan Bank USD 100,000,000 Net profit attributable equity holder of the Controlling Company ￦ 503,176 39,291 KDB(London Branch) USD 10,000,000 Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding 532,783,826 shares 339,200,160 shares Shinhan Bank(London Branch) USD 5,000,000 Basic EPS (in won) 944 116 Overdraft for operation (Line of credit) Shinhan Bank(Vietnam) VND 200,000,000,000 Indovinabank VND 40,000,000,000 (2) ‌Weighted-average number of shares of common stocks outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2017 Vietinbank VND 200,000,000,000 and 2016 is as follows: BMO Harris Bank USD 130,000,000 KDB(Singapore Branch) USD 20,000,000 UOB Indonesia IDR 80,000,000,000 2017 2016 Revolving Credit Facility J Trust Indonesia IDR 100,000,000,000 Common stocks Common stocks Cumulative shares Cumulative shares outstanding outstanding CIMB Indonesia IDR 100,000,000,000 Issued stock 666,316,408 243,205,488,920 666,316,408 125,279,381,895 KEB Hana Indonesia IDR 100,000,000,000 Treasury stock (110,377,511) (48,739,392,365) (158,392,158) (1,132,123,167) Permata Bank IDR 50,000,000,000 Shares outstanding 555,938,897 194,466,096,555 507,924,250 124,147,258,728 Days 365 366 (2) ‌As of December 31, 2017, the Company is involved in 19 lawsuits as a defendant (lawsuit amount: ￦50,449 Weighted-average number of shares of common stocks outstanding 532,783,826 339,200,160 million) and in 8 lawsuits as a plaintiff (lawsuit amount: ￦155,065 million). The results of the litigations cannot be predicted at the moment. (3) Diluted EPS (3) ‌The Group has leased equipment under operating lease agreements, and lease expenses for year ended Diluted EPS is same as basic EPS for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. December 31, 2017, amounted to ￦514 million. Future lease payments by periods under operating lease agreements are as follows: Period Amount 2018.01.01–2018.12.31 ￦ 143 2019.01.01–2019.12.31 101 2020.01.01–2020.12.31 28 2021.01.01–2021.12.31 4 ￦ 276 196 197 (4) Details of liabilities related financial guarantee contracts as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Guarantee amount Financial guarantee contract liabilities MS Dongtan Techno 3rd Co.,Ltd ￦ 10,000 2016.11.22~2019.07.22 Guarantee amount Financial guarantee contract liabilities MS Gwangjoo Moollyu 1st Co.,Ltd 44,000 2017.05.31~2028.05.31 Fiji Nabou Green Energy Co., LTD ￦ 31,300 2016.01.18~2018.04.18 MS Songdo Retail 1st Co.,Ltd 5,000 2017.06.01~2022.06.01 Trophy Asset 1st. Co., LTD 20,000 2016.10.06~2021.04.06 MS Songdo Retail 2nd Co.,Ltd 20,300 2017.06.01~2022.06.01 DoubleSW Co., LTD 65,000 2015.06.15~2020.06.15 MS Daejang 1st Co.,Ltd 17,600 2017.11.08~2018.11.27 HC Hybrid 1st Co., LTD 20,100 2017.03.27~2022.03.27 MS Daejang 3rd Co.,Ltd 15,200 2017.11.08~2018.11.27 Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st Co., LTD 50,000 2017.09.06~2018.09.06 MS Hogye 1ST Co.,Ltd 19,000 2017.11.30~2020.01.30 HC Hybrid 2nd Co., LTD 10,100 2017.10.17~2022.10.17 MD Sadang Retail 1ST Co.,Ltd 43,906 2017.11.28~2020.11.27 Dws Gangnam Mice Co., Ltd. 65,000 2015.06.30~2018.06.29 MD Samgakji Stay Co.,Ltd 50,000 2017.12.08~2021.06.08 Dwssia Co., Ltd. 13,000 2015.10.20~2023.10.11 MSSP 1st Co.,Ltd 27,500 2014.12.29~2020.12.29 Madw South Grand Co., Ltd. 34,700 2017.04.24~2022.04.09 Mscarsquare 1st Co.,Ltd 15,000 2015.05.08~2018.05.08 Dws Munjeong City Co., Ltd. 25,500 2015.06.19~2018.09.19 VLM 1st Co.,Ltd 6,700 2017.10.20~2018.05.03 Madw Lcp 2nd Co., Ltd. 53,570 2014.08.29~2018.06.29 HOPYEONGALFHEIM 3rd Co, Ltd 20,000 2017.06.30~2021.06.30 Dws New Spring Co., Ltd. 30,000 2015.08.31~2018.10.31 MS Highend 1st Co.,Ltd 35,000 2017.04.26~2019.04.26 Madw Dt5-1 Co., Ltd. 20,000 2016.09.09~2020.03.08 MS Sejong 3rd Co.,Ltd 10,000 2017.08.24~2022.08.26 Madw Green City 1st Co., Ltd. 30,000 2016.09.12~2019.09.11 Lake Baekwoon 3rd Co., Ltd. 20,000 2016.11.04~2019.11.04 Th 3rd Co., Ltd. 50,000 2016.10.14~2018.04.14 BL Enery 1st Co., Ltd. 109,000 2017.02.24~2020.02.25 Madw Seongsu Wcenter Co., Ltd. 30,000 2017.05.02~2020.08.02 CES 1st Co., Ltd. 30,200 2017.11.21~2019.11.20 Investship 1st Co., Ltd 22,700 2015.03.31~2021.07.03 Landfill Administration 1st Co., Ltd. 21,200 2017.12.19~2020.04.19 Wingsky 1st Co., Ltd 24,700 2015.05.06~2021.05.06 ￦ 1,769,876 Invest Farm Land 4th Co., Ltd 20,000 2017.02.24~2018.02.24 GSPJ10TH 9,000 2016.08.05~2019.10.05 (5) ‌As of December 31, 2017, the Group entered into an agreement to purchase a portion of the commercial paper JJ Build Up Co., Ltd 100,700 2017.03.21~2018.03.21 and asset backed short-term bond when the commercial paper and asset backed short-term bond will not be MD FLIGHT Co., Ltd 30,400 2017.04.07~2020.07.07 purchased or paid until the issue date based on the purchase guarantee contract. The details of agreements are Island Ocean Co., Ltd 30,000 2017.04.14~2020.07.14 as follows: MDLD 2nd Co., Ltd 50,000 2017.04.28~2021.10.28 Onthecloud Co., Ltd. 19,600 2015.06.05~2018.06.05 Institution Contract amount Contract Period Mapo Hangang One 2nd Co., Ltd. 18,800 2015.06.18~2018.06.18 Good Aiming 3rd Co., Ltd. ￦ 49,900 2015.09.23~2020.10.19 Vision Blue Green 1st Co., Ltd. 20,000 2016.06.23~2019.06.24 Good Aiming 4th Co., Ltd. 50,000 2016.04.25~2021.05.25 Camicia 1st 11,700 2016.02.04~2019.03.04 Good Aiming 5th Co., Ltd. 31,000 2016.09.29~2019.07.24 Diaslandmark Co., Ltd. 21,300 2015.03.23~2018.03.23 Able Maecheon 2nd Co., Ltd. 58,500 2016.08.30~2019.06.28 Yong-in Forest City the 2nd Co., Ltd. 22,300 2015.09.23~2018.09.26 Investment Power 4th Co., Ltd. 31,200 2012.09.28~2018.12.27 Fly High 1st Co., Ltd. 25,700 2017.02.08~2019.05.08 Investment Power 5th Co., Ltd. 11,500 2012.09.28~2018.12.27 Kwangkyo Triton 1st Co., Ltd. 37,800 2017.04.07~2021.04.07 Investment Power 6th Co., Ltd. 6,700 2013.08.12~2018.12.27 Fly High 2nd Co., Ltd. 30,600 2017.04.21~2020.01.21 M-Square Mia 3rd Co., Ltd. 17,300 2015.10.23~2019.02.24 Best Award 1st Co., Ltd. 25,000 2017.07.31~2020.07.31 MD Prime 1st Co., Ltd 412,300 2017.11.16~2022.09.16 MS Daejang 2nd Co. 15,200 2017.11.08~2018.11.27 Uiwang Parade Co., Ltd. 66,000 2016.12.26~2019.12.26 Navey peer 1st Co.,Ltd. 17,000 2016.12.23~2018.12.23 KDB Partners Co., Ltd. 20,200 2014.05.13~2019.05.13 Bredbury 1st Co., Ltd. 3,000 2016.05.31~2021.05.31 Yongin Hansup City 2nd Co., Ltd. 12,200 2015.09.23~2018.09.23 GuroJD 1st Co., Ltd. 4,000 2016.05.31~2019.01.31 Constellation 1st Co., Ltd. 30,100 2016.03.22~2020.12.21 Yeksam Trinity 3rd Co.,Ltd. 9,500 2016.07.20~2019.07.20 Sangok The Seven Co., Ltd 23,000 2017.10.25~2021.01.26 Gilson Park 1st Co.,Ltd. 5,000 2017.07.07~2021.07.07 Klass One 1st Inc. 33,500 2013.11.28~2018.12.21 Sangdomirae 1st Co.,Ltd. 30,000 2017.06.21~2021.09.23 DKO 1st Inc. 20,300 2013.07.29~2018.12.06 Mirae SF 1st Co.,Ltd 25,000 2017.06.20~2020.02.20 ECO Future 1st Inc. 30,000 2016.09.30~2019.09.30 MS Dongtan 1st Co.,Ltd 10,000 2016.04.28~2019.07.29 KimpoHangangPark 1st Co.,Ltd. 29,800 2017.09.11~2022.10.11 MS Yonghyun 1st Co.,Ltd 5,000 2016.12.16~2018.04.16 MS GADI Co.,Ltd 49,000 2017.11.29~2022.08.29 Yeksam Best 1st Co.,Ltd 13,000 2016.06.30~2019.08.30 MSSP 2nd Inc. 50,000 2014.12.29~2020.12.29 MS Gunpo 1st Co.,Ltd 5,000 2016.07.01~2018.11.01 MSSP 3rd Inc. 45,000 2014.12.29~2020.12.29 MS Songdo 2nd Co.,Ltd 40,000 2016.12.13~2020.12.13 MS Sejong 1st Inc. 60,000 2014.02.27~2020.08.26 198 199 Institution Contract amount Contract Period 47. Share-based payments MS Dangjin 1st Inc. ￦ 34,000 2017.02.17~2019.02.18 MS Bonchon 1st Inc. 43,000 2017.03.23~2019.11.25 (1) Stock options MS Misa 1st Inc. 40,000 2017.04.07~2020.10.07 MS Songjeong 1st Inc. 22,000 2017.10.25~2020.10.25 1) Details of the Group’s share-based compensation as of December 31, 2017, is as follows: MS Beomeo 1st Inc. 62,000 2017.11.16~2021.02.16 Hyundai Card Co., Ltd. 50,000 2017.08.16~2020.08.14 Mirae Asset Wealth Mirae Asset Venture Hyundai Capital Co., Ltd. 50,000 2017.08.18~2020.08.18 Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (*) Management (HK) Limited Investment Co., Ltd. ￦ 1,438,500 Executives and Granted to Executives Executives Executives employees Grant date 2012.06.05 2014.07.15 2008.04.02 2015.03.31, 2015.07.08 (6) The balance of commitments on loans, etc. is ￦369,713 million as of December 31, 2017. Granted shares 310,000 shares 15,000 shares 74,700,000 shares 384,000 shares Issuance of treasury Issuance of treasury Issuance of treasury Grant method Issuance of new shares (7) ‌As of December 31, 2017 and 2016 the securities in custody on behalf of the Group’s customers are as stock stock stock follows: 2 years of service from 2 years of service from 3 months of service from 2 years of service from Vesting condition grant date grant date grant date grant date Exercise period 2015.06.05~2020.06.04 2017.07.15~2022.07.14 2008.07.02~2018.04.01 2017.03.31~2024.03.31 2017 2016 Valuation method Type 1: 37,463 Trust or securities in custody ￦ 140,021,753 144,495,926 Fair value Exercise price (in KRW) 39,192 HKD 1.09 13,000 Type 2: 47,680 Saver securities in custody 239,466 303,399 Fair value Type 1: 230,000 shares Collective investment securities 35,874,883 30,885,648 Standard sold price Granted shares 15,000 shares 74,700,000 shares 384,000 shares Type 2: 80,000 shares Others 9,988,379 283 Fair value Residual shares as of 210,000 shares ￦ 186,124,481 175,685,256 15,000 shares 49,800,000 shares 322,000 shares December 31, 2017 8,000 shares Exercisable shares as of 210,000 shares 15,000 shares 49,800,000 shares 322,000 shares (8) Details of loaned securities as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: December 31, 2017 8,000 shares <Various factors for fair value measurements> 2017 2016 Valuation method Black-Scholes option Black-Scholes option Option pricing model Binomial tree DCF, Binomial tree pricing model pricing model Equity securities ￦ 985,955 1,103,744 Fair value Risk-free interest rate 3.6%, 3.34% 2.583%, 2.865% 1.90% 2.09% Others (ETF) 715,553 2,071 Fair value Expected stock price 46.19%, 39.59%, ￦ 1,701,508 1,105,815 33.17% 46.38% 52.03% volatility 48.11% Assumed dividend Assumed dividend Assumption for dividend payment of KRW 500 at payment of KRW 350 at (9) Details of borrowed securities as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: the end of each year the end of each year Stock price at grant date 30,850 49,450 12,102 2017 2016 Valuation method (in won) Equity securities ￦ 1,653,019 1,873,845 Fair value Fair value of stock option Type 1: 8,444 14,575 HKD 0.6047 7,134 (in won) Type 2: 6,758 Bonds 3,795,507 1,411,165 Fair value Others (ETF) 361,387 10,990 Fair value ￦ 5,809,913 3,296,000 2) The Group recognized costs and carrying amounts of equity related to share-based payments as follows: (*) ‌The Controlling Company treats securities lending and borrowing, manages memorandum account for the securities borrowed from the Korea Securities Depository Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Mirae Asset Wealth Mirae Asset Venture and recognizes them as financial liabilities at FVTPL when the Controlling Company sells securities borrowed. In addition, the Controlling Company also recognizes Ltd. Management (HK) Limited Investment Co., Ltd. financial liabilities at FVTPL for short selling of securities without performing securities lending and borrowing. Estimated amount of shares vested at settlement 305,000 shares 49,800,000 shares 322,000 shares date(*1) Total compensation cost 2,533 HKD 30,117,721.40 2,297 Amount recognized as stock option expenses 187 during the year of 2017 Balances of Stock Option in December 31, 2017(*2) 1,836 (*1) ‌The Group assumed that the stock options are fully vested at the end of the service period as the Group could not make a reasonable assumption of the retirement rate. (*2) Mirae ‌ Asset Wealth Management (HK) Limited and Mirae Asset Venture Investment Co., Ltd. recognized capital adjustment related to share-based payments of HKD 30,117,721 and ￦1,958 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. These were adjusted and thus there is no balance of capital adjustment in the Controlling Company’s consolidated statement of financial position as of December 31, 2017. 200 201 3) Change in granted shares for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 48. Related-party transactions 2017 (1) ‌As of December 31, 2017, the Controlling Company is Mirae Asset Securities Co., Ltd. and the related parties Beginning Expired Ending Mirae Asset Daewoo are as follows: Type 1 210,000 210,000 2012 Grant Type 2 80,000 80,000 Type Name of the related parties 2014 Grant 15,000 15,000 Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd 305,000 305,000 Mirae Asset 3rd SPAC Mirae Asset Wealth Management (HK) Limited Mirae Asset 5th SPAC 2008 Grant 49,800,000 49,800,000 Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 3 Co., Ltd Mirae Asset Venture Investment Co., Ltd. Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC 2015 Grant 384,000 (62,000) 322,000 Mirae Asset Partners PEF 4th 50,489,000 (62,000) 50,427,000 New Growth Engine Green Future PEF Associates Lotte KDB Mirae Asset Daewoo Sparx Global Investment Partnership PEF Mirae Asset-NAVER New Growth Fund I 2016 Beginning Expired Ending Mirae Asset-GS Retail New Growth FundⅠ Mirae Asset Daewoo Mirae Asset-Celltrion New Growth FundⅠ Type 1 210,000 210,000 SMC RMB Investors II Limited 2012 Grant Cassava Investment Korea Pte. Ltd Type 2 80,000 80,000 2014 Grant 15,000 15,000 Transwestern Corporate Properties I LLC 305,000 305,000 Traphaco Joint Stock Company Mirae Asset Wealth Management (HK) Limited Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd. 2008 Grant 49,800,000 49,800,000 Mirae Asset Wealth Management Co., Ltd. Other related parties Mirae Asset Venture Investment Co., Ltd. Mirae Asset Consulting Co., Ltd. 2015 Grant 384,000 384,000 Miraeasset fund services Co.,Ltd, and member firm in a Large Business Group 50,489,000 50,489,000 (2) Share-based Payments In conformity with the performance-based compensation system model for financial investment companies, the Controlling Company deferred portions of management incentives and divided payments across three years, and therefore recognized equity and liabilities are as follows: 2017 2016 Accrued expenses ￦ 5,632 6,558 Capital adjustment 4,947 202 203 (2) ‌Significant assets and liabilities from transactions with related parties as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are (3) Significant transactions with related parties for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: as follows: 2017 2017 Profit transaction Loss transaction Receivables Payables Dividends Commissions Others Rent Commissions Others Loans Guarantees Others Debentures Others Associates Associates Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd ￦ 1,586 2,499 4,049 1,060 13,481 Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd. ￦ 3 361,510 3,398 Mirae Asset Partners PEF 4th Cassava Investment Korea Pte. Ltd.(*1) 2,751 SMC RMB Investors II Limited 1,531 Mirae Asset 3rd SPAC 1,194 New Growth Engine Green Future PEF 45 Mirae Asset 5th SPAC 700 Mirae Asset 4th SPAC Daewoo SBI Special Purpose Acquisition 1 Co., Ltd Mirae Asset 5th SPAC Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 2 Co., Ltd Daewoo SBI Special Purpose Acquisition 1 Co., Ltd 383 Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 3 Co., Ltd 980 Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC 120 Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC 760 Other related parties Other related parties Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd(*2) 22 14 10 2,481 Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd., (*2) 50,220 71 Mirae Asset Global Investments Co.,Ltd. 4 118 11,257 Mirae Asset Global InvestmentsCo.,Ltd. 4,519 Others 17,524 6,085 2,127 20,492 3,348 7,657 Others 15,085 8,134 15,542 ￦ 20,641 9,158 6,308 20,492 15,675 23,619 ￦ 4,491 15,085 10,031 411,730 23,530 2016 2016 Profit transaction Loss transaction Receivables Payables Dividends Commissions Others Rent Commissions Others Loans Guarantees Others Debentures Others Associates Associates Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd. ￦ 1,588 1,366 196 3 723 4,900 Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd. ￦ 290,947 499 Mirae Asset Partners PEF 4th 4 Cassava Investment Korea Pte. Ltd.(*1) 2,751 SMC RMB Investors II Limited 1,617 Mirae Asset 3rd SPAC 1,200 New Growth Engine Green Future PEF 52 Mirae Asset 5th SPAC 700 Mirae Asset 4th SPAC 200 Daewoo SBI Special Purpose Acquisition 1 Co., Ltd 715 Mirae Asset 5th SPAC 100 Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 2 Co., Ltd 726 Daewoo SBI Special Purpose Acquisition 1 Co., Ltd Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 3 Co., Ltd 980 Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC Others related parties Other related parties Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd(*2) 1,291 42 1 321 Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd.,(*2) 40,139 4 Mirae Asset Global Investment Co., Ltd. 625 14 1,333 4,296 Mirae Asset Global InvestmentsCo.,Ltd. 711 Others 57,600 3,263 22 26,522 1,203 7,702 Others 12,790 807 7,606 ￦ 60,805 6,897 278 26,525 3,260 17,219 ￦ 5,172 12,790 2,707 331,086 8,820 (*1) Bad debt allowances set at 100% as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 due to business delays. (*2) Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd has been changed to other related parties for the year ended December 31, 2017. (*1) Bad debt allowances set at 100% as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 due to business delays. (*2) Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd has been changed to other related parties for the year ended December 31, 2017. (4) ‌Dividends paid by the Controlling Company to related parties for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd. ￦ 6,153 14,494 Mirae Asset Consulting Co., Ltd. 52 122 ￦ 6,205 14,616 204 205 (5) ‌The Group has entered into the entrusted investment service agreement for the Group’s Wrap Account with (2) ‌Carrying amounts of the interests related to unconsolidated structured entities and maximum exposure to loss Mirae Asset Global Investment Co., Ltd., a related party. as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 2017 Wrap Account Asset-backed SPC Project financing SPC Investment fund Total Outstanding balance of the Wrap Account ￦ 162,587 68,044 Assets Wrap Account AFS financial assets ￦ 2 46,901 2,163,468 2,210,371 Operating expenses 558 458 Associates 1,259 1,259 Loans 219,968 228,631 448,599 219,970 275,532 2,164,727 2,660,229 (6) ‌Compensation for key management, which consists of officers and chief managers who have important duties Purchasing commitments and guarantees 1,835,100 1,295,276 283,686 3,414,062 and responsibilities over the planning, operating and control of the Controlling Company, is as follows: Maximum exposure amount of loss ￦ 2,055,070 1,570,808 2,448,413 6,074,291 2017 2016 2016 Short-term salaries ￦ 6,203 2,240 Asset-backed SPC Project financing SPC Investment fund Total Severance benefits 1,455 562 Assets Share-based payments 59 Financial assets designated at FVTPL ￦ 125,200 125,200 ￦ 7,658 2,861 AFS financial assets 42,924 1,228,648 1,271,572 Associates 7,642 7,642 Loans 140,988 85,991 7,500 234,479 49. Interests in unconsolidated structured entities 266,188 128,915 1,243,790 1,638,893 Purchasing commitments and guarantees 1,271,200 802,068 2,073,268 (1) Characteristics and scope of the interests in unconsolidated structured entities Maximum exposure amount of loss ￦ 1,537,388 930,983 1,243,790 3,712,161 Total Asset Characteristics Purpose Main business Financing method 2017 2016 50. Supplemental cash flow information Liquidity improvements Execution of asset-backed plans Asset-backed for the asset holder Transfer and collect liquidated assets Issuance of ABS ￦ 2,158,690 1,644,963 Significant non-cash transactions liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: SPC through early liquidation Issuance and redemption of ABS of assets SOC, investing and Investor investments 2017 2016 Project ‌SOC for construction and real estate financing for real estate and borrowing from 5,384,534 4,130,966 financing SPC development Gains on valuation of AFS financial assets ￦ (27,213) 49,504 development financial institutions Substitution of deposits receivable to advanced payment (164,121) ‌Sales of beneficiary Generate revenue from Managing and operating fund assets certificates Income tax effect of treasury stock disposal (114,160) Investment investment in financial and Remuneration ‌ fund payment and ‌General Partner 20,390,024 9,732,623 Substitution of deposits receivable to advanced payment 5,027 fund (*) non-financial instruments distribution of operating revenue and Limited Partner investments Substitution of advanced payment to investment in subsidiary 119,265 Account reclassification of loans (debt for equity swap) 6,391 (*) Beneficiary of certificate, PEF, etc. 206 207 51. Business combination and merger (*3) Details of loans and receivables acquired are as follows: Classification Amount Fair value of loans and receivables ￦ 7,539,894 (1) Business combination Contractual amount of loans and receivables 7,639,864 The best estimate on the acquisition date for the contractual cash flows not expected to be recovered ￦ (99,970) 1) General information (*4) Intangible assets recognized as a result of a business combination are as follows: On April 7, 2016, Mirae Asset Securities Co., Ltd. (“the Controlling Company”) obtained control over Mirae Asset Daewoo Co.,Ltd. by acquiring 140,481,383 common shares of Mirae Asset Daewoo Co.,Ltd. (43.0% of ownership) at ￦2,320,500 Classification Amount Intangible assets of million (￦16,519 per share) from Korea Development Bank in order to maximize the profit of customers and shareholders ￦109,179 Fair value of intangible assets of securities brokerage and securities bank deposits acquired are measured using. securities brokerage and contribute to the development of capital market by raising corporate value and revitalizing global investment through Multi-period Excess Earnings Method (MEEM) among various profit methods. Multi-period Excess Earnings the launch of a large financial investment company. Intangible assets Method is based on the theory that not only tangible assets but also intangible assets contribute to economic of securities bank 12,985 gains, and excess profit is calculated by deducting contributed asset costs, reflecting the market expected returns deposits of all other assets that were used to generate the revenues, from estimated future revenues and expenses In accordance with the board resolution on November 4, 2016, the Controlling Company merged Mirae Asset Daewoo arising from the intangible assets Co., Ltd. as a surviving company and Mirae Asset Securities Co., Ltd. as a company to be extinguished on December 29, Fair value of intangible brand asset is measured using Relief-from-Royalty Method among various profit methods. The value of an intangible asset using Relief-from-Royalty Method is measured by present value of royalty 2016. This is a merger transaction between parent company and subsidiaries under common control. Brand 56,614 exemptions based on corresponding asset-specific discount rate. The royalty exemption is calculated by applying the estimated royalty rate, which is estimated through royalty payments cases and qualitative indicators in the same industry, to the estimated profit. 2) As of April 7, 2016, the value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed due to business combination is as follows: ￦178,778 Classification Amount (*5) Consideration transferred consists of: Consideration transferred(*5) Classification Amount Cash, etc. ￦ 2,320,546 Total amount of shares acquired ￦ 2,320,546 Fair value of acquired assets(*1) Security deposit for execution of stock trading paid in the previous year (119,265) Amount of shares acquired, paid in current year ￦ 2,201,281 Cash and cash equivalent 1,122,657 Financial assets at FVTPL 19,411,801 (*6) Total ‌ of ￦1,491 million, including legal service fees and due diligence fees, was incurred as a result of the business combination and thus were recognized as AFS financial assets 7,998,609 commission expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Loans and receivables(*3) 7,539,894 3) Disclosure of information about the acquiree’s revenue and profit and loss after the business combination Investments in associates 27,710 Details of operating income and net income of Mirae Asset Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd. (formerly, Daewoo Securities Co., Property and equipment 326,168 Ltd.) included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is as follows: Investment properties 67,186 Intangible assets(*4) 234,603 Classification Operating income Net income Others 124,194 Amount included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income ￦ 3,135,641 42,407 Total assets ￦ 36,852,822 Expected amount to be included at the time of consolidation, January 1, 2016 4,838,431 89,560 Fair value of liabilities assumed(*1) Financial liabilities at FVTPL ￦ 13,365,762 4) Disclosure of information about the cash flows Deposits due to customers 2,849,586 Details of cash flows related to business combinations are as follows: Borrowings 11,977,210 Debentures 1,544,922 Classification Amount Provisions 20,786 Amount of shares acquired ￦ (2,320,546) Others 2,499,481 Security deposit for execution of stock trading paid in the previous year 119,265 Total liabilities ￦ 32,257,747 Cash acquired from a subsidiary acquired 1,122,657 Fair value of identifiable net assets 4,595,075 Net cash outflows ￦ (1,078,624) Non-controlling interest(*2) 2,672,306 Goodwill 397,777 (2) Merger Total ￦ 2,320,546 Direct acquisition costs(*6) ￦ 1,491 In accordance with the board resolution on May 13, 2016, the Group entered into a merger agreement with Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. as a surviving company and Mirae Asset Securities Co., Ltd. as a company to be extinguished. The (*1) Recognized at fair value of assets and liabilities of Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. at the time of acquisition. acquirer and acquiree resolved the merger agreement in extraordinary shareholders meeting on November 4, 2016, and (*2) ‌Non-controlling interests are measured by considering the fair value of the stock options based on fair value of identifiable net assets of subsidiaries and the percentage of ownership. therefore merged on December 29, 2016. 208 209
