2018 Citizenship Report START Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 2 Message from the CEO Dear Stakeholders, • Our Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program delivered more than one billion liters of clean drinking water last We made significant progress in each area of P&G’s fiscal year and has provided more than 14 billion liters Citizenship work in fiscal year 2018, and we continue of water to those who need it most since the program to actively build Citizenship into how we deliver our began in 2004. business results. • We increased representation for women, now at 46% Our aspiration is clear. We want to be a force for good of all P&G managers globally, and we increased our U.S. and a force for growth. We know that the more we representation and workplace satisfaction of African integrate and build Citizenship into how we do business, Ancestry, Hispanic and Asian Pacific American employees. the bigger the impact we can have on the people we serve, the communities where we live and work and the • We used our voice in advertising to promote important broader world that surrounds us. In turn, this helps us conversations about a full range of equality, diversity grow and build our business. and inclusion topics with the “The Talk,” “Love Over Bias” and “The Words Matter.” We sparked important We continue to make positive impact in each area of conversations to motivate positive change along racial, Citizenship: Ethics & Corporate Responsibility, Community ethnic, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability Impact, Diversity & Inclusion, Gender Equality and and gender lines. Environmental Sustainability. Importantly, our efforts in these areas support nearly every objective outlined in • And, we established a new road map to drive For more than 180 years, P&G has been touching and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. sustainability into how we operate to achieve positive improving lives. It’s who we are. It’s what we do. And it impact through our brands, supply chain, society and motivates us to do more and be a force for good and a Here are a few highlights from the last fiscal year: force for growth in the world. our employees. This includes making all packaging • Along with our NGO relief partners, we helped those recyclable or reusable, strengthening trust with our impacted by disasters around the world. For example, consumers by sharing our safety science across our we provided more than 2,000 personal care kits and brands, cutting greenhouse gas emissions from our washed more than 2,300 loads of laundry to help those manufacturing sites in half and continuing to help impacted by hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria. We stem the flow of plastic into the world’s oceans. also activated our emergency response efforts to aid This work could not have been accomplished without DAVID S. TAYLOR victims of the earthquake in Mexico and assisted with P&G people who come to work every day ready to make Chairman of the Board, Syrian refugees in France, Germany and Turkey. And a difference in the lives of people everywhere and the President and Chief Executive Officer while this report is on a fiscal year basis, it’s important many contributions of our business partners. to note that we’re actively involved in relief efforts for those affected by recent natural disasters in the U.S. and Indonesia. EXPLORE THE REPORT Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 3 Table of Contents Message from the CEO 2 Europe 45 Environmental 103 Sustainability Asia Pacific 51 Internal Management 4 Greater China 53 Highlights 104 Issue Prioritization 5 India, Middle East and Asia 55 Message from Shailesh Jejurikar 110 P&G at a Glance 6 North America 58 Vision and Progress 111 A Company of Leading Brands 7 Employee Well-Being 60 Brand Stories 115 Awards & Recognitions 64 Circular Supply Chains 117 Ethics & Corporate 8 Climate 118 Responsibility Diversity 66 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 119 Message from Debbie Majoras 10 & Inclusion Renewable Energy 121 Our Purpose, Values and Principles 11 Highlights 67 Energy Conservation 122 Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights 12 Message from William P. Gipson 74 Low-Energy Washing 123 Doing the Right Thing with Our Employees 15 Using Our Voice 75 Renewable Materials 125 Doing the Right Thing with Our Consumers 18 Making an Impact 77 Packaging 126 Doing the Right Thing with Our Supply Chain 20 Changing the Culture 80 Responsible Forestry 128 Speaking Up 23 Awards & Recognitions 84 Palm Oil 132 Stakeholder Engagement 24 Water 138 Gender 85 Waste 143 Community 26 Equality The Power of P&G People 148 Impact Highlights 86 Sustainable Innovation with Suppliers 150 Highlights 27 Worldwide Health, Safety and 151 Message from Carolyn Tastad 93 Message from Marc Pritchard 33 Environment Systems Using Our Voice 94 P&G Children’s Safe Drinking 34 Awards & Recognitions 155 Making an Impact 97 Water Program Environmental Resource and 158 Changing the Culture 99 Waste Summary Disaster Relief 36 Gender Equality Partners 101 Global Measurement and 159 Habitat for Humanity 39 Awards & Recognitions 102 Additional Operational Data Brand Programs 40 Latin America 42 Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 4 Internal Management Our objective is to create industry-leading value by maintaining and enhancing our strong corporate reputation through a strong ethics and compliance culture that supports conserving resources, protecting the environment, improving social conditions, respecting Ethics & human and labor rights, and empowering individuals Corporate and the communities in which we live, work and serve. Responsibility We start with Ethics & Corporate Responsibility as the Executive Sponsor foundation for the other four priority areas: Community Chief Legal Officer Impact, Diversity & Inclusion, Gender Equality and Environmental Sustainability. Each of these areas is led by an executive sponsor committed to ensuring we achieve our specific objectives. The executive sponsors of the priority areas come together to form Diversity Community the Citizenship Board with the Chairman of the Board, & Inclusion Citizenship Impact President and Chief Executive Office as the Chair. Executive Sponsor Chief Human Resource Officer, Board Executive Sponsor Chief Brand Officer Chief Diversity Officer Chair Chairman of the Board, President & Chief Executive Officer Gender Environmental Equality Sustainability Executive Sponsor Executive Sponsor Selling & Market Global Business Operations President Unit President Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 5 Issue Prioritization Last year, we conducted an issue prioritization It included the following learnings: exercise to better understand stakeholder Insight 1 views on citizenship issues relevant for Governance & Ethical Conduct, Human & Labor us. We consulted around 80 stakeholders Rights, Corporate Transparency, and Product Safety & through a combination of on-line surveys Ingredient Transparency were rated as high priorities by stakeholders. Our ongoing commitment and efforts in and interviews. Stakeholders included these areas are embedded within our entire Citizenship investors, civil society groups, retailers, report and highlighted in our Ethics & Corporate suppliers, industry organizations, experts Responsibility section. and P&G employees. The results from the issue prioritization exercise reinforced our ETHICS & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y strategic focus areas of Ethics & Corporate Responsibility, Diversity & Inclusion, Gender Insight 2 Equality and Environmental Sustainability. Climate, Water, Waste and Packaging are the current major focus areas of our environmental sustainability pillar and results of the issue prioritization exercise reinforced the importance of these issues for our stakeholders. You can read about our current efforts throughout the Environmental Sustainability section of this year’s report. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILIT Y Insight 3 The topics of “Promoting Sustainable Lifestyles” and “Sustainable Product Design & Innovation” were also important to our stakeholders. Our brands continue to play a leading role in driving innovation and engaging with our consumers on a wide range of topics. In addition, our Ambition 2030 framework, announced in April, places an increased emphasis on the role our brands can play in driving positive impact. Learn more about the four focus areas of our 2030 Ambition Goals. AMBITION 2030 Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 6 P&G At a Glance Amounts in billions, except per share amounts 2018 Our aspiration is to serve the world’s consumers better than our best competitors, Net Sales $66.8 in every category and every country where we choose to compete — creating superior Operating Income $13.7 shareholder value in the process. We work Net Earnings Attributable to P&G $9.8 hard every day to make quality products and Net Earnings Margin from Continuing Operations 14.8% services that improve people’s lives, now and for generations to come. Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share from Continuing Operations 1 $3.67 Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share 1 $3.67 Operating Cash Flow $14.9 Dividends per Common Share $2.79 2018 net sales by 2018 net sales by 2018 net sales by business segment 2 geographic region market maturity Beauty 19% North America 3 44% Developed Markets 65% Grooming 10% Europe 24% Developing Markets 35% Health Care 12% Asia Pacific 9% Fabric & Home Care 32% Greater China 9% Diluted net earnings per common share are calculated 1 Baby, Feminine & Family Care 27% Latin America 7% based on net earnings attributable to Procter & Gamble. 2 These results exclude net sales in Corporate. India, Middle East & Africa (IMEA) 7% 3 North America includes the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 7 A Company of Leading Brands Our portfolio is organized around 10 product categories and about 65 brands. These 10 category-based business units have historically grown faster with higher margins than the balance of the Company. These are categories where P&G has leading market positions and where product technologies deliver performance differences that matter to consumers. And across all 10 of our categories, we’re focused on meaningful and noticeable superiority in all elements of our consumer proposition—products, packaging, brand communication, retail execution (in-store and online) and superior value—in each price tier where we compete. Fabric Care Home Care Baby Care Feminine Care Family Care Grooming Oral Care Personal Health Care Hair Care Skin & Personal Care Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 8 Ethics & Corporate Responsibility At P&G, we serve nearly five billion people around the world with our brands. We have operations in nearly 70 countries and have one of the strongest portfolios of trusted, quality and leadership brands. As we serve the world’s consumers, we believe in—and have publicly committed to—doing what’s right and being a good corporate citizen. VIEW STORIES Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 9 Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Message from Debbie Majoras > Our Purpose, Values and Principles > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights > Doing the Right Thing with Our Employees > Doing the Right Thing with Our Consumers > Doing the Right Thing with Our Supply Chain > Speaking Up > Stakeholder Engagement > Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 10 Message from Debbie Majoras “While the opportunities we seize and the challenges we face are ever changing, our Purpose, Values and Principles remain a source of strength and advantage to our Company. We are mindful that a reputation of trust and integrity is essential to our success and must be consistently earned by operating responsibility and ethically. Strong governance and compliance practices build that trust, which leads to increased value creation for our consumers, customers and shareholders.” Debbie Majoras Chief Legal Officer and Secretary Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 11 Our Purpose, Values and Principles Our Purpose, Values and Principles are the foundation We operate within the spirit and letter of the law, of who we are. Our Purpose is to improve consumers’ maintaining high ethical standards wherever we lives in small but meaningful ways, and it inspires P&G conduct business. We believe that good governance people to make a positive contribution every day. Our practices contribute to better results for shareholders. Values of Integrity, Leadership, Ownership, Passion for We maintain governance principles, policies and Winning and Trust shape how we work with each other practices that support management accountability. and with our partners. And our Principles articulate These are in the best interest of the Company, our P&G’s unique approach to conducting work every day. shareholders and all stakeholders, and they are We know that P&G employees believe in the personal consistent with the Company’s Purpose, Values and business value of this PVP foundation—our PVPs and Principles. are consistently cited in our annual employee survey as the top aspect about P&G they would not change. PURPOSE, VALUES AND PRINCIPLES Our philosophy is that a reputation of trust and integrity is built over time, earned every day and is what sets us apart. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 12 Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights In 2014, P&G published its Human Rights We recognize that it is the sovereign state’s duty to Policy Statement that communicates our protect against human rights abuses by establishing and upholding appropriate laws and policies. We also support for the UN Guiding Principles on recognize that some states do not have adequate legal Business and Human Rights, which are and regulatory frameworks, enforcement mechanisms drawn from and reinforce the principles of or have laws that conflict with these internationally internationally recognized human rights recognized human rights. Wherever this is the case, consisting of: those rights expressed in we will always try to do the right thing by respecting the International Bill of Human Rights human rights consistently across our global operations. We expect these same commitments to be shared by (i.e., Universal Declaration of Human Rights our business partners, and we strongly encourage our and the International Covenants on business partners to share these same expectations Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; and Child Labor with their business partners. Civil and Political Rights) and the principles We do not permit the exploitation of children and concerning fundamental rights as set out in do not use child labor in any of our global facilities. HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY STATEMENT We take this commitment very seriously. In 2014, we the International Labor Organization (ILO) learned that children were picking postconsumer Declaration on Fundamental Principles UN GUIDING PRINCIPLES ON waste from landfills, which ultimately made its way to and Rights at Work. BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS our upstream corrugate supply chain. Since then, we have stayed engaged with our corrugate supply chain and used our leverage to enable suppliers to address ILO DECL ARATION ON FUNDAMENTAL the issue and provide remedy to the children and their PRINCIPLES AND RIGHTS AT WORK families. Remedy included, for example, establishing schools, enrolling and supporting affected children in the schools, launching mobile health clinics, developing skilled workshops and compensating parents for loss of income. We participated in a panel session at the 2016 UN Forum on Business and Human Rights to highlight how responsible corporate engagement can be a strong force for advancing the cause of human rights. UN FORUM ON BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 13 Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Forced Labor P&G supports The Consumer Goods Forum Priority Industry Principles, which state: Forced labor is an unacceptable human rights violation that can take multiple forms and must be addressed. While certain employment and recruitment practices may not initially appear problematic, in aggregate or combined with other forms of leverage, they can result in forced labor, particularly among vulnerable workers. We will take active measures to apply these Principles across our global value chains and our operations, to cases where such practices may lead to forced labor. We will seek to apply these Principles to all workers regardless of their employment status, location, contractual arrangements or role. We do this as part of our collective journey to advance the human rights of workers and positively shape global labor markets aspiring that: I. Every worker should II. No worker should III. No worker should be have freedom of movement. pay for a job. indebted or coerced to work. The ability of workers to move freely Fees and costs associated with Workers should work freely, aware of the should not be restricted by their recruitment and employment should be terms and conditions of their work in employer through abuse, threats and paid by the employer, not the employee. advance, and paid regularly as agreed. practices such as retention of passport and valuable possessions. PRIORIT Y INDUSTRY PRINCIPLES Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 14 Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Non-Discrimination Freedom of Association and P&G is deeply committed to an inclusive culture, and Collective Bargaining P&G does not discriminate against individuals on the P&G respects our employees’ right to choose to basis of race, color, gender, age, national origin, religion, join or not to join a trade union or to have recognized sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, marital employee representation in accordance with local status, citizenship, disability, veteran status, HIV/AIDS law. Where employees are represented by a legally status or any other legally protected factor. For more recognized union or employee representative, we are information about our Diversity & Inclusion and Gender committed to establishing a constructive dialogue Equality efforts, visit those sections in the report. regarding the interests of both the employees and In June 2017, P&G joined the CEO Action for Diversity the business. The Company will bargain in good faith & Inclusion to advance diversity and inclusion in the with such representatives in accordance with local law. workplace and has committed to: continue to cultivate Whether the facility is union or non-union, we strive to workplaces that support open dialogue on complex, create a high-performing work force—where employees We joined CEO Action for and sometimes difficult, conversations about diversity are highly engaged, multi-skilled and process owners. Diversity & Inclusion to cultivate and inclusion; implement and expand unconscious workplaces that advance bias education; and share best known—as well as diversity and inclusion and unsuccessful—actions. support open dialogue. CEO ACTION FOR DIVERSIT Y & INCLUSION DIVERSIT Y & INCLUSION: CHANGING THE CULTURE GENDER EQUALIT Y: CHANGING THE CULTURE Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 15 Doing the Right Thing with Our Employees P&G people bring our values to life as we Our “Do the Right Thing” training series enables focus on improving consumers’ lives now continuous learning for our employees. The all-employee general training session is derived from our WBCM and for generations to come. We recruit, hire principles: Respect, Integrity and Stewardship and and retain the best talent from around the other ethics and compliance topics related to the world, reflecting the diversity of the markets given theme. In addition, we deploy breakout training We have an increasing library and consumers we serve. Developing and sessions based on organization needs. In 2017, the of custom-built training retaining a diverse workforce provides us general training session was: “Doing the Right Thing – courses to teach our WBCM with a sustained competitive advantage. We Stewardship at P&G,” and the breakout training sessions principles: Respect, Integrity were focused on information security and sexual and Stewardship. recognize that a diverse mix of backgrounds, harassment prevention. skills and experiences drives new ideas, products and services. This maximizes our We also have a library of engaging, custom-built training courses, which are available to all employees ability to achieve our goals together. as a resource and are further assigned based on role and location to maximize relevance and impact. Confidence and Trust These address conflicts of interest, stopping retaliation, opposing bribery and other areas. In 2017, we partnered At P&G, we strive to promote a work environment with a renowned behavioral scientist and an awardof confidence and trust. Our Worldwide Business winning documentary filmmaker to create a series of Conduct Manual (WBCM) provides employees with short films that spotlight clinical research on integrity clear guidance on specific situations they may face and and feature P&G leaders and employees reflecting on directs them where to go when they have questions or “doing the right thing.” This miniseries of five episodes concerns. P&G is a recognized leader in providing a safe, has been hailed for its cinematic style, the genuine healthy, secure and productive work environment. We and unscripted participation by executive leadership, are committed to maintaining a workplace that is free and its candid discussion of human vulnerability to the of violence, harassment, intimidation or other unsafe challenges, pressures and unseen psychological factors or disruptive behaviors or conditions due to threats for which we all must be vigilant. inside or outside of our facilities. Each employee has a personal responsibility to their fellow employees and to the Company to follow all Company safety and security WORLDWIDE BUSINESS CONDUCT MANUAL procedures, as well as applicable laws and regulations. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 16 Doing the Right Thing with Our Employees Celebrating Our Do Employee and Labor Relations the Right Thing Culture At P&G, a fundamental principle is “The Interests of the Every year, we celebrate our shared Principles, Values Company and its Employees are Inseparable,” which and Purpose (PVP) foundation with the “Do the Right provides a foundation for advancing our workforce Thing Celebration.” P&G locations around the world create strategy. We believe an engaged and capable workforce their own employee engagement events tied to a global is critical to the Company’s success. A key strategy to theme derived from our Worldwide Business Conduct winning in the marketplace is to create a highly-skilled, Manual (WBCM) principles of Respect, Integrity and agile and flexible workforce that delivers business Stewardship. Events feature activities and contests to initiatives—better than our competition. We offer an engage employees and raise awareness, leadership expansive array of skill-building programs that allow townhall discussions and inspiring videos from employees to grow their individual skills, leading to employees making a difference. Sites are recognized better business results and career advancement. for the outstanding results in the areas of creativity, These programs help to ensure a strong and highlyengagement and passionate leadership. Though skilled labor workforce that benefits the Company P&G sets high standards for all employees, those as well as the communities in which we operate. who personally demonstrate commitment to ethics We regularly assess employee and labor relations and compliance can also be recognized by peers or through standard Company tools like our Corporate managers with a special “PVP Champion” designation. Employee Engagement Survey and Compliance & Because we value a Since its inception in 2016, hundreds of employees Health Assessment Tool. These assessment tools allow highly-skilled, agile and have been recognized. us to proactively identify and address any individual or flexible workforce, we offer employee group concerns that may potentially impact skill-building programs that employee engagement or compliance with local laws lead to career advancement. Employees and sites or regulations. are recognized for outstanding results in creativity, engagement and passionate leadership. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 17 Doing the Right Thing with Our Employees Compensation and Benefits have been developed to help protect the financial P&G is also committed to recognizing and rewarding security of employees. While offerings are unique to individual and team performance which reflects behaviors P&G supports paying employees competitive total each country’s market practices, they might include consistent with our PVPs and PEAK Performance Factors compensation, as benchmarked against other leading things like comprehensive coverage for health care, (Lead with Courage, Innovate for Growth, Champion companies. Consistent with our principle of valuing a competitive pension scheme, vacation and holiday Productivity, Execute with Excellence and Bring Out personal contribution and mastery, we provide time and other work/family balance benefits including Our Best). Recognition helps confirm achievements, employees the opportunity to develop their skills and flextime and less-than-full-time schedules, all subject contributes to feeling valued and encourages employees capabilities to enhance their ability to succeed in their Benefits navigator to local requirements. give to The their Benefits very Navigator best. describes It ofprovides the types evidence benefits that P&G offers to its employees others thataround the career, consistent with the needs of the business. We world. Some of the benefits described in the Benefits Navigator may not be available to all employees believe in what at all locations. we P&G also may do offer someand that benefits we are not described doing in the Benefits thetoright Navigator employees are a recognized leader in employee benefits, which in some locations. things to help P&G succeed. VIBRANT LIVING • Profit Sharing • Employee-Initiated Employee Initiated Education Education • Pension Plans Reimbursement GLOBAL MEDICAL P&G Patterned Circles Financial • Stock Purchase • Retirement Readiness – The Basics • Financial Planning Family health • Paid Parental Leave & welFare • Medical Plans • Health Flexible Spending • Health Savings Accounts Arrangement • Adoption / Surrogacy Assistance • Dental Plan – Dental / Vision / Medical Care FSA • Flexible Spending Account – Child / Dependent Care • Vision Plan • Disability • MyHealth MyRewards – Short-Term / Long-Term • WorkLife Solutions / EAP – Optional • Stress & Resilience • Life Insurances Image describes the types of benefits that P&G offers • Health Fair to its employees around the • Blood Donations ViBrant time away world. Some of the benefits liVing FrOm wOrk • Bereavement Leave • Military Leave described in the Benefits Navigator may not be • Paid Time Off • Personal Leave of Absence – Personal • Family Medical Leave available to all employees at – Regular Vacation Days • Volunteerism all locations. P&G also may • Perks at Work Other – Purchased Vacation Days offer some benefits not • Flexible Work Arrangements BeneFits – Company Holidays described in the Benefits • Service Awards Navigator to employees in • Legal Services some locations. • Annual Gift Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 18 Doing the Right Thing with Our Consumers Since 1837, we’ve built a rich heritage of When it comes to people’s home and family, we know they seek more information to help them feel positively impacting consumers’ lives with safe and to choose what’s best for them. That’s why brands that make each day a little better. we’re committed to providing information that is clear, reliable and accessible—what goes into our products, Being Safe, Feeling Safe and what gets left out and why. Increasingly, we will list Ingredient Transparency product ingredients online via brand websites or apps like SmartLabel™ (available in the United States and We care about the quality and safety of the products Canada). We will also continue to share information we choose to use in our homes. That’s why we take a about ingredients we do not use, and we are committed rigorous approach to ensure product safety, starting to provide fragrance ingredients (down to 0.01% in with ingredient screening and selection. If we cannot formula) for products marketed in the U.S. by the end be certain about the safety of an ingredient, we will not of 2019. use it. Once selected, we define the safe range for every ingredient we use with the same scientific process used We’ve taken a rigorous approach to ensure product We take a rigorous approach to by regulatory agencies around the world (WHO, EU, safety and have made this information publicly available. ensure product safety. If we cannot FDA, EPA and others). Then we evaluate ingredients in be certain about the safety of an the final product to confirm their actual use is within PRODUCT SAFET Y ingredient, we will not use it. the safe range for people and the environment. Once a product is marketed, we monitor how people use it and investigate new scientific information. We also SMART L ABEL™ PRESS RELEASE collaborate with external scientists and regulatory agencies to share information and understand new INGREDIENTS WE DON'T USE safety methods and approaches. These insights help us evolve our safety approaches and keep pace with the latest data so we can continue to ensure we offer safe FRAGRANCE ANNOUNCEMENT products for consumers and families everywhere. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 19 Doing the Right Thing with Our Consumers Our Voice in Advertising and Media Keeping Privacy and Security We’ve made a choice to step up and use our voice in Strong—Protecting Personal advertising as a force for good and a force for growth— Information by taking a stand on equality. We recognize that P&G Our stakeholders—whether consumers, employees, and our leadership brands can make a meaningful shareholders or vendors—trust that we will ensure impact with our wide reach, as images and portrayals of that appropriate privacy and information security people in advertising embed memories—over and over controls will be in place to safeguard critical business again—which can lead to bias. That’s why as the world’s and personal information and that operations are largest advertiser, we’ve committed to use our voice to maintained with due confidentiality, appropriate promote equality in three ways: integrity and are available when needed. Our Global • First, we’re dramatically increasing the diversity in Consumer Privacy Policy says that we respect personal our everyday advertising. information and take steps to protect it from loss, misuse or alteration and, where appropriate, these steps can • Second, we’re developing products and advertising include technical measures like firewalls, intrusion to meet the unique needs of diverse consumers. detection and prevention systems, unique and complex • Third, we’re addressing a unique challenge in the passwords and encryption. We also use organizational United States—racial inequality driven by racial bias. and physical measures such as training staff on data processing obligations, identifying data incidents and We work with experts DIVERSIT Y & INCLUSION: USING OUR VOICE risks, restricting staff access to personal information around the world to address and ensuring physical security including appropriately securing documents when not being used. We are also evolving consumer and GENDER EQUALIT Y: USING OUR VOICE committed to having an information security program employee policies and risks. that provides appropriate levels of protection for the types of data we hold. GLOBAL CONSUMER PRIVACY POLICY Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 20 Doing the Right Thing with Our Supply Chain Our supply chains are the backbone of our Since 2010, P&G has tracked the performance and products, and we are making intentional improvement of key partner-related environmental measures via the Supply Chain Environmental choices to leverage the footprint of our Sustainability Scorecard. In 2017, we launched our suppliers, buyers and manufacturing sites inaugural Supplier Citizenship Scorecard, which builds to be a driver for good. From transparent on the strong legacy of the Environmental Sustainability sourcing practices that aid consumer decisionScorecard and incorporates all five focus areas of P&G’s making to growing shareholder value through Corporate Citizenship Strategy: Ethics & Corporate innovation-driving programs like global Responsibility, Community Impact, Diversity & Inclusion, Gender Equality and Environmental Sustainability. supplier diversity, P&G is proud to be a leader Developing this new Scorecard allowed us to leverage in supply chain responsibility. This work is a more holistic approach to understanding Citizenship built on three pillars: Responsible Sourcing, efforts in our supplier ecosystem that could allow Supplier Diversity and Sustainable Innovation, strategic collaboration while equipping our external all managed by a dedicated Supplier business partners with resources that they can use to Citizenship team in Purchases. advance their own Citizenship efforts so that we may all be a force for good and a force for growth. Our External Business Partner Guidelines establish clear expectations of our direct business partners, More than 120 of our strategic partners completed the including an expectation to respect internationally scorecard, and the results were invaluable. Our partners recognized human rights, comply with all applicable confirmed that they are actively engaged in their laws and conduct their business ethically and responsibly. communities, with 87% of them having well-established We will not knowingly condone or contribute to adverse initiatives such as supporting children’s health and human rights impacts caused by the actions of our education, empowering women economically, protecting business partners. When we become aware of an the environment, fighting against hunger and poverty adverse impact, we will engage to be part of the solution and many others. More than 75% of our partners have a to address the issue or dilemma, including seeking documented responsible sourcing plan or are working to prevent or mitigate the adverse impact. We also toward developing one, and more than 60% have support our business partners in providing remedy programs to recycle, reduce and reuse potential Our Supplier Citizenship to the affected individuals. waste materials. Scorecard tracks performance and improvement of key partnerEXTERNAL BUSINESS PARTNER GUIDELINES related citizenship measures. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 21 Doing the Right Thing with Our Supply Chain Responsible Sourcing We empower responsible supply chains through a supplier education and audit system. Our risk-based Responsible Sourcing is a critical pillar in our program supports this effort by assessing partners Citizenship program, and one that every P&G buyer through third-party audits that identify and remediate touches through his or her work to drive environmental issues with labor standards, health and safety concerns, sustainability and human and social rights. Our vision environmental issues and business ethics. To date, we is to be the company with the most responsible, ethical have completed two waves of social audits with more and transparent supply chain. We are continually than 400 suppliers, with a third wave already underway. assessing risks in our supply chain and driving clarity We screen new vendors through a robust third-party and resolution if needed. This is part of our desire to risk management process to identify and remediate be a force for good. We execute this vision by focusing top risks before hiring. In these and other efforts, across the global business, with greater emphasis on we build a robust system of business partners that is high-risk countries and spend areas. Our partnerships fully integrated and synchronized with P&G’s business with key NGOs and suppliers ensure we are focusing and values. on the most critical areas. This external input was strengthened by our mapping of our salient issues, and we now have developed strategies to reduce risk and protect our environment and people who work We assess and screen in the supply chains. partners and new vendors through a robust third-party risk management process to identify and remediate top risks before and after hiring. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 22 Doing the Right Thing with Our Supply Chain Supplier Diversity • Our strong Supplier Diversity program delivers value to P&G’s key retail customers who support We are committed to growing and developing our and encourage diverse supplier inclusion. business with diverse suppliers because we believe that a diverse group of business partners will out• The adversity that diverse suppliers often face results innovate and out-perform a non-diverse group of in their ability to drive step-change innovation, and business partners. Supplier Diversity is P&G’s program some of our most innovative programs have been to grow and develop supply-side business: globally driven by our diverse suppliers. with women-owned business, and in the United • P&G’s diverse consumer base is increasing buying States with minority-owned; Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, power at a rate that is disproportionate to its population and Transgender-owned; disability-owned; and U.S. growth; diverse consumers are loyal to P&G brands and Military Veteran-owned businesses. Supplier Diversity are committed to continuing to purchase products is predicated on creating value in our business and value in our community. When we invest with diverse from companies like P&G that support diversity in Sustainable Innovation the supply chain. suppliers, we not only strengthen our innovation and We aim to reduce our environmental footprint go-to-market capabilities but also touch and improve through partnership with our external partners. We the lives of the women and men who work in these have connected a team of key suppliers to collaborate We seek to grow and companies—and through them, their families and the with us to solve our supply chain’s most challenging develop relationships communities in which they live and work. problems, driving innovation that is sustainable for both with diverse suppliers the business and the planet. We are developing unique Supplier Diversity is a competitive advantage for P&G. that will then create plans to optimize our supply chains that drive improved Since we launched this program four decades ago, we value in our communities. circularity in water, waste and/or climate. This is linked have developed economic inclusion for all business to P&G’s Ambition 2030 strategy that reinforces how owners while delivering Total Shareholder Return in we will continue to be a force for good and a force qualitative and quantitative ways. Principally, we believe in the power of economic for growth. • Diverse suppliers outperform non-diverse suppliers inclusion. When the ownership of our supply base in our formal Supplier Performance Development reflects the diversity of our employees, consumers AMBITION 2030 Process surveys. and stakeholders, our business grows and our communities thrive. • Our diverse supply base delivers above-average results in key metrics like hiring diverse employees MORE DIVERSIT Y & INCLUSION INITIATIVES and engaging in community impact activities. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 23 Speaking Up Our employees hold themselves and one another accountable for operating with trust and integrity, for stepping up as leaders and owners of the business and for balancing stewardship with a passion to win. We are committed to creating a work environment that fosters open communication and supports employees in reporting potential violations. Employees and individuals in our operations or extended supply chain can report violations of the law or Company policies at the Worldwide Business Conduct Helpline, which is staffed by an independent third party 24 hours a day, seven days a week and includes, where permitted by local law, an anonymous way to report concerns. P&G is committed to reviewing all allegations of wrongdoing with trained teams who ensure thorough, impartial and fact-based investigations. Proper investigation is essential to promoting a culture of integrity, reducing the likelihood of incidents occurring and increasing willingness to proactively raise concerns. It is an important part of our commitment to prevent and detect wrongdoing. Retaliation for raising concerns in good faith is inconsistent with our Values of Integrity and Trust and simply will not be tolerated. Employees and individuals within our extended supply chain and operations are encouraged to speak up and report concerns. WORLDWIDE BUSINESS CONDUCT HELPLINE Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 24 Stakeholder Engagement We acknowledge that improving Quotes from the Employee Survey: Investors transparency, respecting human and “Our PVPs and our employees are a bedrock We value our relationships with all our shareholders. labor rights and sourcing responsibly is foundation for the Company. At P&G, this Engagement with shareholders builds mutual an enormous challenge, and progress will is so deeply ingrained in our DNA that we understanding and a basis for progress, and the be made through a journey of collaboration often don’t recognize it.” input we receive from them significantly impacts our corporate governance practices. Senior management, and engagement with our stakeholders. our investor relations team and subject matter experts Thus, we seek meaningful collaboration “David has hit the nail on the head about from the Company maintain a year‐round dialogue and engagement with our stakeholders straight talk, personal accountability and with investors to gain their perspectives on current to be a good corporate neighbor and to raising the bar.” issues and address any questions or concerns, and improve lives in the communities where we make our directors available for engagement with we live and work. shareholders when appropriate. The Company’s top “Our PVP. I love that we still care about this 100 institutional shareholders collectively own nearly and we always have the PVPs to count on 50% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common Employees to guide our choices.” stock, and we generally focus our proactive shareholder Every year, we survey all employees globally—from outreach efforts on these shareholders. We conduct plant technicians to our office population—via the P&G meetings with institutional shareholders in person, Survey. Almost 80% of employees make their opinion via telephone calls and one‐on‐one at conferences count by responding to the survey, and their feedback throughout the year. We also routinely respond to is extremely valuable in assessing what we do well as a individual shareholders and other stakeholders who Company and where we can improve, and action plans provide feedback about our business. are put in place. We also compare our results against our external benchmarking group and find P&G scoring higher than the average of our peer group on the majority of our benchmarking questions—showing that we remain an Employer of Choice versus competition. Our annual global survey helps Every year, the P&G Survey proves how ingrained our PVPs are in the organization. Continuing to uphold and us assess what we do well, safeguard our PVPs consistently is the top response to where we can improve and “What should not change about P&G?” what should not change. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 25 Stakeholder Engagement Consumers External Business Partners P&G’s approach to taxes is also based on our PVPs. Consistent with the law and international norms, we We are committed to providing products and services We work closely with our external business partners to believe tax should follow business substance and that that can help improve the lives of our consumers all over ensure that our products are sourced responsibly. P&G’s profits are generated where key business activities the world. In developing and marketing our products, Sustainability Guidelines for External Business Partners take place. We are committed to the highest level of we adopt a “Consumer Is Boss” approach to ensure that set our expectations with our supply base regarding tax compliance. In doing so, we observe and adhere we delight consumers by launching only new products Social and Environmental Responsibility. We actively to the tax law, the underlying tax policy intent, and and product improvements that genuinely meet their seek business relationships with partners that share the disclosure and reporting requirements. needs. We actively encourage consumers to contact these values and that promote high standards within us because we want to hear about our consumers’ their own supply chains. OUR POLITICAL INVOLVEMENT experiences with our products. We feel very privileged that consumers care enough about our products to EXTERNAL BUSINESS PARTNER GUIDELINES contact us. TA X PRINCIPLES CONTACT US Authorities: Local – Regional – Global We are focused on meeting consumer needs in the Non-Governmental Organizations countries where we do business, while creating value for (NGOs): Local – Regional – Global Communities our shareholders and continuing to be good corporate P&G frequently enters into dialogue with NGOs to Each P&G production facility has site-specific activities citizens. Guided by our PVPs, we appropriately engage understand their concerns and cares. NGOs and our to build appropriate and constructive relationships with in the political process to ensure that the interests of engagement with an NGO can vary by area of interest industry associations, residential and business neighbors, our employees, consumers and shareholders are fairly (e.g., environmental, consumer, human rights) and by action groups, thought leaders and news media. represented at all levels of government around the geographic links (from local to global). Depending on the cultures and interests of individual world. We are committed to being transparent about communities, this can range from regular official our political involvement globally, and our policies and meetings, during which new information is shared or procedures on appropriate contact with government Principal Industry and Business questions are answered, to more informal meetings. officials prohibit bribery and any kind of improper Associations influence. We hold membership in many industry and business associations whose activities are related to Our facilities engage with P&G is involved in the the Company’s. These associations provide a forum for surrounding authorities, political process globally us to promote and defend our interests in the broader leaders, associations, industry context while providing a lawful platform for for the interests of our residential and business joint research, issue monitoring and sharing of best employees, consumers practices. Participation in business associations is neighbors and media. and shareholders. controlled by Company policy to ensure such industry activities have the right governance and oversight. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 26 Community Impact Our brands touch the lives of nearly five billion people, and we are there when our products matter more than ever. We provide the comforts of home in times of disaster and bring the power of clean water to people who need it most. We focus where we can uniquely bring value and where our brands and people can make the biggest difference. Here are some of the heartwarming stories from this year. VIEW HIGHLIGHTS VIEW MORE STORIES Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 27 HIGHLIGHTS P&G Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program P&G is a company founded on cleaning expertise and innovation. We provide products that help people clean their clothes, floors, hair, teeth and babies. So when one of our scientists discovered a way to clean dirty water and make it drinkable, an idea was born to help those nearly billion people who struggle with finding clean drinking water every day. We launched our Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program in 2004 and have worked with more than 150 partners around the world to provide more than 14 billion liters of water to those who need it most. This simple-to-use technology has been transformative for communities around the world — keeping children and their families healthy, able to pursue their educational dreams and helping to provide economic opportunities for so many people with just a bucket, a stick, a cloth and a P&G Purifier of Water packet. This is improving everyday life at its core. To celebrate World Water Day 2018, we partnered with National Geographic to tell the stories of Mary in Kenya, Veronika in Indonesia and Antonia in Mexico, and the power of clean water to their families. Since 2004, we have provided more than 14 billion liters of clean drinking water. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 28 HIGHLIGHTS 16 Years of Making a Difference In the UK, P&G has a long-standing partnership with In Kind Direct. Founded in 1996 by His Royal Highness, The Prince of Wales, In Kind Direct is the leading UK charity dedicated to distributing donated consumer products from manufacturers and retailers to UK charities working at home and abroad. Since 2002, P&G has donated more than $50 million worth of products which have benefited more than 5,800 charitable organizations and was awarded with a special recognition for ‘Greatest Volume of Products Donated’ by the charity in 2017. Since 2002, P&G has donated $50 million worth of products in partnership with In Kind Direct. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 29 HIGHLIGHTS Hurricane Help The southern U.S. and Caribbean were hit hard during the 2017 hurricane season when hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria brought widespread devastation to Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and multiple countries in the Caribbean. Communities suffered tremendous damage, and people were without basic comforts for extended periods of time. It’s in times like these where our products can mean the most. P&G, along with our partner Matthew 25: Ministries, deployed our relief efforts to multiple states in the U.S. and delivered more than 2,000 personal care and cleaning product kits providing everyday essentials like Crest toothpaste, Charmin toilet paper, Gillette razors, Secret deodorant and Pampers diapers. The team also washed and dried more than 2,300 loads of laundry through the Tide Loads of Hope program. Similar programs were deployed in Puerto Rico, and P&G supported broader emergency relief efforts throughout the Caribbean in partnership with organizations including Americares, International Medical Corps, GlobalMedic and Save the Children. We delivered basic comforts to those in need with more than 2,000 disaster relief kits filled with P&G products. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 30 HIGHLIGHTS Helping Close to Home In 1915, P&G helped establish the Cincinnati Community Chest, which today is known as the United Way of Greater Cincinnati (UWGC). UWGC impacts the lives of people in 10 counties across Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky. The annual P&G United Way campaign provides support to reach bold goals like preparing children for kindergarten, helping families achieve financial stability and ensuring people lead healthy, quality lives with maximum independence. This year, P&G employees, shareholders and retirees donated $9.7 million to the organization’s annual campaign. We donated $9.7 million to the UWGC’s annual campaign, helping those in our Greater Cincinnati headquarters community. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 31 HIGHLIGHTS Not Your Average House In Costa Rica, 564 tons of plastic waste is thrown away every day, and only 14 of those tons are recycled — the rest ends up in landfills or in our environment. Working with Habitat for Humanity, we are taking that waste and turning it into homes. Through innovative technology that enables a new method of construction based on recycled plastic blocks, we are building homes that are fireproof, anti-seismic, water and humidity proof and require no maintenance. More than 200 volunteers helped build homes for two single moms — Rocio and Cindy — and their families. Each of these homes uses about seven tons of recycled plastic, and the construction system has been approved by the highest-ranking institute for building construction in Costa Rica. More than 200 P&G volunteers helped build homes out of recycled plastic blocks for two single moms in Costa Rica. We’re building homes with Habitat for Humanity that use about seven tons of recycled plastic each. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 32 Community Impact Message from Marc Pritchard > Latin America > P&G Children’s Safe Europe > Drinking Water Program > Asia Pacific > Disaster Relief > Greater China > Habitat for Humanity > India, Middle East and Africa > Brand Programs > North America > Employee Well-Being > Awards & Recognitions > Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 33 Message from Marc Pritchard “P&G has a long history of giving back to communities where we live and work. It’s foundational to who we are as a Company. It starts with our brands, which make life a little better every day. And in times of need and crisis, our brands can have even greater impact. Through disaster relief, providing clean drinking water and other global and local programs, we provide support where our brands and our people are needed most. We invest in people and communities around the world because it’s the right thing to do and because our brands and our Company are well-positioned to help. We also know that when communities are strong and thriving, businesses can grow. Our community impact programs are a force for good and a force for growth.” Marc Pritchard Chief Brand Officer Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 34 P&G Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program Nearly a billion people live without access to clean “In some parts of the world, we take for drinking water and as a company founded on cleaning granted the availability of clean water. People expertise, we’ve stepped up to do something about it. In in countries like Mexico, Indonesia and Kenya 2004, we introduced the Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program and since then, with the help of our more than struggle with finding clean water to drink. 150 partners around the world, we’ve delivered more And without clean drinking water, it’s much than 14 billion liters of water to those who need it harder to keep their children healthy, have most. With just a bucket, cloth, spoon and our Purifier them get an education and provide a better of Water packet, we can help transform lives. life for their families. Our goal in partnering Each 4-gram packet has the power to clean 10 liters of with National Geographic is to share these water in just 30 minutes and packs the power of a water stories about the power of clean water and treatment facility into a tiny packet. Having clean water to inspire others to make a difference and enables health, education and economic opportunity, become a part of the solution.” and we are well on our way to meeting our goal of 15 billion liters by 2020. – Marc Pritchard, Chief Brand Officer and Each 4-gram packet has the This year, we partnered with National Geographic and Community Impact Executive Sponsor power to clean 10 liters of water created a documentary that tells the transformational in just 30 minutes. story of three women who were introduced to the P&G THE POWER OF CLEAN DOCUMENTARY Purifier of Water packets. You can view the 2-minute trailer by clicking the link below. These videos were MARY'S STORY (KENYA) made possible through the help of our partners CARE, ChildFund and World Vision. VERONIK A'S STORY (INDONESIA) TWO-MINUTE OVERVIEW ANTONIA'S STORY (MEXICO) Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 35 P&G Children's Safe Drinking Water Program Our Family Care organization works with a Working with more than 150 valued partners, P&G is strategic supplier, Fibria. Unfortunately, some providing more than one billion liters of clean drinking water every year and continues to play a part to help Fibria employees live in a place where there end the global water crisis. is no access to clean water. So we partnered To view the infographics with the survey data, with Fibria and provided clean drinking click below. water to their employees who live in these communities, bringing clean water to those SURVEY DATA who are part of our own supply chain. To help bring awareness to the water crisis, we conducted a survey in February. Survey findings show that most U.S. consumers are concerned about the safety of their drinking water, but do not know that approximately 1 in 10 people around the world lack In the last 25 years, 2.6 billion access to clean drinking water. Survey findings further people have gained access to clean highlighted that Americans are largely unaware of the water but there are still 844 million progress that has been made to date to address the people yet to reach. global water crisis. Nearly 70 percent of respondents believe that the crisis has stayed the same or gotten worse, with almost one in four saying that the problem has become much worse. In reality, the global effort to solve the crisis is making progress. In the last 25 years, 2.6 billion people have gained access to clean water but there are still 844 million people yet to reach by 2030 to achieve United Nations Sustainable Development Goal #6. Having clean water enables health, education and economic opportunity. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 36 Disaster Relief P&G provided product donations and services in Resilience in the Face of Heartbreak response to more than 25 disasters globally, helping Harvey millions affected by natural and humanitarian disasters, In September 2017, a powerful category 4 hurricane working in collaboration with numerous disaster relief made landfall near the coastal town of Rockport, TX. partner organizations. These efforts were powered The devastation left behind from the storm was vast by brands such as Always, Gillette, Oral-B, Mr. Clean, and overwhelming—cars crushed by uprooted trees, Pantene, Tide, Vicks and others, and tens of thousands houses flipped over, telephone poles snapped like of products have been donated to those in need around twigs and debris spread across the city. Schools and the world. We have also provided more than $1 million businesses alike were forced to close for an extensive in monetary grants to partner organizations like the period due to the level of damage. American Red Cross, Americares, CARE, Direct Relief, GlobalMedic, Save the Children and World Vision to The P&G Mobile Relief program, alongside our disaster support immediate and ongoing response efforts. relief partner Matthew 25: Ministries, arrived in Rockport and witnessed the tremendous need firsthand as Globally, P&G responded to multiple disasters including residents began the difficult process of salvaging the 7.1-magnitude earthquake which hit Mexico City, possessions and rebuilding their lives. One couple, Morelos and Puebla states in September 2017. P&G after losing their house and everything that they Mexico activated their emergency response efforts owned, planned to take their trailer on the road including provision of products, P&G Purifier of Water to help others affected by disasters. Community and other donations in collaboration with NGO partners members banded together to set up food stations United Way Mexico, the Mexican Red Cross and CADENA. and others spent the morning cleaning up senior Other global responses included the Chennai floods in centers before returning to clean up their own homes. India, the 6.5 magnitude earthquake in China’s Sichuan province, Mt. Agung volcano eruption in Indonesia It's in this spirit that P&G is proud to support and support of Syrian refugees in France, Germany communities like Rockport by providing everyday Our response to these and Turkey. essential products from brands like Always, Bounty, disasters included $1 million Charmin, Crest, Gillette, Ivory, Mr. Clean, Oral-B, Pantene, in monetary grants to Pampers and Secret in addition to providing clean partner organizations. clothes washed with care through the Tide Loads of Hope program. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 37 Disaster Relief Irma P&Gers Respond When Disaster Not long after Hurricane Harvey, Hurricane Irma struck the Caribbean and Florida. We again deployed our Hits Close to Home support efforts and in addition to Rockport, TX, the In the last few months of 2017, California experienced Mobile Relief team distributed P&G products in 14 cities. some of the worst wildfires in history. In October, The U.S. deployment to support those impacted by in Northern California, a series of 250 wildfires broke hurricanes Harvey and Irma was one of the largest P&G out, 21 of which became major fires that burned mobile disaster relief efforts to date. more than 245,000 acres. In December, a series of 29 wildfires ignited across Southern California and Maria led to widespread evacuations and property losses. Hurricane Maria was a powerful Category 5 storm, The wildfires burned more than 307,900 acres causing causing catastrophic damage to several islands in traffic disruptions, school closures and hazardous air the Caribbean and striking Puerto Rico as a powerful conditions, and forced more than 230,000 people to Category 4 storm, already heavily damaged by Hurricane evacuate. The P&G Mobile Relief team, powered by Irma. P&G employees in Puerto Rico showed amazing Matthew 25: Ministries, helped respond with provision resilience while coping with their own personal recovery of products and Tide Loads of Hope. P&G also provided and lack of electricity. They worked tirelessly to not only an emergency grant to Direct Relief, a local disaster restore full operations in 60 days, but to support their relief partner. own community with free services like the Beauty & Grooming brand mobile relief unit “Nuestra Belleza The Southern California fires also hit close to home, Prevalece” (“Our Beauty Prevails”) and “Ace Viste a directly impacting the P&G Oxnard plant and its Puerto Rico de Esperanza” (“Ace Dresses Puerto Rico employees, forcing more than 50 to evacuate their with Hope”), a mobile laundry unit. More broadly, homes, with three losing their homes in the fire. P&G provided immediate grant support to multiple Despite intermittent power outages and reduced organizations, including Americares, International staff, plant management and employees worked to Medical Corps and GlobalMedic. To meet the critical ensure that the plant continued to operate. In addition, need for clean drinking water, we worked with the U.S. employees came together and organized efforts to Government, UN agencies, universities and NGOs to help one of their own sift through the burned remains provide P&G Purifier of Water packets. to salvage precious items. They helped assist with local efforts by picking up products and delivering them to the Salvation Army and fire companies in the area. These are true examples of P&Gers performing at their best during a very difficult time to make a difference in the lives of others. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 38 Disaster Relief Partnering to Help Venus. Since 2012, P&G and Matthew 25 have partnered on more than 50 deployments in response to hurricanes, Matthew 25: Ministries is an international humanitarian tornadoes, storms, earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding, aid and disaster relief organization founded in 1991. droughts and wildfires across the U.S. and internationally, P&G began donating small amounts of extra product helping millions of people coping with the aftermath of to Matthew 25 in 2004 — now, Matthew 25: Ministries a catastrophic disaster. is one of our largest corporate product donation In 2015, the program expanded to include the Tide Loads partners. In 2017, P&G donated 1.9 million pounds of of Hope Mobile Laundry Unit. The Tide Loads of Hope products which were distributed by Matthew 25 to Mobile Laundry Unit is designed to be an agile part of multiple destinations within the U.S. as well more Matthew 25’s disaster response fleet, providing laundry than 25 countries around the world. services to emergencies, disasters and similar crisis In 2012, P&G also began partnering with Matthew 25 events. Since its beginning in 2005 following Hurricane on a mobile disaster relief program positioning P&G Katrina, Tide Loads of Hope has washed more than personal and home care product kits in advance of 68,000 loads of laundry for more than 50,000 families natural disasters. Kits are packed by P&G employees impacted by disasters across the U.S. and Canada. and community volunteers and then distributed by Matthew 25’s Disaster Response Team following midand large-scale disasters in the U.S. and internationally. P&G brands represented in disaster kits include Always, Bounty, Charmin, Crest, Dawn, Febreze, Gillette, Head & Shoulders, Ivory, Mr. Clean, Old Spice, Oral-B, Pampers, Pantene, Secret, Swiffer, Tampax, Tide and In 2017, we donated 1.9 million pounds of products which were distributed by Matthew 25: Ministries to destinations in the U.S. and around the world. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 39 Habitat for Humanity P&G understands that improving lives This year, some activities included: starts at home. Our partnership with Habitat Singapore for Humanity shows our commitment to P&G employees cleaned and repaired the homes of improving homes and communities where elderly and disabled people and helped to transform we live and work. Over the past year, P&G communities into vibrant and safer places to live. and Habitat for Humanity worked sideEurope by-side on projects in 17 countries in Asia, Employees helped to restore a refuge facility for women Europe, Middle East, Africa, Latin America and children escaping abusive relationships in London. The project helped sixteen families on their journey and North America. Through our partnership of recovery. There were also activities in Romania, with Habitat for Humanity, P&G employees Poland and Hungary in addition to the expansion volunteered more than 4,000 hours to build of the partnership in the UK. or repair homes, or complete neighborhood Latin America revitalization projects. Throughout the world, P&G employees volunteered to complete various home the goal was the same: help families realize and community improvement projects that included their dreams of homeownership or improve improving local school buildings and repairing homes the places they already call home. and community building affected by natural disasters. Also, P&G’s commitment contributed for constructing wood stoves in homes of families in need to help them P&G employees prepare meals and provide heat in the winter. volunteered more than 4,000 hours to build North America or repair homes or A Cincinnati P&G team volunteered to help build a complete neighborhood home and teams from P&G Canada helped build homes revitalization projects. in the Greater Toronto Area. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 40 Brand Programs Tide Loads of Hope “We have no electricity. It’s hard at night; Safeguard Tide Loads of Hope provides mobile laundry units and it’s scary. You look out and it looks like 2017 marked the 10th anniversary of Global laundry services to help families impacted by disaster. everything is dead; the town is dead. You Handwashing Day, and we believe it is the social This year, the program cleaned more than 3,800 loads have hope for the morning and when you responsibility of Safeguard to help children have a of laundry, helping more than 1,700 families during wake up and see the light and give thanks healthy future. Safeguard promotes the correct handfive deployments. washing habits to Chinese families through an annual that you made it to the morning. And we go Global Handwashing Day campaign. So far, Safeguard on. The guys and girls from Tide are amazing. has carried out the school health educational program It is just a blessing to be able to do this nationwide, providing hygiene educational courses We cleaned more than 3,800 because clean clothes lift our spirits, it tells in 25 provinces for more than 22 million primary loads of laundry, helping more us that everything is going to be OK. You school students. than 1,700 families during five are revitalized; you feel better; all around you deployments. feel better. We are going to survive, we are survivors…This Loads of Hope, it gives hope. Safeguard provided It really does!” hygiene education courses in 25 provinces – Jenny, Hurricane Harvey flood victim of China for more than 22 million students. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 41 Brand Programs Pampers Preemies Dawn Ducks Pampers has been dedicated to the happy, healthy This year, Dawn marked the 40th anniversary of its development of babies since our very first diaper more legacy wildlife campaign by hosting a ground-breaking than 50 years ago. When nurses asked us to design a celebration to spotlight and honor the impressive diaper for babies as tiny as 800 grams, the people at number of birds and marine mammals the brand Pampers were inspired to create our best diaper yet for has helped wildlife organizations save, protect and the most vulnerable babies. Other available premature rehabilitate throughout the past four decades. diapers do not conform to a premature baby’s shape To celebrate helping save wildlife, Dawn, wildlife P&G Pampers Preemie and proper positioning for optimal development. activist and actress Kate Mara, wildlife veterinarian Size P-3 diapers help New Pampers Preemie Size P-3 diapers are designed Dr. Evan Antin, International Bird Rescue and The premature infants in their to minimize disruption to help with sleep, positioning Marine Mammal Center rescue workers shared the development. and medical care for premature infants. magnitude of helping clean and rehabilitate more than 75,000 birds. In addition, because of Dawn’s Pampers in Argentina was recognized on Preemie concentrated product, less plastic is used in packaging Day for supporting pregnant and new moms with and more can be shipped in less space, reducing the Pampers Newborn national program in more greenhouse gas emissions. than 200 hospitals. In South Africa we donated more than 1,408,000 preemie diapers to public hospitals and trusts that care for premature babies. Pampers UNICEF Pampers has partnered with UNICEF since 2006 and, through the “1 pack = 1 life-saving vaccine” program, Pampers has helped UNICEF eliminate maternal and newborn tetanus (MNT) in 24 countries. Nearly 53 million women are still at risk from this fatal but preventable disease. Our goal is to work with UNICEF in their efforts to eliminate MNT in EVERY country by 2020. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 42 Latin America Children's Safe Drinking Water Coming Together After Mexican P&G Children’s Safe Drinking Water (CSDW) Program Earthquakes continues to make a meaningful difference by providing On September 7 and 19, 2017, Mexico was struck by clean water to communities in rural areas and during two earthquakes affecting six states in the country. emergency situations in Latin America. When families The Mexico earthquakes damaged more than 170,000 are forced to drink water from contaminated sources, homes from which almost 60,000 were devastated. the impact to daily life is significant. Health suffers, P&G partnered with CADENA, United Way Mexico and children miss school and families struggle to earn stable Red Cross to support families in Mexico City, Estado incomes. Working with more than 20 regional partners de México, Morelos, Puebla, Oaxaca, Guerrero and in Mexico, Brazil, Panama, Costa Rica, Venezuela, Veracruz. Our brands made a difference when they Colombia, Peru, Chile and Argentina, among other were needed the most. We provided thousands of countries, we are contributing to the worldwide effort to personal care family kits and Children Safe Drinking achieve UN Sustainable Development Goal #6—clean Water kits assembled by P&G volunteers. We delivered water and sanitation for all. around $450,000 in in-kind donations, the equivalent to six 53-foot-long trailer trucks! All our sites opened their doors to become collection centers for tools, We provided thousands of personal medical supplies, food and clothes, delivering more care family kits and Children’s Safe than three tons of supplies. For the first time in Mexico, Drinking Water kits assembled by we activated the laundromat, offering to share the load P&G volunteers in response to with our volunteers. For two weekends, we washed 350 two earthquakes in Mexico. loads of clothes for families living in camps and shelters with support from 68 volunteers. Children’s Safe Drinking Water Kits On June 15, employees from the Milenio Shave Care Plant assembled 1,675 Children Safe Drinking Water kits in one hour — record time — thanks to the participation of 129 passionate volunteers. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 43 Latin America Born Learning The Healthy Environments model has been implemented in nearly 500 early child education centers in seven One out of every five children in Latin America lives in countries in Latin America, enhancing knowledge and extreme poverty. Physical inactivity, poor diet and the training for 700 teachers. In the last three years, P&G lack of good oral health habits have become major risk has contributed to improving the development of about factors for the health of school-age children. The best 270,000 children, training 15,000 educators and raising prevention is the one that begins in early childhood and awareness about the importance of early childhood can help mitigate the adverse impact of toxic stress care for more than 67,000 parents and caregivers. during this phase. The Born Learning Program, a United Way initiative The Healthy supported by P&G, benefited approximately 40,000 Environments model children in vulnerable situations in Latin America during 2017. The platform aims to promote physical, social, has been implemented emotional and cognitive development of children under in nearly 500 early child six years old. The program has a Healthy Environments education centers. model which aims to help children grow up in healthy and safe environments, promotes self-care habits, The Born Learning program is executed in Costa Rica empowers children in safe-care and connects parents through a public-private partnership between P&G, to nutrition and health prevention services. the Ministry of Health, United Way and Paniamor. In October 2017, the module was formally delivered to the Ministry of Health for its institutionalization and execution in public daycares called CEN-CINAI. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 44 Latin America Helping in Puerto Rico Guatemala Volcanic Eruption In the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, rebuilding efforts Guatemala's most violent volcanic eruption in more required contributions from many. With help from than a century happened on June 3rd. The Fuego Volcano the P&G Global Fund and local funds, we were able to in Guatemala explosion affected more than 1,714,000 donate $80,000 to Habitat for Humanity in Puerto Rico people, and more than 12,000 people had to evacuate. to help build homes with those impacted. To keep the P&G, in alliance with United Way Guatemala, helped team spirit alive, the Ace detergent program—Tu Equipo 3,615 people by delivering P&G products and P&G Brilla—donated new uniforms to several sports teams Purifier of Water packets to shelters. on the Island. And we also contributed to the local foodbank—Banco de Alimentos de Puerto Rico—with product donations. Employee volunteer work, led by our Culture Network, is planning volunteering activities throughout the year to continue helping Puerto Rico. The Ace detergent program donated new uniforms to sports teams on the island. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 45 Europe Delivering the Comforts of Home Connecting Mums and Midwives In June, we launched a new series of short films as to Say Thank You part of a new UK campaign to showcase our 16-year Despite their vital role, one in three midwives admits partnership with In Kind Direct, the UK’s leading charity they feel underappreciated and undervalued. We in product redistribution. Our #ComfortsofHome found that while the majority of UK mums agree that campaign explored the key role having access to it is important to thank midwives, just over half (58%) everyday essentials plays for charities across the UK actually do. Pampers therefore rallied parents across The films showcase the role we played in providing the UK to encourage them to say #ThankYouMidwife. quality branded products to help charities tackle For every #ThankYouMidwife shared on social media, hygiene and poverty and help provide dignity to the campaign donated £1 to the Benevolent Fund of those in need. Check out the video below. the Royal College of Midwives. Pampers also helped renovate midwives staff rooms in 10 hospitals as another IN KIND DIRECT SHORT FILMS way to say thank you for the work they do. See the results of Pampers #ThankYouMidwife Makeover at Our partnership also goes beyond products. P&G is a Princess Anne Hospital. member of In Kind Direct Board and our employees have been involved in volunteering at charity PRINCESS ANNE HOSPITAL’S MAKEOVER beneficiaries as well as other fundraising events. “Over the last 16 years donations of high quality, branded products from P&G to In Kind Direct have benefited thousands of UK For every #ThankYouMidwife charities and not for profit groups working shared on social media, the at home and abroad. Our recent award is campaign donated £1 to the recognition for the outstanding support that Benevolent Fund of the Royal P&G has provided and reflects the positive College of Midwives. impact that the partnership has had, and continues to have, in disadvantaged communities around the UK and overseas.” – Robin Boles LVO, CEO, In Kind Direct Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 46 Europe Partnerships with Purpose Supporting Cancer Research with Tesco Cancer Research UK is one of Tesco’s three Across the UK, we have partnered with three leading charity partners. 2018 was the second year P&G retailers in communities throughout the country. has partnered with Tesco to support the charity Together we have raised more than $442,000. through a one pack = one donation program across Supporting the UK Armed Forces, Past and Present, all beauty, baby and toiletries products. This year, and Their Families we raised $155,000. To support the thousands of families that help make up the 6.7 million people in the UK’s Armed Forces P&G Volunteers Help Change Lives community, we partnered with The Royal British Legion and Poppyscotland to launch our “Help us, Help them” P&G expanded its partnership with Habitat for Humanity campaign exclusively at Sainsbury’s. When consumers in the UK and are volunteering to help refurbish a refuge purchased P&G health and beauty products during in London, creating a safe environment for women and October and November, they triggered a donation their children to escape abusive relationships. to the charities. We enlisted UK TV presenter Helen Skelton to share the campaign and encouraged Lifetime Dental Habit Change families across the country to get involved and Kids usually don’t like to brush, and when they do #HelpUsHelpThem. Together, we raised $115,000. so, they sometimes don’t do it well. This is probably Feeling Super for Marie Curie the reason why, in Israel, many children reach third P&G and Superdrug have partnered since 2015 to grade with cavities. In order to improve oral health, We partnered with three support the retailer’s corporate charity partner, Marie Oral-B in Israel has launched the Oral-B Brushing leading retailers through a Curie, through a one product = one donation campaign. Kit: a subsidized power brush and an educational one product = one donation Fronted by long-term ambassador and celebrity mum book targeting every three-year-old. The brushing campaign, raising more of two, Frankie Bridge, our #FeelSuper campaign has recommendation is in collaboration with Israel Gums than $442,000. raised more than $632,000 for Marie Curie to date. This experts association. Within the first year, the program is equal to more than 25,000 hours of expert care and has reached 48% of three-year-olds in Israel. support from Marie Curie. The program is reapplied today in European countries such as Serbia, and in advance process of adaption in Turkey, the UK and Germany. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 47 Europe Educating and Helping Parents Coming Together in the Community “All in to act for the planet” was the theme for the day with two goals—collect litter from the beach alongside Develop Healthy Habits for their Across Northern Europe, our employees are making a Gestes Propres and TerraCycle (to be used in the Kids and Improve their Oral Care difference in the communities where they live and work production of Head & Shoulders beach bottles) and help through P&G’s ongoing ‘Community Matters’ program. Oral-B is committed to helping young parents and reopen a natural site that belongs to Conservatoire du All our sites have dedicated community programs children develop good dental habits for life. Oral-B has littoral by clearing wetland shrubs and non-native species. supporting local charities where people can help created an educational toolkit in association with the SOS Villages d’Enfants also participated. P&G employees fundraise and volunteer. University of Leeds designed to help parents help their helped the children build insect hotels, which they children establish healthy dental habits. It focuses on Our Cobalt site, together with our Newcastle Innovation proudly brought back to their SOS villages. This event how to brush and make it fun, how friends and family Centre, partners with The Community Foundation helped raise awareness and answer questions about can support parents and how healthy eating can protect in Tyne & Wear and Northumberland. Since the fund the SOS Villages d’Enfants and how P&G actions teeth. The materials are for dental professionals and started in 1995, we’ve been able to secure more than $1 positively support the SOS Villages. designed to support their conversations with parents million worth of donations for 500 local charities and of young children. In 2018, already 2,000 kits have been grassroots projects. As a result, 900 liters of non-recyclable waste was provided to dental professionals, enabling 80,000 removed, 480 liters of recycled waste was collected, conversations. 60 liters of rigid plastic was put back into the Head & France Solidarity Day Shoulders bottle production line, eight insect hotels were Our P&G offices celebrated their ninth French Solidarity built and 80 employees gave back to their community. We’re helping make Day with a focus on our new 2030 environmental goals. brushing and eating Approximately 80 multifunctional participants trekked healthy and fun for two hours from the general office to the seaside at the both young parents Conservatoire du littoral. and their children. The Solidarity Day focused on advancing four partnerships: Conservatoire du littoral/Coast Protection, the public body under the Ministry of Ecology that our P&G France Foundation for the Seashore Protection has supported since 1992; Gestes Propres, Clean Europe We collected 60 liters of rigid plastic member and P&G France partner since 1991; TerraCycle, that was then put back into our our Head & Shoulders beach plastic bottles partner; and Head & Shoulders product line. SOS Villages d’Enfants, a local children’s home we have supported since 2014. Twenty children from four French SOS Villages d’Enfants joined us. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 48 Europe P&G Turkey received Red Crescent Belgian employees give back Platinum Award during their Solidarity day This year, we donated more than $477,000 worth of P&G Employees gave back to the community by helping products to the Turkish Red Crescent. For our continuous an entire day at different social organizations and NGOs donation efforts, we were awarded two gold medals in Belgium. Activities included preparing a home-made from the Turkish Red Crescent last year, and this year meal for the homeless in Brussels, giving the elderly we received a platinum award presented by Turkish an active and fun day and wrapping birthday gifts for President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. children and mums. Since our first solidarity day in 2016, we have made a difference for more than 5,000 people, including homeless, elderly people, refugees, children in need and children with disabilities. We received one platinum award and two gold medals for our work with the Belgian employees help Mariam’s Turkish Red Crescent. wish come true Mariam, facing a serious illness, had one wish—to be CEO of a big company for a day. On May 24, she took P&G Belgium helps people in need over the role of CEO at the P&G Brussels Innovation Center where she started the day with a meeting, through product donation followed by a visit to the perfume lab. Mariam learned We have been supporting Goods-to-Give, a Belgian how perfumes are made and even developed her own NGO collecting surpluses of non-food stock, since 2013. personalized Lenor bottle and fragrance. And thanks We have donated almost one million P&G products, to charity events organized by our employees, we reaching more than 116,000 people in need through raised money to make three more wishes come true 134 social organizations. To give our collaboration an via Make-A-Wish. extra boost, we also assembled 5,000 Mother Day’s gift and “hygiene” boxes for mums in need. P&G Brussels Innovation Center gave Miriam her wish—to be CEO of a big company for a day. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 49 Europe Pampers Donated 5,000 Newborn Spanish Red Cross Starter Kits to Young Families Health and hygiene are core to our business but are also and Mothers critical for those who need it the most. Oral-B partnered with the Red Cross in Spain to enable families and In Austria, 24% of children ages 0–5 and 22% of women children in need to have access to proper oral health live in poverty. Pampers already partnered with Caritas care, improving their overall present and future well(#1 charity organization fighting poverty in Austria) being. In just the first year, the effort benefited nearly to support low-income families, donating two trucks 200 children and more than 100 families. of diapers worth $80,000. We know that young, lowincome families require more holistic support so we partnered with Caritas & BIPA (#1 drugstore in Austria) Doubling Efforts Against to set-up a donation campaign for Newborn Starter Breast Cancer Kits. As part of the starter kits, families are not only Ausonia has partnered with the Spanish Association provided with diapers, baby clothes and baby food Against Cancer (AECC) for more than 10 years to but also receive counseling and support. Consumers increase the awareness and financial investment supported the campaign via the purchase of Pampers to strengthen the battle against breast cancer. This diapers, donating $0.57 for starter kits with every pack disease affects one out of every eight women in Spain. purchased. The progress was communicated in near Thanks to the overall investment in research, social real-time via a donation counter on the website as awareness and early diagnosis, Spain has increased its well as on the cash receipts, showing the individual survival rates by 1.4% and chances of survival five years contribution of the shopper. We reached our goal of from diagnosis is now 83% — 15% better than 20 years 5,000 Starter Kits within one month, and the program ago. Ausonia’s commitment to women was recognized has become part of one of Caritas’ ongoing campaigns by Her Majesty the Queen of Spain, Doña Letizia. to raise awareness for young families. The campaign Ausonia has partnered with is supported by many public figures including Austria’s We are also an active member of STANPA (National the Spanish Association first lady. Cosmetic and Perfumery Industry association) and Against Cancer for more a supporter of its program “Ponte Guapa, te Sentirás than 10 years. Mejor” (“Beauty will help you feel good”), which helps We created 5,000 Starter women fight breast cancer by strengthening their Kits for young families self-esteem through beauty. Every year, Olay products and young mothers that are part of the beauty kit distributed by the program also included counseling to women in 28 hospitals across Spain during the and support. program’s beauty workshops to cancer patients. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 50 Europe Creating Homes for Children Making People Smile Sharing a Smile in Italy In Spain, P&G has partnered with Aldeas Infantiles Supporting and educating the professional dental Families of children affected by rare genetic diseases SOS (SOS Villages) for more than 10 years to provide community is one of our commitments to communities. now have more hope thanks to Telethon’s research. the comforts of a home to children in need. This year, Through www.dentalcare.co.uk, a P&G-supported portal, AZ Ricerca and Vanessa Incontrada have decided to in addition to the ongoing Company and employees’ we offer the dental professional community scientific support Telethon’s efforts in by encouraging Italian donations to improve their homes, P&G volunteers studies, exchange and education courses providing people to donate smiles to children affected by rare visited the villages to create awareness among the them opportunities to stay abreast of key research and genetic diseases and to their families. Every smile children and their families on the importance of a proper educate their patients on oral health conditions, dental is converted into a donation to Telethon. This year, oral hygiene and training on how to improve it. procedures and proper oral hygiene techniques. Oral-B supported the charity campaign via an in-store campaign and as social activation, donating more Approximately ten percent of families in Germany with than $170,000. children have incomes that lie below the poverty line. Oral-B is committed to making a positive contribution P&G Italy supported the to these underserved communities through volunteer Donate A Smile campaign contributions and collaborating with key partners like with an in-store promotion, A Click Against School Drop Out RTL, a German TV station, and its annual Spendendonating more than We partnered with Save the Children and Amazon in marathon, which is a fundraiser that raises money for $170,000. Spain and Italy to fight against school dropout and the children in need. consequences of such action. Spain has the second largest dropout rates in the European Union and data DENTALCARE.COM confirms that the majority of the poorest children in the country have abandoned their education at an early stage. Italy is facing a similar situation. Thanks to the Habitat for Humanity – Working Save the Children partnership and to the engagement Together to Build Homes from consumers, Save the Children educational support Leveraging a corporate grant, employees in Hungary program is being strengthened, benefiting children and Poland donated more than 500 working hours to with more than 26,000 hours of education across renovate a rental apartment, a facility for those with both countries. intellectual disabilities and apartments for those in need. Not only does this give back to the community, but employees feel a sense of pride being able to help their neighbors. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 51 Asia Pacific Helping in Vietnam P&G Builds Communities with P&G Vietnam continues to provide strong support Habitat for Humanity to the most unprivileged communities across the We continued our long-term partnership with country through several programs. The Children’s Habitat for Humanity with multiple volunteer Safe Drinking Water Program in Vietnam is done in events across Asia Pacific: partnership with the Vietnam Red Cross, and we have a three-year agreement focusing on the six disasterIndonesia prone provinces of Vietnam. We provided nine million 72 P&G volunteers built six houses just in time with water-purifying packets, equivalent to 90 million liters of six families celebrating Ramadan. clean water, impacting the lives of 200,000 households. Singapore On World Water Day, our celebration coincided with 63 P&G volunteers cleaned houses with the elderly an event in An Gian province with representation from and rejuvenated community spaces in an island-wide the Ministry of Health, local authorities, Red Cross movement, “Home Sweep Home”. and also media to raise awareness and educate about the importance of clean water for the health of the Australia community. This included training at a primary school 5 P&G volunteers flew to Northern Vietnam to help build on how to use the water-purifying packets. homes and raised more than $16,000 for other families to be able to get decent housing. Philippines P&G CSDW is partnering P&G employees and summer interns helped build with Vietnam Red Cross Bistekville 5, a Habitat village, which has more than to bring clean water to six 200 families. disaster-prone provinces in Vietnam. P&G volunteers, employees, and interns Supporting an Australian Foodbank helped construct or clean We donated 21,500 cases to an Australian foodbank homes and raise money to this year to help those suffering the effects of natural help families get housing. disaster or financial hardship. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 52 Asia Pacific Skills-Based Volunteering Helps NGOs Help Others Since 2013, P&G Asia Pacific’s Beyond Borders SkillsBased Volunteering Program has helped non-profit organizations overcome their biggest challenges by having P&G employees share their expertise for free. This Skills-Based Volunteering Program redefines how corporations like P&G can go beyond donating money to sharing knowledge. P&G in the Asia Pacific region is a pioneer in the industry, offering skills-based volunteering opportunities including P&G Pro-Bono School (a half-day boot camp for non-profits), Consultation Project (small group sessions between P&G volunteers and one non-profit over four months), Sabbatical with UNICEF (full-time work project with UNICEF for three months), and Bangkok Plant Giving Back Board Matching Program (P&G Senior Leaders being appointed to the Advisory Board of influential non-profit to Society organizations). The program’s breadth and flexibility Our Bangkok Plant Giving Back to Society program P&G APAC’s Beyond Borders make it not only easy to get involved, but also more aims to help the local community by focusing on two Skills-Based Volunteering meaningful to employees. This Skills-Based Volunteering schools, two child development centers, one hospital, Program helps non-profit Program has become a beacon for employees, inspiring two foundations and one community group by helping organizations go beyond donating them to make a difference in society by leveraging to provide these organizations with clean clothes. money to sharing knowledge. what they are best at! This year alone, more than 150 P&G employees volunteered their time and expertise to provide free consultation to more than 30 non-profit P&G Korea Committed to a Better organizations. Today for Better Life This program was recognized externally, receiving P&G Korea made an Memorandum of Understanding American Chamber of Commerce in Singapore CARES with Seoul’s Children’s Hospital to create resting Award—for the third year in a row. lounges, a kids’ library, and baby feeding rooms at the hospital. This hospital specializes in helping children who suffer from rare diseases or developmental delays. We are working to help make a better day and a better life for families during their stay at this hospital. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 53 Greater China Hope School Students on Smile Fund China’s Most Prestigious Stage This year, Crest and the China Youth Development P&G China, China Youth Development Foundation Foundation established the Smile Fund, aiming to bring (CYDF) and the National Centre for Performing Arts oral care education to the children in rural areas. From (NCPA), the most prestigious national theatre in China, December to May, we went to 10 Hope Schools in six announced a three-year corporate social responsibility provinces which helped more than 3,300 children plan. P&G and CYDF will co-sponsor NCPA’s annual to smile brighter. In the coming year, the “Smile Fund” International Children’s Drama Season from 2018 will be implemented in more Hope Schools, helping to 2020. In return, the NCPA will include more P&G to spread smiles. Hope School students in the Children’s Drama Season productions. This program is the first of its kind in China to use the arts to engage and empower kids in need. During the first year, 28 children from one of P&G Hope Schools performed on the stage of NCPA. A sellout audience of 800 enjoyed the performance, which also commemorated P&G China’s 30th anniversary. To extend the art outreach, P&G China also started three-year “drama in education” teachers’ training, equipping rural teachers with this innovative approach to teaching children how to express their abilities, imagination and creativity. 10 Hope Schools, reaching more than 3,300 children, were taught about oral care. P&G China began a three-year corporate social responsibility plan, which included P&G Hope School students given more access to the National Centre for Performing Arts. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 54 Greater China 20 Years of Hygiene Education Pampers Helping the Most The P&G China school program was launched in 1997 to Vulnerable Babies help Chinese children and young girls develop hygiene Pampers partnered with neonatal intensive care unit habits early in life so they can grow up healthy and (NICU) nurses to specially design smaller diapers for happy. It consists of handwashing, dental hygiene and premature babies. Pampers has donated 400,000 menstrual education classes. To date, the program has diapers to 17 hospitals in China thus far, helping more provided nearly 250 million health education toolkits, than 1,000 premature babies while they are treated in benefiting 145 million children from more than 20,000 the NICU. In June 2018, we launched the Preemie video primary and middle schools across 200 cities in China. of “Long Awaited First Touch” to call public attention As our China school program moves into its 21st year, to premature babies and their families. The video our mission is moving beyond the material needs of generated three million views in just two days. the students to their health, spiritual, social and cultural needs, as well as addressing the shortage of quality teachers and the growing issues of rural “left-behind” Pampers has donated children whose parents are forced to leave their families 400,000 diapers to 17 and work in the city to earn a living. hospitals in China. PREEMIE CHINA VIDEO Since 1997, P&G has provided 250 million health education toolkits across 200 cities in China. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 55 India, Middle East and Africa P&G Shiksha increased to 70%! Similarly, there was more than a two-fold increase in the percentage of children who P&G India’s signature community impact program, were able to do basic arithmetic after our intervention. P&G Shiksha, in partnership with NGOs, has built and We also identified “Early Childhood Education” as a key supported approximately 1,800 schools across the opportunity area in the educational landscape of the country, which is an increase of more than 300 since country. We focus on improving the motor, cognitive, last year, helping more than 1.4 million children. social-emotional, pre-language and pre-math skills in Since 2005, P&G Shiksha has empowered consumers children before they enter the first grade. to help contribute towards the education of underTwo years ago, P&G Shiksha forayed into impacting privileged children through their brand choices. We learning levels via digital learning. P&G entered into share a part of the sales towards Shiksha, resulting a partnership with Education Initiatives (EI) and the in a cumulative donation of more than $10 million for Government of Rajasthan to implement Mindspark, building new schools, providing critical infrastructural a computer-based adaptive learning solution that amenities at existing schools and reviving non-operational integrates pedagogy, teacher instruction and a learning government schools. During the year, Save the Children, management system to help students learn mathematics in partnership with P&G Shiksha, has continued to and English. The tool analyzes the learning levels of the empower marginalized girls through holistic education. students in language and mathematics by presenting them with questions in increasing level of difficulty. On P&G Shiksha has donated answering incorrectly, the student is provided a simple P&G Shiksha in partnership more than $10 million or detailed explanation, or is redirected to questions with Education Initiatives and towards education that strengthen the basic understanding. The program the Government of Rajasthan of the underprivileged. was implemented in 30 government schools in Rajasthan implemented a computer-based where more than 6,700 students spent more than learning program, Mindspark, A key area of our intervention is Remedial Learning 10,000 hours learning using Mindspark. Post intervention, that improved learning levels and Early Childhood Education. We have partnered with the learning levels among students using Mindspark two-fold compared to the Pratham Education Foundation to improve the learning improved two-fold compared to the control group. control group. outcomes and bridge the existing gap between The tool also provides teachers with information on the current and existing learning levels. The results were progress and learning levels of students which is used phenomenal; we reached out to more than 670 schools for effective classroom management and instruction. and more than 24,000 children and saw the learning levels in the schools rise at the end of the year following our interventions. Before the intervention, only 20% of children in these schools were able to read and write as per their curriculum level—after our invention, this Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 56 India, Middle East and Africa P&G Oral Care is Committed P&G and HOPE to Improving Oral Hygiene P&G’s partnership with Health Oriented Preventive in Rural Kenya Education (HOPE) and READ Foundation has provided quality education to more than 2,500 underprivileged P&G’s Oral Care Professional organization teamed children in Karachi, Thatta, Islamabad and Muzaffarabad up with the University of Michigan to work on a this year. Girls constitute around 55% of the students at joint initiative that would help improve oral hygiene the P&G-HOPE and P&G-READ Foundation schools. practices among children in rural Kenya. Fewer than 1,000 dentists serve the 44 million population of Kenya, from the far reaches of the bush to the vast expanses of the country’s capital Nairobi. Dental hygiene is a rarity outside privileged urban regions. Tooth decay is the most common chronic disease of childhood. Oral hygiene was taught to more than 1,000 children aged 4-9 years, as well as their teachers. In total, the team treated more than 740 children and addressed more than 1,600 cavities. For many of the children, this was their first engagement with a dentist. The P&G Oral Care Professional team taught oral hygiene and CSDW in Pakistan treated 740 children and more than 1,600 dental cavities. P&G announced Year 4 of its partnership with METRO Cash & Carry and Health Oriented Preventive Education (HOPE) via the P&G Children’s Safe Drinking Water Program to disaster-struck communities in Pakistan. Through this program, we have provided 11 million liters of clean drinking water during the year, benefiting around 50,000 people across Pakistan. It also made available more than four million liters of clean drinking water to families in Karachi during the summer. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 57 India, Middle East and Africa Employees stocked Funfest Pakistan Providing Books to Those in Need the fridge with drinks, Employees continue to spend time with children P&G in the Arabian Peninsula has continued its packaged foods and at the SOS Village in Karachi, giving them a sense of partnership with the Abu Dhabi-headquartered LuLu fruits to support lowbelonging. This year, more than 50 P&G employees Hypermarket and Dubai-based charity Dubai Cares income workers. endeavored to spread cheer and happiness by to provide books for thousands of children in the creating a memorable day for around 145 children Middle East region. Supported by the Mohammed Bin through the highly anticipated P&G Funfest event. Started in 2016, the concept of the Ramadan Sharing Rashid Global Centre for Endowment Consultancy, Fridges gained traction online, and people across Dubai the ‘Brands for Education’ campaign has been running in the United Arab Emirates began to set up and stock for two years and has raised more than $75,000 for Caring for Our Newest fridges placed throughout the city. Funded by the books through an in-kind donation from P&G for every Members of Society Arabian Peninsula selling and marketing organization, consumer purchase from LuLu Hypermarkets during The first 1,000 days of life—between a woman’s the first-ever P&G Sharing Fridge was placed in an the campaign. pregnancy and her child’s second birthday—is a unique industrial area near the Dubai General Office, and it window of opportunity. The right nutrition and care became a cause the whole office supported. Employee teams chose days on which they’d stock the fridge P&G Partners With Injaz Saudi influences not only whether the child will survive, but also his or her ability to grow, learn and rise out of with drinks such as juices, soda and milk, along with to Promote Work Readiness poverty. Pampers, UNICEF South Africa and retailer packaged foods and fruits. In the Arabian Peninsula, we partnered with Injaz Saudi, Pick ‘n Pay partnered to raise funds to enable hospitals the local affiliate of Junior Achievement Worldwide, on “Ramadan is a time of gifting and charity, and and communities to provide the best care for the a product designed to promote work readiness among newest members of society, laying the foundation through the Sharing Fridge, we’ve been able young Saudis and prepare them for careers in the private for a brighter future. to give back to the local community around sector. The Steer Your Career project focuses on helping the office in a way that is both sustainable young Saudi nationals learn skills so that they’re able to and engages every P&Ger here.” enter the work force in the private sector. Over the past Ramadan “Sharing Fridge” Supports six months, P&G, Injaz and a number of P&Gers from the Low-Income Workers in Dubai – Omer Awan, Associate Director, Supply Company’s Jeddah operations have given training to As a goodwill gesture to the local community during Chain Operations for the Arabian Peninsula almost 500 Saudi students in a number of universities the Islamic month of Ramadan (May and June), a group & Pakistan in Jeddah, Madinah and Riyadh in the areas of time of employees in the Dubai office set up the Company’s management, verbal and written communications, first “Sharing Fridge.” The Sharing Fridge’s campaign interview techniques, problem solving, team work, gives low-income workers—many of whom are both developing a career path and leadership development. fasting and working in temperatures exceeding 35 degrees Celsius (95°F)—access to free food and drinks during the month. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 58 North America United Way Cincinnati Music Festival Feeding America In 1915, P&G helped establish the Cincinnati Community P&G proudly returned as presenting sponsor for It’s a startling fact that in America today 40 million Chest, which today is known as the United Way of the Cincinnati Music Festival (CMF) for the fourth people face food insecurity—including 12.5 million Greater Cincinnati. United Way brings people and consecutive year. As one of the largest urban music children and five million seniors. Feeding America® is organizations together to create real change for the festivals in the country, we see CMF as an opportunity the nation’s largest domestic hunger-relief organization city. With the help of more than 90,000 supporters, to bring people together through the power of music and works to assist people facing hunger through United Way of Greater Cincinnati has impacted the and a strong spirit of inclusion and community their network of 200 foodbanks. As a long-standing lives of 365,000 people a year, in 10 counties across understanding. The festival allows us to connect partner, P&G has been playing a role in helping Feeding Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky. The annual P&G United with tens of thousands of music fans from around America’s mission by donating everyday household Way campaign provides support to reach bold goals the country and ignites a critical conversation that essentials and personal care products from brands like ensuring children are prepared for kindergarten, promotes economic, social and cultural development such as Charmin, Dawn, Oral-B, Pampers, Pantene helping families achieve financial stability and ensuring in Cincinnati and beyond. Our brands hold a visible and and Secret which are distributed through a network people lead healthy, quality lives with maximum dynamic presence with immersive experiences like the of 200 foodbanks and 60,000 food pantries and meal independence. This year, P&G employees, shareholders Old Spice and Head & Shoulders Kickback Man Cave programs. For the past several years, P&G has helped and retirees donated $9.7 million to the United Way and the Goddess Patio Spa, to treat guests to a one-ofto support School Pantry programs for kids. In the of Greater Cincinnati’s annual campaign. a-kind weekend that #FeelsLikeCMF. Beyond the music, U.S., Always teamed up with Feeding America on a P&G’s My Black is Beautiful partnered with the National campaign aimed at helping to #EndPeriodPoverty by Underground Railroad Freedom Center and the Greater sparking conversations and taking action by donating 15 Cincinnati Association of Black Journalists to host an million period products to girls in need this school year. open discussion and event, “Navigating Barriers and Possibilities.” To increase national exposure of the event, This year, Always we partnered with the Oprah Winfrey Network for the partnered with Feeding first time ever. OWN provided their network audience America to bring 15 with an all-access pass to the fest’s hottest musical acts million period products and our brand experiences were highlighted in videos surrounding the release of OWN’s new TV show, “Love to girls in need. Is,” which aired in August. P&G partnered with the Oprah Winfrey Network for the first time ever to increase national exposure. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 59 North America Habitat for Humanity Always Donates Product to Help P&G teams volunteer to help build decent and #EndPeriodPoverty affordable homes in the headquarter city of Cincinnati. On June 25, 2018, Always reaffirmed ongoing efforts to The Vecindades Team volunteered to help build a home empower girls and women through product donations in the suburb of Lockland. to organizations supporting asylum seekers, as well as to colleges, in the Toronto area. Volunteers packed Park and River Clean-Up 2,000 P&G personal hygiene kits consisting of Always pads, Crest toothpaste, Oral-B toothbrush, Pantene On September 20, more than 300 P&G Canada shampoo and conditioner, Secret antiperspirant employees participated in our first-ever P&G Gives and Ivory soap. These kits were donated to local Back Park & River Clean-Up. In total, we collected 531 kg organizations supporting asylum seekers and refugees. (1,170 lbs) of garbage, including four pounds of cigarette In addition, Always donated 20,000 pads to local college butts! This event kicked off our annual P&G Gives Back campuses in support of their efforts to increase access employee canvassing campaign where all employee to period protection for students. donations are matched by P&G to the United Way. Volunteers packed 2,000 personal hygiene kits for supporting asylum seekers and refugees. P&G Gives Back campaign collected 531kg (1,170 lbs) of garbage. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 60 Employee Well-Being P&G Vibrant Living Positive P&G Employee Vibrant Living is P&G’s global health and well-being Survey Trends program. Our Vibrant Living vision is “Enable peak This year, 82% of employees participated in Vibrant performance by inspiring meaningful, happy, healthy Living events, activities and programs. For the seventh lives” and is supported by three pillars: year in a row, we have seen a positive impact from “Meaningful” Heart — Feeling proud to be part of P&G Vibrant Living on our Personal Well-Being index. and connecting with others, at home, at work and in the community, who share similar interests and passion to Global Vibrant Living Awareness Day bring out our best. 2018 was a milestone year for Global Vibrant Living “Happy” Mind — Enriching our overall well-being, Awareness Day. On this five-year anniversary, 93% of building resilience and strengthening relationships to sites around the world participated in “Let’s Celebrate enjoy the best in life. the Journey.” The intent of Global Vibrant Living “Healthy” Body — Optimizing our physical strength and Awareness Day is to remind employees of all the Vibrant energy to meet everyday challenges and enjoy an active Living programs available and, this year specifically, to Employees have access to lifestyle. That’s the core of Vibrant Living. encourage employees to celebrate the small steps on Vibrant Living health coaches our health and well-being journey and to connect with and champions to get the support others who are on a similar path. and resources they need. A Workplace Culture of Health and Well-Being • We have 119 certified Vibrant Living sites that support Vibrant Living provides employees a family of offerings the health and well-being of our employees. in the areas of fitness, nutrition, mental and emotional resilience, health education and training, and hands• With the help of 241 Vibrant Living health coaches on activities and events to aid personal fulfillment and and champions throughout the world, employees can peak performance. Many of our Vibrant Living programs connect to Vibrant Living resources they need most. are available to family members and through the • Our global online wellness assessment is available to “Meaningful” Heart pillar. Vibrant Living extends to the employees in more than 30 languages. communities where we work and live. • We are continuing a progressive 10% utilization rate with our WorkLife Solutions Program, which reaches more than 90% of employees worldwide. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 61 Employee Well-Being Vibrant Living Morning Tea Hong Kong To lift spirits, employees had morning tea with elders Highlights from Sites Around the World in their community to share stories, play games, create 5K Walk/Run memories, take photos and give P&G product gifts. The Cincinnati General Offices 700 employees from around the city participated Meditation and Stretch Breaks in this Vibrant Living event. Sao Paolo General Office To be more vibrant throughout the day, employees Family Day 2018 participated in meditation and stretch breaks. Cabuyao Plant, Philippines With their #StepUp2HelpOut step challenge employees Walking Trail and their families not only got healthier together, but Greensboro Plant, United States with every 10,000 steps helped to feed a hungry child. Employees celebrated the grand re-opening of their outdoor walking trail. Information Stations St. Petersburg Plant, Russia Celebrate Every Achievement Information Stations on the topics of Healthy Breakfast Materiales Plant, Peru Choices, The Truth About Calories and Stress and As part of Global Vibrant Living Awareness Day, Resilience were provided on all shifts. employees were invited to note a change or achievement in their physical or mental health, Vibrant Living Revolution allowing each one of them to notice that small Mumbai, Goa, Hyderabad and Mandideep Plants, India changes can build healthy habits. Some highlights Nearly 600 employees across four sites participated among them: “Spending more time with my in a 12-week challenge to promote healthy behaviors. children,” “Take dance classes” and “Eat breakfast.” In addition to individual and team achievement, collectively all participants endeavored to Circle the Globe by the cumulative steps taken. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 62 Employee Well-Being Vibrant Living Running for good at the Geneva P&G Mexico was granted the prestigious Workplace Marathon for UNICEF Wellness Council – Mexico award for the fifth year in Nearly 500 passionate P&G colleagues and families a row for our Vibrant Living and Medical programs. came together for a positive impact in the community This is the highest recognition for best practices in and healthier living at the Geneva Marathon for UNICEF. Health & Wellness. Once again, it was a record participation level with P&G being the largest corporation represented. The most Brazil was also recognized externally for their Vibrant demanding, yet very rewarding, experience was running Living programs and received a Wellness Award. alongside disabled children in a joëllette (wheelchair). P&G Korea served in a momentous role with the 2018 Every year, about 30 volunteers help kids from the Winter Olympics in PyeongChang. Torchbearers included Clair Bois Foundation experience this unique event. P&G’s Asia-Pacific Region President Magesvaran Suranjan (pictured below, right) and Hyunju Jeon (pictured below, left), a Product Supply employee who had won a P&G Korea walkathon competition. The walkathon challenge helped build anticipation surrounding the games and promote fitness through our Vibrant Living employee wellness program. Two P&G Korea representatives served as torchbearers in the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 63 Employee Well-Being Global Medical We touch and improve the lives of our employees with focused delivery of our five Global Medical priorities. The 1. Save a Life P&G Medical vision “Touching and Improving the Health (Protect Our People) and Well-Being of P&G People – Healthy People, Healthy Business” reflects the importance of the well-being, 2. Obey the Law productivity and innovativeness of our employees. The Our programs are making a difference. Our nearly (Protect Company Reputation) P&G global Employee Health and Well-Being Standard 150 P&G Health Services / Vibrant Living Health Centers ensures that we deliver: across 40 countries had nearly 305,000 employee visits in the past fiscal year. Based on employee 3. Protect Key Technologies • The same corporate Health and Well-Being feedback, 96% of visits surveyed received a favorable (Protect Brand Integrity) requirements at all P&G locations consistently around rating. On the 2018 P&G survey, employees who used the world, assuring that sites provide employees with health services / health centers or on-site health the appropriate level of occupational health assurance 4. Enhance Speed to Market programs scored an average of five percentage points programs and services. (Support Emerging Technologies and New Business better on their personal well-being scores. Many of Development) • Comprehensive and effective emergency care for these employee visits are proactive, including use our employees, on-site contractors and visitors at of preventive health services such as travel health all our facilities. consultations, seasonal influenza immunizations 5. Inspire Health and Wellness and personal health and wellness consultations. P&G (Vibrant Living, Travel Medicine Support, Global • Compliance with related laws and regulations survey results for the last seven years tell a remarkably WorkLife Solutions and EAPs) and sharing this expectation with all of our consistent story of well-being improvement. business partners. • A culture of health through quality health services P&G Health Services/Vibrant and Vibrant Living offerings that support employees Living Health Centers across in protecting and promoting their health. 40 countries had nearly • WorkLife Solutions and Employee Assistance Programs 305,000 employee visits. (EAPs) to support employees and their families. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 64 Awards & Recognitions P&G Community Impact initiatives have P&G Panama recognized as the 3rd Top Dream received significant recognition this year, Company for young people to work in this country. including the following: P&G Brazil was recognized as the #1 Company most P&G Indonesia won two bronze awards for “Best respected by the consumers awarded by Grupo Padrão / Workplace Category” and “Female Empowerment/ Consumidor Moderno in Brazil. Gender Equality Category” after competing with more than 200 companies across the region. P&G Mexico was in #5 with best responsibility and corporate government by Merco study. Our Skills-Based Volunteering Program was recognized externally, receiving American Chamber of Commerce in Singapore CARES Award—for the third year in a row. P&G Argentina was recognized by the National Government in the “Pink House” (Official House) by Social Development Minister for the CSDW Program P&G was No. 77 on Forbes’ list of America’s in Argentina and our contribution to water issue Best Employers. in the country. P&G Latin America was named Best Regional Corporate P&G China was awarded “2018 CSR China Top 100” Partner by United Way Latin America for its work and by CSR China Education Award for its Project collaboration to the Born Learning Platform. Hope children’s drama program and P&G School Hygiene Program. P&G China was awarded “2017 Best Partner of Project Hope” by China Youth Development Foundation for its P&G Peru was recognized by the National Labor and continuous contribution to Project Hope. Defense Ministry and by World Vision for our immediate reaction, solidarity and support during the emergency P&G Panama was recognized by Panama Amcham caused by “El Niño Costero” phenomenon. (America Chamber of Commerce) for its work with CSDW. This is the highest award for sustainability P&G Colombia has been recognized external by the programs in the country and is the first time P&G Bogota City Council for its community impacts and received this. good practices in Social Responsibility. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 65 Awards & Recognitions P&G Costa Rica was in the Top 10 Best Companies with P&G Latin America was recognized by National best responsibility and corporate government in Costa Geographic for the CSDW Program. Rica by Merco ranking 2018. P&G Panama was recognized as “Great Local Corporate P&G China was recognized as “Top 30 of the World’s Top Partner” by United Way Panama for its work and 500 Company Contribution List in China” by Southern collaboration to the Born Learning Platform and the Weekly, one of the most authoritative newspaper in seeding funds for Healthy Environments. China, for its citizenship contributions to China. P&G China won several awards in the 7th China Charity P&G Turkey received Red Crescent Platinum Award for Festival, the first festival named “charity” initiated its ongoing product donations. by mass media. P&G China won “2017 Annual CSR Innovation Award” for its excellent company and brand citizenship programs. P&G Project Hope Program, P&G P&G China Project Hope Program was awarded “2017 School Hygiene Program and Crest Smile Fund all won Company Citizenship Excellence Award” by China “Annual Charity Program Award.” Safeguard won “2017 Philanthropy Times, the first philanthropic newspaper Annual CSR Brand.” under the supervision of Ministry of Civil Affairs. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 66 Diversity & Inclusion P&G is a company that believes in diversity and inclusion. With more than 140 nationalities represented in our workforce, our own diversity helps us reflect and win with the consumers we serve around the world. The more we understand people, their needs and challenges, the better we can delight them with our products and services. And while diversity is essential in all we do, we believe inclusion changes the game. Every day we strive to get the full value of our diversity through inclusion — fostering an environment where P&G people can be their best, full and authentic selves in the workplace. But our job doesn’t end there — our belief and commitment extend beyond P&G’s walls. We are driving action on the world stage to make a meaningful difference, and we care deeply about our impact, always striving to make the world a little bit better through our actions. VIEW HIGHLIGHTS VIEW MORE STORIES Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 67 HIGHLIGHTS The Talk Sparks Dialogue and Earns Honors Last year, P&G tackled head-on a real challenge the U.S. and other countries must address — racial inequality driven by racial bias. We decided to step up and use our voice to shine the light on racial bias, continuing our efforts to create a better world for everyone, with equal representation, equal voice and equal opportunity — regardless of background. We created a two-minute film focused on “the talk” that many black parents in America have with their children about racial bias to prepare, protect and encourage them. Throughout the film, there are scenes of parents having a version of The Talk with their son or daughter in various situations and across different decades. These depictions of The Talk illustrate that, while times have changed, racial bias still exists. Since it debuted in July 2017, the film has generated widespread conversations in social media, news forums and millions of views online. The Talk was featured as part of the storyline during an episode of black-ish, ABC’s hit primetime sitcom and has racked up numerous awards including the 2018 Creative Arts Emmy award for Outstanding Commercial and 2018 Cannes Grand Prix Lion for Film Corporate Image. READ MORE Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 68 HIGHLIGHTS Documentary Profiles Courage and Leadership In an era of increasing polarization and heightened concern for LGBT+ rights, The Words Matter: One Voice Can Make A Difference took on one of the most salient issues of our time and brought it to a worldwide audience. The Words Matter is more than just a corporate documentary — it’s a refreshingly candid examination of P&G’s own history and a lesson in leadership. P&G commissioned the film in partnership with a production team at CNN’s Great Big Story in celebration of the 25th anniversary of LGBT+ inclusion at the Company. Beyond the launch and distribution of the film, P&G wanted to continue to bolster societal dialogue about LGBT+ inclusion. Screening events and discussions were held in New York, London, Geneva, Cincinnati, Cannes, China, Panama and other locations across the world. READ MORE Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 69 HIGHLIGHTS Herbal Essences Designs a Sense of Touch In 2019, P&G brand Herbal Essences will be making a small change that makes a big impact for people with visual impairments. Research shows that more than 69% of people have sight limitation or confusion, which means they have difficulty differentiating shampoo from conditioner while in the shower. Herbal Essences is taking small steps to ensure the brand is more available and inclusive to all consumers with the launch of the category’s first “visual impairment aid” via raised indentations on each bottle. Herbal Essences is making sure their products are inclusive for all consumers with a “visual impairment aid”— raised indentations that differentiate shampoo and conditioner. READ MORE Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 70 HIGHLIGHTS Flex@Work Evolves with the Times In an era of single parenting, caring for aging parents, supporting a special needs child or navigating same-sex parenting, P&G sought to modernize our signature Flex@ Work program to provide location and time flexibility for modern families. We recently introduced additional upgrades in our parental leave policies in many of our largest countries around the world with a clearer focus on career flexibility. Today, more than 75% of P&G employees report flexing. We have five years of data through our employee survey that shows that employees who flex report significantly higher scores in four important areas of engagement and work-life effectiveness: flexibility, job demands, energy and support. READ MORE Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 71 HIGHLIGHTS P&G Germany and REWE Build Inclusive Playgrounds With the citizenship campaign “Piece of Happiness”, P&G Germany and key customer REWE have joined forces with the non-profit group Aktion Mensch to build inclusive playgrounds all over Germany within the next three years. We are teaming up with REWE, one of the biggest grocery chains in Germany, and Aktion Mensch, the largest social lottery in Germany. The first inclusive playground of the campaign has now been opened in Cologne. Children with and without disabilities now can jointly experience new adventures every day. P&G is teaming up with a key retailer in Germany to build inclusive playgrounds for children with and without disabilities. READ MORE Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 72 HIGHLIGHTS P&G Latin America Hosts Regional LGBT+ Conference The GABLE affinity group founded more than 20 years ago continues to grow and thrive around the world. This year, P&G Brazil hosted the first P&G Latin America GABLE Conference to bring awareness and consciousness of LGBT+ and diversity matters with a lens on business impact. The conference was attended by more than 70 P&Gers from 10 different countries including P&G Brazil’s leadership team and more than 40 external guests from local business and academia. READ MORE Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 73 Diversity & Inclusion Message from William P. Gipson > Using Our Voice > Making an Impact > Changing the Culture > Awards & Recognitions > Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 74 Message from William P. Gipson “P&G has an unwavering commitment to leveraging diversity and inclusion to innovate for growth across our business. When we build a more inclusive workplace and world, we can do a better job of delighting consumers with our products and brands. Internally, we are continually working to improve our culture through policies, training and employee support systems to meet the needs of our changing workforce. We have eight company-sponsored affinity groups and are respectful of everyone—regardless of race, color, gender, age, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, marital status, disability, veteran status, HIV/AIDS status or any other legally protected factor. And because the people of P&G will always be our most important asset, we celebrate teams and leaders who ensure everyone is performing at their peak and working seamlessly together. Externally, we believe in using our voice in advertising and media to call attention to bias, spark dialogue and motivate change in the world. We know advertising has the power to shape how communities see themselves and each other. Many of our brands are advancing diversity and inclusion perspectives through accurate and positive portrayals in everyday advertising, and through calling attention to issues like racial inequality and LGBT+ bias.” William P. Gipson President, End-to-End Packaging Transformation and Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 75 Using Our Voice The Talk Sparks Dialogue Vicks India and Earns Honors India is largely a conservative country—one where Last year, P&G tackled head-on a real challenge that the homosexuality is best kept closeted and where being U.S. and other countries must address, using our voice transgendered is considered an unspoken curse. While to shine a light on racial inequality driven by racial bias. a Supreme Court of India ruling in 2014 recognized transgender individuals as the “third gender” and We created a two-minute film focused on “the talk” some legal and political progress has been made, that many Black parents in the U.S. inevitably have society at large continues to stigmatize and stereotype with their children about racial bias to prepare, protect transgender individuals, and they are still denied basic and encourage them. Snippets of parents having a rights. Vicks took a bold stand, sending a powerful version of The Talk with their son or daughter in various message to help pave the way towards a more inclusive situations and across different decades illustrate that, society. In a video for their #TouchOfCare campaign, while times have changed, racial bias still exists. Vicks cast a compassionate spotlight on transgender Since it debuted in July of 2017, the film has been viewed activist Gauri Sawant, challenging conventional thinking millions of times online and has generated widespread about what it means to be a caring mother. conversations in social media and news forums. The Talk was featured as part of the story line during an episode VICKS TOUCH OF CARE of black-ish, ABC’s hit primetime sitcom and has racked up numerous awards, including the prestigious 2018 Cannes Grand Prix Lion for Film Corporate Image and Tide North America 2018 Emmy Award for Best Commercial. Tide advertising, which features diverse families We know bias is a tough topic to tackle, but we believe sharing household chores, was created to help mitigate acknowledging and understanding it allows us all to inaccurate or negative stereotypes that exist in our work together to put an end to its harmful effects. This society. By including positive portrayals of Black fathers, film alone is not a complete solution, but an important same-sex couples and mixed-race couples in everyday step in the journey. We hope it will broaden the advertising, Tide is not only appealing to a range of conversation about bias by exploring how people from consumer groups, but also helping to establish diverse different backgrounds can use listening and dialogue to images as the norm, not the exception. form a common ground of understanding. TIDE PODS THE TALK Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 76 Using Our Voice Head & Shoulders North America Documentary Profiles Courage As a brand that “takes care of the small stuff so you and Leadership can tackle the big stuff,” Head & Shoulders highlights In an era of increasing polarization and heightened individuals who have moved beyond the limitations concern for LGBT+ rights, The Words Matter: One Voice on their shoulders to achieve great things. For the Can Make A Difference took on one of the most salient 2018 Winter Olympics, P&G’s North America team issues of our time and brought it to a worldwide audience. brought extreme skier Gus Kenworthy on board as a The Words Matter is more than just a corporate brand ambassador. Gus had won a Silver medal at the documentary—it’s a refreshingly candid examination 2014 Winter Games but had not performed at his peak of P&G’s own history and a lesson in leadership. because he kept his sexuality a secret. After coming out in 2015, Gus headed to the 2018 Winter Games as P&G commissioned the film in partnership with a the first openly gay extreme skier. His dedication to production team at Great Big Story in celebration of the not letting limitations get in the way of achievements 25th anniversary of LGBT+ inclusion at the Company. It is the embodiment of the Shoulders of Greatness centers on the determined efforts of LGBT+ activist and campaign. The ad made history by flying the Pride retired employee Michael Chanak, who worked tirelessly flag in a national campaign. in the 1980s to add sexual orientation to P&G’s equal employment opportunity (EEO) statement of diversity. The Words Matter recounts the story of Chanak’s fight HEAD & SHOULDERS VIDEO and the legacy he left behind, bringing P&G into the future and altering the private sector forever. The film’s surprising transparency, combined with an effective P&G is First UK Company to Offer storytelling approach blending archival footage with Audio Description Ads compelling personal recollections, turned what might In the UK, there are two million people with sight loss— have been a stale corporate film into a moving account At P&G, we’re committed to using our voice to generate a huge audience who have, until recently, been largely of workplace activism. dialogue and create positive change. Only by being ignored by advertisers. It was this insight from Sam honest about our own past can we have the credibility Beyond the launch and distribution of the film, P&G Latif, a P&G UK employee who lives with total sight loss, to address important topics. Learning from history, we wanted to continue to bolster societal dialogue about that started our journey to make our advertising more hope this film inspires a new generation to lead by LGBT+ inclusion. Screening events and discussions were inclusive by adding Audio Description. P&G was the following in the footsteps of courageous pioneers like held in New York, London, Geneva, Cincinnati, Cannes, first company to offer Audio Description on advertising Michael Chanak. China, Panama and other locations across the world. in the UK, and we are now working with the entire P&G worked with Great Big Story/CNN to create an industry to enable this service across all channels. THE WORDS MAT TER online Pride Month media event to showcase the film and other LGBT+ stories. The Words Matter won a 2018 FAIRY UK ADVERT Cannes Silver Lion for Film Corporate Image. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 77 Making an Impact INROADS Fuels Pipeline Project REACH Rolls Out of Diverse Talent in P&G Russia Since the 1980s, P&G has been working with non-profit Project REACH is designed to provide young people INROADS to grow and develop talented, diverse youth with disabilities the opportunities to grow their in the U.S. Students of varied cultural backgrounds confidence and independence and gain valuable have joined P&G as interns and worked across all experience far beyond administrative tasks. P&G Russia functions and business sectors. Without the support embraced the program this year and initiated the of INROADS, P&G couldn’t have placed as many biggest rollout of any P&G office, covering six functions outstanding ethnically diverse students into internships (HR, IT, Finance & Accounting, Product Supply, Sales and or developed them to achieve career success at P&G. Marketing). Dozens of trainings have been conducted for REACH newcomers and for the P&G teams who Many highly-talented professionals who started their welcome them. career as interns are today leading teams at P&G. “Equality is Opportunity: INROADS Turns Dreams into Reality,” a 2018 documentary created by WorkingNation, PROJECT REACH VIDEO featured Arun Yagnamurthy, who spent a summer working in P&G’s North America Sales organization. With the support of INROADS, we place students into internships and help them develop a career at P&G. INROADS DOCUMENTARY Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 78 Making an Impact Leveraging Neurodiversity P&G Germany and REWE Build for Innovation Inclusive Playgrounds Based in P&G UK’s Reading Innovation Center, Dr. With the citizenship campaign “Stück zum Glück” Emma O’Leary has been championing and leveraging (“Piece of Happiness”), P&G Germany and REWE, one neurodiversity to further innovation for the Company. of the largest grocery chains in Germany, have joined In a first for Europe, Dr. O’Leary has designed a workforces with the non-profit group Aktion Mensch to experience program for people on the autism spectrum, build inclusive playgrounds across Germany over the in collaboration with the National Autistic Society. next three years. The campaign demonstrates how a She worked to ensure that the organization received joint citizenship campaign can improve the lives of our training on autism, that the right measures were in consumers while also building the business. For each place for the participants and that all participants P&G product purchased at REWE, one cent will be were put at ease. donated, with a guaranteed donation of $1.1 million. The campaign’s first inclusive playground has now The interns reported a big confidence boost and their been opened in Cologne, and children with and without appreciation for the opportunity. Within P&G, eyes were disabilities can jointly experience new adventures every opened to a broader definition of diversity and inclusion. day. “We are thrilled by the initial success of our joint The program resulted in two interns hired for 12-month campaign,” said Astrid Teckentrup, Vice President Sales internships and the Talent Supply team gaining an at P&G Germany. “We are providing children and their understanding of how to build accommodations in families with a valuable space to play and are making the hiring process for people with autism. a lasting improvement to their quality of life.” In collaboration with the National Autistic For each P&G product Society, P&G designed purchased at REWE, we a work-experience donate one cent towards program for those on building inclusive playgrounds the autism spectrum. across Germany. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 79 Making an Impact P&G Costa Rica Champions Herbal Essences Designs LGBT+ Rights a Sense of Touch A public-private partnership forged in Costa Rica In 2019, the Herbal Essences brand will be making a between P&G, the Presidency of Costa Rica, United small change that has a big impact for people with Way, the National Learning Institute, the United Nations visual impairments. Research shows a large percentage Development Program and Ulacit (a local university), of people have difficulty differentiating shampoo from has developed a program that is educating public conditioner while in the shower—either due to sight officials on the importance of LGBT+ rights. More than limitation or confusion. Herbal Essences is taking small 100 public officials have been certified to date, and the steps to ensure the brand is more inclusive to ALL P&G team in Costa Rica is proud to be championing consumers with the launch of the category’s first this effort. “visual impairment aid.” Since using similar bottles for both shampoo and P&G COSTA RICA VIDEO conditioner makes it virtually impossible to tell the difference from touch alone, Herbal Essences saw an opportunity to improve the usage experience for ALL consumers by developing a system that distinguishes shampoo from conditioner through the sense of touch, adding etched distinguishers to the back of bottles as well as braille on the labels. Herbal Essences believes that a shower should be a relaxing moment in the midst of our crazy days and is working to enhance the experience. HERBAL ESSENCES VIDEO We are championing a public-private partnership in Costa Rica to educate public officials about the importance of LGBT+ rights. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 80 Changing the Culture Flex@work Evolves with the Times “Although many days I had to spend In an era of single parenting, caring for aging parents, in laboratories or doctor’s offices, my supporting a special needs child or navigating sameproductivity was great. I felt the Company sex parenting, P&G sought to modernize our signature was truly supporting me as an individual, Flex@work program to provide location and time even throughout all the hardships.” flexibility for modern families. Flex@work is designed to intentionally drive a culture change around flexibility to – Aaron, P&G Brazil enable all employees to be fully engaged by supporting “My third child was born this week and this work-life integration, empowering employees to personalize their schedules directly with their managers. is the first time I am going to spend quality Flex@work has enabled P&G people to effectively time with the newborn baby…this is truly a manage personal needs while remaining fully engaged dream come true.” to deliver their work plan and grow their careers. The – Roni, P&G Israel Company recently introduced additional upgrades in our parental leave policies in many our largest countries “As a single mom of four children, trusting me around the world and provided a clearer focus on career Flex@work is designed to enable to flex my schedule in response to the needs flexibility. Today, more than 75% of P&G employees of my kids is one of the top motivators for me all employees to attain work-life report flexing, and we know that flexibility matters. In at P&G.” integration, and today, more than surveys over the past five years, employees who flex 75% of employees report flexing. report significantly higher scores in four important – Liz, P&G North America areas of engagement and work-life effectiveness: flexibility, job demands, energy and support. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 81 Changing the Culture Love Felt Around the World P&G Latin America Hosts Regional From Santiago to London, Toronto to Rome, and at LGBT+ Conference global headquarters in Cincinnati, P&G employees and Founded more than 20 years ago, GABLE—the affinity their families took to the streets all around the world group for Gay, Ally, Bisexual, Lesbian and Transgender this spring and summer, waving rainbow flags and Employees—continues to grow and thrive around the wearing colorful t-shirts (and rainbow glasses!) to world. This year, P&G Brazil hosted the first P&G Latin march in celebration of love and equality. America GABLE Conference to bring awareness to In 2018, P&G participated in 35 Pride events globally, and LGBT+ and diversity matters, with a lens on business we plan to support more than 50 in 2019. Here are some impact. The conference was attended by more than 70 of our highlights: P&G employees from 10 different countries, including P&G Brazil’s Leadership Team and more than 40 • The GABLE Team in Central Europe, sponsored by external guests from local business and academia. Vice President Geraldine Huse, sported rainbow glasses (procured by Geraldine) while marching The conference covered topics like LGBT phobia, from a together at Budapest Pride on July 7. PhD Professor in Psychology and included case studies from other companies, and brands discussing how to • On June 18, for the third year in a row, P&G joined include diversity or communicate successfully with the CSD Parade in Frankfurt. P&G was the largest consumers. A panel with Google’s Brazil HR Director company group, with 100 P&G employees, companions as a special guest featured personal stories from Shelly and external partners marching. McNamara, Global HR VP; Fred Heimbeck, former Brazil • At the Crailsheim factory, GABLE site leader Horst CMK Director; and Aaron Flynn, former Brazil GABLE Brazel helped to establish a Unisex Toilet at the factory Leader. A highlight of the event was an address by the to answer the needs of transgender colleagues. founder of GenderProud, a leading global advocacy and awareness organization that aims to advance the rights • In Boston, Gillette showed up with a stunning blue of all transgender individuals. float sporting giant razors. • In Toronto the Crest “Smile with Pride” float got the crowd cheering. • Pride St. Charles, located just outside St. Louis, is a newer event of only five years so P&G was thrilled to be the presenting sponsor this year. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 82 Changing the Culture P&G Employee Affinity Groups GABLE GABLE is dedicated to fostering an inclusive, supportive Affinity groups, which connect employees based on global network that enables Gay, Ally, Bisexual, Lesbian similar interests or aspects of diversity, are key enablers and Transgender Employees to contribute to their for employees to feel valued, respected and included, fullest potential and to bring their whole self to work while enabling them to perform at their peak. They every day. What began more than two decades ago foster understanding for the interests and needs as largely a North American-centered network for of employees in their groups and provide P&G with fostering workplace equality for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual assistance in attracting, retaining and developing and Transgendered (LGBT+) employees has grown into people of their group. Additionally, affinity groups a supportive and global community, with chapters provide assistance in understanding and meeting the in every region of the world. These grassroots efforts needs of consumers of their group, and often volunteer have evolved into chapters representing the diversity to make a difference in local communities. of our employees, as well as strong allies to support individuality and inclusion. Global Affinity Groups Corporate Women’s Leadership Team People With Disabilities Network The Corporate Women’s Leadership Team (CWLT) is At P&G, we value diversity, including disability diversity. committed to the advancement of women, helping We founded the People With Disabilities (PWD) Network ensure that women’s skills and insights are well 38 years ago, when the U.S. enacted the Americans represented throughout our global Company and with Disabilities Act. The global group shares “coping at all levels of leadership. The CWLT continues to be strategies” with each other and with colleagues to actively involved in events and programs that promote enable fellow people with disabilities to perform at mentoring, sponsorship, the development of leadership their peak in the workplace and to enable managers skills, flexibility and increasing representation of women and colleagues to become disability confident. The at all levels. PWD Network also leverages their diversity to influence company strategies on things like inclusive product development and inclusive advertising. MEET P&G'S SCOT T VAN NICE Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 83 Changing the Culture Regional Affinity Groups Asian Pacific American Leadership Team One of the fastest-growing groups in North America, African Ancestry Leadership Network the Asian Pacific American Leadership Team (APALT) The African Ancestry Leadership Network (AALN) is one represents the Asian-Pacific Americans working of the longest-established employee groups at P&G, and at every level in P&G, where they have made major reflects P&G’s century-old commitment to the Africancontributions to our business. The team offers American community in the U.S. In the early 1950s, the opportunities for networking and is actively involved company reaffirmed a commitment to diversity by in recruiting, retaining, developing and advancing hiring black skilled technicians and laborers. In 1958, employees of Asian-Pacific heritage. with the launch of Drene Hair Care print advertising, P&G began the earliest diversity advertising. Employees Native American Indian Leadership Team of African Ancestry have been integral in helping the The mission of the Native American Indian Leadership Company become a corporate leader in innovation Team (NAILT) is to enable P&G employees with a strong and leadership, and we continue to benefit from rich Native American Indian cultural identity to bring their consumer insights to develop new products and whole selves to work, in a way that leverages and respects bring them to market. Although the AALN is currently the NAI diversity of our workplace and supports the focused on employees of African Ancestry in North communities in which we live. By strengthening America, work is underway to expand the group’s the network across North America, NAILT aims to reach to the African diaspora across the world. develop talent of North American Indian employees through mentoring, training, informal connections Hispanic Leadership Network and talent career support. The group also volunteers There are approximately 60,000 Latinos living in the in local communities where our employees live and Cincinnati area, home to P&G’s global headquarters. work, aiming to improve the lives of people through With language, economic and education barriers, life in education and community service. Cincinnati can be difficult for many Hispanics. A team of dedicated P&G volunteers comprising the Hispanic Veterans and Reservists Network Leadership Network in Cincinnati are united in their The P&G Veterans and Reservists Network helps quest to improve people’s lives inside and outside P&G. the Company attract and retain high-performing This group volunteers in the community in the areas of U.S. military veterans and reservists. In addition, they health, education and the arts and actively engages in help enable fast starts through mentorship and build programs that support young Hispanic talent. a positive environment through volunteering and community support. MEET P&G’S HISPANIC NETWORK Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 84 Awards & Recognitions Forbes Best Employers for Diversity (U.S.) Top Supplier Diversity Program, DiversityComm/US Veterans Magazine (U.S.) William Gipson named to Black Enterprise’s Top Executives in Corporate Diversity (U.S.) Disability Smart Inclusive Service Provider Award (UK) Diversity Inc. Top 50 Companies for Diversity (U.S.) Diversity Challenge by Charta der Vielfalt (Germany) National Organization on Diversity’s 2018 Leading Premios Fundación Diversidad/Alares (Spain) Disability Employer Award (U.S.) Canada’s Best Diversity Employer 2018 (Canada) Best of the Best by National Business Inclusion Consortium (U.S.) 100% on Disability Equality Index Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion (U.S.) Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 85 Gender Equality We aspire to build a better world for all of us — inside for girls and economic opportunities for women and outside P&G; a world free from bias and with through our corporate programs and policy equal voice and equal representation for all individuals. advocacy efforts; and creating an inclusive, genderA world where everyone sees equal. We know that equal environment inside P&G — and advocating gender equality contributes to stronger economies, for gender-equal workplaces beyond P&G — where healthier communities and thriving businesses. everyone can contribute to their full potential. We are focusing on three areas where we can have In each of these areas, we partner with highlythe greatest impact: leveraging our significant engaged organizations that share our commitment voice in advertising and media to tackle gender and where we can combine our resources, talents bias; removing gender-biased barriers to education and skills to have a bigger impact. VIEW HIGHLIGHTS VIEW MORE STORIES Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 86 HIGHLIGHTS Busting Workplace Myths and Opening Minds In January 2018, a thought-provoking exhibit arrived at the small Alpine town of Davos, Switzerland during the annual World Economic Forum. This Women at Work: Myth vs. Reality interactive exhibit dispels the gender “myths” that get in the way of women’s representation and advancement in the workplace. It’s designed to expose and challenge the myths that hold women back from achieving 50/50 representation at all levels of management, changing the way we think and talk about women and creating a new narrative that will accelerate progress. The Women at Work exhibit is appearing at additional events across the world, continuing to open minds and challenge outdated thinking. READ MORE Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 87 HIGHLIGHTS Sesame Street Muppets Fuel Girls’ Aspirations Chamki is a vibrant 5-year-old girl Muppet who lives on Galli Galli Sim Sim, the Indian version of Sesame Street. The Growing Up Chamki series airing on TV in India explores issues of gender equity in child-relevant ways, with girls and boys role-playing different careers and family roles. P&G partnered with Sesame Workshop to produce the episodes and make them available to Sesame Street co-productions around the world, aiming to set a new expectation that values girls’ education equal to boys' — so that both boys and girls can reach their full potential. Sesame Workshop and P&G also launched an advocacy campaign featuring a 60-second video promoting girls’ education and gender equality. This video launched on the Kwesé TV network in ten countries throughout SubSaharan Africa, airing more than 1,000 times, and has been viewed more than two million times on social media. P&G will continue to support Sesame Workshop, local educators and producers in developing engaging, inspiring female Muppet characters around the world. From Zari in Afghanistan to Chamki in India, Lola in Latin America, Kami in South Africa and Raya throughout Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, the girl Muppets have become the most popular characters among girls and boys alike. READ MORE Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 88 HIGHLIGHTS P&G Commits $100 Million to Women-Owned Businesses Outside the U.S. When women have the tools to fully participate in the economy — through increased access to training, loans, credit, economic literacy and more — they build businesses, and we see entire communities transformed. P&G has made women’s economic empowerment a priority and developed a program supporting women entrepreneurs across our supply chain, from suppliers to distributors to agencies primarily in the U.S., but now we’re expanding the effort. In October 2017, we made a commitment to spend $100 million with Women-Owned Businesses (WBEs) outside the U.S. over three years. In December 2017, we joined with U.N. Women and Sharjah’s ruler to host the first Women’s Economic Empowerment Summit held in the Middle East, driving awareness about the importance of active intervention and long-term advocacy. P&G developed a customized training program targeting the private sector to help guide businesses on how to get started with WBEs. This, combined with other interventions, helped jump-start a new generation of women entrepreneurs. And we’re proud to report that the 3-year, $100 million goal was surpassed in less than one year. P&G’s pledge to spend $100 million with Women-Owned Businesses outside the U.S. over three years was surpassed in just one year. READ MORE Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 89 HIGHLIGHTS Using Our Voice To use our voice in advertising to help eliminate bias and promote equality, we announced at the 2018 Cannes Festival of Creativity an industry-wide aspiration to get to 100% of ads and media accurately portraying women and girls along with specific steps to get to 50/50 equality in creative directors and other production roles. We’re partnering with #SeeHer and the U.N. Women Unstereotype Alliance, investing to expand Free the Bid and supporting content created by and for women — with partners like Katie Couric Media and The Queen Collective. Gender-equal ads perform 26% higher in sales growth according to the same #SeeHer study. Some of P&G’s best-performing brands have the most gender-equal campaigns such as Always Like A Girl and SK-II Change Destiny — demonstrating that equality is a force for good and a force for growth. READ MORE Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 90 HIGHLIGHTS Generation of Firsts Our Always brand continues to tackle societal barriers for women around the world and in April launched the campaign “Generation of Firsts,” which celebrates Saudi women achievers. With this campaign, Always is supporting women to embrace being the first to achieve a career ideal that had been traditionally challenged. The film was made with not only an all-Saudi cast and crew but an all-female Saudi cast and crew including the director, producer, cinematographer and full production team. The film was viewed more than 1.5 million times and generated a social media flurry with more than 1,000 stories, pictures and videos of Saudi girls proudly posting what they had accomplished. The Always campaign “Generation of Firsts” celebrates Saudi women achievers, inspiring consumers to share their own stories. READ MORE Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 91 HIGHLIGHTS Men Advocating Real Change™ At P&G, we believe that the requisite skills to succeed as leaders in 2018 and beyond include the ability to be empathetic and inclusive. Given the critical role men play in advancing women and to achieving gender equality, we have partnered with Catalyst on their MARC™ (Men Advocating Real Change) initiative. Through this effort men better understand the impact stereotypes, unconscious bias and male-dominant culture have on women’s career progression. In less than two years, MARC workshops have reached almost 800 P&G managers across more than 15 countries. And by inviting other Fortune 500 companies to join our P&G-hosted workshops, several companies have been inspired to launch their own MARC initiatives. READ MORE Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 92 Gender Equality Message from Carolyn Tastad > Using Our Voice > Making an Impact > Changing the Culture > Gender Equality Partners > Awards & Recognitions > Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 93 Message from Carolyn Tastad “At P&G, we want a world free from bias—a world with equal voice and equal representation for all individuals. We believe in gender equality. Equality for women of all races, LGBT+ women, women of high and low economic status, women with disabilities, with more and less education—in however individuals define themselves. We’re making progress, but there is more to do. This past year, we made a conscious choice to look deeper into understanding why women are so massively underrepresented in the top levels of companies, of governments, of industries everywhere. The answer, at least in part, is that society continues to operate with a set of outdated assumptions—or myths—about women that hold them back. We’ve all heard the clichés that feed these myths: Women question and doubt themselves. Women dread confrontation. It’s hard for women to master their emotions. They lack ambition. Women bump up against the notion that it’s their own behavior or style that holds them back. We know this is false. We need to create a new narrative—we need to unlearn the myths and replace them with the reality that we see every day. Women are highly effective leaders. That’s what we believe at P&G.” Carolyn Tastad Group President, North America Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 94 Using Our Voice Generation of Firsts Joy Japan In Japan, while 60% of married couples today have Our Always brand continues to tackle societal barriers careers, 90% of household work is performed by women. for women around the world. Saudi Arabia is at the “Sharing the housework – job to JOY” encourages family cusp of transformation as Saudi women are coming into members to talk about sharing chores and uses male their own, challenging expectations in careers and at and female perspectives to tell a compelling story. home. In April 2018, Always launched the “Generation of Firsts” campaign, which celebrates Saudi women JOY JAPAN achievers. Through this campaign, Always is supporting women to embrace being the first to achieve a career ideal that had been traditionally challenged. The film Olay North America was made with not only an all-Saudi cast and crew, From being told they are “too emotional” to “too but with an all-female Saudi cast and crew—an ambitious,” women constantly face conflicting unprecedented undertaking. expectations for how they should look, feel or behave. An Olay campaign is ready to put an end to that by The film was viewed more than 1.5 million times and encouraging women to “Face Anything”. generated a social media flurry with more than 1000 stories, pictures and videos of Saudi girls proudly OL AY NORTH AMERICA posting what they were the first in their families to accomplish. Olay China ALWAYS SAUDI ARABIA Olay is encouraging all women to be fearless about their age, using meaningful numbers instead of years to tell their story: “59”, for instance, because she has won 59 Brand Campaigns Champion championships, or “8”, because she has been a singer for 8 years. Gender Equality Ariel France By highlighting the important role parents play in role modelling, this Ariel ad challenges the idea that laundry is a woman’s job. French authorities have called it “the first time that an ad explicitly points We are using our brand to sharing responsibilities in the home. It is an advertisements to change evolution of our society.” cultural perspectives about gender norms around the world. ARIEL FRANCE Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 95 Using Our Voice Sesame Street Muppets Fuel P&G will continue to support Sesame Workshop, local educators and producers in developing engaging, Girls’ Aspirations inspiring female Muppet characters around the Chamki is a vibrant, five-year-old girl Muppet on Galli world. These characters appeal to both children and Galli Sim Sim, the Indian version of Sesame Street. adults, and they encourage audiences to respect girls, Chamki loves school and dreams of becoming a scientist appreciate their diverse likes and dislikes, advocate for one day. The Growing Up Chamki series airing on TV in their education and support their dreams—planting India explores issues of gender equity in child-relevant the seeds for societal change. They are often able to ways, with girls and boys role-playing different careers challenge stereotypes in ways that human characters and family roles. This teaches girls and boys alike that could not, without threatening or disrespecting cultural they can aspire to be anything they want to be. norms. From Chamki in India to Zari in Afghanistan and Lola in Latin America, these, and other girl Muppets, P&G partnered with Sesame Workshop to produce the have become the most popular characters among girls episodes and make them available to Sesame Street and boys alike. co-productions around the world, aiming to set a new expectation that values girls’ education, so that both boys and girls can reach their full potential. Empowering girls is critically important because they face barriers boys do not. Early marriage, gender discrimination, lack of adequate sanitation and differences in how parents value education for girls versus boys often keeps girls from enrolling and staying in school. Sesame Workshop and P&G also launched an advocacy campaign featuring a 60-second video promoting girls’ education and gender equity. This video aired more than 1,000 times on the Kwesé TV network in ten countries throughout sub-Saharan Africa and has been viewed more than two million times on social media. GROWING UP EQUAL Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 96 Using Our Voice Always Increases Efforts to Help Queen Collective Inspires Keep Girls in School Female Filmmakers Girls in many parts of the world don’t have access to Legendary artist Queen Latifah is helping to accelerate sanitary pads, causing them to miss school during their gender and racial equality behind the camera by period. Always has been helping the most at-risk girls creating U.S. distribution for films produced by diverse with access to pads for more than 10 years through female directors. The Queen Collective—a program initiatives like the Always Keeping Girls in School developed in partnership with Queen Latifah, Tribeca Program in Africa. When Always learned, in early 2018, Studios, P&G and other partners—issued a call for that there were still a significant number of girls in women directors of color to submit a treatment for an developed countries missing school because of lack of original short documentary. Brittany “B.Monét” Fennell access to period products, the team expanded their and Haley Elizabeth Anderson were chosen as winners efforts by launching programs like the #EndPeriodPoverty and participated in a mentorship session hosted by campaigns in the UK, U.S. and Canada. Tribeca Studios. They will make films with financing and distribution support from the Queen Collective. The campaigns have been critical in raising awareness and sparking conversation around the issue, as well as The Always Keeping Girls providing access to products for girls in need. To date, Partnered with Queen in School program in Africa more than 25 million pads have been donated through Latifah and Tribeca Studios, has expanded to include these campaigns. Similar campaigns will continue to P&G is distributing films be rolled out in other countries in the coming year. #EndPeriodPoverty campaigns produced by diverse These programs are just one way Always is helping to in the UK, U.S. and Canada. female directors. champion girls’ confidence by keeping them in school and focused on reaching their full potential. QUEEN COLLECTIVE ALWAYS VIDEO Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 97 Making an Impact P&G Commits $100 Million to Mexico, Nigeria, Malaysia, Spain P&G Spain partnered with Womenalia, a network of more than 280,000 professional women, and retailers Women-Owned Businesses Champion Women Entrepreneurs Arenal, Marvimundo and Primor to enhance economic Outside the U.S. P&G Mexico and P&G Nigeria partnered with opportunities for women through the launch of “Sigue When women have the tools to fully participate in WEConnect International to develop 20 female Adelante” (Keep Going) grants. This year, grants were the economy—through increased access to training, entrepreneurs in each market by providing a multigiven to three women entrepreneurs to launch their loans, credit, economic literacy and more—they build session training course, tailored to meet local market businesses, and they were given access to funding, businesses, and entire communities are transformed. needs. P&G experts and external speakers facilitated training, mentoring and a co-working space. P&G has made women’s economic empowerment a the sessions to develop participants’ business strategies priority and developed a program that supports women and skills in areas such as marketing, sales, finance and entrepreneurs across our supply chain, from suppliers to leadership. At the end of the course, the entrepreneurs distributors to agencies. were able to present their pitches to representatives from P&G Purchases to receive valuable feedback. P&G While initially conducted primarily in the U.S., the and WEConnect will continue to make more economic effort has been expanded. In October 2017, P&G opportunities available through high-value training committed to spend $100 million with Women Owned sessions in additional markets. Businesses (WBE) outside the U.S. over three years. In December 2017, P&G joined with UN Women and the Initiated in 2015, Ibo Nakhoda Hidup is a collaborative ruler of Sharjah to host the first Women’s Economic program between P&G Malaysia, top retailer MYDIN, Empowerment Summit in the Middle East, driving and the non-governmental organization WOMEN:girls. awareness about the importance of active intervention This program aims to help mother entrepreneurs and long-term advocacy. P&G also developed a (mompreneurs) not only generate household income customized training program targeting the private but to also pursue their dreams of running a successful sector to help guide businesses on how to get started small business. Every year, five winners are selected for funding and special support opportunities in branding, Partnered with WEConnect, with WBE. Combined with other interventions during business strategies and given access to machinery and we provide training courses the summit, this helped jump-start a new generation of equipment to bring their business to the next level. As to teach business strategy, women entrepreneurs. We’re proud to report that the three-year, $100-million goal was surpassed in less than of 2018, the program has received 600 submissions finance and sales to women one year. from mompreneurs from 10 states across Malaysia, entrepreneurs. generating more than $90,000 of support. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 98 Making an Impact Forward Together Toronto LEAD Develops Europe’s Future “We’re very proud of the progress we’ve Nurtures Talent Female Leaders made at P&G but there is a lot of work ahead. Industry collaborations like LEAD Network Five years ago, P&G Canada’s internal Women’s Network At many corporations in Europe, women have saw an opportunity to further develop high-potential traditionally not been part of the retail and consumer are vital for broad and sustainable progress women in the company. P&G’s Irena Kahn, supported goods industry, largely because of an outdated towards true gender equality in business and by her management, took the lead to connect with perception that a career in Sales means life on the road society.” other large employers in the Toronto area to create a and a false narrative that few women can succeed as a forum called Forward Together. The Forward Together corporate executive. — Gary Coombe, Group President, Global conference is now an annual event, and P&G women Grooming, and former President, P&G Europe. who participate say they love to the dynamic guest speakers and the opportunity for peer mentorship and P&G Belgium Supports Girls in STEM to share best practices across different companies. To date, more than 1,000 women have been touched “Greenlight-for-Girls” (G4G) is an international by this effort, helping to grow the next generation of organization aimed at encouraging girls to pursue STEM FEMALE LEADERS VIDEO female business leaders. studies. Since 2013, P&G’s R&D team in Brussels has been organizing science workshops for girls in order to P&G has taken steps to drive change across the educate and inspire them to pursue future careers in FORWARD TOGETHER VIDEO continent, starting with our own industry. As a science, technology, engineering or math (STEM). The Foundation Partner and longstanding supporter of Brussels Innovation Center has spearheaded this effort, the Leading Executives Advancing Diversity (LEAD) and P&G centers in Barcelona and Cincinnati have also JUMP Promotes Women Network, we’ve joined forces with other corporations to adopted the initiative. Plans are underway to expand in the Workplace actively attract, retain and advance women in the retail the effort to additional countries. JUMP is Belgium’s leading voice working with and consumer goods industry in Europe. LEAD serves organizations and individuals to close the gap as a platform for exchanging ideas and best practices and for inspiring others to find solutions to challenges Our R&D team in between women and men at work, in order to create they may be facing. Brussels organizes a more equal society. In March 2018, P&G’s Belgium, science workshops for Netherlands, Luxembourg business leader Caroline At the 2017 annual LEAD Network event, P&G was Thomaes, a passionate advocate for women, was asked girls to inspire them to recognized as the European CPG (Consumer Packaged to talk at the annual JUMP Conference about how P&G pursue careers in STEM. Goods) manufacturer with the highest representation of is working to create a gender equal world inside and female executives (32%). We are driving our partnership outside the Company. with LEAD Network through local chapters in Switzerland, Netherlands, Germany, Spain, Turkey and the UK. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 99 Changing the Culture Busting Workplace Myths and Men Advocating Real Change™ Opening Minds At P&G, we believe that the requisite skills to succeed We are working to create an inclusive, gender-equal as leaders in 2018 and beyond include the ability to be workplace—within P&G and beyond. While progress empathetic and inclusive. Given the critical role men has been made, women are still underrepresented at play in advancing women and in achieving gender the top levels of most companies. One reason is that equality, we have partnered with Catalyst on their society continues to operate with a set of outdated MARC™ (Men Advocating Real Change) initiative. assumptions about women in the workplace. Through this effort men better understand the impact that stereotypes, unconscious bias and male-dominant In January 2018, the thought-provoking exhibit Women culture have on women’s career progression. In less at Work: Myth vs. Reality was displayed at Davos, than two years, MARC workshops have reached almost Switzerland during the annual World Economic Forum. 800 P&G managers across more than 15 countries, The interactive exhibit dispels the gender “myths” with plans to expand further in 2019. Several other that get in the way of women’s representation and Fortune 500 companies, invited to join the P&G-hosted advancement in the workplace. The brainchild of P&G workshops, have been inspired to launch their own and Seneca Women, a global leadership community, MARC initiatives. the exhibit is designed to expose and challenge the In less than two years, MARC myths that hold women back from achieving 50/50 “For me, MARC boldly started a dialogue with dialogue workshops have reached representation in all levels of management, changing myself and other male colleagues about almost 800 P&G managers across the way we think and talk about women and creating what we assume to be normal (but it is not), more than 15 countries. a new narrative to accelerate progress. The Women how much business culture is built on male at Work exhibit is appearing at additional events and culture, and the privilege I had in belonging gatherings across the world. to the dominant culture from the beginning of my career.” At P&G, we’re challenging the myths that hold women — Giorgio Siracusa, Vice President, Human back from achieving equal Resources, P&G Europe representation in the workplace. WOMEN AT WORK: MY TH VS REALIT Y Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 100 Changing the Culture #WeSeeEqual Forums Held in NA, P&G Manufacturing Site Embraces Europe, Asia Equality Notable advocates for Gender Equality headlined P&G’s Hyderabad plant was one of the first manufacturing P&G-hosted events in 2018 to share inspiring stories sites in India to aggressively hire and support women and galvanize P&G’s efforts to build a world free from across the workforce. In an unprecedented move, the gender bias. Award-winning journalist Katie Couric, site collaborated with the government to receive approval former White House Executive Director for the Council to allow women to work across shifts. To facilitate on Women & Girls Tina Tchen and others energized this, P&G arranged the necessary support, including employees, industry partners and government providing special secure transport for women and representatives in P&G’s Cincinnati, Geneva and inclusive onsite health and wellness programs. Singapore offices, inspiring attendees to become Engagement sessions were held during recruitment advocates for change within the workplace and in with candidates, their parents and the entire Hyderabad their communities. Leadership Team to communicate our commitment to safety, security and meaningful long-term careers. Female employees now work across all shifts and have the opportunity to operate manufacturing equipment. Implementing these changes has created tremendous response during hiring drives and has provided a roadmap for sustaining women over the course of their careers. Our Hyderabad plant in India expanded their transportation and health support to enable women to work across all shifts. P&G’s Sue Kyung Lee brought together advocates for Gender Equality to share stories and inspire action within their communities in Singapore. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 101 Gender Equality Partners Achieving a world free from gender bias is not work that any one individual, NGO, government or company — no matter how committed — can tackle alone. In all of our Gender Equality focus areas — leveraging our voice in advertising, removing barriers to education and economic opportunity and achieving 50-50 representation within our Company — we partner with highly-engaged and effective organizations that share our commitment. We are inspired and proud to work with our partners to combine our resources, talents and skills to have a broader and bigger impact. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 102 Awards & Recognitions Carolyn Tastad, Alex Keith and Fama Francisco named to Fortune’s Most Powerful Women (Global) NAFE Top Companies for Executive Women (U.S.) Working Mother Best Companies for Working Mothers (U.S.) Empowerment of Women Bronze Award, Pinnacle Group Global CSR Awards (Global) Working Mother Best Companies for Multicultural Women (U.S.) Top 10 company – best gender equality practices (Colombia) Total E-Quality award (Germany) Gary Coombe recognized as a male champion for Women in Business, 2018 Agents of Change Power List (UK) Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 103 Environmental Sustainability Building on our legacy of environmental leadership, we have made significant progress against our 2020 goals for climate, water and waste — having achieved several of them already — and have set new, ambitious environmental goals for 2030 that will enable and inspire positive impact. These goals seek to address two of the world’s most pressing environmental challenges: finite resources and growing consumption. VIEW HIGHLIGHTS VIEW MORE STORIES Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 104 HIGHLIGHTS Ambition 2030 We’ve made strong progress against our 2020 goals and the time was right to raise the bar. So this year we launched our new 2030 goals — Ambition 2030 — aimed to enable and inspire positive impact while creating value for consumers and our Company. These goals focus on where we know we can make the biggest positive difference — our brands, our supply chain, society and our employees. People know us through our brands, and we will use the power of our innovation and our brands to delight consumers and drive positive impact. In our supply chain, we will reduce our footprint and strive for circular solutions. We can impact society by creating the right partnerships that enable people, the planet and our business to thrive, and this includes finding solutions so that none of our packaging finds its way to the ocean. And finally, we will tap into our greatest resources, our employees, so that they are engaged and equipped to build sustainability into their daily work and our communities. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 105 HIGHLIGHTS A Power Play Our energy team has worked hard to deliver renewable onsite projects like a combined heat and power biomass facility in Georgia and offsite partnerships like our wind farm in Texas that have put us on track to deliver our current targets. Building off their progress, we’ve stepped that up for 2030. We’ve agreed to purchase 100% renewable electricity and will do this in North America by 2020 and globally by 2030. We have also committed to reduce scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2030, using 2010 as a baseline. This science-based target aligns with climate science, and it will help us do our part to reduce the impact of climate change. P&G will purchase 100% renewable electricity in North America by 2020 and globally by 2030. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 106 HIGHLIGHTS A Sea of Change We understand what’s happening to the world’s oceans, so that is why we have included a plastics pledge in our Ambition 2030 goals. We are looking at holistic solutions that will make it possible that no P&G packaging finds its way to the ocean. We are reducing the plastic we use, increasing recycled content and the recyclability of our packaging, and leveraging innovation and partnerships to help stop the flow of plastic into our oceans. Our brands are bringing this to life: Limited-edition H&S and Fairy bottles in several European countries contain recycled beach plastic. Almost 100% of the packaging used in Charmin, Puffs and Bounty is recyclable. Lenor introduced postconsumer resin into transparent sizes in Europe and enabled the use of 3,100 tons of recycled plastic in 2017. P&G is reducing the plastic we use and increasing recycled content and the recyclability of our packaging. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 107 HIGHLIGHTS Partnering for Change We know that no one company can do this alone and believe that collaboration will be critical to driving positive change at scale. We’ve had some initiatives that we’ve been able to bring to life with our partners. For example, we worked with TerraCycle and Tesco to provide one lucky school in the UK with a playground made with recycled plastic. In Italy, we worked with Carrefour to create a sustainability campaign around beach litter that enabled shoppers to help choose which beach to clean by providing a donation with purchase. In Japan, Febreze partnered with TerraCycle and a national retailer to encourage shoppers to bring in used Febreze car air fresheners to their local shops for recycling. These collections were recycled into raw materials used to manufacture safety reflectors which were donated to schools ­— a great example of bringing the circular economy to life. Febreze, along with our partners TerraCycle and Tesco, gave schools in the UK a chance to win a playground made from recycled plastic. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 108 HIGHLIGHTS That’s Not Garbage Our production sites are well on their way to reaching our goal of sending zero manufacturing waste to landfill by 2020. In fact, approximately 85% of our production sites have successfully qualified as Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landfill sites. So how does this happen? It all starts with changing the mindset to see waste not as waste, but as worth. Around the world, our employees have changed their everyday behaviors, partnering with our Global Asset Recovery Purchases (GARP) team to think of creative and innovative ways to find new life for our materials. So instead of sending those suds that don’t meet our specs to the landfill, we sell them to carwashes. The scraps from some of our fem care products become cat litter. Old shipping drums are repurposed into artistic waste bins, school benches and tree containers. And there is a double benefit — we create a more circular supply chain by avoiding the landfill while also getting revenue for this would-be waste. Since the program started in 2008, it has saved the Company more than $2 billion and has helped divert five million tons of waste from the landfill. 85% of our plants have achieved our 2020 goal of sending zero manufacturing waste to landfill. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 109 Environmental Sustainability Message from Shailesh Jejurikar > Palm Oil > Vision and Progress > Water > Brand Stories > Waste > Circular Supply Chains > The Power of the P&G People > Climate > Sustainable Innovation with Suppliers > Greenhouse Gas Emissions > Worldwide Health, Safety and Environmental Systems > Renewable Energy > Awards & Recognitions > Energy Conservation > Environmental Resource Low-Energy Washing > and Waste Summary > Renewable Materials > Global Measurement and Additional Operational Data > Packaging > Responsible Forestry > Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 110 Message from Shailesh Jejurikar “This year, we took a major step in renewing our commitment to environmental sustainability. In April, we launched new, ambitious goals for 2030 that focus on where we know we can make the most meaningful difference—our brands, supply chain, society and employees. We’ve already achieved many of our 2020 goals, and we’re committed to stay on track so we can deliver the remaining goals. However, achieving these goals is not enough. We know our stakeholders want and expect more. With our global reach, our understanding of the five billion people we serve and our innovation and supply chain capabilities, we have a unique ability to drive positive impact in the world. We can be a force for good and a force for growth, but we know we cannot do this alone. We will partner with consumers, industry, governments, civil society groups and academics so that, together, we can make an even greater impact.” Shailesh Jejurikar President, Global Fabric Care and Brand Building Organization, Global Fabric & Home Care, and Executive Sponsor, Global Sustainability Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 111 VISION AND PROGRESS Ambition 2030 Ambition 2030 aims to enable and inspire positive impact on the environment and society while creating value for the Company and consumers. Our Ambition 2030 goals span our brands, our supply chain, society and our employees. We know P&G alone does not have all the answers. It will take partnerships and collaboration to make meaningful progress and take responsible consumption to the next level. AMBITION 2030 BRANDS SUPPLY CHAIN SOCIETY EMPLOYEES Use the power of Reduce our footprint and Create transformative Engage and equip P&G innovation and our brands strive for circular solutions partnerships that enable employees to build to delight consumers and people, the planet and our sustainability thinking and drive positive impact business to thrive practices into their work and their communities Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 112 VISION AND PROGRESS 2020 Environmental Goals Progress CLIMATE Reduce energy use at P&G facilities by 20% per unit Reduce truck transportation kilometers by 20% of production by 2020 per unit of production Achieved — 22% reduction per unit of production Achieved — reduced kilometers by more than 25% Reduce absolute GHG emissions by 30% by 2020 Ensure plants are powered by 30% renewable energy We have reduced absolute GHG emissions by 21% 14% of energy is from renewable sources Ensure 70% of machine loads are low-energy cycles Implement palm oil commitments We continue to advance progress against our 69% of loads are low-energy three-pillar strategy Have 100% of the virgin wood fibers used in our Create technologies by 2020 to substitute top tissue/towel and absorbent hygiene products petroleum-derived raw materials with renewable be third-party certified by 2015 materials as cost and scale permit We have developed the ability to substitute our top Achieved — 100% third-party certified petroleum-derived raw materials (resins, cleaning agents and acrylates) with renewable materials Numbers are representative of progress since 2010 Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 113 VISION AND PROGRESS 2020 Environmental Goals Progress WATER Provide 1 billion people with access to Reduce water use in manufacturing facilities by 20% water-efficient products per unit of production with conservation focused on water-stressed regions 700 million people with access to waterefficient products Achieved — 25% reduction per unit of production WASTE 100% zero manufacturing waste to landfill by 2020 Have 100% of our paper packaging contain either recycled or third-party-certified virgin content by 2020 85% of our manufacturing sites are ZMWTL 98% of the volume reported by our suppliers was either recycled or third-party-certified virgin content Reduce packaging by 20% per consumer use Double use of recycled resin in plastic packaging We have reduced packaging by approximately 13.5% per consumer use We used approximately 38,100 metric tons of PCR in our plastic packaging, getting us 46% of the way to our goal Ensure 90% of product packaging is either recyclable or programs are in place to create the ability to recycle it Conduct pilot studies in both the developed and developing world to understand how to eliminate landfilled/dumped solid waste We have achieved 86% and have strong, ongoing effort to further increase recyclability We continue to make progress implementing a variety of pilot projects with external partners Numbers are representative of progress since 2010 Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 114 VISION AND PROGRESS Environmental Progress vs. 2010 Baseline Within our operations we strive to grow responsibly, constantly improving our efficiency while reducing our footprint. Global production has increased since 2010, however we have successfully decoupled that growth from our environmental footprint, achieving both absolute and production-adjusted reductions in waste, water, energy and GHG emissions. GHG Energy Waste Water Renewable Energy 21% 22% 81% 25% 14% 30% 5% 79% 16% 21% absolute reduction 22% reduction per 81% reduction in solid 25% reduction per unit Currently 14% of our unit of production waste with 85% of our of production (exceeding total energy comes from 30% reduction per (exceeding goal early) sites achieving zero goal early) renewable sources unit of production manufacturing waste 5% absolute reduction 16% absolution reduction to landfill 79% absolute reduction Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 115 Brand Stories Head & Shoulders Bounty We launched the Head & Shoulders Beach Bottle in Bounty delivers more life per roll by providing superior France in June 2017 to a positive reception. The bottle is absorbency and strength. When people choose Bounty, made with 25% recycled plastic collected from the beach they can do more with less and make a sustainable and has received broad recognition as a significant difference because 100% of the wood fiber used to make innovation in sustainability, including the United Bounty paper is from responsibly managed forests. Nations’ Momentum for Change Award. With this consumer and commercial success, Head & Shoulders expanded this innovation to Germany, Spain, Turkey 100% of the wood fiber and Israel and plans are in place for further expansion. in Bounty rolls is from responsibly managed Fairy forests. Fairy Ocean Plastic bottles were launched in Europe this year in partnership with TerraCycle. It was designed to raise awareness of ocean plastic pollution and what Puffs can be done to prevent plastic waste from reaching the ocean. The innovative bottle is made from 10% Puffs provides soothing comfort to noses in need. ocean plastic, collected from the ocean and beaches Puffs are made from softwood and hardwood fibers around the world and is 100% recyclable (excluding that were produced to meet international standards cap and label). for responsible forestry. Our Fairy Ocean Plastic bottle Charmin is made from 10% ocean plastic and 100% recyclable Charmin is soft and strong and lasts longer because (excluding cap and label). people can use less Charmin Ultra Soft and Charmin Ultra Strong than the leading bargain brand. All Charmin tissue products are made from wood fiber which has been third-party certified to responsible forestry standards, so you can confidently Enjoy the Go and support healthy forests. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 116 Brand Stories Downy and Lenor – Long Live Hand-Me-Downy Fashion Formula In North America, millions of tons of clothing are sent When it comes to your clothes, it’s our business to clean to landfills each year. One of the major reasons this and our passion to care—for clothes and the planet. We happens is because clothes aren’t well cared for, and want to help people take the best care of the clothes they wear out too soon. To help keep clothes in closets they love, so we can collectively reduce the impact and out of landfills, Downy encouraged Canadian clothing has on our planet. We found that by caring families to swap clothes their kids had outgrown for clothes with what we call “the long live fashion through the first “Hand-Me-Downy” program. Downy formula”—using a high-quality liquid or PODs like Ariel, sent Canadian families kits to host their own clothing washing in quick and cold cycles and conditioning with swaps, including invitations and bottles of Downy to Downy or Lenor—we can quadruple the clothes’ life. protect the clothes they love so they can be worn and handed down, not worn out and thrown out. Through In Europe, we tested a typical household laundry basket the swaps, each family received ‘new to them’ clothes at with this treatment vs. using a competitive powder at no cost, and every article of clothing found a new home, a 40°C cycle and found that we could keep clothes like proving that caring for clothes is better for wallets and new for 4x longer than with the alternative treatment. the environment! To drive awareness of this within the fashion industry, we attended the Copenhagen Fashion Summit (CFS). Bert Wouters, VP for the Fabric Enhancer Franchise Oral-B globally, emphasized to the audience the impact each Oral-B wants to help put some power in your of us can make by using the right laundry procedure. He toothbrush while also helping the planet. Our power shared compelling information, including the fact that if brushes have a long lifecycle and are often used by Europeans extended the life of one in five garments by consumers for up to five years before being replaced. just 10%, that would translate to saving enough carbon Electrical brushes use rechargeable batteries as a to power half a million homes for a year and more than source of energy and enable a much higher product 150 million liters of water from slower-paced clothing performance versus disposable batteries. This results in production. longer lifecycle and less waste. Since July 2017, Oral-B has extended its range of products featuring Lithium Ion batteries which significantly increase the lifecycle of the brushes. These batteries are built into most Oral-B power brush models, from the Pro-2000 to our most Using Ariel with quick, cold cycles premium Genius brushes. and conditioning with Downy or Lenor were proven to keep clothes like new for 4x longer. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 117 Circular Supply Chains Circularity has always been a part of our To learn new methods, find creative partners and to ongoing conservation and environmental accelerate our circular journey, we recently joined the Ellen MacArthur Foundation Circular Economy footprint reduction efforts within water, 100 working group. The Circular Economy 100 is a waste and renewable energy. However, as pre-competitive innovation program established to we look toward the next decade, we are enable organizations to develop new opportunities committed to be both a force for good and and realize their circular economy ambitions faster. a force for growth. As part of that vision, It brings together corporations, governments and we have embraced the need to create a cities, academic institutions, emerging innovators and affiliates in a unique multi-stakeholder platform. more circular end-to-end supply chain. To achieve this, we will need to start thinking differently about the incoming materials, manufacturing work process, distribution, and transport of our products. Circularity is not only the right thing to do, it also helps make our operations more efficient and resilient. Part of our 2030 vision is making a more circular, end-to-end supply We have established specific targets that we intend ELLEN MACARTHUR FOUNDATION chain to improve efficiency and to achieve by 2030: reduce waste. 1. 100% renewable electricity and cut GHG emissions CIRCUL AR ECONOMY in half at P&G sites 2. P&G sites will deliver a 35% increase in water CE-100 MEMBER GROUPS efficiency and source at least five billion liters of water from circular sources 3. Advance at least 10 significant supply chain partnerships to drive circularity on climate, water or waste Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 118 Climate We recognize the scientific consensus Please click on the links below to learn more about linking greenhouse gas emissions and our climate change efforts: climate change. As a global citizen, we are GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS concerned about the negative consequences of climate change and believe action by RENEWABLE ENERGY governments, industry and consumers to reduce emissions to the atmosphere is necessary. We are committed to doing our ENERGY CONSERVATION part to reduce greenhouse gas emissions including adopting science-based targets to LOW-ENERGY WASHING ensure we are contributing our fair share. We are striving to reduce emissions from our own operations via increased use of renewable energy and For more information, read our climate change policy. have a relentless focus on energy efficiency. We are also helping consumers reduce their own emissions through CLIMATE CHANGE POLICY our efforts to convert more machine-washing loads to low-energy cycles. For additional perspective on climate change In 2018, we further strengthened our long-term implications that could be relevant for the Company commitment by announcing two new goals as part and the steps we are taking to address them, please of our Ambition 2030 framework: download our climate change perspective document. • We will reduce our Scope 1 & 2 greenhouse gas CLIMATE CHANGE PERSPECTIVE emissions by 50% on an absolute basis by 2030 (vs. We will reduce our Scope 1 & 2 2010 baseline). This is our second science-based target greenhouse gas emissions by and complements our initial science-based target of a 50% by 2030. 30% reduction in Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 2020. • We will purchase 100% renewable electricity in North America by 2020 and globally by 2030. These targets will further advance our efforts to increase our use of renewable energy. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 119 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions Reduction in Energy Consumption Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2) Percent reduction versus FY09/10 , Percent reduction versus FY09/10, absolute In 2018, we made another significant step on our production adjusted journey to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions with the announcement of Ambition 2030. We have FY17/18 -21% committed to cutting our absolute GHG emissions in FY17/18 -22% half between 2010 and 2030. This was verified by the FY16/17 -14% FY16/17 -18% Science Based Targets Initiative as a goal that is in line FY15/16 -14% with what leading climate scientists state is necessary FY15/16 -21% to prevent global warming from increasing two degrees Celsius versus pre-industrial era temperatures. We are members of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Climate Savers program and worked in collaboration with WWF Energy Consumption by GBU Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2) to develop this key milestone target. Millions of gigajoules Millions of metric tons SCIENCE BASED TARGETS 61 FY17/18 4.3 FY17/18 Cutting our Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions in half is a 60 FY16/17 4.7 FY16/17 stretching target, and there is a great deal of work 59 FY15/16 4.7 FY15/16 to do. The foundation of our program will continue to reside in improving energy efficiency. However, efficiency improvements alone will not be sufficient to achieve an absolute 50% reduction as we continue to Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty serve the needs of a growing consumer population. P&G has &retained Fabric Home CareLloyd’s Register Quality GroomingAssurance Fabric & Home Care Grooming To meet this target, as part of our Ambition 2030 goals, (LRQA) HealthtoCare provide independent verification Other of our Health Care Other we have committed to obtain 100% of our purchased GHG program to ensure it meets the intent of the electricity from renewable sources by 2030. Moving to World Resources Institute/World Business Council renewable sources of electricity will eliminate most of for Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) our Scope 2 emissions. GHG protocol. Our move to purchasing 100% of our electricity from renewable sources will eliminate most of our LLOYD’S REGISTER QUALIT Y ASSURANCE Scope 2 emissions. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 120 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 3 GHG Emissions Scope 3 Categories Tons CO2e Over the last two years, we have expanded our Purchased goods and services — upstream estimates for Scope 3 emissions to include all major transport & distribution 8,560,000* reporting categories. This updated data is included in the table to the right. We derived this data from lifecycle Capital goods 246,508† assessments that we have completed for our major categories as well as other sources such as employee Fuel & energy activities 495,398† travel miles. This exercise reinforced that the “use phase” of our products, especially those that use hot water Waste generated in operations 9,035†‡ during consumer use, is our single greatest opportunity for Scope 3 emissions. Business travel 100,000* As noted in the table, some data was derived in FY15/16 Employee commuting 117,412† and was based on Life Cycle Assessment data. We do not expect large changes in these numbers from year Upstream leased assets Not material to year, and it is clear from the data that the product use phase is the overwhelming majority of Scope 3 Downstream transport & distribution 3,195,000* emissions. We intend to update Scope 3 emissions in Processing of sold product Not material next year’s report. Use of sold product 186,500,000* End of life treatment of sold product 10,950,000* Downstream leased assets Not material Franchises Not material Investments Not material * FY15/16 estimate † FY16/17 estimate ‡ Scope limited to material sent to landfill Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 121 Renewable Energy We continue to look for unique global Our wind farm in Texas (which provides 100% of the projects and partnerships that will allow us to electricity needed for our Fabric and Home Care facilities in the U.S. and Canada to produce brands source 30% of our total energy, both thermal like Tide, Downy, Cascade and Mr. Clean) and an onsite and electric, from renewable sources by 2020. combined heat and power biomass facility in Georgia Currently 14% of our energy comes from (which provides 100% of the steam needed to make P&G will use 100% renewables, and we are on track to meet our Bounty and Charmin) continue to remain the shining renewable electricity 2020 target. stars of our renewable energy program. These largeby 2020. scale partnerships, along with multiple smaller global As part of our new Ambition 2030 we have set a onsite/offsite projects utilizing solar, geothermal and stretching new vision of purchasing 100% renewable hydro, have provided key learnings and the foundation electricity by 2030 for our global facilities. To jumpstart for our vision to use 100% renewable energy. this program, our team is looking to reach 100% renewable electricity in North America by 2020 (10 years ahead of our global commitment). North America The biomass facility in is P&G’s largest consumer market. Purchasing 100% Georgia provides 100% of renewable electricity will allow our consumers to know the site’s steam needed to that the brands they have come to know and trust for make Bounty and Charmin. superior performance and value are also being made at sites that purchase 100% renewable electricity. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 122 Energy Conservation We continue to make solid progress in and solutions. Because of the dedicated focus of the team, they were able to analyze data from their reducing our energy footprint. We have operations and implement several projects improving improved energy efficiency by 22% since their efficiency. This includes improvements in shutdown 2010, achieving our 2020 goal several practices, roof materials, integrated cooling system years early. controls, vacuum system improvements and drive The strengths of our energy program rest on three system efficiencies. Overall, the site has increased key strategies: energy efficiency 51% since FY 09/10. 1. Operating with zero losses or defects Energy Success Stories 2. Investing in new technologies to improve efficiency Mechelen Plant, Belgium and deliver savings Another example of these focused efforts can be seen 3. Leveraging Total Employee Ownership at our Mechelen plant in Belgium. The site energy We have an Energy Team that delivers tools and team developed an action plan to improve the energy systems integrated with our manufacturing work efficiency of making automatic dish washing pods systems to reduce losses and continuously improve delivering a 22% reduction vs. the same six month Our Louveira plant in Brazil improved period the previous year. operating efficiency. We continue to focus on enabling their efficiency reducing emissions and our people to identify and quickly eliminate losses The key areas where they drove efficiency saving millions of dollars. in energy consumption. We are also benchmarking improvements were regular air leak and defect audits, efficiencies internally and externally to determine where improved production throughput, focused shutdown we can invest in new technologies to improve base practices and improved process settings on their air Amiens Plant, France operating efficiencies. It’s because of these efforts we handling systems. At our Amiens site in France, where we produce our have improved energy efficiency by 22% since 2010 Ariel, Lenor and other Fabric Care products, we installed which has resulted in hundreds of millions of dollars in “Our site continues to produce high quality electric heat pumps to provide indoor heating and direct savings and reduced emissions. product to delight consumers with a reduced eliminated the need for additional steam generated A good example of how we bring this to life is at our environmental impact, contributing to the from fossil fuels. Because this plant uses 100% conservation of natural resources.” renewable electricity, the electric heat pumps help Louveira plant in Brazil. The plant expanded the reduce our GHG emissions. loss elimination culture by creating a Sustainability – Niels Jacobs, Site Energy Leader Committee that targeted consumption, reduction and responsibility in each footprint area including Baddi Plant, India energy. The team is made up of employees across all We installed an innovative new heat pump at our departments and uses the power of Total Employee Gillette blades and razors plant in Baddi, India. This Involvement to speed up identification, quantification allowed the site to save money and exceed goals on energy efficiency improvements and GHG reductions. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 123 Low-Energy Washing The energy used during the machine Innovating to Get Clean in Cold washing of laundry is one of the biggest We continued to innovate all our detergent formulas impacts on our corporate GHG emissions for best performance in low-energy cycles. In North footprint and, as such, we have been focused America, this year we further increased sales of Tide HE on innovating to enable consumers to get Turbo, which is specifically designed to perform well in the strongly growing segment of HE machines and clean clothes using less energy. Our goal is shorter washing conditions. to have 70% of all global washing machine loads done in low-energy cycles by 2020. We introduced a new enzyme into our Tide detergents that we co-developed with Novozymes. This amylase This year, we are at 69% thanks to consumer enzyme is specifically designed to work well in low habit changes in machine technology and temperatures—meaning it can work quickly to attack innovation that gets clothes clean in cold tough stains in even the coldest washing conditions. conditions. More than 40 specialized scientists from around the globe worked for nearly two years, applying leading techniques in enzyme optimization, including 3D computer modeling, advanced data analytics and high throughput robotic systems to evaluate hundreds Our goal is to have 70% of all of thousands of enzyme molecules. This process continued until the team finally identified a winning washing machine loads done enzyme that could perform in both cold and quick in low-energy cycles by 2020. conditions. “Arctic,” as this enzyme is named, is inspired by the frigid and challenging conditions of the arctic waters and tundra. Arctic is a fast and efficient, biodegradable cold-water enzyme, making it perfect for use in Tide. We partnered to create a new enzyme specifically designed to work well in low-temperature washing. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 124 Low-Energy Washing Steps in the Right Direction As in previous years, we continue to partner with top washing machine manufacturers globally to help With a strongly growing high-efficiency washing educate consumers about the benefits of quick and machine segment in North America, we focused cold water washing cycles and will again reach about particularly on ensuring that HE machine users have 18 million households next fiscal year. the best possible outcome in energy-efficient cycles through Tide HE Turbo Clean and education on the use We believe low-energy cycles are not only a win for of quick and cold cycles. the environment but a win for consumers, since colder, shorter cycles mean saving on energy bills and reducing We also continued to grow and support our plantdamage to clothes from long, high-temperature cycles. based laundry detergent, Tide purclean, which offers While there will always be some loads washed at higher great cleaning performance even at low temperatures. temperatures, we expect the trend towards more Tide purclean is USDA-certified bio-based and has 4x energy-efficiency cycles to continue over the coming the cleaning power of the leading natural detergent.1 years. Given that, we will remain focused on enabling Due to its ‘no compromise performance’, it was recently consumers to adopt more sustainable, low-energy awarded the Environmental Leader’s Product of washing habits without compromising on the clean the Year. they need. Ariel has been at the forefront of driving consumer 1 One dose Tide purclean vs. four doses leading natural behavior change when it comes to washing at cold detergent. temperatures with our long-running ‘Turn to 30⁰’ Our “Turn to 30°” campaign campaign. It was why, this year, Ariel partnered with WWF UK to encourage people to make a promise for asked people to make the planet in line with Earth Hour. People were asked to pledges to turn down make one of seven pledges to protect the planet, one of washing temperatures to which was “turn down washing temperatures to 30⁰.” 30° to reduce their energy consumption. For every pledge made with #PromiseForThePlanet and #EarthHourUK, Ariel donated one euro to WWF UK. Across March and April, the campaign reached more than 326 million people, and WWF UK saw more than 58,000 pledges made across the country. Almost a quarter of these pledges were to turn down washing temperatures to 30°. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 125 Renewable Materials We are continuing our efforts to develop Tampax and Pampers the ability to replace our top fossil-derived Tampax recently launched a 90% plant-based plastic tampon applicator on its Cotton Comfort line in France materials with renewable materials. We and Pure & Clean line at Target (U.S.). This innovative have identified cleaning agents, resins and material is made from sustainably-sourced sugarcane acrylates as our top fossil-derived materials. from our supplier Braskem® in Brazil. P&G also sources We have previously reported on establishing this bioplastic for use in Pampers Pure. The sugarcane our ability to replace resins and cleaning is converted into ethanol and eventually into plastic agents with renewably-derived materials. utilizing a by-product from the rest of the plant to provide some of the energy needed to fuel We have now established this capability this process. for acrylates. The sugarcane is certified to the Bonsucro® standard, Acrylates are a key constituent of the superabsorbent which has a mission to ensure that responsible materials used in our absorbent hygiene products. We sugarcane production creates lasting value for people, have developed two technologies to produce renewable communities, businesses, economies and ecosystems. superabsorbent polymers from lactic acid which have Also, the “I’m Green™” bioplastic production processes identical properties as fossil-derived superabsorbent are certified by International Sustainability and Carbon polymers. These patented technologies have been Certification (ISCC Plus), an international certification demonstrated at lab scale, and we are currently seeking system for biomass and sustainable fuels that sets to license these technologies to external parties with specific production standards. hopes of enabling production and commercialization at scale. The sustainable innovations in Tampax and Pampers to include sustainably sourced bio-materials supports Now that we have achieved our goal, we will look for After years of research, our 2020 goal to “develop the capability to replace opportunities to utilize these materials as cost and Tampax and Pampers petroleum-derived raw materials with renewable scale permit. Two examples of our use of bio-resin are materials as cost and scale permit.” The use of use sustainably sourced highlighted to the right. sustainable bio-polyethylene from sugarcane is the bio-polyethylene from result of years of research and partnership with World sugarcane. Wildlife Fund, the Bioplastic Feedstock Alliance and other research partners. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 126 Packaging Reduce Packaging By 20% Per Ensuring 90% of Our Packaging is Consumer Use Recyclable or There Are Programs Our goal is to reach 20% reduction per consumer use In Place to Develop the Ability to in packaging, and this year we were able to achieve Recycle It a slight increase of 0.5% against our goal despite For FY17/18, 86% of our packaging is considered significant external headwinds impacting our results. recyclable, and we are working hard to continue We have now achieved a reduction of 13.5% vs. our 2010 to optimize the designs and advance the recycling baseline. The primary challenge we face in this area infrastructure. We continue to expand many of our is customer requests for smaller case counts which brand programs, including the shrink sleeve wrap for require an increase in our use of corrugate (shipping Lenor in the UK and Air Care recyclability program boxes). Corrugate is renewable, has a high recycle with TerraCycle, for example. A new program was content and is recycled at a high rate—all of which help announced this year, Materials Recovery for the Future, to mitigate impacts from increased use of corrugate. that has the potential to introduce new materials into While we are proud of the significant reduction in the recyclability stream. We are also encouraging packaging we have achieved so far and will continue consumers to increase recycling of our packaging by our efforts to reduce even further, current headwinds expanding use of the How2Recycle label across our are such that it will be very difficult for us to achieve brands in North America. our original target by 2020. During FY17/18, our use of plastic packaging was approximately 55% polyethylene, 15% polypropylene and Double the Use of Recycled Resin in 10% PET. The remainder consisted of mixed and other Plastic Packaging 86% of our packaging is plastics. During FY18/19, we will continue our efforts on the goals listed above and will be developing additional considered recyclable. We have committed to double the use of recycled resin in our plastic packaging. This year, we used perspective on our use of plastics which we will share in approximately 38,100 metric tons of post-consumer our next report. resin (PCR) in our plastic packaging, which represents an increase of approximately 46% vs. baseline. Our goal is to get to 52 kiloton of recycled resin, and we have identified several projects that we believe will help us deliver our goal. We are currently working with our business units to ensure we have adequate time to execute the needed projects by 2020. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 127 Packaging Materials Recovery for the Future Pantene Success Story We are taking a leadership role working in collaboration P&G’s Eastern European Team delivered exceptional with other brands, retailers and recyclers on a research value via partnership with the Beauty Care Business pilot called Materials Recovery for the Future (MRFF). Unit to reduce waste and improve recyclability. The The goal of the pilot is to test the technical and team replaced plastic gift set trays with pulp trays that economic feasibility of adding lightweight flexible were not only made of recycled paper but are also fully plastic packaging formats to municipal recycling so that biodegradable. This innovation allowed P&G to increase one day consumers can simply place this packaging in our use of recycled fiber while saving 48,000m3 of their curbside recycling with other recyclables. In 2016 water and 960,000 kW of electricity. and 2017, we studied how flexible plastic packaging flows in a recycling system, what equipment is most efficient to sort it and what products could be made from the recycled material. We also selected a recycling facility partner—JP Mascaro Sr. and his team at TotalRecycle, a state-of-the-art, family-owned business in Berks County, PA serving municipalities throughout the state. In 2018 and 2019, we will continue to work with our MRFF partners and JP to upgrade TotalRecycle to sort and bale this packaging as a new recycled feedstock for product manufacture. The data will be available for other communities and facilities interested in upgrading their facilities to recycle flexible packaging. Our new pulp gift set trays are made of recycled paper and are fully biodegradable. Researchers and P&G’s Steve Sikra sort through packaging to be recycled. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 128 Responsible Forestry Forests are critical to earth’s ecosystem We have maintained our commitments to ending and and to the plants, animals and human reversing deforestation by sourcing wood products certified to leading international forest certification communities that depend of them. The standards. Earlier this year, we announced new nearworld’s forests hold the potential to mitigate and long-term commitments, included in our Ambition some of the most important threats we 2030 goals, to protect and enhance the forests we face, such as climate change, but they depend on. Specifically, we intend to increase the area remain under pressure from population of certified forests globally, while working to strengthen increases and economic demands. One of leading certification systems. In addition, we will play a leadership role in developing a collaborative sciencethe easiest ways to counteract threats to based Forest Positive approach that supports sustaining forests is by looking for and purchasing wood and expanding working forests that we and others products which are sourced from responsibly depend on. managed forests and tree plantations. Although we do not own or manage commercial forests, many of our products and packages are dependent on raw materials from forest-based supply We are striving to protect chains. Therefore, we play a key role through our procurement and manufacturing practices to ensure and enhance the forests the sustainability of the world’s forest resources. we depend on. Wood pulp for tissue/towel and absorbent hygiene products, wood fibers used in paper packaging, and palm oil for our laundry and beauty products are strategic commodities where our sourcing practices have the greatest impact on ensuring responsible use of the world’s forest resources. Each of these materials has a different supply chain and their unique complexities led us to develop individual programs as described in the following sections. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 129 Responsible Forestry Wood Pulp Supply Chains • Ensure that trees are not harvested from highThird-Party Certification conservation-value forests unless they are credibly 100% of the virgin wood pulp we purchase for use Procurement Policy certified to the most rigorous forest management in our tissue/towel and absorbent hygiene products As part of our procurement practices, we require that standards. P&G supports multi-stakeholder efforts to is third-party certified by one of our accepted forest all wood used for pulp supplied to us has undergone develop information sources and tools that will help certification programs. a risk assessment in accordance with the Forest suppliers identify these areas on their own forestlands Stewardship Council® (FSC®) Controlled Wood standard. We give preference to FSC® certified pulp when it is and in their procurement of wood raw materials from The FSC Controlled Wood risk assessments ensure that available and meets product performance and business third parties (e.g. www.hcvnetwork.org). unwanted wood sources are avoided and that wood requirements. FSC certification protects water, wildlife harvesting is done legally per our procurement policy. • Ensure that there is no sourcing from genetically and local people by ensuring forests are responsibly We have a preference for FSC, which makes use of both modified trees in pulp delivered to us. managed. FSC standards are recognized worldwide as FSC Chain of Custody (FSC COC) and Controlled Wood the most stringent forest management certification • Ensure that their own and their supplier practices (FSC CW) inputs. scheme and are supported by leading international reflect our social values and support of universal environmental NGOs. We require that the forest certification systems utilized human rights through work with local governments by our wood pulp suppliers adhere to the following and communities to improve the educational, cultural, Based on the market availability of certified pulp, criteria for responsible forest management: economic and social well-being of those communities. P&G’s supply chain will also source from other thirdparty forestry certification systems. They include: • Ensure the safety of forestry and manufacturing • Ensure that their supply chain used to produce our pulp operations for employees and the environment. does not contain fiber from conflict timber (timber • Programme for the Endorsement of Forest that was traded in a way that drives violent armed Certification (PEFC) • Ensure that unwanted wood sources are avoided conflict or threatens national or regional stability). and that wood is legally harvested and that all legal • Sustainable Forestry Initiative® (SFI) requirements are met. P&G will not knowingly use • Brazilian Forest Certification Programme (CERFLOR) illegally sourced materials in our products. PROCUREMENT POLICY • Canadian Standards Association (CSA) Group • Ensure that their supply chain incorporates the principles of responsible forest management and • Sustainable Forest Management System (SFM) continuous improvement in their own operations and that they are verified by independent forest and chainof-custody certification. We prefer FSC certified pulp because the certification ensures forests are responsibly managed. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 130 Responsible Forestry Pulp for Our Tissue/Towel and Working Together to Make FSC Group Certificate Support Absorbent Hygiene Products a Difference In 2016, P&G met with the Four States Timberland In fiscal year 17/18, we purchased 1.5 million metric tons P&G is a proud participant in World Wildlife Fund’s Owners Association (FSTOA), led by Domtar, to discuss of air-dried pulp for use in our tissue/towel, diaper and (WWF®) Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN), a expanding the amount of timberland that is under absorbent hygiene products. The pulp was sourced corporate forum for supporting responsible forest forest management certification. from the following countries and used the following management and forest product sourcing. third-party certified fiber: FOUR STATES TIMBERL AND Many of our projects and activities are inspired by our OWNERS ASSOCIATION commitments as participants in GFTN such as: Country of Origin % of Total • Continuing to implement our preference for FSC Together, we are committed to lowering the technical Argentina 1% certification, including overall volume increases and financial hurdles to increasing forest certification in FY17/18. Brazil 34% in family-owned forests through Domtar’s FSTOA FSC • Continuing support for efforts to expand group group certificate. Canada 33% certification for family forest owners in the U.S. Our participation supported the growth in certified with Domtar. lands, and we continue to support the operation and United States 32% expansion of the association. The FSTOA is now working • Progress in the Coastal Carolinas landowner towards having 600,000 acres of timberland under FSC Total 100% outreach project. group certification. • P&G’s efforts at Tissue 2017 Conference & Expo to convene discussions with other companies and Certification System % of Total NGOs about sustainable forestry and Caribou P&G’s Charmin toilet tissue issues in Canada. and Puffs facial tissue FSC COC 37% products are FSC certified We are a proud by Rainforest Alliance. FSC CW 7% participant of WWF’s Global Forest & Trade PEFC 30% Network, working with SFI 26% partners that support responsible forest Total 100% management. FSC COC — FSC Chain of Custody FSC CW — Controlled Wood Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 131 Responsible Forestry Carolinas Working Forest practices to ensure that the wood fiber in our packaging has been responsibly sourced. We have made a specific Conservation Collaborative Update commitment that by 2020, 100% of our paper packaging In May 2016, we helped launch the Carolinas Working will contain either recycled or third-party-certified Forest Conservation Collaborative (CWFCC), a collection virgin content. Over the last year, we have expanded of organizations led by the American Forest Foundation our efforts to collect data from an increased number of working together to help family forest owners manage suppliers to assess progress against this goal. This year, their land sustainably. we have received data from more than 100 suppliers that represent more than 95% of our global paper The current project area consists of 5,946,494 acres, packaging spend. This data, which was self-reported almost three times larger than our original goal of by our suppliers, is summarized in the following table: 2.4 million acres. Because of the early success of the program, all the original goals have been expanded. For example, the project is now looking to reach Total volume in metric tons ~700,000 out to almost four times as many forest owners and directly engage twice the number of forest owners in % Recycled 85% workshops and field days to increase knowledge of By 2020, 100% of our paper forest stewardship and practices. % Virgin 15% packaging will contain either We are pleased with the early success of the program % of virgin fiber that was recycled or third-party-certified which enjoys the direct support of more than 20 leading third-party-certified 91% virgin content. international, national and regional conservation organizations. % of total recycled or third-party-certified virgin 98.5% Paper Packaging We continually strive to optimize the design of our packaging aiming to use the least amount of material, This year, 98.5% of the volume reported by our while ensuring adequate protection, delivery and safe suppliers was either recycled or third-party-certified use of our products. As part of our ongoing efforts, we virgin content. That means less than 2% of the reported continue to identify source reduction opportunities volume was virgin material that was not third-partyto decrease overall material usage and to use recycled certified. We also experienced a 12% reduction in the paper when it offers the best option to meet total metric tons because of initiatives to reduce our performance and business requirements. overall use of paper board. Over the course of the next years, we will remain focused on working with our Our paper-based packaging is derived from wood fiber, suppliers to get to our goal of 100%. and we have a responsibility through our procurement Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 132 Palm Oil Palm Oil (PO) is an important, versatile and Palm Oil Procurement Policy highly efficient vegetable oil that is used as P&G is committed to ensuring our suppliers meet a raw material by both food and non-food RSPO Principles and Criteria (P&C) and have the industries. In some regions of the world, necessary policies and procedures in place to ensure: the rapid expansion of PO production has • No development of high-conservation-value (HCV) threatened environmentally sensitive areas areas and high-carbon-stock* (HCS) forests of tropical forests and peat lands and has • No new development of peat lands regardless resulted in incidents where the rights of of depth independent smallholder farmers and • No burning to clear land for new development indigenous peoples have been infringed. or replanting We are committed to ensuring that our sourcing of • Compliance with P&G’s existing Sustainability palm oil does not contribute to deforestation and Guidelines for External Business Partners respects the rights of workers and indigenous peoples. We are members of the Roundtable on Sustainable • Respect for human and labor rights Palm Oil (RSPO) and support their standards to drive • Respect for land tenure rights, including rights of responsible palm practices across the industry. In indigenous and local communities to give or withhold addition, we have established a robust approach to We are working with our their free, prior and informed consent for development ensuring the responsible sourcing of palm-derived of land they own legally, communally or by custom. palm oil suppliers to ensure materials which includes supplier management, responsible sourcing. improving lives of smallholders and industry influence. All of our suppliers have submitted their relevant policies and procedures to demonstrate how they will meet our requirements. If we find a supplier is violating any of the above requirements, and if that supplier does not acknowledge and take action to resolve the concern, P&G will suspend or eliminate palm oil purchases from that supplier. A supplier would need to have a documented action plan and demonstrate meaningful progress to be considered for reinstating supply agreements. *The High Carbon Stock Approach (HCSA) Toolkit should be applied to identify and conserve HCS forests. We have been supporting inclusion of HCSA to the 2018 RSPO P&C and are expecting to incorporate the revised P&C for verifying our commitments. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 133 Palm Oil Progress Announced a major commitment as part of our Ambition 2030 program to significantly scale our smallholder During FY17/18, key milestones included: program which is focused on improving the livelihoods Greatly increased transparency of our supply chain by of the smallholder farmers in our supply chain. publishing both palm oil supplier names and a detailed list of the palm oil mills in our supply chain. Explored key drivers of land use planning to help us prioritize our efforts. You can read key learnings from PALM OIL MILL LIST that exercise here. DRIVERS OF L AND USE PL ANNING Maintained 100% RSPO certification for palm oil/palm oil derivatives and continued to make progress in our efforts to source 100% of our palm oil as RSPO Segregated (SG) by the end of 2018. We remain on track to hit that You can read more about the detailed progress in each goal and are developing plans to procure 100% of our of our three pillar areas by clicking on the links below. palm oil derivatives as RSPO SG by the end of 2020. PILL AR I: SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Completed a comprehensive palm oil mill risk assessment PILL AR II: SMALLHOLDERS to understand which palm oil mills in our supply chain This year, we seeked to gain are located in areas considered to be high-risk. Roughly ~7% (~90 mills) were found to be in high-risk locations, PILL AR III: INDUSTRY INFLUENCE a better understanding of and during FY18/19 we will focus on developing drivers of land use planning additional verification programs for these sites. within the palm industry. Continued to play a leadership role in multi-stakeholder discussions seeking to advance a consensus approach to assessing High Carbon Stock areas via our participation in the High Carbon Stock Approach Steering Group. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 134 Palm Oil Pillar I: Supplier Management Metric RSPO RSPO MB Tons* Certified (%) Certified (%) Palm Oil We use ingredients derived from palm oil and palm oil Palm Oil/Palm Oil Fractions 55,834 100% 94% derivatives in Beauty Care and Fabric Care products. Our major PO and POD suppliers are Wilmar, Golden Palm Oil Derivatives 64,263 100% 95% Agri, Musim Mas and Apical. We are proud of our progress on palm oil and are on *This represents the total volume of PO and PO derivatives purchased by P&G. Approximately 95% of this is used internally by P&G brands. The remaining 5% is sold to external parties through our P&G Chemicals division target to deliver 100% RSPO SG palm oil by the end of 2018. We’re also developing plans to move our palm oil dynamics and supply availability, but we have already land pressures, and the greatest impacts can be derivatives to RSPO Segregated (SG) by the end of 2020. engaged with our suppliers on plans to achieve this goal. achieved by industry placing a disproportionate focus Until that time, we will maintain our palm oil derivatives This is consistent with our belief that it is the demand on driving sustainable palm oil production practices to be RSPO Mass Balance (MB) Certified. Our ability for palm oil that is driving forest conversion and peat across all categories and regions that use palm oil. to achieve that may be influenced by broader market Palm Kernel Oil Metric RSPO RSPO MB We use ingredients derived from palm kernel oil and Tons* Certified (%) Certified (%) palm kernel oil derivatives in some Fabric Care, Home Care, Hair Care and Beauty Care products. Palm Kernel Oil 317,796 5% 5% Thanks to a unique partnership with the Malaysia Palm Kernel Oil Derivatives 72,164 0% 0% Institute for Supply Chain Innovation and FGV, our single largest PKO supplier, we have gained significant *This represents the total volume of PKO and PKO derivatives purchased by P&G. Approximately 65% of this is used internally by P&G visibility to the sourcing plantations and regions of brands. The remaining 35% is sold to external parties through our P&G Chemicals division FGV’s PKO supply chain. In fact, we now know that about 96% of our palm kernel oil was sourced from a should drive our RSPO certification levels for a year-onin the percent of physically certified RSPO PKO we buy. known subset of FGV’s palm oil mills. FGV is currently year increase in certified PKO. Given the complexity of We are also focusing our smallholder efforts on our PKO on a glidepath to re-certify their mills which voluntarily the PKO supply chain and a lack of supply of physically supply chain as we know we have a large concentration withdrew their RSPO certification in 2016. As FGV certified PKO, our commitment is to work with our PKO of smallholders in our Malaysian PKO supply chain. You progresses their recertification efforts, our percentage suppliers to aggressively drive year-on-year increases can read more about those efforts here: of RSPO MB certified PKO will increase. This glidepath PILL AR II: SMALLHOLDERS Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 135 Palm Oil Pillar I: Supplier Management Focus Areas for FY18/19 Concession Maps: We believe that increased Risk Assessment and Verification transparency on concession maps is an important We expect all suppliers (including their third parties) part of enabling verification and holding suppliers to fully comply with our Responsible Sourcing policy accountable for any violations of their palm policies. We and will act swiftly to address any allegations of nonrequire all direct suppliers to be RSPO members. As a compliance. To help inform our efforts on verification of result, they are required to publish concession maps for compliance, in FY17/18, we conducted a risk assessment their own lands. In FY18/19, our objective is to work with using the PALM Tool (Version 2: Updating the PALM Risk our direct suppliers to have concession maps of indirect Assessment Methodology. Sargent et al., publication third-party suppliers also published. As a first step, we forthcoming) on the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) have asked our suppliers to identify any existing barriers Global Forest Watch Pro (GFW Pro) to identify palm to the publication of concession maps so that we can oil mills in our supply base that are at a high risk based work with our suppliers and other relevant stakeholders on presence of deforestation risk factors in the area to find solutions for those barriers. surrounding the mill. We assessed 1269 mills and identified ~90 (~7%) as high risk. The majority of these Verification: We will focus our verification efforts on (>85%) were third party mills used by our direct suppliers. sourcing areas characterized as high risk per our palm oil mill risk assessment process. We will work with relevant suppliers to ensure verification of Responsible Sourcing requirements for high risk locations. As a first step, we will assess the sufficiency of current This year, we conducted a verification process of all suppliers. Based on those risk-assessment on all 1,269 findings, we will develop a glidepath and process for palm oil mills in our supply verification of high-risk locations in consultation with base to identify mills at a high relevant suppliers to ensure we have an optimized process that avoids duplication of effort. deforestation risk. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 136 Palm Oil Pillar II: Smallholders Program • Respect land tenure rights, including rights of indigenous and local communities to give or withhold As per our Ambition 2030 announcement, we have their free, prior and informed consent for development committed to significantly scale our smallholder of land they own legally, communally or by custom program. The objective of this program is to improve the livelihood of smallholders while verifying production • Traceable supply chain practices to meet our sourcing criteria. The program At the end of June 2018, Wild Asia, Proforest and MISI focuses on the independent smallholders and small have assessed 560 smallholders against the P&G growers in our PKO supply chain that supply fresh Responsible Sourcing Criteria for Smallholders. We fruit bunches (FFB) to FGV mills in Malaysia. There are will use the learnings from these initial pilots to help approximately 30,000 smallholders supplying up to us scale our efforts. 90,000 mT of PKO into this network, and our target is to enable these smallholders to be at or above the P&G Oil Palm Data Warehouse national yield average. Developing full traceability to smallholder farms and growers is an important enabler towards ensuring Pilot Results sustainability of P&G’s complex PKO supply network. In FY15/16, we partnered with Wild Asia and Proforest To achieve this, we partnered with MIMOS, Malaysia’s to develop the capability and capacity of smallholders national Applied Research and Development Center, and collection centers in two project sites in Parit Raja to develop the P&G Oil Palm Data Warehouse. The Data and Benut, both located in the western part of the State Warehouse is capable of securely storing and analyzing of Johor, Malaysia. The two project sites covered seven data collected by our project partners to turn them into collection centers and 2000 smallholders. useful and actionable information. The Data Warehouse Together with our project partners, we have developed will also be Blockchain-enabled, and we plan to test the P&G Responsible Sourcing Criteria Scorecard for this with a group of smallholders and collection Smallholders to assess smallholders against our criteria. centers’ dealers. The Scorecard covered six P&G palm sustainability policies: We partnered with MIMOS of • No development of High Conservation Value (HCV) Malaysia to create a Palm Oil Data farms and growers. A collection center (also referred areas and High Carbon Stock (HCS) forests as FFB dealers) is a place where smallholders sell their Warehouse to store and analyze • No new development of peat lands regardless of depth FFBs before being transported to mills. By developing data from our project partners. traceability to collection centers, we will be able • No burning to clear land for new development or to utilize geospatial technology to understand the replanting Our initial work with MIMOS has showed that our PKO environmental landscape within a 10–30 KM radius supply network can already be fully traceable to the • Respect for human and labor rights enabling us to prioritize key collection centers for collection centers which is one step upstream from our smallholders program. We plan to complete this the mills and one step downstream from smallholder traceability exercise before the end of FY18/19. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 137 Palm Oil Pillar II: Smallholders Program Pillar III: Industry Influence Scaling Efforts: Development of Learning Farms As a member of the High Carbon Stock Approach We are partnering with International Plant Nutrition Steering Group (HCSA SG), RSPO’s Principle & Criteria Institute (IPNI) in a multi-year agreement to develop up Taskforce, RSPO’s Smallholder Working Group to 75 core innovator farms and 165 primary innovator and RSPO’s Human Rights Working Group, we are farms (together termed as learning farms) by 2020 with collaborating to drive harmonized industry approaches the objective of improving the livelihood of smallholders that can help advance shared objectives. Below are in the P&G palm supply chain in Malaysia. The program descriptions of some of the key collaboration areas: will focus on our current project sites in Johor and will No Deforestation, Peat and Exploitation (NDPE) provide sustainable intensification of oil palm for Policy and the RSPO P&C independent smallholders in Johor, Malaysia. The Enhancing the RSPO Principal & Criteria (P&C) to better program will focus on increasing FFB yield by enabling We are working towards higher align with current NDPE policies represents a significant farmer access to knowledge about crop and nutrient opportunity to strengthen the P&C and enable and standards and harmony across best management practice. the industry supply chain. accelerate industry efforts to verify NDPE compliance. This program has the objective of improving the yields As member of HCSA SG and RSPO No Deforestation by 30–50% and will drive both livelihood income and Interim Group, we are actively participating in the RSPO Smallholder Standard and Inclusion ensure sustainable practices in the P&G supply chain. collaborative effort to incorporate both HCSA and The new RSPO Smallholder Standard is critical to an approach for High Forest Cover (HFC) landscape/ enabling the RSPO smallholder strategy issued in Smallholder Objectives for FY18/19 countries into the RSPO P&C. Via the RSPO P&C Task 2017. As a member of the Smallholder Interim Group, During FY18/19, we will work to achieve the following Force and Working Groups, we are helping drive we are contributing to developing an inclusive, objectives: integration of no deforestation, no peat development engaging standard that will drive stepwise, supported 1. Expand the project sites from seven to 32 collection and the broader human, labor and land tenure rights improvement of practice and productivity and centers and ~8000 smallholders in Johor and policies into the RSPO P&C. A revised version of the RSPO livelihood of this key supply chain sector into the develop full traceability to collection centers P&C are expected to be approved in November 2018. RSPO system. We also continue to support the 13th, 14th and 15th RSPO Roundtable Meetings in bringing 2. Develop the first 15 core innovator farms smallholders from multiple regions to join this learning 3. Partner with NGOs and universities to develop As a member of HCSA SG and sharing event. standardized sustainability training modules and and RSPO, we help drive We are encouraged by the progress on these important develop a strategy to reach and train up to 1000 collaboration between efforts so far but recognize there is still important work smallholders RSPO and High Forest to do. We will continue to advance the progress and Cover countries. implementation in support of our commitments and industry common goals. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 138 Water Goal Progress Advancing Our 2020 Water Sustainability Goals Reduce water used in P&G manufacturing As we approach the end of the decade, we are excited 25% water reduction per unit of production, facilities by 20% per unit of production at the progress we’ve made against our 2020 water completion of Tier 2 of our Manufacturing Water goals. While we’ve already announced our next decade versus 2010 with conservation focused on Risk Assessment process of water goals, we are committed to continuing to work water-stressed regions. towards achieving all three of our 2020 water goals. Provide one billion people with access to 700 million people with access water-efficient products. Provide 15 billion liters of clean drinking 14 billion liters of clean drinking water water to those who need it most. Reduction in Water Consumption Water Consumption by GBU Wastewater COD* Disposed by GBU Percent reduction versus FY09/10 , Millions of cubic meters Thousands of metric tons per unit of production FY17/18 -25% 63 FY17/18 21 FY17/18 FY16/17 -26% 62 FY16/17 19 FY16/17 FY15/16 -25% 63 FY15/16 18 FY15/16 *Chemical Oxygen Demand Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty Fabric & Home Care Grooming Fabric & Home Care Grooming Health Care Other Health Care Other Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 139 Water P&G Water Risk Assessment Framework Reducing Water Use and Focusing Where it Matters Most 1 Water is an essential input at many of our facilities Water Risk Screening (Completed) around the world. Creating a culture of water efficiency Identify risk level of sites based on: at our sites has been a priority for our manufacturing • Baseline Water Stress Score — World Resources Institute teams for more than two decades. Thanks to the work • Gross National Income per Capita — World Bank ALL SITES SCREENED of many employees across our global portfolio, we’ve • P&G Site Water Use per Year — P&G ~70% of sites in been able to reduce our manufacturing water usage by • Access to Water — WHO/UNICEF lower-risk regions 25% per unit of production since 2010. We continue to exceed our goal of 20% reduction per unit of production and will keep focused on increasing efficiency into the 2 next decade. P&G Tailored Site Questionnaire (Completed) Prioritize sites based on outcome of responses In combination with our efficiency work, we’ve also • The P&G questionnaire was built upon the facility PRIORIT Y SITES FROM 1 continued to move through our Manufacturing Water questionnaire in WWF’s Water Risk Filter ~30% of sites have entered Risk Assessment process which was developed in the Tier 2 process partnership with the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Wildlife Fund (WWF). This past year, we 3 completed Tier 2 of our process, which involved In-Depth Site Water Analysis (Current Phase) working closely with experts at Environmental Prioritize risks for mitigation and develop site water Resources Management (ERM) to deploy, collect stewardship plans. PRIORIT Y SITES FROM 2 and analyze in-depth site water questionnaires at • Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) International ~15% of sites will complete each of the 40 Tier 2 sites. Water Stewardship Standard 1.0 steps 1-3. the Tier 3 process After a rigorous scoring and ranking process, we found that 24 of our facilities are exposed to high water risk. These 24 facilities have been moved into Tier 3 of our assessment process. These facilities represent almost every business we operate and span ten unique countries. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 140 Water P&G Tier 3 Facilities The Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) Standard Each of the 24 Tier 3 facilities will create site water stewardship plans by the end of 2020. They will do this by following steps 1, 2 and 3 of the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) International Water Stewardship Standard 1.0. This standard provides a globally applicable framework for major water users to understand their water use and impacts and to work collaboratively and transparently for sustainable water management within a basin context. The AWS Standard will help each site create plans that address risks both inside and outside their four walls. It will also help to tie site efforts around water to local water challenges that are being experienced by not only the site but also by others in the same basin. This year, we became a member of AWS and are happy to support the work they do to ensure consistency and credible recognition of good water stewardship practices. ALLIANCE FOR WATER STEWARDSHIP Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 141 Water Pulp & Paper Water Stewardship Again, working closely with WWF, we collaborated with our supplier, Fibria, to collect and share our respective Water has always been an important focus at the water management practices, challenges and solutions manufacturing facilities that produce our Bounty, to help us, and others in the industry, move beyond Charmin and Puffs products. Those sites are building compliance and efficiency towards holistic water on their long history of compliance and efficiency stewardship. Our findings will soon be shared publicly measures, to a more holistic water stewardship strategy. so others can benefit from our experience. As part of this strategy, the business acted in two ways: 1. Completed the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) WATER STEWARDSHIP INFOGRAPHIC Standard Self-Verification process for a key facility and 2. Embarked on a partnership opportunity with a supplier. Finding Circular Solutions Our family care products Our Global Fabric Care business, including brands Tide, are at the forefront of Gain, Ariel, Ace and Lenor, has been working hard to water stewardship in their reduce fresh water use in their manufacturing plants, manufacturing facilities. thus reducing their impact to their local water basins. The various plants have identified and implemented solutions to reduce water use, including capturing and The AWS Self-Verification was completed at our using rain water and reusing utility reject water that Oxnard, California facility, already known across the would otherwise go to the sewer. Several Fabric Care Company for its impressive water savings and water plants located in Mexico, Pakistan, Czech Republic management strategy in a water-stressed region. World and the U.S. have found unique circular approaches to Wildlife Fund (WWF) guided the site through the AWS beneficially reuse water from one process as feed water Standard and enabled greater understanding of risks into another process. and opportunities both inside and outside the plant. As of October 2018, the site has declared itself to meet the A recent circular example is the Port Qasim plant in AWS global standard for water stewardship. Pakistan, which is located within a water-stressed region. Since every drop counts, the plant looked for ways to reduce their absolute fresh water intake by AWS CERTIFICATION reusing the water used to clean and flush holding We implemented solutions to tanks back into the manufacturing process. reduce water use, including Fabric Care continues to look for new circular water capturing and using rain water sources to reduce their local water impact. and reusing water from one process into another process. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 142 Water Providing Consumers Access to Leave-On Treatments We’ve designed products that enable women to skip Water-Efficient Products the rinse out conditioner step in their shower regimen. Our goal is to provide one billion people with access This allows them to reduce their time in the shower to water-efficient products by 2020. At the end of and save water, while still ensuring they have the silkyFY17/18, about 700 million consumers had access to smooth hair they desire. 40 million people have access water-efficient products around the world. This year, to leave-on treatments across countries like Mexico, we qualified two products that enable women to China, Brazil, the U.S and the UK. spend less time in the shower: dry shampoos and leave-on treatments. PANTENE DRY OIL Dry Shampoos In many places around the world, the shower accounts for a large percent of the household’s weekly water Clean Water Through Science use. It also adds up to precious hours of time. More and Partnership and more women are finding ways to extend the time More than a decade ago, a P&G scientist, in between washes. One way we’ve enabled them to do collaboration with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, this is through our dry shampoos. This product enables invented a 4-gram packet that can transform dirty consumers to go longer between washes and helps water to clean, drinkable water in only 30 minutes. to refresh their hair on days they decide to skip the Today, with the help of more than 150 partners, this wash. 50 million people have access to dry shampoos technology is delivering clean drinking water to those in countries like China, Germany, the U.S. and the UK. who need it most. Our goal is to provide 15 billion liters of clean water by 2020 through our Children’s Safe HERBAL ESSENCES DRY SHAMPOO Drinking Water (CSDW) Program. This year, we made Our dry shampoos and progress against this goal and have provided more than 14 billion liters of clean water to people around leave-on treatments help the world since the program began in 2004. consumers use water more efficiently. CHILDREN’S SAFE DRINKING WATER Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 143 Waste We have a vision that one day zero consumer Waste Disposed Solid Waste Non-Hazardous by GBU Percent reduction versus FY09/10 Thousands of metric tons and manufacturing waste will go to landfill. per unit of production To help lead the way and demonstrate what is possible, our manufacturing sites are on a FY17/18 -81% 40 FY17/18 mission to get to zero waste to landfill now. FY16/17 -79% 47 FY16/17 Manufacturing Waste FY15/16 -79% 46 FY15/16 Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landfill (ZMWTL) We started our Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landfill program in 2008. At that time, it seemed like an impossible dream as our 100+ manufacturing sites were producing more than one million tons of waste per Disposed Waste by GBU Solid Waste Hazardous by GBU Water Consumption by GBU year. What started as a sustainable movement, to see Thousands of metric tons Thousands of metric tons Millions of cubic meters trash ‘not as waste, but as worth’ has helped transform the way our sites think about raw materials. Waste 71 FY17/18 2 FY17/18 champions across our manufacturing sites and within 63 FY17/18 our Global Asset Recovery Purchases (GARP) team 78 FY16/17 3 FY16/17 quickly started to find beneficial uses for our waste. 62 FY16/17 Not only helping avoid landfills but helping generate 82 FY15/16 8 FY15/16 revenue at the same time. Since 2008, the team has 63 FY15/16 helped save the Company more than $2 billion and has helped divert more than five million tons of waste from the landfill. Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty Fabric & Home Care Grooming Fabric & Home Care Grooming Once ~50% of our sites reached ZMWTL (less than two Health Care Other Health Care Other years ago), we decided to look for ways to accelerate our zero-waste journey, setting a stretching target that ALL of our production sites would send Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landfill by 2020. In the last two years, the waste team has made phenomenal progress, with approximately 85% of our facilities currently being qualified as ZMWTL, well on track to meet our 100% goal by 2020. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 144 Waste In addition to individual sites, our waste teams also Countries that are ZMWTL Zero Manufacturing Waste to Landfill look for ways to drive ZMWTL across entire business Sites qualified by FY Belgium Nigeria units, countries and regions. This year, our Health Care Brazil Pakistan Business achieved 100% ZMWTL in all their production China Philippines 16 FY17/18 sites across the globe, joining Fem Care, Oral Care and Czech Republic Poland Grooming in reaching this milestone. Furthermore, 22 FY16/17 Egypt Romania our Fabric & Home Care business had a very strong France Singapore year, going from 50% to 83% of their sites receiving 18 FY15/16 Germany South Africa our ZMWTL certification, with 98% of their total waste Hungary South Korea (production volume) diverted from landfill. 11 FY14/15 India Spain We also have two regions close to 100% ZMWTL, Europe Indonesia Turkey 14 FY13/14 and Asia, and we expect them to reach this milestone Ireland United Kingdom by this time next year. In total, we now have 26 countries Italy Vietnam 11 FY12/13 where all our manufacturing sites have qualified as Japan ZMWTL. This year, we qualified 16 more sites, and in Mexico 16 FY11/12 the process, saved the Company millions of dollars. 2 FY10/11 2 FY9/10 1 FY8/9 1 FY7/8 1 FY6/7 Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 145 Waste Global Asset Recovery Diaper Recycling Purchases (GARP) Fater, a Joint Venture of P&G and Gruppo Angelini Our Global Asset Recovery Purchases (GARP) program in Italy, developed a breakthrough diaper recycling continues to be a great enabler in our waste efforts technology that recycles used absorbent hygiene as we find innovative ways to reduce waste and products (baby diapers, fem care and adult incontinence disposal costs. products) to create new products and materials of added value. Here are some of the innovative solutions GARP has implemented this year: The technology is now live and operational at industrial scale able to process 10,000 tons of used absorbent • Our Tepejí Plant in Mexico (Baby Care) worked with an hygiene products per year. That corresponds to serving external supplier to recover plastic from the diapers around one million people. The plant is unique and production waste and converts it into plastic pellets the first of its kind in the world. We are expanding that are used as primary raw material to make items the technology globally to more markets such as the like buckets, brooms and other plastic-based goods. Netherlands and India, and we are studying many • In China, we are beneficially re-using toothpaste as a more markets. component for car cleaner, and shampoo/conditioner is re-purposed to help clean pets. Finding Value in Waste Together with Gruppo • In Canada, our Belleville Plant (Fem Care) is converting Angelini in Italy, we developed Febreze, TerraCycle and Tesco partnered to give our highly absorbent scrap and process waste into technology capable of schools in the UK a chance to win a playground made various spill mitigation products. from recycled plastic. Community members were processing 10,000 tons per year encouraged to get involved and help their local schools of absorbent hygiene products • In Brazil, our Baby Care Plant in Louveira is converting win by voting for them in the competition. The Febreze to create new products. our diapers production waste into dog hygienic mats, and hair care and detergent production waste are Playground competition focused on raising awareness used as a component for car washes. of the issue of waste recycling among the youngest in our society as well as their communities. By recycling • Our Oral Care operations are converting toothpaste waste, the project aimed to help reduce plastic litter into car cleaner, toothbrushes and floss into wood from entering nature’s playground and polluting the plastic composites, and our rinse wash waste is used planet, instead creating play areas for kids to enjoy a for biofermentation and plastic recycling industries. bit of fresh air everywhere. was made mainly with parts made from recycled plastic The competition garnered more than 65,000 votes, lumber from curbside recycling waste collected in the including a viral video campaign from one school UK. Following its success, the program is now in its generating more than two million media impressions. second year and has been expanded in partnership The recycled playground, built at Wooler First School, with Tesco to run across the whole household category. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 146 Waste Collaborating to address “P&G is proud to be part of Circulate Capital. World Oceans Day Just like the Closed Loop Fund, this will P&G is a major sponsor of World Oceans Day, a global Plastic Waste celebration officially recognized by the United Nations address the root cause and help develop the Circulate Capital aimed at reaching millions of people worldwide to We are proud to have been a lead partner in the right infrastructure to drive positive change. become more aware, educated and actively engaged creation of Circulate Capital, a new kind of investment Working together, we believe we can halt the in creating a healthier ocean and the waterways that firm that leverages technology and builds infrastructure flow of plastic into the world’s oceans.” connect to it. We are also a proud founding partner of in South and Southeast Asia to prevent plastic from Youth for the Ocean, a new collaborative initiative that becoming waste in the ocean. – Steve Sikra, P&G Associate Director, will help drive youth awareness of the importance of a Corporate R&D, Global Product Stewardship healthy ocean and how everyone can help, including Led by Rob Kaplan, co-founder of Closed Loop Partners, educating youth about plastic pollution issues the company evolved out of the “Closed Loop Ocean” and solutions, driving action by mobilizing a youth project, following commitments made by us and others constituency to prevent plastic pollution and helping at the Our Ocean Conference in Malta in October 2017 clean up communities and coasts and elevating coastal to create financing opportunities focused on preventing and ocean health as a political priority. plastic from flowing into the ocean. Association of Plastic Recyclers (APR) Demand As a lead funder, we were critical to the spin-off and Champions acceleration of the project which we see as vital to We renewed our participation as an Association solving the ocean plastic problem. South and Southeast of Plastic Recyclers (APR) Demand Champion. Asia have seen exponential growth and development The APR program is intended to: over the past 10 years that has outpaced the necessary infrastructure. Studies have shown that significant • Strengthen and increase domestic demand for reduction in plastic leakage to the ocean can be residential mixed plastics achieved by improving waste management and • Make a public commitment to plastic recycling recycling in the five countries where Circulate Capital is set to deploy: India, Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand • Expand plastic recycling infrastructure and the Philippines. We believe that this unique model • Boost a “circular economy” for plastic packaging will be instrumental in building the infrastructure to retain plastic in packaging and product supply chains Along with the APR and other Demand Champions, and prevent it from entering the environment, thus we recognize a “demand-pull” is needed to drive a supporting a truly sustainable and circular economy. positive momentum in plastic recycling. Youth for the Ocean creates awareness about plastic pollution and how to keep oceans healthy. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 147 Waste Waste to Worth Through partnership, the results-driven nonprofit has invested more than $29 million to help around 600 Waste to Worth is an effort to develop an integrated, communities and more than 29 million households profitable and replicable waste-management business improve recycling, diverting 115 million pounds of model that finds value from waste. Three key pilots are recyclables from landfill. In 2017, the Partnership currently under development in Angeles City, Cabuyao placed 182,000 recycling carts from Portland, Maine and Dagupan in the Philippines. The goal of the pilots is to Santa Fe, New Mexico. They also teamed up with to convert more than 1,000 tons per day of solid waste Atlanta and Chicago to clean up the recycling stream to value. Various business models are being explored in communities by decreasing overall contamination to extract value from waste as a means of creating and joined forces with Denver to boost capture of economically viable and thus sustainable infrastructure. aluminum cans by 25%. Across the country, more of our We have supported this effort with our partner, the packaging is being recovered due to the activities of Asian Development Bank, who co-funded feasibility The Partnership. studies that were critical to advancing the project. This “P&G understands that we must all work year, the project made significant progress with signing off-take (electricity, diesel, gas) customers, permitting, together to transform recycling for good in engineering, investment and bidding for a construction communities across the U.S. Their continued With The Recycling Partnership, firm to build the facilities. Ground breaking has happened support has helped us help more than 29 in Dagupan with Angeles City and Cabuyao to follow in we have helped more than 29 million households—almost a quarter of the early 2019. The facilities are on track to deliver our goal million households divert U.S. population—recycle better. We have to have operational pilots in place by 2020. recyclables from landfills. much more work to do, and with P&G’s help, we can create a sustainable recycling system The Recycling Partnership that is good for the economy, the planet and We are committed to helping consumers have access peoples’ lives.” to strong recycling programs through our support of The Recycling Partnership. Today, less than half of – Keefe Harrison, CEO, The Recycling recyclables in U.S. homes are recycled. We work with Partnership The Recycling Partnership to change this by making it easier for people to recycle. How? By providing recycling carts, educating residents on what—and what not—to recycle and by delivering best practices, expert technical assistance and free online tools to help communities across the country improve their recycling programs long-term. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 148 The Power of the P&G People Coastal Clean-ups Madrid P&G partnered with Ecoembes and SEO-Birdlife under Singapore the Libera Project to enable a volunteer collection In celebration of P&G’s 30th anniversary in Singapore, of waste in various parks and beaches in Spain. P&G more than 250 P&G employees set out to two locations volunteers and their families from Madrid General Office along the eastern coast—Coney Island and Tanah Merah and Jijona Plant joined forces to restore the natural Ferry Terminal—to do a thorough coastal clean-up. In beauty of El Pardo Natural Park and Cala Cantalar of partnership with the National Environment Agency and Cabo de las Huertas in Alicante. The Libera Project Waterways Watch Society (WWS), our P&G employees collected tons of garbage while at the same time raising cleared three kilometers of beach, collecting an awareness of the issue inside and outside of P&G. outstanding 1,129 kilograms of coastal debris! Valencia Brussels To increase awareness around the topic, P&G and Employees at the Brussels Innovation Center CARREFOUR partnered with Paisaje Limpio and participated in an event to help clean the Belgian Ecoembes to clean the Port Saplaya Beach in Valencia. coast. In 2017, about 75 employees and their families Volunteers collected hundreds of pounds of waste. participated; in 2018 more than 100 joined up during In addition, a roundtable was organized with the their free Sunday and collected 5.3 tons of garbage participation of P&G, CARREFOUR, SUEZ and TerraCycle along with other volunteers. to discuss the journey behind this effort and the Cincinnati importance of driving responsible consumption. Nearly 100 Cincinnati employees partnered with Living Lands & Waters to clean the river banks of their Philippines Tree Planting hometown one steamy afternoon in September. Thanks to their efforts, nearly 19,000 pounds of trash were Volunteers planted hundreds of flowering tree removed from the banks of the Ohio River, including saplings to aid the restoration of Sitio Jordan, San more than 1,000 pounds of carpet, 810 pounds of Vicente, Sto. Tomas, Batangas in October during the random plastic, 177 tires and 150 mattresses. first P&G Philippines Intersite Tree Planting Activity. In 2014, employees from the Cabuyao facility planted saplings on the same site, which are now full-grown trees. Thousands of sapling trees were planted by P&G Philippines in different locations near the Cabuyao site. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 149 The Power of the P&G People P&G China Pioneer Program In total, 20,000 Ghaf seeds were planted by P&G and Carrefour employees and consumers. When ready, benefited 4,000+ future these Ghaf saplings will be planted in a new national environmental protection leaders reserve designed to educate UAE consumers about in three years the importance of environmental sustainability. 2018 is the third year of the P&G China Pioneer Program. We partner with a leading NGO in China, the China Environmental Protection Foundation, to We planted one Ghaf seed for provide funding, training and networking to student every P&G product purchased environmental protection societies in universities in at Carrefour UAE, totaling China. This program is designed to grow future leaders 20,000 seeds planted. in environmental protection. Our campaign with YH During the three-year first phase, Pioneer Program Supermarket in China generated donations to help protect more supported 80+ university societies and 117 environmental Partnering with Customers to protection projects, benefiting more than 4,000 than 200 square kilometers of university students from North and South China. Protect Natural Reserves in China natural forest reserve. P&G China Pioneer Program and YH Supermarket, one of the largest-scaled supermarkets in China, built a P&G in the Arabian Peninsula teams five-year partnership to help protect natural reserves with retailers to support education and rare species. The partnership began in 2017 where and sustainability we attracted 1.5 million consumers to join the “buy one P&G product, donate 1 RMB” responsible consumption P&G in the Arabian Peninsula has partnered with campaign in 300 YH supermarkets around China. The both retailers and consumers for several years to donation contributed to help local NGOs protect more support causes that impact the region’s communities. than 200 square kilometers of natural forest reserve in This year, P&G in the Arabian Peninsula joined with northwestern China, including a few rare animal and Majid Al Futtaim-Carrefour to support the Year of plant species living in the forest area. Zayed, the centennial celebration of the birth of the country’s founder through a unique shopper initiative. Named “Leave Your Mark”, the campaign promoted environmental sustainability, in particular the planting of the Ghaf, the UAE’s national tree. P&G in the Arabian Peninsula and Carrefour UAE planted one Ghaf seed for every P&G product purchased at Carrefour UAE stores nationwide during two weeks in July and August. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 150 Sustainable Innovation with Suppliers Designing The Good Life with our Sustainable Partner Innovation Network In November, P&G thought leaders and fourteen suppliers from our global Sustainable Partner Innovation Network participated in an experiential immersion where they were challenged to think about current and future sustainability issues in a new and innovative way. Participants travelled to seven unique locations across the city of Chicago in one day to experience a broad range of barriers that prevent consumers and communities from living The Good Life—a life filled with delightful innovation and responsible consumption. The event challenged participants to consider the imminent world—one of increased urban living and decreased resources—as an inspiration, rather than a barrier, for developing sustainable innovation for the future. As a result, our supplier ecosystem is more connected to the vision of developing future innovations that are both a force for good and a force for growth. P&G thought leaders and suppliers met in Chicago to imagine The Good Life—filled with delightful innovation and responsible consumption. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 151 Worldwide Health, Safety and Environment Systems Health and Safety Policy Worldwide Health, Safety & P&G is committed to having safe and healthy operations Environment Organization around the world. The goals are to protect the lives and Health, Safety & Environment (HS&E) is a global health of our employees and the communities surrounding community of resources responsible for ensuring that our operations, as well as to protect our assets, ensure all sites worldwide—including innovation centers, business continuity and engender public trust. distribution centers, acquisitions and established To accomplish this, P&G will: plants—are operated safely and legally; that process hazards are minimized or eliminated; that health risks • Operate facilities safely and ensure that processes are are identified and managed or eliminated; and that safe and healthy for our employees and residents of waste from sites is reduced as much as possible. the surrounding communities. We will accomplish Several thousand employees spend all or a portion this by following uniform corporate safety standards of their time on HS&E management. around the world. Safe operations have been a longstanding part of Company culture, reflecting the belief There are three major components to a site’s HS&E P&G has verified that the HS&E program at all of our that our employees are our most important asset. organization: Environmental, Technical Safety and manufacturing facilities meets the intent of the Global Industrial Hygiene & Personnel Safety. In addition, Health and Safety Management standards OSHAS 18001 • Construct our facilities so as not to compromise the each site typically has both a Fire Protection Systems and ISO 14001. In addition to our own internal reviews, safety and health features designed into them. Leader and an overall HS&E Leader. The HS&E site in 2006, P&G worked with Environmental Resources • Monitor progress toward our objective of preventing organization also closely partners with the site Health Management (ERM), a highly respected international injuries, illnesses and incidents. We will continually Service or Medical leader. P&G uses a phased, detailed consulting firm in the field of environment, health, assess and improve our safety and health technologies Risk Assessment process to evaluate the safety of safety and sustainability to conduct an independent and programs. processes and initiatives being introduced at our own equivalence study. This ERM report, and a secondary manufacturing operations as well as at contractor P&G internal follow-up audit in 2010, both reaffirmed we • Have every employee understand and be responsible manufacturing operations. The Risk Assessment are following the overall principles defined within these for incorporating safe behavior in daily business process is designed to enable high-speed innovation. standards. activities. Every employee is trained to work in a safe and healthy manner. • Have operating standards, practices, systems and resources in place to implement this policy. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 152 Worldwide Health, Safety and Environment Systems Health & Safety Total Incident Rate (Injury and illness per 100 employees) The health and safety of P&G employees and our contractor partners is a foundational expectation and directly linked to P&G core values. 0.24 2018 • Nothing we do is worth getting hurt 0.23 2017 • Safety can be managed 0.27 2016 • Every injury and illness can and should be prevented • Safety is everyone’s responsibility The Company tracks our total injury rate (TIR) and Total Lost Work Day Case Rate loss work day case rate (LWDC). TIR includes any (Lost and restricted work day cases per 100 employees) injury that requires medical treatment beyond first aid, including work restrictions. LWDC is a subset of all injuries that were serious enough to result in the 0.13 2018 individual missing the next assigned work shift. Our 0.12 2017 TIR target for both employees and contractors is 0.24 injuries per year per 100 employees (100,000 hours). 0.12 2016 No targets are set for LWDC rates. To achieve these results, we have implemented an integrated Health, Safety and Environmental program. This program sets expectations that enable evaluation of each site’s leadership involvement, behavior and culture, equipment design and maintenance standards, and training and procedures. We specifically focus on life-safety critical systems such as electrical safety, confined space entry, fall prevention/protection, material handling and isolation of hazardous energy. The TIR and LWDC rate results are summarized in the charts to the right. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 153 Worldwide Health, Safety and Environment Systems P&G has more than 25 manufacturing plants Top 5 Sites with the Highest Number of Employee Safe Working Hours and technical centers that are celebrating Manufacturing Site Safe Hours* GBU Region more than one million safe work hours without a lost workday injury. Ibadan 11,900,000 Fabric and Home Care IMEA Shiga 7,200,000 Beauty Asia Audit Programs P&G’s internal HSE audit program is designed to Takasaki 6,600,000 Fabric and Home Care Asia ensure sites are complying with both local regulatory requirements, as well as, corporate polices, standards Xiqing 4,900,000 Beauty Asia and procedures. These audits are completed at all plants, innovation centers and distribution centers Huangpu 4,600,000 Beauty Asia worldwide. Recently we modified the audit program *Rounded down to the nearest 100,000 to eliminate numerical scores and move to identifying specific findings and classifying those findings as critical, major or minor. All findings are tracked to closure by Technical Center Safe Hours* GBU Region the corporate HSE. The fundamental philosophy is to use the standards worldwide, implemented by trained London Innovation Center 2,700,000 Technical Center Europe HSE leaders at facilities and audited each year using a consistent, comprehensive approach. Audits measure Kobe Innovation Center 670,000 Technical Center Asia performance against mandatory standards and Brussels Innovation Center 550,000 Technical Center Europe operating procedures. The target is to have no critical findings and continually reduce the number of major or Singapore Innovation Center 450,000 Technical Center Asia minor findings. This year 99% of the sites were assessed. Kronberg Innovation Center 330,000 Technical Center Europe Sites Conducting Annual Audits (Percentage) 99% 2018 97% 2017 94% 2016 Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 154 Worldwide Health, Safety and Environment Systems Compliance with Laws Notices of Violation Air Emissions and Regulations We continually strive for zero notices or penalties. The Each site assesses total suspended particulates, volatile There are numerous health, safety and environmental charts below summarize data from the last three years organic compounds (VOCs), carbon monoxide (CO), requirements worldwide. Plants are subject to safety and provide perspective on notices of violation (NOVs) nitrogen oxides (NOX) and sulfur oxides (SOX). The chart rules and emission limits with operating requirements received during FY 14/15. Note, several fines are still below summarizes data from the last three years. that may be embodied in sources such as statutes, under review but are included in the total numbers. regulations, laws and permits. It is P&G’s intent to Air Emissions by GBU comply with both the letter and the spirit of statutes, Year Number Fines Thousands of metric tons regulations, laws and permit requirements. Identified compliance issues are treated seriously, and all 2018 17 $249,430 8 FY17/18 noncompliance matters are resolved as expeditiously 2017 24 $102,804 as possible. 8 FY16/17 2016 29 $46,250 9 FY15/16 A breakdown of NOVs is provided below: Number Baby, Feminine & Family Care Beauty Violation Fines Fabric & Home Care Grooming of NOVs Health Care Other Water-Based 7 $15,908 Air-Based 4 $229,500 Solid-Waste-Based 1 $0 Paperwork 4 $3,622 Transportation-Based 0 $0 Other 1 $400 Worker Safety 0 $0 Total 17 $249,430 Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 155 Awards & Recognitions Environmental Excellence Our Alce Blanco toothbrushes and floss plant in Mexico received a recognition granted to less than 1% of the We were one of only five organizations nationwide to manufacturing sites in the country called Clean Industry receive an EPA Green Power Partnership Leadership Level II. They also received an award for Environmental Award for direct project engagement. The program Excellence by the Environmental Ministry. This award recognizes organizations that distinguish themselves is given to sites that have demonstrated best practices through direct project engagement with onand offin environmental sustainability such as zero water site projects to access renewable energy certificate consumption in the manufacturing process, clean (REC)-based green power. energy and zero waste to landfill. The Alce Blanco plant In addition, we rank as number 9 on EPA’s Fortune has made significant progress recently, including LED 500 Partners list and as number 14 on EPA’s National ® lighting, solar heaters, reforestation, and process and Top 100 Partners list. Each list highlights EPA Green machinery efficiency projects that translate into less Power Partners using the most renewable energy water and energy consumption while reducing GHG. annually as of July 2018. EPA updates its Top Partner Rankings quarterly. Our diaper recycling technology that we worked in partnership with Fater to bring to scale, received the EPA TOP PARTNER RANKINGS Eco-Innovation award from the European Commission. According to the EPA, our green power use of more than 743 million kWh at our U.S. facilities is equivalent Arbor Day Foundation 2018 Friend of the to the electricity use of almost 70,000 average Forest Award American homes annually. We were honored to be recognized by the Arbor Day The Arbor Day Foundation Foundation as their 2018 Friend of the Forest Award recognized P&G as a recipient. The award was granted for our dedication friend of the forest for our to responsible forest sourcing by partnering with commitment to responsible organizations and landowners that support responsible forest sourcing. forest management. FRIEND OF THE FOREST AWARD Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 156 Awards & Recognitions Business Intelligence Group 2018 Sustainability Our Milenio Blades & Razors Plant in Irapuato, Leadership Award and Sustainability Initiative of Mexico continues to be a leading example of applying the Year Award innovative sustainable manufacturing practices. The The Business Intelligence Group (BIG) announced P&G plant, which started operations seven years ago, is as a 2018 Sustainability Leadership Award recipient LEED Silver certified, sends zero manufacturing waste in recognition of our efforts to make sustainability an to landfill, reuses treated wastewater and utilizes 100% integral part of our business practice. wind electricity. The plant won first place in the Energy Efficiency State Award for the third consecutive year, And our Family Care business was separately awarded recognizing improvements in the evaporation plant, BIG’s 2018 Sustainability Initiative of the Year Award. reducing consumption within lighting, heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC). Two key SUSTAINABILIT Y INITIATIVE AWARD highlights were the use of outdoor air in the winter which saved 360,945 KWh and upgrading to LED illumination in the quality assurance labs saving an FSC 2017 Leadership Award additional 5,820KWh. We were awarded the Forest Stewardship Council United States 2017 Leadership Award in recognition for making our iconic Charmin and Puffs tissue Our plant in Irapuato, products FSC-certified and for working with partners to add 500,000 acres of FSC-certified forest in the Mexico uses 100% Southeastern U.S. wind energy. FSC LEADERSHIP AWARD We were awarded the United Nations’ Momentum for Change Award for our H&S beach plastics bottle. The Forest Stewardship Our Binh Duong facility received the Green Book Award Council recognized P&G for from the government in 2016-2017 for its energy and making Charmin and Puffs water reduction efforts. FSC-certified. Photo Credit: Ebersole Photography Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 157 Awards & Recognitions LEED We are committed to “designing in” sustainability within our facilities, including pursuing LEED certification for all new facilities. We now have 30 sites with LEED Silver or Gold certification. Location Gold Silver Ben Cat, Vietnam 2 Gyongyos Box Elder Cincinnati Tabler Station Box Elder, UT, U.S. 2* Greensboro Taicang Guangzhou Cabuyao, Philippines 1 Hyderabad Cabuyao Ben Cat Lagos Cincinnati, OH, U.S. 2 Singapore Jakarta Cruz, Brazil 1 Cruz Greensboro, NC, U.S. 1 Budapest / Gyongyos, Hungary 3 Guangzhou, China 1 1 Hyderabad, India 1 2 Jakarta, Indonesia 4 Lagos, Nigeria 2 Singapore 1 Tabler Station, WV, U.S. 2 Taicang, China 1 3 Total 4 26 *Represents a LEED v4 Certification at this location. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 158 Environmental Resource and Waste Summary The table below reports environmental statistics for Manufacturing Operations in our Global Business Units, Technical Centers and Distribution Centers Totals (absolute units x 1,000) 2017 Global Business Unit Detail1 (absolute units x 1,000) Baby, Feminine Fabric and 2018 2017 2016 and Family Care Beauty Home Care Grooming Health Care Other Production (metric tons) Product Shipped 2 25,642 30,007 25,758 5,737 1,983 16,897 634 391 N/A Raw Materials from Recycled Sources 3 633 676 632 Waste (metric tons) Generated Waste 727 670 612 285 70 204 38 35 96 Percent Recycled / Reused Waste 90% 88% 87% 91% 89% 84% 99% 95% 96% Disposed Waste (metric tons) Waste Disposed 71 78 82 25.84 7.44 31.85 0.41 1.65 4.00 Solid Waste — Non-Hazardous 40 47 46 15.31 3.60 17.09 0.00 0.35 3.30 Solid Waste — Hazardous 2 3 8 0.01 0.11 2.03 0.00 0.01 0.00 Effluents (excluding water) 4 21 19 18 4.71 3.50 10.90 0.36 1.22 0.37 Air Emissions 5 8 8 9 5.81 0.23 1.83 0.05 0.07 0.33 Energy and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Energy Consumption (gigajoules) 60,891 60,488 59,263 39,504 2,994 11,147 2,469 1,813 2,963 Total GHG Emissions (metric tons) 6 4,298 4,663 4,669 2,682 260 690 230 191 244 Scope 1 — Direct GHG Emissions (metric tons) 2,138 2,118 2,030 1,566 81 318 61 42 70 Scope 2 — Indirect GHG Emissions (metric tons) 7 2,160 2,545 2,639 1,117 179 373 169 148 174 Biogenic GHG Emissions (metric tons) 68 89 177 68 N /A N /A N /A N /A N /A Water (Cubic meters) Water Consumption 63,419 61,927 63,219 39,515 4,865 14,163 1,102 1,571 2,202 1 metric ton = 1,000 kg = 2,205 lbs. (2) Estimated from shipment figures. Data was estimated using FY17/18 production volumes and FY15/16 conversion factors. (1) F  or 2018, Baby, Feminine and Family Care includes Baby Care, Feminine Care and Family Care. Beauty includes Beauty (3) Data is tracked at a corporate level. Care and Personal Beauty Care. Fabric and Home Care includes Fabric Care, Home Care and Chemicals. Grooming (4) Wastewater chemical oxygen demand (COD). includes Blades and Razors and Devices. Health Care includes Personal Health Care and Oral Care. Other includes major (5) Air emissions include particulates, SO2, NOX , CO and VOC. stand alone offices/technical centers that support the business units, our largest distribution facilities, and corporate (6) Total GHG emissions = Scope 1 + Scope 2. Scope 2 emissions calculated using a market-based method. entities such as our manufacturing operations in Venezuela. Numbers do not include production from contract manufacturing operations. (7) Market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. Note: Location-based Scope 2 emissions 2018 were 2,598,621 metric tons. Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 159 Global Measurement and Additional Operational Data 2020 Goal Measurement Systems HE including both Top Loading and Front Loading HE Machines. Our benchmark for qualifying low-energy We go to great lengths to ensure rigor, accuracy cycles has been 0.4KWh per wash cycle. Based on our and transparency in our reporting. Below, we share continuing monitoring of machine performance, we additional information on some of our 2020 Goal now recognize that Top Loading HE machines consume Measurement Systems to help ensure clarity and more than 0.4KWh/wash cycle but still represent a transparency on the data we are reporting: significant energy savings vs. loads run in traditional Greenhouse Gas Emissions warm cycles. In addition, we expect total energy for For purposes of monitoring progress against our these types of machines to decrease further over time goal and listing emissions levels in charts and graphs, based on continued innovation and regulation. Given we utilize market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions. The our objective is to drive consumers to low-energy cycles, WRI/WBCSD GHG Accounting protocol provides and since HE Top Load machines represent a significant additional perspective on market versus locationenergy savings, we will continue to count top load HE based GHG emissions. machine Warm and Cold as low-energy cycles. Net, there is no change in the scope of our tracking but we GHG PROTOCOLS are modifying our approach to simply list the cycles that we now track. For clarity they are cold cycles in traditional top load machines and cold and warm Our GHG emissions data has been verified by cycles in all HE machines. an external third party, Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance (LRQA). Packaging Reduction The average packaging reduction is calculated using LLOYD’S REGISTER QUALIT Y ASSURANCE products that represent the top 70% (by volume) of the categories that have the largest impact on packaging use (Fabric Care, Home Care, Baby Care, Feminine Care, Low-Energy Cycle Machine Washing Loads Family Care, Oral Care, Personal Cleansing Care, Shave Each year, we carefully review habits and practices Prep, Hair Color and Hair Care). While a subset of overall data to help us assess progress against our lowdata, we believe it is representative of overall corporate energy washing goal. The objective of this goal is to data and focuses resources on the biggest SKUs and get consumers to use low-energy cycles, and we can categories that have the biggest impact on packaging. play a significant role in that by providing detergents that provide outstanding performance in low-energy cycles. We have included the following cycles in our tracking: Traditional Cold, HE Warm and Cold, with Introduction Ethics & Corporate Responsibility Community Impact Diversity & Inclusion Gender Equality Environmental Sustainability 160 Global Measurement and Additional Operational Data 2020 Goal Measurement Systems Water Conservation Our goal to reduce water use in manufacturing facilities Recyclability of Packaging by 20% per unit of production applies to freshwater For purposes of tracking progress against our goal, consumption, which means freshwater intake from the a package is considered recyclable when there is an following sources: in-market, at-scale recycling system in place for that material type (e.g., collection, sortation, processing • Tap water – water supplied by municipalities or thirdfor end use and established end-market for collected party companies via piping systems or trucks, at any material). While we require large-scale systems to be quality they deliver in place in at least one geography, we do not require a • Net water via purchased steam minimum percent access or recovery rate per package in every country or market where a package may be • Ground water from site wells sold for the package to be considered recyclable for • Surface water – non-brackish as rivers, lakes, creeks, purposes of tracking progress versus our goal. etc., at any quality they deliver Paper Packaging Palm Oil: We are seeking to increase Baseline Restatement Data for calculating progress versus our paper our use of RSPO SG palm oil This year, P&G adjusted our GHG emissions baseline in packaging goal was self-reported by our suppliers. RSPO SG palm oil means that RSPO certified oil is accordance with the principles in the WRI and WBCSD The data collected this year covered materials procured physically segregated from non-certified oil. Given Corporate Standard for Greenhouse Gas Accounting. directly by P&G as well as contractor manufacturers increasing stakeholder concerns over palm oil Changes included adjustments for acquisitions/ and covered more than 95% of our global spend. production practices of third-party suppliers, moving divestitures as well as other minor modifications and Renewable Energy to RSPO SG oil for palm oil and derivatives provides corrections to historic data. Our original baseline was When calculating the renewable energy powering our a higher level of verification that the oil we procure 5,466,601 metric tons. Our revised baseline, which we plants, we include the renewable energy level of the is originating from RSPO-certified sources. It also, by will use for calculating progress versus GHG emissions local electrical grid that provides power to the plant. definition, allows us to trace oil to the source plantation reduction goals, is now 5,422,275 metric tons. As and implement additional verification efforts should part of this work, we also updated our baselines for they be deemed necessary. There are challenges with energy, water and waste. Original energy baseline was moving to RSPO SG palm oil, including both available 67,904,220 gigajoules. It is now 64,081,270 gigajoules. supply and increased costs, but we are working with Original water baseline was 77,049,114 cubic meters. It suppliers to try and overcome both of these challenges is now 75,201,959 cubic meters. Original waste disposed as we work towards our goal of having 100% of PO and was 354,563 metric tons. It is now 339,306 metric tons. POD be RSPO SG. The baseline year remains the same: P&G’s FY09/10. ABOUT OUR CITIZENSHIP REPORT Data in this report covers the period of July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2018. Financial information is given in U.S. dollars. Questions related to this report can be directed to mediateam.im@pg.com. This report references GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016. A GRI Content Index for this report can be found here. BACK TO START
