SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT May 17, 2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that STRAX AB reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Gudmundur Palmason CEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRAX Values in which we believe Honesty Respect Frugality Teamwork We aim always to We always show the We use ressources We realize and show respect by utmost respect for our wisely, with effective understand that as a adhering to facts, by co-workers, the planning and team we’re stronger fulfilling promised and company, our communication and than as individuals, so admitting failures. We competitors, our optimized processes we work together to nurture honest customers and our each helping to achieve our common communication partners. minimize costs across goals. throughout the all areas of the company. business. 48 STRAX ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT All companies are facing different environmental and corporate social responsibility challenges depending on their line of business, the geographic areas in which they operate and if they are selling products or services. In our role as a global supplier of mobile accessories and connected devices, STRAX is committed to protect and improve the environment, health and wellbeing of our employees, customers, suppliers and the communities where we operate. STRAX ambition is to conduct business in a STRAX House of Brands includes proprietary sustainable manner in all areas possible. brands: XQISIT, GEAR4, Urbanista, THOR, Sustainability is considered in profitability and avo+, FLAVR, Eule and licensed brands: adidas risk analyses, business and product developand bugatti. ment, investments and in our communication with stakeholders. Doing so will enable us to In addition, STRAX represents over 40 major offer innovative products more competitively, mobile accessory brands. STRAX sells into all whilst conserving and enhancing resources for key channels ranging from telecom operators, future generations. Not only do we work to mass merchants and consumer electronics ensure high standards of corporate responsibito lifestyle retailers and direct to consumers lity internally, but we also engage our external online. partners to collaboratively manage social and environmental risks and opportunities. STRAX was founded in Miami and Hong Kong A clear vision and shared values form the in 1995 and has since grown across the world. basis for our behavior and actions at STRAX. Today, STRAX has over 200 employees across They are the expression of our corporate 13 countries with its operational HQ and logisculture, which align with sustainable business tics center based in Germany. principles. 70 per cent of STRAX sales comes from the This Report offers an overview of what we are portfolio of proprietary brands and 30 per trying to achieve with our sustainable business cent from partner brands. STRAX proprietary strategy, together with our progress to date. brands develop, produce, package and sell products in the mobile accessories and conSTRAX’s business model and nected devices categories. sustainability context STRAX is a market-leading global company STRAX itself does not own any factories and specializing in mobile accessories and all production is sourced from third party connected devices. STRAX has built a House suppliers/factories. The production is to 99 of Brands to complement its value-added per cent based in South East Asia. The concustomer-specific solutions and services. centration of production in one geoANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRAX graphic area when sales are global results in STRAX respectfully complies with the Universal a business model challenge from an environDeclaration of Human Rights and the Internamental perspective related to transportation. tional Labor Organization (ILO)’s Declaration Developing and producing your own products on Fundamental Principles and Rights at further adds requirements on controls on Work. We are also in full compliance with the materials used in the products as well as enResponsible Business Alliance (RBA)’s Code suring the third-party factories used adheres of Conduct. At STRAX we regularly revise our to sound business practices. sustainability management policies, as well as internal standards and processes, to ensure STRAX strives to optimize the business model their conformance with international standards and value chain by developing and promoting and customer requirements. sustainable products and services. Sustainability aspects are considered throughout the In 2017, STRAX joined the UN Global Compact, value chain which covers everything from aligning with principles concerning human product development and procurement to rights, labor issues, environment and antiproduction, logistics and professional markecorruption. STRAX’s framework for sustainating support at the point of sale. bility encompasses all ten principles of the Global Compact. Product development Product safety, product quality, durability, use of chemicals STRAX’s Code of Conduct and materials, packaging solutions and STRAX´s Code of Conduct is STRAX´s recyclability are important sustainability general sustainability policy document and aspects in STRAX product development. it declares what is expected from every person working for and with STRAX. It also Procurement The procurement process underlines our responsibilities to customers, entails challenges related to corruption and colleagues, suppliers and other partners. briberies. The STRAX Code of Conduct is based on the company’s core values and the ten principals Production Throughout the production provided by the UN Global Compact as well process, the environmental impact of the as the other international conventions STRAX production techniques, human rights, fair complies with. labor practices and health and safety issues are important aspects to consider and take The STRAX Code of Conduct obliges all into account. employees to uphold high ethical standards in their conduct towards each other and when Logistics The logistics include challenges representing the company. It also aims to related to carbon emissions. ensure a safe working environment, an equal and fair treatment of all employees, a strict Professional marketing support It is imporquality management and focus on the end tant that the professional marketing support user in product development, as well as to at the end point of sale align with the company prevent, minimize and remedy adverse encore values as well as contributes to the overvironmental impacts of the business. all quality assurance. The Code of Conduct is complemented by Principles and practices STRAX Anti-Bribery Policy, STRAX Code of STRAX is committed to fulfilling its responsibiConduct for Suppliers, rules of corporate golity as a corporate citizen and to earn the trust vernance and other relevant policies. and respect of our customers and society in the process. Our vision, our values, and our Business ethics and Compliance Code of Conduct reflect our entrepreneurial, For STRAX, business ethics means more than social and environmental responsibility. complying with regulations. As a value-driven They are the company’s binding guidelines, organization we believe that adopting a wider providing specific instructions on forming ethical approach into our company culture is relationships with customers, colleagues, crucially important. It helps us enhance our suppliers and other partners. reputation and succeed in business. STRAX ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Anti-corruption and bribery Following a review of the company’s existing STRAX procurement process mainly takes sustainability policies and guidelines, STRAX place in South East Asia, a market that offers introduced a revised Code of Conduct in 2017. good business opportunities, but is also expoA number of targets were set as well as Sussed to serious risks relating to areas such as tainability Performance Indicators (SPI:s) for corruption, bribery and fraud. monitoring the areas of product compliance, responsible suppliers, carbon management, STRAX has a zero-tolerance policy on corrupemployees and social conditions. In 2018, tion. Our Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery STRAX will focus on concluding this process Policy describe STRAX’s commitment to and measure progress on all selected SPI:s. maintaining a high standard of ethics when The targets will be updated in pace with the we do business and our expectations on each continuing work. employee and partner. We fully support the requirements of the UK Bribery Act as well as Legal compliance similar legislation in all regions in which we conSTRAX is committed to compliance with the duct business. We have implemented policies laws and regulations in each country in which and procedures to ensure we are prepared, we operate. The products are designed and to the extent possible, to prevent and deter tested to meet the appropriate standards for corrupt practices across our business relationproduct safety, electromagnetic & wireless ships. This also includes monitoring and connectivity, ergonomics and other regulatory preventing potential corruption and bribery compulsory requirements, when used for and to deal with such practices appropriately their intended purpose. if they are discovered. Whether in areas of corporate governance, All staff shall be aware of their responsibilities fiduciary duty, employee responsibilities, in respect to anti-corruption and bribery and consumer protection, partnership managebe empowered to act as a line of defence in ment, or environmental standards, we take the identification of any corrupt practices. our responsibilities seriously; in most cases, STRAX’s guidelines on gifts and hospitality legal compliances act as a starting point only, serves as a support structure for employees our own policies tend to be more strict than to handle such corrupt activities. legal compliance requirements. STRAX has set a target that all employees Reporting concerns should be educated on the topics of bribery STRAX’s employees and partners are encouraand corruption by 2020. 100 per cent of all ged and expected to report incidents of employees in defined high-risk areas have non-compliance with the STRAX’s Code of completed and been educated on the topic of Conduct. Reported information will only be bribery and corruption resulting in 18 per cent processed to the extent reasonably necessary of total Group employees. for the investigation. There will be no retaliation or other negative consequences for individual Sustainability governance reporting on such incidents. The STRAX Code Sustainability and ethics are emphasized of Conduct have instructions for employees throughout STRAX’s corporate governance, on how to raise their concerns within the starting from the Board of Directors, the organization. CEO and the Group Management Team. The Group Management Team has the ultimate Developing sustainable supplier networks responsibility for the implementation and Some of the most material risks and opportumonitoring of STRAX’s sustainability work, nities within STRAX value chain can be found as well as its subdivisions’ compliance with among the upstream suppliers. With over 150 the STRAX Code of Conduct. Management suppliers globally, continual improvements is also responsible for maintaining adequate together with our manufacturing partners on documentation to demonstrate compliance sustainability issues are not only crucial to by partners. ensure the rights and conditions of the workers that make our products, but also to ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRAX minimize the adverse environmental impacts STRAX believe in a self-assessment system, of the production. that over time corrects behavior and creates a sound culture of improvement, for the At STRAX we expect our suppliers to operate factories. This is closely monitored and checked ethically correct and in accordance with through audits. We also implement third internationally recognized standards on human party validation of strategic suppliers’ CSR rights, labor rights, environment and antiperformance to cross reference our internal corruption, adhere to the STRAX Code of findings. Conduct and to uphold the ethical standards that are integral to our Code of Conduct. STRAX aims to conduct inspections at all major suppliers at least once a year. In 2017 A robust framework for sustainability a total of 27 inspections where conducted at management major suppliers. Major suppliers are defined As a global business with an extensive supplier by accounting for +90 per cent of Group base, developing a full understanding of the purchasing. supplier’s sustainability performance is a challenge, even with strict supply chain processes All suppliers in areas with high CSR-related in place. risks, currently South East Asia, are to participate in STRAX’s supplier development STRAX adopt the Responsible Business Alliprogram. The program encourages the ance (RBA)’s Code of Conduct as a guideline suppliers’ incremental improvement through for standardizing the approach with suppliers the provision of best practice CSR improveregarding social, environmental and ethical ment recommendations. At year-end 2017, 89 responsibility. per cent of all suppliers in high-risk areas had participated in STRAX´s supplier development STRAX has also implemented STRAX Code program. of Conduct for Suppliers to ensure that all of our suppliers know what we expect of them. Product responsibility Alongside the Supplier Code of Conduct, STRAX is dedicated to provide its customers STRAX has an Anti-Bribery Contract with with safe products that exceed their expectafactories and other contractors in Asia with tions regarding quality and safety as well as heavy penalties for any bribery or inappropriate the environmental impact caused by produinfluence on STRAX employees or represencing and using them. tatives. STRAX has amended employee contracts for all Asian employees, giving Quality management system STRAX the right to terminate employment STRAX develops its product in strict compliimmediately, and without notice period, ance with internationally recognized safety should any briberies have been accepted. and legal requirements. Regulations setting mandatory safety & reliability standards STRAX aim for all suppliers to comply with for certain products are defined during the the requirements regarding anti-corruption product development stages for the purpose and bribery with no serious deviations. In of preventing or reducing risk of injury or 2017, 98 per cent of suppliers complied with harm to the consumer. These include, but are the requirements without serious deviations. not limited to, CE, FCC and other recognized regulatory bodies. Engaging with suppliers STRAX intention is to support safe and fair STRAX has assembled a Product Safety & working conditions and the responsible Compliance Team which continually monitors management of environmental and social product safety issues within the supply chain issues in every part of the supply chain. In and reports directly to the Management order to do so, we support the establishment Team. Together they have developed robust of a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) procedures to deter, detect, and prevent management structure and incorporate non-compliant products from shipping to CSR performance as a part of our supplier customers. evaluation criteria to further incentivize their participation in these activities. STRAX ANNUAL REPORT 2017 The foundation of these procedures is based tional also shed light on the issue of children upon a quality management system and working in cobalt mines in the Democratic supplier partnership mechanism that ensures Republic of Congo. adherence to strict standards throughout the supply chain. Procedures have been establisSTRAX undertake due diligence to ensure that hed for product design and performance as conflict minerals are not used in our products. well as raw material selection and regulatory STRAX requires that all new suppliers confirm requirements. STRAX ensure the traceability that materials we purchase do not contain along all instances leading up to the Design conflict minerals and the suppliers are notified Approval Process, which enables us to track periodically to update this assurance. In addiproducts and components to individual supption, we require of our existing suppliers that liers, ensuring supplier accountability. This uses any of the four metals listed above to system also enables us to trace non-standard ensure that they are using approved smelters, components that may have safety implicaas informed by the Conflict Free Sourcing tions back to their source and thereafter Initiative. Since 2017 STRAX includes cobalt in implement root cause analysis and respective the requirements and has implemented a solutions. Responsible Cobalt Initiative (RCI), with 97 per cent of suppliers completing the self-asFor product safety certification STRAX engage sessment. In 2018 STRAX will implement external experts to identify continual improa policy to ensure that all suppliers, both vement areas and corrective actions, but we upstream and downstream, recognize and also cross-check final results with our internal align their supply chain policies with the RCI testing facilities; additionally, we have protocol to reduce cobalt in the production. STRAX for product recalls should the need arise. will continue to measure and evolve the program in 2018. Materials and substances STRAX strive to conserve resources and Our people reduce environmental footprint caused by our STRAX strive to provide a workplace wheproducts through use of recyclable plastics and re employees can fulfil their potential in an packaging materials as well as ensuring the open and inspirational working environment. recyclability of the products where reasonably For STRAX to develop and retain competent possible. and committed employees, while attracting employees with new skills, is key to continued In order to ensure that none of STRAX’s prosuccessful growth. ducts contain any harmful, restricted or unnecessary chemicals, STRAX adhere to strict Living our values legal compliance across a range of legislative STRAX maintains a strong commitment environments around the world, including the to high standards in order to deliver a fair, EU RoHS (guidelines to restrict the use of diverse, respectful and safe workplace for harmful substances in electric/electronic all employees. STRAX’s Code of Conduct products) and the EU REACH (European establishes the organization’s stance on these Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, topics. All of STRAX’s employees are educated Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals), in the company’s Code of Conduct and inforand have a multi-layered approach to ensure med of their personal responsibility to ensure that our suppliers do as well. that they act according to it. Conflict minerals management Health and safety management STRAX supports the efforts of human rights STRAX is committed to high standards of organizations to end violence and atrocities health and safety management. Ensuring in Central Africa. It has been widely reported safety awareness, positive attitudes and that the major driver of this violence is the continual improvement in safety performance natural abundance of the minerals tin, tungsrequires the commitment and active involveten, tantalum and gold, now referred to as ment of all partners, managers, employees ”conflict minerals”. In 2016, Amnesty Internaand regular contractors at all levels. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRAX STRAX works actively and preventively to Carbon management improve the company’s employee attendance There are clear evidence that global tempethrough initiatives such as preventive healthratures are rising quickly. There is also a very care, which STRAX strives to offer to all the strong consensus among scientists and policyGroup’s employees. makers that carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels together with other greenhouse In order to make analyses and plans of action, gases have a direct impact on the climate. At STRAX conducted a survey on employee STRAX, we recognize the impacts of global satisfaction (ESI) in Asia during 2017 with an warming and work to be part of the solution. overall ESI score of 78 per cent. STRAX is Carbon management is a relatively new initiatiplanning to survey employee satisfaction for ve at STRAX. As a first step we have identified the entire Group in 2018 and has an ESI target five initiatives that we are focusing on: score of at least 85 per cent by year 2020. • Optimize transport emissions by shifting Diversity and equality from air to ocean transport modes as Workplace diversity contributes to the divermuch as possible gence and exchange of ideas, which is critical • Avoid travel emissions by prioritizing to STRAX’s innovation process and contribualternative technology options such as tes to a healthy management environment. video conferencing and virtual office use STRAX has a zero-tolerance policy for all • Supplier engagement to reduce manuforms of discrimination and harassment. We facturing energy and carbon emissions are committed to provide an inclusive and • Reduce the environmental impacts of welcoming environment for all members of our products at the research and design our employees, clients, volunteers, substage contractors, vendors, and clients. • Use less carbon-intensive materials, such as recycled materials, in the packaging STRAX regard gender equality of opportunity as an essential part of human resource manaSTRAX is currently in the process of measuring gement. While recognizing that differences our baseline carbon footprint and setting between people must be acknowledged and short and long-term reduction targets. We also reasonably accommodated, employment aim to engage suppliers collaboratively to practices must ensure that differences do not reduce CO2 impacts throughout the product lead to discrimination in the workplace. The lifecycle. gender division in the entire Group is 42 per cent women and 58 per cent men. 29 per cent Optimize transport emissions 5 of managers were women during the year. Transports are STRAX’s largest source of The target is that men and women will be greenhouse gas emission. An eﬃcient and represented within a range of 40 per cent in CO2-minimizing ﬂow of goods is one of the management positions by year 2020. most important factors for reducing our negative impact on the environment. Environmental impact Environmental management is an important To ensure efficient transports, STRAX has a part of the culture at STRAX. We work screening process with requirements regarding systematically to prevent, minimize and transportation optimization and efficiency remedy adverse environmental impacts of when choosing what carriers to use. By our business activities through a proactive optimizing the transports, and prioritizing approach and responsible management of its transports by sea or train over those by air, environmental aspects. As part of STRAX’s STRAX is working to lessen the company’s continuous improvement process for environimpact on the environment. The target is set mental management, we are further analyzing that transportation by air should not exceed our environmental impact to better under70 per cent by year 2020. At year-end 2017, stand how we can play a larger and more 84 per cent of transports were by air which is constructive role in contributing to a healthier a decrease from previous year with 11 percenglobal environment. tage points. STRAX ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRAX also adhere to reduce emissions from environmental impacts are minimized. For business travel by prioritizing alternative STRAX, this means making products that last technology options such as video conference longer, are made of environmentally friendly and virtual office use, and these priorities materials, and can be easily repaired or recychave been giving a positive result. In 2017 led. In this way, we hope to not only benefit conference calls and video meetings increased the environment, but also achieve cost benefits by 300 per cent, and travel by personal and for us at STRAX and to offer our customers company cars decreased accordingly. an environmentally friendly product design and better end-of-life management. Circular economy In the context of rapidly reducing global STRAX are currently investigating how we resources, STRAX aim to understand and can better use the principles of circular optimize our role in contributing to a circular economy to deliver value to our customers. economy. Our current approach includes the use of biodegradable plastics in products, use of A circular economy aims to mirror the natural recycled material in packaging and to ensure world’s regenerative system by ensuring recyclability in line with WEEE regulations. resources can be continually recycled and SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION ACTIVITIES FOCUSED ON LOCAL NEEDS Being a global citizen is essential for how the STRAX Group does business. STRAX believes that the long-term success of the company is dependent on the affluence of the communities in which we operate. Responding to our role as an integral member of the community, STRAX actively promotes social contribution activities focused on local needs. Sunshine Academy Captivating International STRAX partners with a Chinese non-profit In November STRAX Asia volunteer team organization, Sunshine Academy, on a participated in the Sunshine Academy number of vocational programs. Sunshine Benefit Fair, a two thousand people fund Academy is dedicated to love and educate raising event, by hosting basketball shooChinese orphans instilling dignity and life ting game and also the fresh lemonade 55 skills to enable an independent life. Sunspop up drink store. It was a fantastic day hine Academy students have a variety of for both Sunshine Academy and STRAX. special needs which means they will need support throughout their growing up years as well as their adult life. Through one of STRAX core manufacturing partners we support a vocational initiative to help Sunshine Academy students build life skills in the work place allowing them to become as self-sufficient as possible and give them opportunities to have a meaningful life. STRAX supports the Annual Captivating Charity Auction – an event run in partnership with the Shenzhen Charity Federation. The Shenzhen Charity Federation; SHAMTSE; and LOVEQTRA (The Seng Girls Home), funds raised from this year’s event will be used to impact the lives of up to 1,000 girls and many of their families in remote locations of Western China. With a focus on solutions such as greenhouses, animal husbandry, health education, vocational school scholarships, and programs helping girls get into their first genuine and safe job. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRAX SUSTAINABILITY RISKS Stakeholders have ever increasing demands on companies’ accountability. The active work with issues concerning the environment, social conditions, human rights and corruption is an integrated part of STRAX’s operations. Should STRAX’s efforts in these areas prove insufficient, STRAX’s sales and market shares could be negatively affected. Risk Risk management Risks in the supply chain Some of the more significant sustainability risks and STRAX expect all suppliers to operate ethically correct and opportunities are found in STRAX’s supply chain. The risks in accordance with internationally recognized standards on include, but are not limited to, corruption and briberies, human rights, labor rights, environment, anti-corruption and human rights and fair labor practices, health and safety, and bribery. Principles and values are communicated through environmental damage. Should STRAX’s suppliers break STRAX’s Supplier Code of Conduct, which applies to all international rules and legislation, or if they should deviate STRAX’s suppliers and subcontractors. STRAX supports from established standards, STRAX’s would risk facing ecothe establishment of a CSR management structure and nomic damages, negative publicity and legal ramifications. incorporates CSR performance as a part of the supplier evaluation criteria to further incentivize their participation in CSR activities. Product-related risks STRAX’s ability to offer products that meet stakeholders’ STRAX complies with the EU directives; RoHS, REACH expectations regarding quality, safety, use of materials and and WEEE, and strives to reduce the products’ environmechemicals, as well as comply with all regional and counntal footprint through the use of recyclable plastics and try-level statutory standards is crucial to maintain customer packaging materials as well as ensuring the recyclability trust. of the products when reasonably possible. Product safety issues within the supply chain are continually monitored and STRAX has developed robust procedures to deter, detect, and prevent non-compliant products from shipping to customers. STRAX also undertakes due diligence to ensure that conflict minerals and cobalt materials are not used in our products. Risks related to business ethics With employees in 12 countries and over 150 suppliers STRAX has a zero-tolerance policy on corruption. All 56 around the world, STRAX is, to a varying degree, exposed to STRAX’s employees are educated in the company’s Code of the risk of corruption. Unethical behavior would entail legal Conduct and made aware of their responsibilities in respect ramifications and harm the company’s reputation. to anti-corruption and bribery. STRAX’s guidelines on gifts and hospitality serves as a support structure. Risks related to social conditions Skilled and engaged employees are instrumental to the STRAX maintains a strong commitment to high standards in company’s ability to develop according to the long-term order to deliver a fair, diverse, respectful and safe workplace strategic plan and to reach the established targets. If STRAX for all employees. STRAX’s Code of Conduct establishes were to fail in providing an attractive working environment the organization’s stance on these topics. All of STRAX’s it would have a direct negative impact on the company’s employees are educated in the company’s Code of Conduct ability to attract and retain skilled employees. and informed of their personal responsibility to ensure that they act according to it. Environmental risks in the transportation of goods With a global network of suppliers and distributors, a signiBy optimizing the transports, and prioritizing transports by ficant part of STRAX’s value chain’s negative impact on the sea or train over those by air, STRAX is working to lessen the environment stems from the transportation of goods in the company’s impact on the environment. form of carbon emissions. STRAX ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS Sustainability target Results of 2017 Supply chain 100% of suppliers are to comply with 98% of suppliers complied with the the requirements of STRAX’s Supplier requirements without serious deviaCode of Conduct regarding anti-cortions in 2017. ruption and bribery with no serious deviations. All suppliers in high-risk areas (curAt year-end 2017, 89% of all suppliers rently South East Asia) are to particiin high-risk areas had participated pate in STRAX’ supplier development in STRAX´s supplier development program. program. STRAX aims to conduct inspections In 2017 a total of 27 inspections where at all major suppliers at least once a conducted at major suppliers. year. Business Ethics 100% of all employees should be 18% of all employees had been educated on the topics of bribery and educated on the topic of bribery and corruption by year 2020. corruption at year-end 2017 with 100% of employees in high-risk areas. Social Conditions The target is that both men and The gender division in the entire women will represent at least 40% of Group is 42% women and 58% men. management positions by year 2020. 29% of managers were women during 2017. The Group’s ESI score should be at The ESI score for Asia was 78% in least 85% by year 2020. 2017. STRAX is planning to survey employee satisfaction for the entire 57 Group in 2018. Carbon Management Transportation by air should not 84% of transports were by air in 2017. exceed 70% by year 2020. Reduce emissions from business travel In 2017 conference calls and video by prioritizing alternative technology meetings increased by 300%, and options (video conference, virtual travel by personal and company cars office use). decreased accordingly. Product responsibility All suppliers shall recognize and align STRAX initiated an RCI initiative in their supply chain policies in line 2017 with 97% of suppliers complewith the Responsible Cobalt Initiative ting the self-assessment. STRAX will (RCI). continue to measure and evolve the program in 2018. All products shall meet internatioIn 2017 all STRAX products complied nally recognized safety and legal with all local & international regulatory requirements for the markets they are safety standards. sold into. ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRAX AUDITOR’S OPINION REGARDING THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To the general meeting of the shareholders scope than an audit conducted in accordanin STRAX AB, corporate identity number ce with International Standards on Auditing 555539-7709 and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination Engagement and responsibility has provided us with sufficient basis for our It is the board of directors who is responsible opinion. for the sustainability report for the year 2017 on pages 48-57 and that it is prepared in Opinions accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR:s auditing standard RevR Stockholm May 21, 2018 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statKPMG AB utory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability Mårten Asplund report is different and substantially less in Authorized Public Accountant
