MBP Solutions Ltd. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 COVERING DECEMBER 2017 – NOVEMBER 2018 MBP Solutions in brief Our focus Our services MBP Solutions Ltd. is a world leader in the We provide a wide range of specialist collection, handling, processing, services including by-product and waste production, and application of biological collection and handling, as well as byby-products and related services. The product management outsourcing service. company was founded in 1999, and since We focus on managing by-products from a the beginning, its focus has been on the production based on biological (non-fossil) optimal use of residues through the raw materials not only from the development of innovative by-product oleochemical, biodiesel and omega-3 solutions, with an open book approach to refining industries but also from incorporating full traceability. companies that have other types of In order to add value to by-products solutions, sludges and powders, such as collected and managed, we seek to breweries, starch manufacturers, understand the by-products from a pharmaceutical companies and technical-chemical point of view through manufacturers of nutritional ingredients. sampling and analysis. We combine this data with expertise about technical Our products requirements in different areas of We offer a wide range of products application, along with knowledge about including biofuels, bioliquids, substrates legal requirements and restrictions in for biogas production, soil improvement different geographical markets. products, high-quality animal feed and pet We do monitoring, sampling, analysis, food products, in addition to logistics, sales, marketing and registration specialist technical products for a wide with authorities. When required, we also range of applications. make the necessary arrangements for storage, cleaning, filtering and the addition of additives and repackaging. MBP in 2018 15’000 200’000 9 25 Cubic Metres of Bulk Tonnes Sold Yearly Offices Fully Managed Liquid Storage Factories Biological by-products for tomorrow’s environment Sustainability Scope Sustainability has been part of our This report focuses on our performance, ideological backbone since the beginning, challenges and opportunities and it covers as our organisation captures and delivers MBP’s entire organisation, including value in economic, environmental and administrative offices, industrial facilities social terms. and sourcing operations. Our business brings to life the concepts Based on our 2018 CSR assessment, we of industrial ecology and circular economy identified the most relevant topics and by materialising the idea that the waste indicators to our internal and external stream of one industry can be used as a stakeholders, as well as their alignment to key resource by another. our strategy, the United Nations Global Our technical expertise, market Compact and the Sustainable knowledge and legal understanding help Development Goals (SDGs). Additionally, to promote the efficient use of natural we aligned our corporate goals with the resources, reduce waste and toxic SDGs and elaborated an action plan to emissions, help to cut operating costs and embrace corporate sustainability guided generate new revenue. by the UN Global Compact Management As a result, we help to improve the Model. environmental, economic and social This report meets the requirements for performance of our suppliers and the UN Global Compact Communication customers, with whom we work together on Progress, and it is available in English to enable the recycling and recovery of on our website www.mbpsolutions.com. residual resources. In order to document the sustainable status of our products, we embrace relevant existing sustainability standards through certifications like ISCC, RSB, GMP+, and we are under the process of getting certified under MSC and IFFO RS. MBP in the world MBP is a multinational company with offices in nine different countries including three outside of Europe. Although sales and sourcing traditionally have been done in Europe with a large portion of the sales in Scandinavia, the company has moved to sell into a more geographically diversified market with where, among others, Great Britain, Italy and Netherlands are big markets. Contents CEO Statement ................................................................................................................. 5 Making businesses more sustainable since 1999 ............................................................... 6 Partnership for better management of residual resources .................................................... 6 Advancing the circular economy in our supply chain ............................................................. 6 MBP’s by-product management Approach ............................................................................. 7 Our corporate sustainability frameworks .......................................................................... 8 The United Nations Global Compact ....................................................................................... 8 The Sustainable Development Goals ...................................................................................... 8 Our sustainability policies ................................................................................................. 9 Economic policy ....................................................................................................................... 9 Environmental policy............................................................................................................... 9 Human rights policy statement ............................................................................................. 10 Our corporate sustainability performance ....................................................................... 11 Social Performance................................................................................................................ 12 Environmental Performance ................................................................................................. 14 Economic Performance ......................................................................................................... 17 Our Corporate Sustainability Goals 2018+ ....................................................................... 20 Reporting Criteria ........................................................................................................... 29 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. CEO Statement Sustainability is essential to MBP’s longimpacts through responsible business term success, and our company is operations, innovation, technology and committed to offering products and increased collaboration. services that are beneficial for the environment, the people and the Communication on Progress (CoP) economy. This report is MBP’s first Communication Through our involvement in the UN on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Global Compact and the incorporation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Compact, and it explains our performance into our strategies, we will continue on the Global Compact commitments and contributing to these areas, and we will the SDGs. work together with other businesses to We approach sustainability as a process attain the opportunities that the SDGs of continuous improvement, and we will offer to all. continue setting objectives within our scope of operations to grow our business UN Global Compact while contributing to the environment, the I am pleased to reaffirm MBP’s support to society and the economy. the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our efforts to gradually Helen Sainsbury integrate the UN Global Compact and its CEO principles into our business strategy, MBP Solutions Ltd. culture and daily operations, and we commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. The Sustainable Development Goals We agree that companies have a relevant role in achieving the SDGs and we are familiar with the opportunities and challenges that they represent for our business. Based on our mapping, we believe that we contribute to at least 11 of the 17 SDGs through our products and services, and we are proud of our influence to the sustainability of our suppliers and customers. However, we will strive to strengthen our relationships with relevant stakeholders and intensify our positive 5 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Making businesses more sustainable since 1999 Partnership for better management Advancing the circular economy in of residual resources our supply chain Our company facilitates working in The degradation of the world‘s natural partnership to enable resource efficiency resources caused by human activities has through the recycling and recovery of created the need to move from a linear waste. We help our suppliers and model of production and consumption to customers minimise negative impacts on one that maintains the highest utility and the environment and human health, by value of products, components, and safely, responsibly and efficiently materials at all times. The circular maximising waste recycling, recovery, and economy model was born from this resource generation opportunities whilst ambition, and it entails the reduction of ensuring legal compliance. waste, the use of waste as a resource when possible and the implementation of Suppliers holistic and sustainable waste We provide solutions for by-product management approaches. management and expertise to industries Our company encourages sustainable that prefer to focus on their core production and consumption patterns that products. These are our suppliers, who are help bring the concept of the circular mostly companies involved in the omegaeconomy to life. The manufacturers and 3, fish meal, oleochemical, food, service providers constitute our suppliers, beverages, feed, pharmaceutical, and who send out residues for recycling or nutritional supplements markets. recovery purposes. Then, we either find direct applications for those residual Customers resources or reprocess them into Based on product knowledge as well as products, and our customers either use know-how about the technical them to replace materials (recovery) or requirements for raw material in various use recycled resources through the sectors and applications, we provide purchase of MBP products (recycling). customers with cost-efficient and These synergies facilitate the use of sustainable products and raw material Earth’s limited resources in a way that substitutes in the areas of biofuels, minimises its impacts on the environment technical oils, animal feed, fertilisers and while delivering greater value with less anaerobic digestion substrates. input. As a result, our suppliers and customers generate less waste, reduce business costs, earn economic benefits, reduce risks to public health and the environment, and ultimately, contribute to complementary policy areas such as the “green economy”, “innovation for sustainability” and the “circular economy”. 6 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. MBP’s by-product management Approach We take huge pride in identifying products that are normally considered as waste or a residue from production, and by understanding their potential, we find its optimal application. By these means, we not only help to reduce the waste generated in society but also the consumption of primary raw materials, as our by-product based products will often substitute materials of the primary production sector. By-product management hierarchy Although we predominantly deal with byproducts, our business operations fall into the waste management sector for the reason that, in general terms, we handle residues and remaining materials from MBP’s by-product hierarchy industrial processes. Hence, we have aligned our by-product Landfill is our last option for dealing management approach with the waste with residues and we do our best to divert management hierarchy established by the waste to composting or anaerobic parties to the Basel convention, the food digestion when possible, as these waste hierarchy of the Global Waste applications allow us to use gases and the Management Outlook, and all the relevant same time avoid GHG emissions from internationally and nationally recognised waste disposal. standards for environmentally sustainable waste management approaches.1 Attending to technical, environmental, economic, and legal aspects, we apply this hierarchy when finding the most suitable applications and customers for the byproducts collected and managed. 1 The waste management hierarchy and food waste optimal environmental outcomes. See further: hierarchy set out the preferred order of handling Global Waste Management Outlook (2015). practices, from most to least preferred, to achieve 7 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Our corporate sustainability frameworks MBP’s sustainability policies, strategy, culture and day-to-day operations are grounded on the UN Global Compact principles, the SDGs, our supply chain needs, and our principles and values. The United Nations Global Compact The Sustainable Development Goals The UN Global Compact is the world's The sustainable development goals (SDGs) largest corporate sustainability initiative, are a set of 17 goals supported by 169 and it offers a principle-based framework detailed targets that represent a clear for businesses, stating ten principles in the agreement on where the world has to be areas of human rights, labour, antiby 2030. corruption and the environment. They were adopted in September 2015 We joined the UN Global Compact in by the 193 members of the United November 2017, and as a signatory, our Nations, and they reflect economic, social company is committed to supporting and and environmental expectations as well as integrating the ten principles as part of future policy direction at the international, our strategy, culture and day to day national and regional levels. operations. We believe that the SDGs impact our Through this report, we describe the business and that our company can impact practical actions undertaken to integrate the achievement of the SDGs. Thus, we the principles in each of the four issue have committed to fully integrating the areas during our first period of SDGs into our strategy and to joining commitment, and we express our global efforts to achieve these goals. continued support to this initiative. 8 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Our sustainability policies Guided by our values and working in in the industries and geographical areas partnership with our team members, where our company operates. customers and suppliers, we strive to We are committed to using different deliver sustainable by-product strategies for the efficient use of our management solutions for the advantage resources to guarantee the company’s of the community and the environment profitability and long-term survival in a where we operate. Through the following responsible way. policies, we reflect our commitment to ensuring that sustainability is considered Environmental policy through all our business decisions. These are the principles that have always inspired the MBP’s approach to Economic policy environmental sustainability: At MBP, economic sustainability means *We shall strive to add value to waste and operating our company responsibly and by-products in order to reduce the thoughtfully to maximise shareholder negative impact that these streams may return while wisely managing have through landfilling or other types of environmental, economic and social risks disposal. At the same time, we will reduce and opportunities. the consumption of primary resources by A good economic sustainability practice substituting primary raw material with is key for our business because, without it, value-added by-products. our company will not succeed in the social *We prioritise good housekeeping and the and environmental aspects of preservation of natural resources to sustainability. contribute to a sustainable society. As most companies, we aim not only to *We will always comply with the survive but also to develop more profits environmental requirements imposed by and improve our position compared to current legislation and regulations. competitors in the market. Therefore, we *Environmental work is an integrated and work to grow by embracing a business natural part of our daily work. model that creates value for shareholders *Our environmental management system and investors through the pursuit of drives a way of working in which we profitability, financial strength, constantly strive to develop and improve adaptability and long-term resilience. ourselves. We intend to achieve this through *We work towards making employees, constant development and improvement customers and suppliers aware of general and by maintaining an excellent environmental issues and the issues which relationship with employees, suppliers and apply specifically to the products we customers. manufacture. We will constantly work to ensure the *Our product development work views best planning decisions and use the best the product from the perspective of its technological solutions to be able to entire life cycle and seeks solutions with a continue offering high value-added low impact on the environment. products and services, meet the *The environmental aspects are always expectations of our employees, suppliers taken into account when investing in and customers, and create long-lasting production equipment and production economic, environmental and social value methods. 9 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Human rights policy statement MBP Solutions Ltd. is committed to We believe everyone should be treated conducting business responsibly and fairly regardless of their race, gender, ethically. Our human rights policy economic status, ethnic background, statement is based on the three sexual orientation, age, political beliefs or documents collectively known as the any other comparable characteristics, and International Bill of Human Rights (the therefore we prohibit discrimination, Universal Declaration of Human Rights, harassment, forced labour and child the International Covenant on Civil and labour. Political Rights, and the International We draw on internationally recognised Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural labour principles and comply with Rights), along with the International applicable labour and employment laws in Labour Organization’s Declaration on all the countries where we operate, to Fundamental Principles and Rights at ensure that we are not interfering with Work. the enjoyment of the rights conferred by This Human Rights Policy Statement national laws and international consolidates our commitment to respect declarations. We are committed to international labour and human rights to protecting the health and safety of our the fullest extent possible and supports people at work and provide fair wages and our efforts to better integrate a human benefits, as well as encourage rights approach into our business development opportunities and practices. Our commitment is reinforced continuous learning for our workers. by our involvement in voluntary business Where national legislation is stricter or initiatives like the UN Global Compact, and conflicts with our approach, we will it is consistent with our goal to enrich our complement our policy with local workplace, work in partnership with our requirements and follow the United supply chain, protect the environment and Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business respect the communities where we and Human Rights (UNGPs). operate. This statement applies to our internal We believe in our responsibility to stakeholders in all locations where we respect and support internationally conduct business. We will implement proclaimed human rights, and we will human rights due diligence into our constantly strive to make sure that we are operating model as suitable, instruct our not complicit in human rights abuses of team members to comply with this policy, any individual we are in contact with establish appropriate reporting directly or indirectly. We will seek to avoid procedures and provide proper preventive instigating or contributing to unfavourable or corrective action. We expect the same human rights through our own activities, adherence to human rights from our products and services and address their external stakeholders, and we will effects if they occur in a timely and regularly look for ways to support the appropriate manner. promotion of human rights within our scope of operation and influence. 10 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Our corporate sustainability performance Assessment framework Structure of the report Our company is aware of the links Since we measured our performance in between the UN Global Compact the context of the UN Global principles principles and the SDGs, and we recognise and the SDGs, we present the results of the importance that both of them have to our assessment in three categories (social, our business. As a signatory to UN Global environmental and economic) and we Compact, we measured our social, connect them to the UN Global Compact environmental and economic performance principles and our priority SDGs associated in connection to the UN Global Compact principles, the 17 SDGs and their 169 to each category as follows: targets. Area SDGs (UN Global Compact Our impact on the SDGs principles) Our main impact lies in our supply chain, Social SDG 2 Zero hunger in what we do with the by-products from (Human Rights & SDG 8 Decent work and our suppliers, and in cooperation with our Labour) economic growth customers. Although we understand the SDG 6 Clean water and sanitation importance of all the SDGs, during our SDG 7 Affordable and clean assessment we identified that through our Environmental energy (Environment) operations, products and services, we SDG 13 Climate action SDG 14 Life below water produce a particular influence on areas SDG 15 Life on land addressed by 11 of the 17 goals. We aim SDG 9 Industry, innovation and to increase our cooperation with suppliers infrastructure SDG 11 Sustainable cities and and customers to achieve more progress Economic communities on the 11 SDGs identified, and we will (Anti-corruption) SDG 12 Responsible consumption continue detecting areas where we can and production SDG 17 Partnerships for the goals improve to contribute further to all SDGs. 11 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Social Performance Human rights Planned Principle Area How MBP supports the principle improvements *MBP provides safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities Health and to workers, as well as the protective equipment and safety training necessary to safely perform their tasks *MBP Actively involves workers in health and safety work *All MBP workers have an official employment status, the workweek is limited to 48 hours and overtime is occasional Principle 1: Support Hours, wages *Workers are given reasonable breaks, rest periods, and respect the and leave holiday leave, sick leave and parental leave in accordance protection of human with national minimum standards rights *Workers get a living wage that enables them to meet the basic needs of themselves and their families *MBP protects workers from physical, verbal, sexual or *Provide further psychological harassment, abuse of threats training to help Fair *MBP respects the privacy of employees whenever managers identify and treatment private information is collected or the workplace is deal with harassment in monitored the workplace *MBP identifies and consults all existing owners and users of the land or property before buying, renting, Community acquiring or accessing land or property Impacts *MBP engages in local communities on the actual or Principle 2: Make potential human rights impacts of its operations sure that they are not *MBP carefully considers the actual or potential human complicit in human Product rights impacts of its operations and takes action to rights abuses stewardship prevent risks to human rights arising from product defects or improper use or misuse of company products *MBP seeks to avoid involvement in human rights abuses Country risk owing to government or societal practices Labour Planned Principle Area How MBP supports the principle improvements Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the Association and *MBP recognises the right of its workers to freedom effective recognition bargaining of association and to bargain collectively of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The Forced and *MBP takes all the necessary measures to ensure that elimination of all compulsory it does not take part in any form of forced or forms of forced and labour compulsory labour compulsory labour Principle 5: The Child labour and effective abolition of *MBP complies with minimum age standards young workers child labour Principle 6: The *MBP will establish a elimination of policy focusing on discrimination in *MBP ensures that employment-related decisions are awareness of Discrimination respect of based on relevant and objective criteria discriminatory decisions employment and relating to hiring, wages, occupation and similar issues 12 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Social SDGs Required business Scope SDG Target Example action within MBP Fish oil for animal feed *Transform the global food Fish oil is a valuable and scarce system and agricultural resource with great health benefits production towards for humans and animals, and for sustainable and *Animal feed that reason, putting fish oil byenvironmentally sound products products (back) into the human practices Target 2.1 End food chain is a more sustainable hunger and ensure *Biogas alternative than just using it to *Improve production, year-round access to Feedstock replace petroleum in combustion. conservation and distribution safe, nutritious and MBP gives preference to the sales of food by making full use of sufficient food. *Fertilisers of fish oil for animal feed and given (existing and new) technical that aquaculture is an efficient way and scientific knowledge *Composting for the production of proteins, the SDG 2 company is contributing through *Improve efficiency along the Zero this approach to improving food value chain Hunger efficiency along the food value chain and to ensuring access to safe, nutritious and sufficient food. Fertilisers The agricultural industry relies heavily on the use of fertilisers to *Improve the efficient use of meet global food supply. MBP Target 2.4. Ensure resources and harness the applies efficient and effective sustainable food potential benefits of *All MBP bynutrient management decisions production systems ecosystem services products & and offers a fertiliser product range and implement services that includes nitrogen, phosphor, resilient agricultural *Increase the proportion of potassium and sulphur, which are practices. sustainably produced goods essential nutrients required for and services healthy plant growth, healthy soils and resilient agricultural practices. Circular economy The main principle of a circular Target 8.4. Improve *Improve the efficient use of economy is to use different progressively, materials and resources *All MBP bymaterials efficiently and through 2030, global products & sustainably while contributing to SDG 8 resource efficiency in *Implement circular business services the preservation of the Decent consumption and models to further reduce the environment and natural work and production and business’ own environmental resources. MBP‘s operations are economic endeavour to impact, improve resource based on the circular economy growth decouple economic efficiency as well as increase model, as the company collects, growth from supply chain and resource handles and processes by-products environmental security and works to find optimal markets degradation. for these otherwise waste products. 13 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Environmental Performance Environment Planned Principle Area How MBP supports the principle improvements *MBP supports a precautionary approach to Precautionary environmental issues through, for example, systematic Principle 7: Support a approach risk assessments of materials used, products and precautionary processes approach to environmental *MBP has detailed procedures, plans, equipment and Emergency training programmes to prevent accidents and challenges Response emergencies that could affect the environment and human health *MBP will select key *MBP takes measures to reduce energy consumption performance indicators Principle 8: and emissions of greenhouse gases; prevents, reduces and report on its Undertake initiatives General and treats air emissions and impacts on the surrounding performance in line with to promote greater environmenta environment from noise, odour, light and vibrations; and internationally environmental l topics ensures that natural resources are used sustainably recognised standards, responsibility *MBP supports and certifies to acknowledged *MBP will obtain sustainability standards where relevant and possible additional certifications (MSC and IFFO RS) Principle 9: Encourage the Environmenta development and *MBP promotes and facilitates the development and use lly friendly diffusion of of environmentally friendly technologies technologies environmentally friendly technologies Environmental SDGs Required Scope SDG Target Example of contribution business action within MBP Biogas feedstock MBP helps customers and suppliers minimise the negative impact on water quality through the Target 6.3. *Minimise negative management of residual resources. For example, SDG 6 Improve water impact on water MBP takes organic streams to provide a range of Clean water quality by *Biogas and quality through the substrates for anaerobic digestion plants, which and reducing pollution substrates management of then use it to produce renewable energy in the sanitation and increasing materials and waste form of biogas. By these means, companies not recycling. only reduce GHG emissions but also divert waste from sewage/waste water treatment and therefore help to improve air and water quality. *Invest in green Biofuels Target 7.1. energy technologies MBP helps biofuel customers and suppliers to Universal access and decentralised work in partnership, improve energy efficiency to affordable, renewable energy and provide environmentally sustainable reliable and *Technical oils SDG 7 solutions solutions to their energy needs. MBP biofuels and modern energy *Biofuels Affordable *Invest in bioliquids are carbon neutral at the collection services. *Biogas and and clean sustainable energy point and cost-efficient alternatives to mineral oil substrates. energy solutions based heavy fuels, light fuels as well as diesel. *Bio-heating oil. Target 7.2. *Work with other MBP is certified according to RSB and ISCC, which Increase the share companies to scaleallow us to document sustainability and GHG of renewable up both supply and savings as well as comply with public policies that energy in the demand for promote renewable energy. global energy mix. renewable energy 14 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Required Scope SDG Target Example of contribution business action within MBP Working with the food and energy industries Greenhouse gases from human activities are the major drivers of observed climate change since the mid-20th century. The two main causes of anthropogenic greenhouse gas release are the Target 13.1. use of energy and food production, and both of Strengthen *Improve the these activities relate directly to economic resilience and SDG 13 efficiency and *All MBP bydevelopment. MBP operations apply adaptive capacity to Climate climate resiliency products & environmentally friendly and cost-efficient climate-related Action of operations services procedures in the food and energy industries, hazards and natural which are beneficial for both the companies and disasters in all the environment. Hence, when using MBP countries. services and products, our customers and suppliers are improving the efficiency and climate resiliency of their operations in the industries that contribute the most to climate change. Target 14.1. By Management of material and waste 2025, prevent and *Take MBP takes by-products and applies significantly reduce responsibility for environmentally friendly and cost-efficient marine pollution of waste and procedures to return them to the production *MBP byall kinds, in wastewater cycle, preventing its disposal through aqueous product particular from generated, as well waste treatment or direct environmental release collection land-based as other sources of that is not recovered. In this way, MBP helps activities, including pollution as a suppliers to minimise the negative impact on marine debris and result of own water quality through the optimal management nutrient pollution. business activities of residual resources. Sustainable fish oil by-products MBP is a member of the Marine Ingredients Target 14.2. By Organization (IFFO), and customers and SDG 14 2020, sustainably suppliers can be certain of the company’s Life below manage and protect increasing awareness of the importance of water marine and coastal sustainable use of fishery resources. ecosystems to avoid Additionally, the use of MBP fish oil by-products *Contribute to the significant adverse *MBP byaligns with broader policies such as the protection of impacts, including product European Union’s policies on a Circular marine and coastal by strengthening collection Economy, Blue Bioeconomy and Blue Growth, ecosystems their resilience, and *Fish oil for the FAO’s guidance for animal feed and some of through waste and take action for their feed the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals wastewater restoration in order (SDGs). management to achieve healthy MBP has also started the process of getting MSC and productive and IFFO RS certified. These standards set highoceans. level targets for sustainable ocean fishing and production, and they will allow us to demonstrate that our fish oils are responsibly sourced and produced 15 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Required business Scope SDG Target Example of contribution action within MBP Responsibility for the waste generated *Take responsibility Target 15.1. Ensure MBP helps suppliers manage and for waste generated. the conservation, substantially reduce landfilling of waste Assessing and restoration and generated through recycling and preventing actual or *MBP by-product sustainable use of recovery. Therefore, by doing business potential negative collection terrestrial and inland with us, our suppliers contribute to the impact on soil, wildlife, freshwater prevention of actual or potential impact ecosystems and the ecosystems and their on soil, wildlife, ecosystems and the food chain services. food chain. Fertilisers In addition to the content of essential nutrients, some MBP fertilisers are complemented with other attributes to enhance performance and return organic material to the agricultural soil. *Prevent soil As an example, some of the fertiliser contamination from all products sold for farming purposes have sources a content of biological oils to reduce Target 15.3. Combat evaporation of nutrients and reduce the *Enhance soil desertification, smell, as well as to improve their productivity through restore degraded structure, their ability to contain an integrated land and soil, *Fertilisers nutrients and moisture and support approach to soil including land *Soil microbial life in the soil. fertility management, affected by improvement Soil improvement replenishing nutrients desertification, products A good content of organic material is with organic and SDG 15 drought, and floods characteristic of healthy and productive mineral inputs and Life on land and strive to achieve soils. MBP provides raw material for growing appropriate a land degradation both composting and anaerobic crops neutral world. digestion (AD) and as a result compost as well as AD digestate is subsequently *Reduce soil salinity added to agricultural or other soils. This and correct soil pH ensures that valuable organic material is returned and enriches the receiving soil. Organic material in soils ensure that the soil is alive and has a good structure as well as increasing the soils ability to hold valuable water and nutrients. *Implement circular business models to Reduction of environmental impact reduce their MBP services and products help clients environmental impact Target 15.5. Take apply the principles of circular business further, improve urgent and significant models to reduce their environmental resource efficiency as action to reduce the impact further, improve resource well as increase supply degradation of efficiency as well as increase supply chain and resource *All MBP bynatural habitats, halt chain and resource security. security products & the loss of Through the support and certification of services. biodiversity and the sustainability schemes RSB, ISCC, *Help clients reduce protect and prevent IFFO RS and MSC, MBP applies standards their ecological the extinction of that promote sustainable production on footprint and apply threatened species. land and the sea, including the these measures also to protection of threatened ecosystems companies in the and species. supply chain 16 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Economic Performance Anti-corruption Planned Principle Area How MBP supports the principle improvements *The company will look for training options to help employees identify corruption in the work *MBP takes a clear stand against corruption, and its environment internal procedures support its anti-corruption *In order to seek worker commitment feedback and dialogue *MBP evaluates the potential areas of corruption when on anti-corruption, Principle 10: Company doing business, and the risk of internal and external MBP’s clear stand Businesses should culture and conflicts of interest when doing business against corruption will work against procedures *MBP ensures that relevant workers are properly be added to the biannual corruption in all its trained employee appraisal and forms, including *MBP’s internal procedures support its anti-corruption annual survey extortion and bribery commitment *Risks related to anticorruption will be added to the annual risk assessment of the company *The company shares experience, procedures and Joint actions challenges of corruption with other organisations through online communication channels 17 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Economic SDGs Scope SDG Target Required business action Example of contribution within MBP *Support the development and Clean technologies and recycling of diffusion of environmentally materials friendly technologies through MBP services and products contribute Target 9.4. improving product design and to the use of clean technologies Upgrade and material efficiency through the recycling and recovery of SDG 9 retrofit *All MBP byresidual resources. In this way, MBP Industry, existing * Retrofit industries through products & customers and suppliers reduce their innovation and infrastructure efficiency and clean technology services. environmental impact, contribute to infrastructure to make the implementation of circular business industries *Implement circular business models and improve resource sustainable. models to improve resource efficiency, and at the same time efficiency as well as increase increase supply chain and resource supply chain and resource security. security Biodiesel MBP is involved in the supply chain for production and use of bioethanol, biomethane, biodiesel and bio-heating oil for use in transportation, heat and *Provide sustainable solutions electricity generation. and services in support of longBiodiesel is produced using renewable Target 11.3. term urban development resources (such as used cooking oil) Ensure planning and to help SDG 11 whereas fossil fuels are heavily inclusive and operationalise and implement *All MBP bySustainable dependent on non-renewable sustainable high-level visions. Examples products & cities and resources. Instead of waste oils being urbanisation, include improving how cities services. communities disposed of in landfills or the sewage planning and generate and use energy, use system, MBP helps to use them to management. infrastructure, reduce waste create an alternative energy source. and reduce their carbon Therefore, by providing the feedstock footprint or raw material for biodiesel or by using it, MBP customers and suppliers contribute to improving how cities where they operate generate and use energy, reduce waste and reduce their carbon footprint. 18 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Required Scope within SDG Target Example of contribution business action MBP *Respect human Crude glycerine rights, social and Biodiesel is a promising alternative and environmental renewable fuel. However, as its production impacts and use this increases so does the production of its main Target 12.2. By to improve efficiency by-product, crude glycerine. Therefore, the 2030, achieve the and effectiveness of effective utilization of crude glycerine will *All MBP bysustainable material and energy contribute to the viability of biodiesel. MBP products & management and use facilitates the use of crude glycerine in services efficient use of technical refining, in animal feed and as a natural resources. *Develop circular feedstock for anaerobic digestion. In this models for products way, MBP customers and suppliers (i.e. closing loops contribute to improving efficiency and and using renewable effectiveness of material and energy use, to energy) increase supply chain and resource security, and to implement circular business models. Use of organic waste for biogas feedstock, animal feed & biodiesel Traditional methods of dealing with the *Use renewable organic waste stream include sewage Target 12.3. By SDG 12 materials and clean treatment plants, aerobic lagoons, compost 2030, halve per Responsible technologies to yards and landfills. These options consume capita global food consumption and reduce the risk of energy instead of producing it, and they waste at the retail production over-exploitation of also lead to potential air and water quality and consumer *All MBP bynatural resources problems, such as excess nutrients into the levels and reduce products & and biodiversity soil, the release of phosphates and nitrates food losses along services decrease to water supplies and emissions of odorous production and volatiles (ammonia and GHGs). Instead of supply chains, *Implementing recurring to these methods, MBP conducts including postcircular business thorough case-based evaluations (technical, harvest losses. models logistic and legal) of organic waste to provide ingredients for animal feed, biodiesel, and a range of substrates for biogas processing plants. MBP by-product collection service Target 12.5. By MBP substantially helps suppliers to reduce 2030, substantially *Integrate waste waste generation through recycling and reduce waste management reuse. MBP handles all the by-products *All MBP byderived from the customer‘s production generation through policies in business products & and finds optimal markets for those byprevention, development, services. products. In this fashion, MBP customers reduction, production and recycling, and operations and suppliers use and prove resources for reuse. renewable, bio-based or fully recyclable inputs and recovery of resources. Working in partnership MBP is a member of relevant industry Target 17.17. associations: GOED, GROFOR, Svebio, MVO, Encourage and AOCS, IFFO, VFK, Genanvend Biomasse, promote effective *Complement the *All MBP byAFOA and Nofota. Furthermore, through SDG 17 public, publicother parties to products & the use of MBP products and services, our Partnerships for private and civil provide the full services. customers and suppliers complement each the goals society depth of resources other to provide the full depth of resources, partnerships expertise and technological innovation needed to achieve sustainable development. 19 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Our Corporate Sustainability Goals 2018+ Our goals and sustainable development principles that reflect the connection Our goals are at the heart of our corporate between our business strategy and sustainability approach, and they mirror relevant sustainability challenges. By our plan for competing successfully, linking our objectives to these broader optimising our financial performance and goals and principles, we aim to achieving the company’s vision while demonstrate our commitment not only to contributing to the environmental, social sustain and grow our business but also to and economic resilience of the industries contribute to related policy efforts at the and communities where we operate. international, national and regional levels We have developed multiple new uses within our scope of operations. for by-products over the years, and we are faithful to continue innovating in A call for collaboration and cooperation with our supply chain, inspired by the SDGs, and guided by the partnerships UN Global Compact. We linked our corporate goals to the UN Global Compact principles and the SDGs UN Global Compact and the SDGs because we believe that our company can In 2018, we started aligning our corporate significantly help to achieve progress on goals with the SDGs and strengthening our critical sustainability challenges, in business strategy based on the UN Global cooperation with our supply chain and our Compact to address our risks, pursue key stakeholders. opportunities, mitigate impacts and Therefore, by doing business or enhance positive effects in our working with us, our employees, partners, sustainability journey. suppliers and customers can greatly Although we recognise the importance contribute to address important global of supporting all the SDGs, we have linked challenges such as resource scarcity, fuel our corporate sustainability objectives to demand, food waste, the circular the SDGs and UN Global Compact economy, sustainable use of marine resources, improved management of residues and climate change. 20 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Goal 1: Maintain our position as the preferred partner for handling by-products from the Omega-3 fish oil industry worldwide Target supply for human consumption has come Upgrade 20’000 tonnes of distillation fish from aqua farmed fish growing from oil by-products from omega-3 26’000 kilotonnes in 2007 to 44’000 concentration from biofuel to animal feed kilotonnes in 2017. With this business per year. solution, MBP will help to meet the growing demand for fish oil for production Global challenges addressed of aqua feed to feed the world’s growing Resource scarcity: The decreasing population. availability of fishmeal and fish oil for marine ingredients will force the industry SDGs impacted to depend more heavily on by-products for fish feed. Sustainable use of marine resources: Marine and coastal ecosystems require protection through improved waste management practices. MBP Supports the SDGs Circular Economy: Needed to reduce By improving the distribution of food businesses' environmental impact, improve resource efficiency and increase supply chain and resource security. Related Global Compact principles Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental MBP Supports the SDGs responsibility. By implementing circular business models Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Impact on the global issue The world fish oil production has been MBP Supports the SDGs stable at ca. 1’000 kilotonnes per year, due to many reduction fisheries being at By improving resource efficiency as well as increasing supply chain and resource security or close to maximum sustainable capacity. 76% of world fish oil was consumed in aquaculture as a critical ingredient in aquafeed. As the world demand for protein is increasing and demand for fish has increased at the same time as world wild catch of fish has been stable at ca. MBP Supports the SDGs 90’000 kilotonnes per year, growth in fish By contributing to the protection of marine ecosystems through the efficient use of marine resources 21 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Goal 2: Develop more long-term agreements for the strategic management of byproducts for manufacturers who want to outsource their management of by-products (known as OMBP agreements) Target of their by-products, as it not only allows Grow OMBP sourcing volume with 15% them to increase recycling and recovery in each year. their organisation while making profit but also contribute to the much needed Global challenges addressed sustainable management of residues. Resource scarcity: Our society is currently experiencing constraints imposed by our SDGs impacted resource system, which drives the industry to increase its overall efficiency by improving existing processes or finding new uses for residues. Waste disposal: Waste generation is growing rapidly as populations rise, MBP Supports the SDGs migration to cities continues, and economies develop. A broad grouping of By minimising the negative impact on water quality through the management of material and waste global waste is estimated at around 7 to 10 billion tonnes per year, and in European Union, for instance, about 90 per cent of waste in the is produced by industries and businesses. As the problem of waste accumulation reaches threatening proportions, a worldwide MBP Supports the SDGs effort is on to control waste. By working with other companies to scale-up both supply and demand for renewable energy Circular economy: In a circular economy, the aim is to close the loops, and any materials taken from nature should be used not only efficiently but also for as long as possible. Related Global Compact principles MBP Supports the SDGs Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to By strengthening business to business relationships in promote greater environmental the value chain and through broader local economic responsibility. development where the business operates Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Impact on the global issue Through the expansion of our business, MBP Supports the SDGs we will get more companies to understand By enabling the development and diffusion of the value of outsourcing the management environmentally friendly technologies 22 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Goal 3: Make country wide contracts for Used Cooking Oil (UCO) collection and handling, as well as consolidation agreements with other smaller collectors Target SDGs impacted Increase the volume of UCO handled with 10-15% per year in Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland. Global challenges addressed Sewerage damage: When not disposed of properly, UCO causes a large number of MBP Supports the SDGs issues with sewer and septic systems By working with other companies to scale-up the supply because as it cools and settles it and demand for renewable energy crystallizes, which can clog up pipes and cause corrosion of certain materials. Related Global Compact principles Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. MBP Supports the SDGs Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to By improving the efficiency of use of resources promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Impact on the global issue MBP Supports the SDGs According to the Paris climate agreement, By improving resource efficiency more or less complete decarbonization should take place by 2050, and fossil fuel should be replaced by sustainable, renewable energy sources such as biodiesel. The demand for UCO for the production of biodiesel in the EU was MBP Supports the SDGs estimated to be 2’400’000 kilotonnes in By helping to reduce waste and the carbon footprint of 2018. With this UCO service, we will not cities only help to prevent pollution but also increase the supply of biofuels. MBP Supports the SDGs By using technologies that help to reduce GHG emissions 23 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Goal 4: Improve our quality control system Target With the on-site accredited laboratory, Maintain existing certifications (ISCC, RSB, Resource Labs MBP is able to obtain quick and GMP+), obtain additional and correct analyses, which allows quick certifications of relevance for our products blending and meeting customers’ and services (IFFO RS and MSC), and demands as well as legal requirements. obtain accreditation in 2019 for the Group laboratory situated on the factory site in SDGs impacted Greåker, Norway. Global challenges addressed Increased requirements: Sustainable development strategies for businesses has become an important issue worldwide. MBP Supports the SDGs This urge companies to review their By providing products and services in line with the current control systems and prove the performance standards and criteria, obtaining eco-labels quality of their triple-bottom-line or sustainable certifications and implementing circular performance (i.e. economic, business models environmental and social) through internationally recognised certifications. Related Global Compact principles Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental MBP Supports the SDGs responsibility. By obtaining aquaculture certifications for marine and Principle 10: Work against corruption in all animal health and welfare, food safety, and its forms, including extortion and bribery. environmental protection Impact on the global issue The concept of quality control system has merged with the ideas of sustainability and transparency, as these topics have become increasingly important to MBP Supports the SDGs consumer satisfaction. By enhancing our quality control By obtaining and/or promoting the use of forest management certifications and certifications on forest system, we will demonstrate our products compliance with regulations, sustainability schemes as well as contribute to improving the standing of the waste and by-product management industry, to create room for expansion, growth, and profit. 24 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Goal 5: Ensure a better system for storing and retrieving information about customers and suppliers, as well as improve the way MBP organises its communication with OMBP suppliers Target SDGs impacted Implement the use of a customer relationship management (CRM) system by 2019. Global challenges addressed Supply chain transparency: The improvement of supply chain information MBP Supports the SDGs is necessary to support enhancements in By ensuring transparency and unbiased dialogue with sustainability governance. Administering stakeholders data and increasing transparency are powerful tools for managing the risks, grasping the opportunities of global supply chains and contributing to sustainable development. MBP Supports the SDGs Related Global Compact principles Supply chain sustainability (Issue area): By developing innovative solutions for operating system and data management that contribute to improving the transparency in the supply chain. effectiveness, accountability and transparency Impact on the global issue We support product traceability in our management systems and we are aware of the traceability requirements of numerous sustainability schemes, third party auditors and the legislation of MBP Supports the SDGs several countries. By publicly disclosing corporate sustainability By having centralised information information and data and increasing accountability, transparency and data quality mediated by different transparency processes, MBP can help to inform and shape decisions to untangle the complexity of global supply chains and identify starting points for efforts to improve their sustainability. 25 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Goal 6: Implement a management model that includes general management goals securing that all employees are working together in a defined direction Target SDGs impacted Integrate a Corporate Sustainability Management System by 2020. Global challenges addressed Increased pressure on businesses: With growing pressure and the SDGs, the private sector has been urged to MBP Supports the SDGs reconsider what it means to do business. By assessing and mitigating environmental impacts Corporate responsibility: Companies are required to take an approach that creates long-term stakeholder value by implementing a business strategy that considers every dimension of how a business operates in the ethical, social, MBP Supports the SDGs environmental, cultural, and economic By aligning R&D priorities with national and international spheres. sustainable development priorities Related Global Compact principles Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to MBP Supports the SDGs promote greater environmental By incorporating sustainable development into business responsibility. vision, policies and strategies Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Impact on the global issue Over the past two decades, the business sector has significantly increased its focus MBP Supports the SDGs on sustainability issues, and corporate By establishing effective, accountable and transparent sustainability has become a broad global governance structures internally movement. By adopting a corporate sustainability management model, MBP will be contributing to the global spread of sustainability. MBP Supports the SDGs By publicly disclosing corporate sustainability data and increasing accountability, transparency and data quality 26 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Goal 7: Improve our legal, commercial and product understanding, to be able to manage better an increasing intercontinental business in shiploads Target and law, as well as its ability to Standardise and improve MBP's expertise demonstrate the constant improvement in gathering and understanding the of its products and services. Given the various legislation, commercial knowledge current global challenges, knowledge in and product understanding related to the those areas is now particularly use of biological by-products in different indispensable for companies that operate industries and countries. and do business in multiple countries such as MBP. Global challenges addressed By improving the legal, commercial and Compliance requirements: Our global product understanding both within the economy has produced opportunities for company and via partnerships, MBP will international expansion of companies that enhance its capacity to respond to the come with an increased need for challenges of the industry and continue governance, oversight and formal providing an excellent service to suppliers corporate compliance. and customers, in line with relevant Increased complexity: There are several standards, legislation and technologies. trading, legal and technical issues that our company has to be aware of when doing SDGs impacted business internationally. These topics include international trade, investment treaties, different legal systems, tax laws and new technologies and applications for by-products. Liability risk: The risk of potential liability MBP Supports the SDGs along with the desire to serve the By ensuring compliance in own operations and the company and its stakeholders are strong supply chain motivating factors to improve the legal, commercial and product-focused expertise of the organisation. Related Global Compact principles Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental MBP Supports the SDGs responsibility. By creating decent jobs and providing innovative solutions to tackle development challenges General Counsel (issue area): addressing legal matters is critical in advancing key corporate sustainability issues. Impact on the global issue The capacity of an international company MBP Supports the SDGs to create long-term shareholder value is linked to many areas of international trade By establishing strategies that incorporate business compliance, legitimacy and license to operate 27 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Goal 8: Secure MBP’s long-term recruitment of personnel with key competencies, and appear as an attractive and desired workplace to facilitate new recruitment Target employee attitudes, the company wants Maintain employee satisfaction and to be prepared to face the challenges of ensure that they have an interest in their the industry by maintaining employee contribution to the company's engagement and making the workplace performance. more appealing to employees through positive solutions. Global challenges addressed Corporate sustainability: Sustainability is SDGs impacted critical for businesses to survive. Although company sustainability typically looks at its impact on the community locally and globally, sustainability starts with the people inside the company. Employee engagement: In order to build a MBP Supports the SDGs strong foundation for long-term success, companies need to create a good work By promoting job security, respecting labour rights, improving skills and paying a living wage culture, work-life balance and contribute to sustainable development. Related Global Compact principles Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. MBP Supports the SDGs Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of By ensuring responsible employment strategies, association and the effective recognition providing decent work and productive activities for all employees of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 6: Support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. MBP Supports the SDGs By creating decent jobs and integrating environmental Impact on the global issue and social issues within core business operations The 2018 Trends in Global Employee Engagement Report show that when engagement levels drop, companies see consequences such as higher turnover, steeper absenteeism, lower customer satisfaction, and ultimately, poor financial MBP Supports the SDGs performance. While MBP cannot control worldwide events that negatively affect By respecting human rights and supporting labour rights 28 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. Reporting Criteria This report is our first UN Global Compact communication on progress, and we intend to continue reporting on an annual basis. For this reporting cycle, we evaluated our company’s performance on the four areas of the UN Global Compact through the Global Compact Self Assessment Tool and identified our impact on the SDGs based on the Business Reporting on the SDGs: An Analysis of the Goals and Targets developed by GRI and UN Global Compact. Additionally, as a first step into our future monitoring process, we carried out a CSR assessment through EcoVadis, and we hired specialised consultancy services to help us with the integration of sustainability into our corporate strategy, processes, and model. The results of these internal and external assessments enabled us to discover our company’s status and progress and laid the groundwork for the communication of our performance and engagement on this report. Yet, we are committed to continue identifying areas of development and to constantly improve our disclosure in line with emerging frameworks for sustainability reporting. 29 2018 UN Global Compact COP MBP Solutions Ltd. To learn more about MBP SOLUTIONS and how we and our stakeholders are working to promote the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, visit www.mbpsolutions.com 30
