Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 OUR VISION Creating Happiness, Inspiring Change OUR MISSION To deliver world-class communication, information and lifestyle services, to every person, home and business. WHAT’S INSIDE Overview Overview At a Glance 08 Strategy StarHub’s bringing the future closer to consumers Chairman’s Message 10 through gigabit-class network upgrades and Significant Events 14 mesh networking systems, to enterprises through Value Creation 16 Enhancing the Customer Experience 18 robotic business operations, digital SME trade Board of Directors 20 platform and secure enterprise solutions and to In Discussion with StarHub’s Management 26 the entire nation through service innovation and Strategy Senior Management’s Profiles 34 co-creation that drives Singapore’s ‘We Economy’. 10 38 80 Performance Chairman’s Message Hubbing in Review Sustainability We intend to broaden engagement with our Hubbing remains our over-arching business To us, sustainability means using our core customers, allowing us more insights into what strategy and we are taking the Hubbing strengths as a Company to help spread the customers need and want. concept further – Hub+. benefits of our ICT solutions far and wide in Singapore. Governance Performance Sustainability Others HUBBING IN REVIEW Sustainability Report 80 Interested Person Transactions 207 – Consumer 38 Group Financial Review 120 Shareholding Information 208 – Enterprise 44 Notice of Annual General Meeting 210 Financials Corporate Information 214 Governance Financial Statements 2017 125 Proxy Form Corporate Governance 48 Directors’ Statement 126 Sustainability Directors’ Particulars 71 Independent Auditors’ Report 136 Awards and Industry Honours 73 Statements of Financial Position 143 Investor Relations 74 Income Statement 144 Risk Management 76 Statement of Comprehensive Income 145 Statements of Changes in Equity 146 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 150 Notes to the Financial Statements 151 Financials Visit our website for the latest news and informationstarhub.com Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 01 We focus on people, We leverage on our collective experience and strong data analytics to understand what our customers expect of us. This allows us to make timely and relevant recommendations to them. Hub+ Experiences Provide customers lifestyle experiences that money can't buy CONCERT MEET PRIORITY & GREET TICKETS CSISG Ratings No. 1 Broadband No. 1 2 TV No. Mobile 02 Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 03 We put people ...connect at the centre enterprises to of everything opportunities, Our enterprise customers operate in an environment with greater IT complexities and we need to respond by providing them with more capabilities, and global and secure connectivity. Curiosity Hub Provides and monitors valuable social media Partnership insights and data analytics with OCBC To push Singapore’s “We Economy” Cyber Security Centre of Excellence Strong Capabilities in Cyber Security 04 Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 05 ...and inspire change for the future. The Smart Nation push will yield plenty of opportunities for enterprises, start-ups and application developers to come together and build attractive IoT business cases, underpinned by a level of inter-connectedness. Hubtricity To support Singapore's Smart Nation vision Aethon TUG Robots Tie-up with ST Kinetics to enhance hospitality operations Nokia Partnership to co-develop loT ecosystem and launch innovative loT applications and services 06 Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 07 AT A GLANCE What We Offer As Singapore's first fully integrated info-communications 57% company, we offer world-class communication, information and lifestyle services to every person, every home and every business. CONSUMER Mobile A wide range of mobile services, enabling customers to call, text and access the internet, stream music and watch videos whether at home or travelling abroad. Pay TV A suite of international and local TV channels, and an OTT app StarHub Go, to catch the latest drama, education or sports programmes. Broadband A new approach to home WiFi system. Google WiFi points connect seamlessly to each other, you can add as many as you need without affecting your WiFi speed. 08 Overview 43% We will expand and elevate our offerings beyond mere Hubbing packs to a Hub+ proposition. We can do more to become our customers’ key lifestyle partner. ENTERPRISE Strategy Telco Services A rich variety of telco services for all your business needs from enterprise mobility to high speed internet connectivity to global VPN. ICT Solutions Performance Extending the scope to include ICT solutions like IoT, cyber security, data centre and cloud services. OUR SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS Governance Digital Services CO2e Emissions Gender Training Expenditure Generated Diversity Per Employee Develop digital platforms like the marketplace or application tonnes % of Senior Level $ management with partners. 994 56,923 For instance, the tie-up with 60,000 54,705 54,822 1000 Prudential for Fasttrack Trade. 784 Sustainability 800 Wholesale Services 611 40,000 600 Market and sell capacity on our core fixed network to Facilities-Based and 400 Service-Based Operators. 20,000 200 Financials Male 64% Female 36% 0 2015 2016 2017 0 2015 2016 2017 Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 09 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE A View from the Top H ubbing remains our over-arching business strategy and we are taking Overview the Hubbing concept even further. We intend to broaden engagement with our customers, allowing us more insights into what customers need and want. Dear Shareholders, more efficiently. Of course, the digital world Singapore’s economy picked up in 2017. Certain introduces new challenges, disruptions, and industries surged ahead, while others, remained threats. So, aggressively embracing this constantly under pressure. For our industry, disruptive changing digital world is the best strategy for Strategy technologies, changing consumer preferences, remaining relevant. and increasingly complex information technology requirements for businesses continue to challenge For example, we have recently made key traditional business models. But those changes investments in strengthening our cyber security also offer new opportunities for growth. At StarHub, capabilities, as the cyber threat environment is we know that to meet those challenges while also ever changing and will continue to be a threat making the most of the opportunities, requires a to networks and those connected to it for the For our industry, passion for innovation that is ignited by a genuine foreseeable future. It is not just paramount for desire to please our customers. obvious reasons; there is value to all stakeholders disruptive technologies, in StarHub maintaining a secure network. Performance changing consumer Over the years, we have ingrained the ‘marketpreferences, and driven, customer-centric’ culture into how we Hubbing remains our over-arching business increasingly complex operate as a Company. This approach has strategy and we are taking the Hubbing concept information technology worked well for us since our early days as even further. We intend to broaden engagement requirements for a start-up company challenging the incumbents. with our customers, allowing us more insights into We brought many “firsts” to market under the what customers need and want. A combination businesses continue ‘Hubbing’ banner with Mobile, Pay TV and of modern technologies, new ways of addressing to challenge traditional Broadband services, enabling StarHub to the lifestyles our customers choose, and a business models. grow to the size we are today. fresh approach to building strong alliances and partnerships, brings a load of opportunities for Governance Steven Terrell Clontz StarHub has a new corporate vision – ‘inspiring delighting customers in ways that we could not Chairman digital innovation – for the best digital life has to have achieved before. And we are just at the very offer’. We believe there are numerous opportunities beginning of this journey. to bring innovative services to market that enhance the way that people interact, their entertainment For example, in October, we announced a landmark options, and their worklife. The accelerating growth tie-up with OCBC Bank, where we offered Service Revenue Mix in data reservoirs and the ability to analyse that promotions to each other’s customers and are data, along with machines that quickly adapt and continuing to jointly explore exciting initiatives. learn, offer new ways to make smarter decisions StarHub’s strategic investment in entertainment Sustainability about how to please customers and use resources company mm2 Asia Ltd, has allowed us to RECAP 2017 Sustainability Enterprise Leadership Mobile 54% Pay TV 16% CORPORATE KNIGHTS’ ASTL + D’Crypt 2 New Financials Broadband 10% GLOBAL 100 Enterprised Fixed 20% Ranked in the list of the world’s Acquired majority stake in Directors coming onboard most sustainable company for ASTL and D’Crypt (as of providing diverse and invaluable five consecutive years January 2018); specialising insights with their experiences in cyber security solutions 10 Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 11 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE A View from the Top (cont’d) Service Revenue Overview offer hard-to-get tickets for music events and of our TV revenue was paid for branded content For instance, we have implemented a smart A global search is well underway, and we expect to opportunities for interactions with celebrities. to our overseas content providers, and we must Contribution water metering system with a local shipping port announce his successor soon. recover that cost through subscriptions. Together We believe to monitor water consumption and efficiency. We believe there are excellent opportunities with our content partners, we are raising our case We have also inked partnerships with several During his watch, Tong Hai led many new initiatives that our Mobile to grow profitable revenue in our Enterprise in the appropriate forums to protect copyright companies to provide ‘robot-as-a-service’ which we benefit from today, especially launching a Business division. We have put together new owners’ intellectual property rights. We understand Enterprise solutions. These solutions can streamline renewed Enterprise Business group that will serve capabilities in data analytics, cyber security and that the legacy Pay TV model is changing rapidly, business 1,215 1,197 business processes and optimise efficiency as the foundation for growth. Both personally and enterprise data management. Also, by expanding and we must adapt. To that end, we will introduce is better for better productivity. professionally, we have all enjoyed working with StarHub’s fibre connectivity, we are significantly new packages that customers truly value being equipped Tong Hai. My fellow Directors and I thank him for his growing our addressable market. delivered over our networks. In addition, we are to capture We have been rapidly improving our cyber many contributions to StarHub. Strategy also improving on our own OTT app StarHub Go, security capabilities. For example, we are Having reliable access to IT and communications to cater to our customers’ evolving lifestyle needs. growth doubling the size of our Security Operations Board Changes services is no longer enough. As markets opportunities. Centres with certified cyber security analysts This past year, we welcomed two new directors change, a comprehensive suite of enterprise IT The broadband market remains very competitive. and researchers. to our Board. capabilities is by itself a business advantage. We have held our ground, as customers appreciate 2016 2017 Without which, companies cannot transact with the better value we offer. A good example is our Our approach to sustainability extends not only Ms Michelle Lee Guthrie, who is Managing Director their own customers and partners securely. To unique offering of Google WiFi, which provides a to customers but to our suppliers, employees of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, joined Pay TV underpin this vision, we have announced two multi-point mesh network, blanketing users’ homes, and communities too. We have started to assess us as an independent, non-executive director. She major acquisitions. Our stake in Accel Systems and delivering seamless internet access for the risks in our supply chain and enhance our is a veteran in media management and content 378 & Technologies Pte. Ltd. (ASTL) gives us the inmultiple devices. commitment towards responsible sourcing. We development for both traditional and digital media. Performance 349 house capabilities to be an end-to-end provider developed a Supplier Code of Conduct that of cyber security solutions and services. The With Singapore’s Smart Nation and Digital references the United Nations Global Compact We also welcome Mr Naoki Wakai, President acquisition of D’Crypt Pte Ltd (D’Crypt) further Government push gaining momentum, there will Ten Principles to make our commitment to and CEO of NTT Singapore, as our newest broadens our capabilities in cryptographic and be more enterprise projects for StarHub to pursue. sustainability clear to our suppliers and to work non-executive director. With years of experience digital security, further differentiating StarHub’s We believe that our Enterprise business is better with them to build their sustainability performance. in the region’s enterprise communications market, enterprise solutions. equipped to capture growth opportunities. We have We also continue to encourage our employees we expect to benefit from Wakai-san’s experience also hired Dr Chong Yoke Sin to lead this exciting to join us in our efforts to contribute to our and insights. Like our approach in the consumer business, we area of growth. communities through volunteering and providing 2016 2017 are also building an ecosystem of like-minded monetary support. Mr Takeshi Kazami, who joined our Board in partners with complementary capabilities for Sustainability April 2012 has stepped down from our Board, Governance our enterprise customers. In November, we As we work hard to add new capabilities and Broadband While we are proud of what we have established as he returned to Japan after serving as President announced a tie-up with leading insurer Prudential grow our business, we will not compromise on and achieved this year, we are conscious that and CEO of NTT Singapore. We thank him for his to launch a blockchain-based trading platform, what is required of us as a responsible corporate 217 214 there is always more to do. In 2018, we will contributions to StarHub and wish him well in his where our customers can transact more efficiently citizen who cares for the wider community and continue to refine our sustainability strategy, new role for NTT in Japan. with their own suppliers and customers. environment. In 2017, we redefined our approach establish more tangible goals and measure our towards sustainability to align with our new progress so that we can better report on how we In 2017, the Board appointed Ms Rachel Eng as Looking Ahead corporate vision, core business and the United are inspiring change. our Lead Independent Director. She also serves as In 2018, a fourth mobile network operator is Nations Sustainable Development Goals. We also Chairperson for the Nominating Committee. expected to commence operations. We believe had the 2017 Sustainability Report assued for the As the Board continues to oversee the Sustainability that by continuing to enhance the Hubbing first time. management and integration of sustainability, Lastly, on behalf of everyone at StarHub, I look experience we give customers, harnessing the Company continues to consider and forward to your continued support. I want to thank 2016 2017 more useful customer insight through data Our sustainability efforts are focused on five areas: understand the environmental, social and you all for being part of our journey. See you at the analytics, and being more flexible and targeted the environment, social and digital inclusion, governance risks and opportunities that could coming Annual General Meeting. in our service offerings, we will continue to give partnering for innovation, improving customer Enterprise Fixed impact the business during the execution of the customers more reasons to remain experience and supply chain integrity. Those Company’s business strategy. with StarHub. are where our expertise and technology can 437 400 create lasting positive impact and where we see New Leader, New Era The year has been especially challenging on the opportunities to use digital solutions to address In November 2017, we announced that Mr Tan Pay TV front. Inexpensive third-party set-top boxes societal challenges. Tong Hai, our Executive Director and CEO, will are being sold in Singapore that provide free be stepping down from 1 May 2018. He joined Financials streaming of the same content that we offer on a Beneath these five areas is the foundation of how StarHub in 2009 as our Chief Operating Officer Steven Terrell Clontz paid subscription basis. Also, there is a growing we conduct our business responsibly. This way, before taking over the top job in March 2013. Chairman number of websites, apps, and over-the-top (OTT) we have a clear purpose on how we can help video services that dilute viewership of linear our customers and society adapt to technological 2016 2017 broadcast Pay TV content. A high percentage change and digital transformation. 12 Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 13 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS A Year JUL Overview Bursting NOV Acquired majority stake in ASTL to provide a full in-house suite of cyber Prudential With security solutions Partnership to launch Fasttrack Acquisition will strengthen StarHub’s Trade Singapore’s first digital Activities cyber security portfolio, giving it trade platform for Small and the in-house capabilities to be an Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) end-to-end provider of cyber security using blockchain technology Strategy solutions and services OCBC OCT OCBC Bank Formation of Singapore’s first bank-telco strategic partnership Performance to drive Singapore’s collaborative MAR economy or ‘We Economy’ Both companies will invest $6 million Officially opened innovation centre over 12 months to build networks and converged operations cockpit of partnerships across multiple named ‘Hubtricity’ industries and give customers better 58,000 square feet innovation centre services, experiences and offers and converged operations cockpit NTUC Partnership aimed to help working Governance Facility acts as a foundation to accelerate service innovation people in Singapore be future and co-creation with partners ready by tapping on NTUC’s and customers networks and StarHub’s thought Hubtricity leadership in innovation Prudential Fasttrack Trade Sustainability AUG Upgraded 4G Network Capacity with TDD-LTE to boost the size of our data expressways that carry customers’ data traffic by 30% DEC Introduced unlimited weekend data plans suite of new mobile Announced intention to Financials postpaid plans which offer free acquire majority stake unlimited local data access on in D’Crypt to enhance Saturdays and Sundays capabilities in cryptographic and digital security, secure Hubtricity's operations cockpit NTUC ICT and IoT solutions 14 Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 15 VALUE CREATION How We at StarHub Create Value Overview We are more than a reliable provider of integrated communications and entertainment services. With our network of trusted business partners, we are in a good position to grow and create value together. RESOURCES HOW WE CREATE VALUE VALUE CREATION BRAND Strategy Brand Our Strategy Our Brand Hubbing to Hub+ Making Hub+ Journeys A Leg-Up Taking the Hubbing concept further Our partnership with OCBC We also established strategic The brand value we enjoy CUSTOMER to Hub+ allows us to deepen the Bank to develop a ‘We Economy’ partnerships with ST Kinetics today represents the unvarying RELATIONSHIPS relationship with our customers ecosystem by bringing together on robotics solution for the commitment to customer service Customer Relationships and go beyond a subscriptionbusinesses across industries Hospitality sector, with Prudential and product innovation. The based business model. Customers will support this strategy on blockchain-based digital StarHub cachet is what will give us Performance become ‘members’ of a wider through harnessing shared trade platform for the SMEs the leg-up as we head into a new INNOVATION ecosystem of businesses across data insights to deliver digital and with NTUC to enable chapter where we want to create different industries, enjoying a lifestyle services and enhanced workplace digitalisation. happiness for our customers. AND DATA growing range of services and customer experiences. ANALYSIS lifestyle experiences. Innovation and Data Analysis CAPITAL Differentiating Ourselves Governance Capital Our underlying thinking Making Happy Journeys Meeting Demands remains the same: deliver a EMPLOYEES high service standard and We no longer look at the Customers are using all types We regularly upgrade our delight our customers. As we customer’s journey in a of channels to engage with us. networks to stay ahead of gain better insights into our ‘transactional’ manner. We are To meet their needs, we have our customers’ needs and customers’ lifestyle needs, creating a seamless ‘episodic’ integrated the customer service Singapore’s Smart Nation Employees we constantly improve on our SOCIETY journey for our customers as we touchpoints like retail centres, aspirations. This gives us the customer service experience. serve them from start to end. online contact points and core foundation from which AND OTHER My StarHub app. we service our customers. RELATIONSHIPS Sustainability Read more on page 110 Society and Other Relationships Governing Ourselves REINVESTMENT Best Practices Effective Risk Management We make regular investments in our Technology & Infrastructure networks, spectrums, staff and other We are committed to continually uphold high standards of corporate We have an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework and process with IT assets that help run our businesses governance and sustainability practices and policies that promote top-down commitment to risk management and good governance. Our ERM in an efficient and productive manner. transparency, accountability and integrity. We believe this is critical to Framework defines an approach that seeks to consider strategic risks which Our CAPEX commitments are balanced the long-term sustainability of our business and value creation for are debated and reviewed at the executive levels, and operational risks that against the returns we can give our Financials our stakeholders. are identified through comprehensive interviews at the business unit levels shareholders in the form of our quarterly across the enterprise. dividend payouts. Security 16 Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 17 ENHANCING THE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE The customer experience What We Have enhancement journey in Investment Transformed this dynamic $6m landscape is an on-going one. What we have built and OCBC Bank and StarHub will implemented invest S$6 million to build thus far is a networks of partnerships cumulation across multiple industries and of the past give customers better services, experiences and offers few years of planning and execution. We trust the experience RENEW will get only better ahead. An award-winning initiative aimed at encouraging the public to recycle e-waste. +56% 92 tons of e-waste was recycled versus 59 tons a year ago +23% Added 76 more e-waste bins in 2017 Best Pay TV Service 7 th year in running 2010 2017 By HWM + HardwareZone.com Tech Awards 2017 18 Overview Awards News Corporate Knights’ New Spectrum StarHub + Global 100 ST Kinetics Ranked as one of the world’s 100 most sustainable companies 2.5GHz Tie-up introduces TUG robots to help streamline 5 TDD-LTE Spectrum Strategy th Consecutive manual laundry tasks Years used at National Day Parade +30% THREE LAUNCHED HUBTRICITY improvement in network capacity Auto Steps TO HELP ACCELERATE SMART NATION Performance Two Acquisitions (as of January 2018) To boost our cyber security expertise, we acquired And to showcase its deep capabilities in connectivity, cyber security and data analytics. ASTL + D’Crypt Governance StarHub WeChat Go SIM Customer Service We introduced the StarHub WeChat Go SIM in response to the growing number of visitors from China. It gives them unlimited social messaging on the WeChat app. Sustainability Calls handled daily >470 >220 >30 >24/7 + 9,000 CS Staff HubTroopers Retail Outlets CS Support mm2 Gives the ability to provide customers with Financials Asia Lifestyle Experience Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 19 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Integrating Board Diversity Our Board believes in the benefits of diversity in its membership, including Diverse experience, skills and gender, and strives to maintain the right balance. It comprises individuals with deep knowledge and Expertise experience in core and diverse business sectors within local, international and global markets, bringing an insightful range of perspectives to the business. Skills Independence % % 100 100 90 90 Key to Committee membership: 80 75 75 80 A Audit Committee 67 70 70 M&A / Business S Strategy Committee Development / Entrepreneurship 60 60 50 50 N Nominating Committee 50 50 Executive Resource and E Financial 40 Independent 40 Compensation Committee Expertise Directors R Risk Committee 30 30 20 20 Committee Chairman Telco / Media / Non-independent Technology 10 Directors 10 01. 02. 03. Steven Terrell Clontz Tan Tong Hai Paul Ma Kah Woh Chairman Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer Independent Director Member S N Member R Member A R Date of Appointment Last Re-elected Date of Appointment Last Re-elected Date of Appointment Last Re-elected 8 December 1999 19 April 2016 1 March 2013 19 April 2016 23 September 2015 19 April 2016 and Chairman on 15 July 2015 20 04. 05. 06. Overview Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee Teo Ek Tor Independent Director Lead Independent Director Independent Director Member S A Member N A Member E N Date of Appointment Last Re-elected Date of Appointment Last Re-elected Date of Appointment Last Re-elected 16 August 2004 19 April 2016 4 May 2015 19 April 2016 16 August 2004 12 April 2017 Strategy 07. 08. 09. Performance Stephen Geoffrey Miller Liu Chee Ming Michelle Lee Guthrie Non-Executive Director Independent Director Independent Director Member R S E Member S Member S Governance Date of Appointment Last Re-elected Date of Appointment Last Re-elected Date of Appointment Last Re-elected 1 January 2017 12 April 2017 16 August 2004 28 April 2015 25 August 2017 – Sustainability 10. 11. 12. Lim Ming Seong Nasser Marafih Naoki Wakai Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Member A S E Member Member Financials Date of Appointment Last Re-elected Date of Appointment Last Re-elected Date of Appointment Last Re-elected 14 December 2000 12 April 2017 9 July 2007 19 April 2016 30 August 2017 – Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 21 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Integrating Diverse Expertise (cont’d) 01. Steven Terrell Clontz 02. Tan Tong Hai Chairman Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer Terry is Senior Executive Vice-President, International, at Tong Hai joined StarHub in 2009 as its Chief Operating Officer, Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd (ST Telemedia). overseeing the day-to-day operations of StarHub. He has over He is also a Director of PSA International Pte Ltd, Cloud9 25 years of experience in the regional information technology, Technologies LLC, STT GDC Pte. Ltd., Armor Defense Inc., Internet and e-commerce industries and has had broad Commerce Parent, Inc, Commerce Topco LLC and CenturyLink, experience at top management levels. Tong Hai was previously Inc.. He served as the CEO of StarHub for 11 years before the President and CEO of Singapore Computer Systems from retiring on 1 January 2010. Terry is a well-regarded veteran August 2005 to December 2008, and the President and CEO of in the telecommunications and media industry with over 43 Pacific Internet (PacNet) from March 2001 to August 2005. He years of extensive experience. He brings with him invaluable was instrumental in turning both companies around when he was knowledge of the telecoms and media industry and extensive at their helms. In addition, Tong Hai is currently the Chairman of management expertise. During his 11 years at the helm of StarHub, Nanyang Polytechnic's Board of Governors. He holds a Bachelor Terry led StarHub in a number of major milestones including of Electrical Engineering (Honours) from the National University the transformation of StarHub from being Singapore’s third of Singapore. mobile player in 2000 to a fully-integrated “quad-play” service provider; merging StarHub with the then StarHub Cable Vision in 2002; bringing StarHub public in 2004 on the Main Board of the Singapore Exchange; and advancing StarHub’s market position to become Singapore’s second largest mobile operator in 2005. Terry began his career in the USA. From 1996 to 1998, he served as the President and CEO of IPC Information Systems Inc., based in New York. Prior to that, Terry held senior executive positions at BellSouth International, Inc. He was the President of BellSouth International (Asia-Pacific), Inc. between 1991 and 1994. Terry 03. Paul Ma Kah Woh holds a Bachelor of Science (Physics Major) from the University Independent Director of North Carolina, USA. Paul is a Director of Mapletree Investment Pte Ltd, Mapletree Greater China Commercial Trust Management Ltd and PACC Offshore Services Holdings Ltd. He is a member of the Advisory Board of The Asian Civilisations Museum. Paul was a senior partner of KPMG Singapore, where he was in charge of the Audit & Risk Advisory Practice and Risk Management function until his retirement in September 2003. Paul is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, and a Member of the Singapore Institute of Chartered Accountants. 22 Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee Overview 04. 05. Independent Director Lead Independent Director Nihal serves on the boards of DBS Bank Ltd, DBS Group Rachel is the Deputy Chairman at WongPartnership LLP. She is a Holdings Ltd and Olam International Limited in Singapore and corporate lawyer with vast experience and expertise in equity and GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited in India. He is the debt capital markets, real estate investment trusts and corporate Chairman of Caraway Pte. Ltd., a subsidiary of Olam International finance. She serves on the Board of Olam International Ltd, Limited. Nihal held various senior level management positions SPH Reit Management Pte. Ltd., Certis CISCO Security Pte. Ltd. in the Unilever group across Asia, Europe and Latin America and the Public Utilities Board. Rachel also sits on the Board of over forty years. Nihal was cited in the Queen’s 2004 New Year Trustees of Singapore Institute of Technology and Council of the Strategy Honours List in the UK and was awarded the CBE (Commander of Singapore Business Federation, and is a member of the Corporate the Order of British Empire) for services to UK business interests Governance Council. She was a member of the Committee on in Indonesia. He was chosen by Business Week in 2002 for the the Future Economy (CFE) Steering Committee, Ministry of Trade Stars of Asia Award as one of the “25 leaders at the forefront of & Industry. Rachel holds a Bachelor of Law (Honours) from the change”. Nihal holds a Bachelor of Arts (Honours) with a major National University of Singapore. in Economics from Bombay University, India and has attended various management development programmes in India, Australia, the UK and the USA, including the Advanced Executive Programme conducted by Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University and the Advanced Management Program Performance at the Harvard Business School, USA. 06. Teo Ek Tor Independent Director Ek Tor is the Chairman of PrimePartners Group Pte Ltd and Aris PrimePartners Asset Management Pte Ltd, a joint venture Governance asset management company based in Singapore. Ek Tor has We are committed to communicating vast experience in investment banking, asset management and our strategy and activities to all our financial services in Asia, and brings with him in-depth financial shareholders and listening to their and analytical expertise. He had contributed to, and been questions and feedback. instrumental in the development of two major regional investment banking groups – Morgan Grenfell Asia (1980-1993) and BNP Prime Peregrine (1997-1999). Ek Tor held senior executive positions within the Morgan Grenfell Asia group and was the Regional Managing Director of BNP Prime Peregrine (Singapore) Sustainability Ltd. He holds a Bachelor of Arts (Honours), with a major in Business Administration, from the University of Western Ontario, Canada. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 23 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Integrating Diverse Expertise (cont’d) 07. Stephen Geoffrey Miller 08. Liu Chee Ming Non-Executive Director Independent Director Steve is the President & Chief Executive Officer of ST Telemedia Chee Ming is the Managing Director of Platinum Holdings and is also a member of ST Telemedia Board of Directors. He Company Limited since 1996. Chee Ming also serves on the also serves on the Board of TeleChoice International Limited. Board of Haitong Securities Co., Ltd. He is also an Independent Steve joined ST Telemedia in 2005 and held various senior Non-executive Director of OUE Hospitality REIT Management positions including President & Chief Operating Officer and Pte. Ltd. and OUE Hospitality Trust Management Pte. Ltd., Chief Financial Officer. He played a crucial role in enhancing ST which are the REIT Manager and Trustee-Manager respectively Telemedia’s business competitiveness and asset portfolio while of OUE Hospitality Trust and STT GDC Pte. Ltd. He is also an simultaneously maintaining prudent financial management. Independent Supervisor of the Supervisory Committee of Dalian Prior to joining ST Telemedia, Steve was Financial Advisor to the Wanda Commercial Properties Co., Ltd. He has over 40 years company on the merger of its data centre business with Equinix of experience within the financial services sector and has an and Pihana Pacific, creating one of the world’s largest carrierinvaluable network of contacts in the media industry. He is neutral data centre network. Steve has more than 25 years of a member of the Takeovers Appeal Committee and Deputy global investment, financial management, strategic planning and Chairman of the Takeovers and Mergers Panel of the Securities CMT industry experience. He spent over 14 years of his career and Futures Commission in Hong Kong. Chee Ming holds a in investment banking with Credit Suisse, primarily heading its Bachelor of Business Administration from the former telecommunications and media group throughout Asia and the University of Singapore. Pacific. Steve holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Commerce, with First Class Honours in Economics and Finance, from the University of New South Wales, Australia. 09. Michelle Lee Guthrie Independent Director Michelle is Managing Director (MD) of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, one of Australia’s most valued creative and cultural institutions. Since becoming MD in May 2016, she has led the national broadcaster in a new strategic direction focused on digital transformation in a fast-changing, fragmented and increasingly global media market. Michelle has extensive experience and expertise in media management, content development, and a detailed knowledge of both traditional broadcasting and the new digital media landscape. Over the last 25 years, she has worked for a range of broadcasting and media organisations in Australia, Europe and Asia, including BSkyB, Star TV and Google. Michelle is well placed to guide StarHub’s strategic development, with her extensive knowledge of the Asian media market, digital technology and digital disruption. Michelle currently serves on the Board of Auckland International Airport Limited. She holds a Bachelor of Arts and Law (Honours) from Sydney University. 24 Lim Ming Seong Nasser Marafih Overview 10. 11. Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Ming Seong is the Chairman of CSE Global Limited and First Dr Nasser is a Member of the Ooredoo Group Board and Resources Ltd and serves on the boards of U Mobile Sdn Bhd Advisor to the Ooredoo Group Board’s Chairman. He was the and STT GDC Pte. Ltd. Ming Seong was with the Singapore CEO of Ooredoo Group from 2006 until November 2015. He Technologies ( ST ) group from 1986 to 2002, where he left as also served as CEO of Ooredoo Qatar from 2002 to 2011, a Group Director. Prior to joining the ST group, Ming Seong served subsidiary of Ooredoo Q.S.C. Dr Nasser began his professional as the Deputy Secretary with the Ministry of Defence of Singapore. career at Ooredoo Qatar (then known as Qatar Telecom) in Ming Seong brings with him extensive accounting, management 1992 as an expert advisor from the University of Qatar, and Strategy and technical expertise. He holds a Bachelor of Applied Science later joined Ooredoo Qatar as the Director of Strategic Planning (Honours) with a major in Mechanical Engineering from the and Development. He was instrumental in many strategic University of Toronto and a Diploma in Business Administration initiatives and landmarks in Ooredoo Qatar’s history, including from the former University of Singapore. Ming Seong also the introduction of the first GSM service in the Middle East in participated in the Advanced Management Programs conducted 1994 and thereafter, the Internet service in Qatar in 1996, and by INSEAD and the Harvard Business School, USA. the privatisation of Ooredoo Qatar in 1998. Under Dr Nasser’s leadership, Ooredoo Qatar has evolved from being a local telecom provider to an international player, with strategic investments in the Asia Pacific region. Dr Nasser holds a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, a Master of Science and a PhD in Performance Communication Engineering from the George Washington University, USA. 12. Naoki Wakai Non-Executive Director Wakai-san is the President and CEO of NTT Singapore Pte. Ltd., the regional headquarters of NTT Communications Corporation Governance for the Asia Pacific region, since 1 July 2017. He joined Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Company (NTT) in 1989 and has 21 years' experience in international telecommunications and IT business. He was involved in the establishment of subsidiaries and branch offices in China, Taiwan, and Korea, and played a major role in the construction of international submarine cable systems. After serving as Senior Manager of IP Transit Business at NTT Com Asia (Hong Kong) and Director of International Business at Verio (USA), he became Head of Server Hosting Team in 2006, Head of Sustainability Carrier Relations in 2008, and VP of Global IP Network in 2009. Prior to becoming the President and CEO of NTT Singapore, he served as Deputy Managing Director and COO of NTT Europe Limited for five years. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 25 SENIOR MANAGEMENT In Discussion with StarHub’s Management Overview Strategy Performance Governance Sustainability From left: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Financials Catherine Chia Kee Yaw Yee Dennis Chia Jeannie Ong Tan Tong Hai Chong Siew Loong Howie Lau Dr Chong Yoke Sin Veronica Lai Tim Goodchild Senior Vice President, Chief Information Chief Financial Officer Chief Strategic Chief Executive Officer Chief Technology Officer Chief Marketing Officer Chief, Enterprise General Counsel & SVP, Government & Human Resource Officer Partnership Officer Business Group Company Secretary Strategic Affairs 26 Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 27 SENIOR MANAGEMENT In Discussion with StarHub’s Management (cont’d) Investment In the Consumer space, we are enhancing Activities our Hubbing strategy to Hub+ to deliver lifestyle services alongside our existing connectivity and entertainment services. We understand our customers’ needs are evolving beyond basic connectivity and Tan Tong Hai so we intend to build a wide umbrella of CEO highly relevant lifestyle services across major consumer spending categories How has the year been for the businesses and what can StarHub 2 through partnerships. do to remain competitive? Aquisitions Our partnership with OCBC Bank is (as of January 2018) a good example of how we can develop In 2017, the telecom industry a ‘We Economy’ ecosystem by harnessing experienced some intense shared data insights to deliver digital headwinds including highMobility lifestyle services and enhanced priced spectrum auction, heightened Activities customer experiences. pricing competition with the return of unlimited data plans, and a more crowded We are applying the Hubbing strategy marketplace with new Mobile Virtual to the Enterprise space too as we focus Network Operators (MVNOs). In 2018, on certain industry segments and offer more competition is expected with the specialised ICT solutions to help them entry of a fourth mobile network operator combat the digital disruptions. We can 2.3m into the market. enable the digital transformation of enterprises through our Hubbing suite of In this challenging environment, it is connectivity, data analytics, IoT, robotics, important for us to focus on customerSubscriber cyber security and managed solutions. Our centricity by utilising customer insights base Enterprise business will be a key growth to deliver innovative segment-specific driver of our overall business. propositions. We aim to provide the best service experience by engaging and We also announced the opening of a servicing our customers based on their 58,000 square feet innovation centre and needs through omni-channel platforms. converged operations cockpit named ‘Hubtricity’ in March 2017. The new facility We continued our multi-year Digital acts as a foundation to accelerate service Transformation initiative, which drove innovation and co-creation with partners improvements in service levels, better and customers. It will enable us to work engagement with stakeholders and cost with local and global partners to build We efficiencies across multiple functional areas platforms, such as smart home, intelligent announced of our business via digital technologies. vehicles, connected buildings, virtual reality the opening and smart retail, to meet the future needs of a 58,000 ‘Curiosity’, our social and digital analytics of our customers. hub, was set up to enhance our community square feet management and social customer care. Mobility innovation We also invested resources to drive Mobility continues to be our largest centre and increased end-to-end digital sales, optimise contributor of revenue. We are the second converged backend processes through automation largest mobile operator with a mobile operations and enhance customer support through subscriber base of 2.3 million. The global deployment of chatbots. trend of declining voice, IDD and roaming cockpit named ‘Hubtricity’ in March 2017. 28 Overview like Google WiFi with our fibre broadband services to enhance our customers’ home broadband experience. usages continued to dampen revenue growth, partially mitigated by increased Enterprise Fixed In 2017, we usage of data and higher revenue from We registered a healthy growth of 9.2% established mobile value-added services (VAS). year-on-year in our Enterprise Fixed strategic Strategy revenue to $436.9 million, driven by partnerships In line with our customer-centric focus, managed services and the consolidation we launched Unlimited Weekend Data of ASTL’s results. We continued to deepen with ST Plans and VAS such as DataJump and our penetration into selected verticals and Kinetics, DataShare that caters to our customers’ enhance our ICT service capabilities. Prudential, growing appetite for data brought on by NTUC and more advanced smartphones and pixelIn 2017, we established strategic OCBC Bank. heavy content. We have also started partnerships with ST Kinetics on robotics deploying TDD-LTE spectrum at key high solution for the Hospitality sector, with traffic areas, starting from the Marina Bay Prudential on blockchain-based digital Performance area, to boost capacity for eventual Enterprise trade platform and with NTUC to enable Fixed Activities gigabit-capable 4G services. workplace digitalisation. We also acquired ASTL and announced an intention to Pay TV & Broadband acquire D’Crypt to enhance our cyber In the pay TV space, we have seen the security solution capabilities, making rapid proliferation of OTT players in the us well-placed to compete in major market. To address this, we are constantly government and commercial tenders. improving our own online streaming service StarHub Go and also launched GROWTH We also appointed Dr Chong Yoke Sin StarHub TV d’Lite packs for different as Chief, Enterprise Business Group. +9.2% Governance content genres without having to subscribe Her extensive background helming ICT to the Basic Groups, thereby giving our companies such as NCS and Integrated customers more flexible viewing options. year-on-year Health Information Systems will be instrumental in helping us to accelerate We have also seen a rise in the availability our growth in the enterprise business. of alternative pirated content sources and will work closely with our content It is publicly known that I will be stepping and government partners to protect the down come end April 2018. This past copyright owners’ intellectual property nine over years at StarHub has been a Sustainability rights. Finally, we remain committed to fulfilling chapter of my career as I have managing our content costs by optimising our content lineup based on the analytics $ 436.9m achieved what I set out to do, which is to grow StarHub’s Enterprise business. I have of customers’ viewing preferences. revenue also instilled in the Company a culture dedicated to delivering happiness for our In the Broadband segment, competition staff, shareholders and customers. remains strong but we are tracking well as seen in our stable residential broadband I believe my management team and I customer base and revenue. We will have laid a strong foundation as I pass continue to introduce unique offerings on the baton to the next CEO to steer the Company onto the next level of success. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 29 SENIOR MANAGEMENT In Discussion with StarHub’s Management (cont’d) Financial The 700MHz spectrum payment is likely to be due Activities in 2018. Are there any other substantial CAPEX that you need to look at as well? The licensing fee of $282 million for the 700MHz spectrum, which we won in a bidding exercise in 2017, is expected to be paid six months before the regulator releases it for our use. Assuming the spectrum is available in January 2019, we are then required to pay the fee in July 2018. PURCHASED Other than the spectrum fee, we do not foresee any major Dennis Chia CFO 80.4% CAPEX needs. stake in ASTL We have always taken a balanced financial approach to In 2016, you acquired a stake acquisitions, CAPEX and dividends. For dividend payments to in mm2 Asia. This year, you shareholders, the Board takes a forward three-year view of our looked at more acquisitions. earnings, free cash flow, growth prospects, investment needs Can you share your inorganic and an optimal balance sheets. Their preference is to make growth story? sustainable dividend payments. The whole premise of our For FY2018, the Board has recommended to pay four cents per acquisitions is to complement and quarter per ordinary share. strengthen our existing service ANNOUNCED offerings to both our consumer and enterprise customers. With that in mind, $ 122m In 2018, we will see the adoption of new Singapore we went on to increase our stake in mm2 D'Crypt deal Financial Reporting Standards (International) or Asia from the initial 8.8% in June 2016 to SFRS(I). What kind of financial impact do you see approximately 9.8% in July 2017. for the Group? Having a strategic stake allows us to From 1 January 2018, Singapore listed companies will offer hard-to-get premium tickets to top have to adopt the new mandatory SFRS(I), which are international music acts as well as exclusive identical to International Financial Reporting Standards meet-and-greet sessions to the stars, and adopted by many global companies. At our Group level, we do sneak previews to blockbuster movies not expect the application of the standards and interpretations to to our lucky customers as part of our have a significant impact on our financial statements for FY2018, Hubbing perks. except for SFRS(I) 15 (Revenue from Contracts with Customers). We have In 2017, we acquired an 80.4% stake in Under SFRS(I) 15, our service revenue is expected to decline ASTL; a cyber security systems integrator always taken as we must now attribute a ‘fair value’ to each element specialising in the provision of security a balanced of a customer’s contract, including the sale of handsets solutions, consulting and managed financial and equipment. security services. Two weeks before the approach to year ended, we also announced a deal to acquisitions, As we allocate a portion of our service revenue to sales of bring D’Crypt; a cryptographic and secure CAPEX, and equipment revenue, you will see that the service revenue communications solutions provider, into will be lower while sales of equipment revenue will be higher our fold. With these two acquisitions, we of course, compared to the current accounting treatment. You will also see have become more equipped to provide dividends an increase in our total assets, as sales of equipment revenue will our enterprise customers with services in for our be recognised at the start of the contract when the equipment is cryptography and cyber security. shareholders. transferred to the customer. We are confident that these purchases Accordingly, the group EBITDA margin as a % of service revenue is will pay off in a sustainable way for expected to be higher following the adoption of SFRS(I) 15. However, our shareholders as we arm ourselves this does not have any impact on the Group’s cash flow at all. with newer and additional enterprise capabilities, expertise and revenuegenerating opportunities. 30 Overview The digitally through Digital Hubbing and addressing our business customers’ needs through Vertical healthcare Hubbing. Enterprise Hubbing includes cyber security, sector is IoT and robotics, insights and artificial intelligence. growing and They will complement our existing services like can be made enterprise mobility, IT managed services and more efficient advertising solutions. Dr Chong Yoke Sin Chief, Enterprise Business Group with the right Strategy With the global and local companies placing an IT solutions. increasing interest in cyber security, we have made You were hired to grow a new Outside of the two bold acquisitions to boost our expertise in this ‘strategic pillar’ of StarHub. healthcare field: ASTL and D’Crypt (as of January 2018). These How do you expect to make space, the acquisitions will help to widen and deepen our cyber this happen? enterprise security capabilities to capture a bigger and meaningful share of revenue in this space. The relevant experience I bring to market is big, StarHub is managing technology dynamic and Next, we have enabled the Enterprise Digital Hubbing, solutions for industries such enlivening. which is essentially about creating marketplaces for Performance as banking, government, healthcare, enterprises to serve and target customers better. hospitality and retail in Singapore and We believe that companies do not just want to the region. My recent involvement in come together and do business with each other, the healthcare sector where IT made they also want to do so in the most efficient and a significant impact in the delivery of secure platform possible. medicine and healthcare, in general, will help the development of industry practices To help create one such platform, together with for StarHub. Prudential, we introduced Singapore’s first digital trade platform for SMEs, the Fasttrack Trade (FTT). For both of my previous organisations, Built on blockchain technology, the transactions made Governance I devoted a large part of my effort in Enterprise on the FTT will be fast and secure. We expect more transforming them into strong serviceBusiness businesses and partners to come join the platform and oriented and technologically-sound Activities make the FTT a livelier place. organisations with deep domain expertise that understand our clients, to enable us Lastly, we created Vertical Hubbing as we want to stay to help with the transformation of their focused on selected verticals like the government, business successfully. financial services industry, hospitality, transport, SMEs, and of course, healthcare. Different industries I believe in nurturing talent to fulfil the have varying requirements and needs. We will make Sustainability mission of StarHub. So, it is important ENABLED sure we have the relevant account managers with the to create the right vision and strategy, necessary domain knowledge to provide the soundest and then to execute with the right Enterprise advice and service to our customers in each of organisational enablement and passion Digital these verticals. for the customer’s success. Technologies evolve and so will demand, but the Hubbing Underlying the three Hubbing layers will be constant is the will of the Company to keep complemented by a high level of customer service on innovating to provide solutions that experience from us. We strongly believe that for our make our customers successful. customers to enjoy the maximum value, the best technical expertise should be matched by the best The strategy for our Enterprise business customer service. Financials is based on enhancing the current slew of telco and ICT solutions through Enterprise Hubbing, transforming organisations Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 31 SENIOR MANAGEMENT In Discussion with StarHub’s Management (cont’d) The dawn of new possibilities excites us, and we will continue to deeply explore experimental technologies to serve our customers better. The industry is gearing up for the rollout Chong Siew Loong of the next big milestone: 5G. While exact CTO industry standards have yet to be fully firmed up, we can expect many more What were some of StarHub’s different ways on how the much bigger Howie Lau networks innovation that took mobile data bandwidth can be used. CMO place in 2017? Various industry bodies and operators have marked 2020 as the year for 5G How is StarHub refining its My Networks colleagues and rollout and as this timeframe approaches, marketing activities to make I have years of experience working we look to introduce a lot more specific the StarHub brand a more with a group of leading technology solutions and services making good use of meaningful one? partners and equipment vendors on our this technology to improve the services our mobile, HFC (Hybrid Fibre Co-axial) and customers get to enjoy. Customers today are flooded with fixed networks. We are always on the traditional marketing messages lookout for technical capabilities that Over the last few years, as part of our wherever they turn. Information makes business sense for our customers progressive rollout and deployment of has been democratised and it is no longer and ourselves. efficient, future-ready equipment, we have sufficient to ‘spray and pray’ with marketing been transforming our backend using messages. It is increasingly important We also make sure our voice is heard as cloud and software-defined networking for brands to be able to engage their the entire telecommunications industry technologies. Our digital transformation customers in meaningful ways. debates and create new technological allows us to drive efficiency in our IT standards. For example, we continue to backend and network management to Similarly, at StarHub, we hope to undertake trials of new wireless standards cater to evolving customers’ expectations differentiate ourselves as more than just with infrastructure partners such as and competition. a service provider. We want to engage Nokia, so that we can jointly test how our customers beyond the transactional the technologies and systems perform We have also introduced a wider coverage level; we hope to appeal to emotions, at actual events and locations. of 4G services carrying data up to the communicate that we care and we are here gigabit-level and beyond. Outside of to make lives better, and in turn, happier. One such pilot we did this past year was higher-speed mobile services, we also see at the Marina Bay area, the venue for significant potential in the IoT space. Which A campaign we did in the past year was Singapore’s National Day Parade. The tens we believe will gain popularity once the built on the theme “#LoveNoMatterWhat” of thousands of spectators and performers, 700MHz spectrum is released for use by in the context of PSLE (Primary School each with their own mobile devices, the regulator. Leaving Examination) scores – something was an ideal launchpad for our latest 4G Singaporeans can empathise with. No equipment carrying the 2.5GHz TDDLastly, to fuel the growth in the likes of fanfare, no special effects, no dizzy camera LTE spectrum; a spectrum which we only wearables, robotics and sensors, we angles. Rather, we would capture the raw acquired in July. We are pleased to report extended support for eSIM (embedded emotions of parents simply sharing their 30% improvement in network capacity. SIM), NB-IoT (Narrowband IoT) and unconditional support and love for their This means we can accommodate sudden, LoRaWAN (Long Range Wide Area children an hour before the actual PSLE temporary spikes in data carrying capacity Network) standards last year. results were released. and that our mobile subscribers’ usage experience remains good. As Education Minister Ng Chee Ming shared on his Facebook about this video “Use your Another trial we conducted featured drones grades to guide you, not define you.” This equipped with a small cell base station. campaign was done in collaboration with Imagine a network of flying machines We have introduced a wider the Ministry of Education and was intended autonomously boosting mobile signals coverage of 4G services to engage our customers on the theme, where needed, to ensure connectivity carrying data up to the ‘Love, No Matter What’. during mega events and emergencies. gigabit-level and beyond. 32 Overview Another video campaign we produced for National Day 2017, “#RegardlessofColour”, The whole idea is to put ourselves from was shown entirely in black and white our customers’ perspective; when they with many scenes of Singaporeans living have a technical issue or a service need side by side regardless of our race or that requires help, why go through the religion. It ties in with the message we are various seemingly redundant, and at times, delivering: that Singapore is a multi-racial, frustrating steps? multi-religious country in harmony. As we When new technologies are available, we We wielded a bit of artistic license here gain better are happy to introduce them as well. For insights Strategy and juxtaposed the Martin Luther King, Jr’s example, with algorithms getting more iconic speech “I Have a Dream” in our video. into our sophisticated, we have introduced chatbots Half a century after his death, the US civil customers’ to answer simple questions which customers rights leader continues to inspire millions lifestyle might have. If the queries happen to be and generations to come. This campaign more complicated or urgent, our customer created many conversations on our amazing needs, we service agents are always ready to jump in multi-cultural country we are very fortunate constantly and take over. to have. We believe we were able to inspire improve on Marketing a certain level of emotional connection with our customer We no longer look at the customer’s journey Activities our customers. service with us from a transactional manner but Performance a more holistic one. Instead of clearly experience. demarcated processes, we are creating Consumers are getting more a seamless ‘episodic’ journey for our demanding, competitors have customers as we serve them from the also upped their game. What has start to end. StarHub done to keep its level of #LOVENO customer service ahead? We are also using an efficient way to build a MATTERWHAT feedback loop to ensure that we are serving Video Our underlying thinking, which has served our customers right via the Net Promoter Campaign us well, remains the same: deliver a high Score. When customers have their queries Governance service standard and delight our customers. addressed or services subscribed, we seek As we gain better insights into feedback by sending them a simple SMS, our customers’ lifestyle needs, we with just four questions, to rate the service constantly improve on our customer they have just received. service experience. As a testament to our efforts on ensuring Customers of today are using all types of customer satisfaction, we are happy to have channels to engage with us; from offline received top scores for Broadband and My ways like calling the hotline to online TV services, and retained second spot for StarHub Sustainability omni-channel means like on a social media Mobile service in the Customer Satisfaction platform. To meet their evolving needs, we Index of Singapore 2017. App have changed the way we are organised. Online We have integrated the various customer Finally, with our all-inclusive loyalty and Customer service touchpoints, starting from our rewards program that extends ‘money physical retail centres, to our online contact cannot buy’ experiences to our customers Service points, such as our comprehensive My like priority ticket bookings to top music StarHub app. acts, sneak previews to hit movies and privilege meet and greet sessions to popular We have also deliberately blurred job TV stars, the various enhancements will help descriptions. Our technical support put the StarHub customer experience a Financials crew called ‘Hubtroppers’ are not just notch above the competition. equipped with screwdrivers and devices for diagnostics, they have been empowered to make the relevant recommendations and sales of our products and services. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 33 SENIOR MANAGEMENT Profiles Tan Tong Hai Dennis Chia Dr Chong Yoke Sin CEO Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Chief, Enterprise Business Group (Tong Hai’s profile can be found on page 22 Dennis oversees StarHub’s financial Yoke Sin leads the enterprise business of this report.) health, develops key business strategies group and is responsible for driving the together with the core leadership team, next growth phase of the business and ensures that business decisions are deepening the engagement with the financially sound, and executes strategies enterprise community. through financial management. Yoke Sin is a veteran in the IT industry with Dennis was the Senior VP and CFO of more than 30 years of experience. She was STATS ChipPAC (Worldwide), a leading the CEO of Integrated Health Information provider of advanced semiconductor Systems, a subsidiary of Ministry of Health packaging and test services. Prior to that Holdings. She also led the healthcare role, he was with Lear Corporation as its IT industry as Chair of Healthcare VP of Finance, Asia Pacific Operations, Information and Management Systems where he oversaw 400 regional finance Society (HIMSS) Asia Pacific Governing staff in 30 manufacturing and administrative Council and was the first Asian Vice Chair locations across Asia. Previously, he was on the HIMSS Board of Managers. HIMSS the CFO of Behringer Corporation and is the largest Healthcare Informatics society Frontline Technologies Corporation, in the US and sets the benchmark for leading their successful listings on the Hospital IT certification. Singapore Exchange. In her prior roles, Yoke Sin was CEO of Dennis, a Chartered Accountant, has National Computer Systems Pte Ltd. a Bachelor’s (Honours) degree in She was also the VP and a Fellow of the Accountancy from the National University Singapore Computer Society. In addition, of Singapore and also holds a Master’s she is a Certified IT Project Manager (Senior). degree in Business Administration from University of Hull, United Kingdom. Yoke Sin holds a PhD in Chemistry from the National University of Singapore and attended the Advanced Management Programme at Harvard University. She was conferred the Outstanding Alumni Award from National University of Singapore and the Hall of Fame from HIMSS for her contributions to the advancement of healthcare IT programmes in Asia Pacific. 34 Overview Jeannie Ong Howie Lau Chief Strategic Partnership Officer (CSPO) Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) Jeannie leads StarHub’s efforts in Howie is responsible for charting StarHub’s establishing and maintaining strong strategic brand and marketing strategies across all relationships with government agencies, marketing functions and ensuring overall content partners, key strategic partners and marketing synergy and brand consistency. other complementary companies. She is also Customer value management also falls responsible for building StarHub’s corporate under his purview. In addition, he oversees reputation in the areas of Corporate StarHub’s Mobile, Pay TV and Broadband Strategy Communications, Investor Relations (IR) businesses as well as its Content and Local and Corporate Sustainability. Production teams. Prior to her current role, Jeannie was Howie was the VP, Corporate Development the CMO. She joined StarHub in 2001 as of Lenovo's Worldwide Finance Organisation, its Head of Corporate Communications & where he oversaw Lenovo's end-to-end Investor Relations, and helped bring the Post Merger Management and related company public in 2004. Jeannie and her Merger & Acquisition matters. Previously, teams have won multiple awards, including he was Lenovo’s VP of Marketing and Brand of the Year at the prestigious Hall Communications for Emerging Markets Performance of Fame Awards (2015 and 2014); The Green Group, and was responsible for the Award at the Asia Communications Awards strategy and execution of marketing and (2015 and 2014), in recognition of StarHub’s communications in the ASEAN, China, significant progress in environmental Eastern Europe, Hong Kong, India, Korea, policies and programmes. Latin America, Middle East, Russia and Taiwan markets. In IR, Jeannie was recognised as the Best IR Officer in Singapore by IR Magazine Awards Howie is currently the President of – South East Asia thrice consecutively in Singapore Computer Society’s Executive 2014, 2013 and 2012. She and her team Council, and is also on the management Governance made it to the IR Global Top 50 list in 2014. board for National University of Singapore They also clinched the Best IR award (Gold) Institute of System Science as well as at the Singapore Corporate Awards thrice the advisory committee for Nanyang (2016, 2013 and 2010). Polytechnic School of IT and Anderson Junior College. Jeannie has over 20 years of experience in corporate, financial, marketing and Howie holds a Bachelor of Business community communications across Administration from the National University different industries. She first commenced of Singapore, majoring in Promotional Sustainability her communications career with the Civil Management and Consumer Behaviour. Aviation Authority of Singapore. She also held senior IR and regional corporate and marketing communications positions at IPACS and Singapore Computer Systems. Jeannie holds an honours degree from the University of London, where she majored in Economics and Marketing. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 35 SENIOR MANAGEMENT Profiles (cont'd) Chong Siew Loong Veronica Lai Catherine Chia Chief Technology Officer (CTO) General Counsel & Company Secretary SVP, Human Resource Siew Loong leads the Network Engineering Veronica advises the StarHub Group on Catherine is responsible for leading the Division, overseeing network operations, all legal aspects of operations, strategy overall HR strategy, programmes and development and transformation. and compliance matters. She supports the services, to accelerate the growth and Board of Directors on corporate secretarial performance of StarHub. Siew Loong was one of the pioneers who matters. During her career with StarHub, played an instrumental role in the formative she oversaw the legal aspects of the merger Catherine has extensive HR experience years of StarHub when the company won of StarHub and SCV, StarHub's successful spanning multiple industries and the licence to operate as Singapore’s third IPO and the establishment of StarHub’s geographies. She has worked with telco in 1998. During his first 11 years with $2 billion MTN Programme. multinational companies such as GE and StarHub, he held various leadership roles Dell, and one of Singapore’s leading banks within the Network Engineering Division. Under her leadership, the StarHub Legal UOB. Prior to joining StarHub, she was He set up and managed the Network and team was recognised with multiple awards, VP of People Operations & Development Systems Division at StarHub’s wholly-owned and is recognised by Legal 500 as one of at LEGO. In her previous roles, Catherine subsidiary Nucleus Connect Pte Ltd when the top in-house Legal Teams in Southeast has implemented organisational change the telco won the bid in 2009 to become Asia. Veronica was named by ALB as one and transformation initiatives as well as the Operating Company for Singapore’s of the Top 25 in-house counsels in Asia in developed leadership capabilities through Nationwide Broadband Network. Before 2010. In 2013, the team won the International robust talent management programmes. joining StarHub, Siew Loong worked at Law Office's prestigious Global Counsel She has also worked on mergers, another telco in Singapore as well as the Award and Asia Pacific Counsel Award. acquisitions and integration, and led the Defence Science Organisation. The team also won the International start-up of call centres in India and China. Legal Alliance Gold Award for the Best Siew Loong received the 40 Under 40 Asian & South Pacific Legal Department in Catherine holds a Bachelor of Social Science award from the Global Telecoms Business in 2014. Veronica is listed in the Legal 500’s (Honours) from the National University 2011, that recognised the telecoms industry’s General Counsel Powerlist for 2017. For her of Singapore. young leaders. He holds a Bachelor of corporate secretariat portfolio, Veronica Electronics Engineering from Southampton was recognised with the Asian Company University, United Kingdom. Secretary 2013 Award for Singapore by Corporate Governance Asia. Veronica graduated with a Bachelor of Laws (Honours) from the National University of Singapore. Prior to joining StarHub, she spent six years in practice with Rajah and Tann Asia. 36 Overview Tim Goodchild Kee Yaw Yee SVP, Government & Strategic Affairs Chief Information Officer (CIO) Tim and his team are responsible for Yaw Yee heads up the CIO Division covering managing StarHub's relationship with the Information Systems, Business Excellence regulators, and for providing regulatory and Business Acceleration Office. He support to StarHub's lines of business. is responsible for the IT infrastructure, applications and systems, governance, Tim joined StarHub in 2004, and has policies and standards, certifications, as well more than 25 years of experience in as initiatives to accelerate business growth Strategy telecommunications regulatory issues. and improve operational effectiveness. His working career has included time with Telecom New Zealand, the Yaw Yee has more than 22 years of IT Telecommunications Authority of and management consulting experience Singapore (now the Infocomm Media in IT and telecoms. He has worked in Development Authority of Singapore), multinational companies like Accenture, Millicom International Cellular; and AsiaInfo and Hewlett-Packard. In his Equant Singapore. His career has given prior roles, he has consistently delivered him exposure to regulatory regimes large-scale transformational programmes throughout the Asia-Pacific region. for local and regional clients, using Performance different technology solution suites. He has Tim holds an honours degree in worked extensively in the region and was Economics from Victoria University. responsible for setting up the country office, innovation lab, offshore delivery centre, business collaborations and joint ventures in some of the countries he was based in. Yaw Yee holds a Bachelor of Electrical Engineering and Electronics (First Class Honours) from the University of Manchester Governance Institute of Science and Technology in the United Kingdom. He has a Performers’ Diploma in piano from the Trinity College of Music, London. Sustainability Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 37 HUBBING IN REVIEW Consumer MOBILE PAY TV BROADBAND Amidst heightened Total Mobile Revenue Tiered Plans Mix competition, network quality remains a key differentiator. $m Growth would not be possible without 1,248 1,240 1,215 1,197 a strong backbone, 1200 so we must not lose Tier 71% focus of providing Non-tier 29% reliable services on our networks. With 900 a robust network, we are able to offer better value packages for 600 our data-hungry mobile users. 300 Hub+ allows us to be more than 2014 2015 2016 2017 a communications services provider; 0 we want to be our customers’ key lifestyle partner too. 38 Overview From Hubbing to Hub+ Businesses globally are moving We have used Hubbing effectively as an beyond conventional industry silos to overall strategy for years, and we have an interconnected ecosystem to shape delivered value-for-money and convenient better business outcomes and customer bundles of Mobile, Pay TV and Broadband experiences. The previously clear lines to hundreds of thousands of Hubbing between different businesses and industries consumers. Hubbing was and still is the key will eventually converge to meet customer to the hearts and minds of our customers needs in a unified manner and we are and it has helped built StarHub into a driving this along. household brand. Hub+ Experiences Mobile Strategy Now, as wider industry and technological In 2017, we saw a new MVNO coming into The concept of Hub+ goes beyond entertainment. Industry silos are breaking trends emerge, consumers have new the marketplace and we expect more to down, some more clearly than others. We preferences and consumption behaviours. emerge in 2018. We are also expecting have built familiarity and trust with our Amid this new landscape, we wish to expand a fourth mobile operator to commence customers. From this base, we are adding and elevate our offerings beyond mere operations. Amidst heightened competition, a network of strategic business partners. Hubbing packs; we wish to offer a Hub+ network quality remains a key differentiator. This network, which we are building rapidly, proposition. We can do more than just being So, we must not lose focus of providing is one that gives our customers greater variety, an essential and reliable communications reliable services on our networks. Growth better offers, more relevant services and much services provider; we want to be our would not be possible without a strong Performance more convenience. customers’ key lifestyle partner too. backbone. For example, via our acquisition of a With a robust network, we are in a good strategic stake in entertainment company place to offer better value packages for our mm2 Asia in 2016, we can now offer harddata-hungry mobile users like DataJump to-get premium tickets to top global music and DataShare. DataJump lets postpaid acts to our customers as part of the Hubbing customers supersize their local data bundle perks. We can also offer exclusive meetwhile DataShare allows them to share and-greet sessions to the stars and sneak a portion of their local data bundle across previews to blockbuster movies to our lucky multiple mobile lines under the same Governance Unlimited Weekend Data customers. We do not just provide telco billing account. services; we also provide ‘money cannot buy’ experiences. DataShare users can easily adjust the proportion using the My StarHub app. It The concept of Hub+ goes beyond can even be used by customers who have entertainment. Industry silos are breaking upsized their data bundles using our popular down, some more clearly than others. We DataJump VAS. have built familiarity and trust with our customers. From this base, we are adding a Utilising the spectrum secured at the last Sustainability network of strategic business partners. This auction, we have since rolled out our gigabit network, which we are building rapidly, is 4G network for customers to enjoy a faster, In August, we offered even better value with one that gives our customers greater variety, smoother mobile experience. In August, our unlimited weekend data plans. StarHub better offers, more relevant services and we put our upgraded TDD-LTE equipment Mobile customers can enjoy their weekends much more convenience. to work at Marina Bay. As the venue of the with their smartphones practically tethered year’s National Day Parade, we saw spikes to their hands, to stream, to surf, to post to their hearts’ content and not worry about We inked a deal with OCBC Bank to invest in mobile traffic volume when thousands exceeding their data bundles. and build networks of partnerships using upon thousands thronged the area. data insights from our customer bases. With these insights, we can build more We are happy to note that the upgraded seamless customer journeys and give network could handle the surge in traffic Financials customers better services, experiences with an improved efficiency of 30%. and offers. This relationship marked the This means as we implement enhanced formation of Singapore’s first bank-telco coverage throughout the rest of Singapore, strategic partnership to drive Singapore’s our customers will be assured of a collaborative economy or the ‘We Economy’. consistent and high-quality signal reception. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 39 HUBBING IN REVIEW Consumer (cont’d) Consumer Sector A summary of the progress and events in 2017. Customer needs are moving beyond traditional Mobile Pay TV Broadband services. We need to meet them in a unified manner TDD-LTE StarHub Go Google WiFi and we are driving Enhanced network coverage for Offers a single subscription Sole authorised retailer our customers to enjoy a faster, for a wide variety of for Google’s home mesh this along. smoother mobile experience. entertaining content. networking devices. In the same month, we also started offering Also in November, the three local telcos content on StarHub Go without using even better value with our unlimited jointly announced the implementation their bundled mobile data. weekend data plans. StarHub Mobile of Mobile Connect for the benefit of customers can enjoy their weekends with Singapore businesses and consumers. We are also working with our content their smartphones practically tethered to Mobile Connect is a digital identity solution partners to seek legal avenues to protect their hands, to stream, to surf, to post to that offers greater online security, privacy their intellectual property rights from their hearts’ content and not worry about and improved user experience. This non-sanctioned websites streaming their exceeding their data bundles. signals the industry’s commitment to roll content. Lastly, we continue to leverage out a simple yet secure digital identity on the data from our two-way set-top In September, we introduced two new solution for Singapore. boxes to be smarter in managing our prepaid SIMs, called the StarHub WeChat content costs. We know how valuable Go SIM. This is in response to the growing The same month also saw us enhancing and well-appreciated each channel’s number of visitors from China to Singapore. the existing SIM Only plans. By opting for content is by our TV viewers and we will This SIM card gives them unlimited social the 12-month contract options, customers pay appropriately. messaging on the popular WeChat app. can get double the data at the same price. They also enjoy unlimited data access In July, we started offering premium Delivering convenience at affordable rates, every weekend. channels that need not come with Basic in November, we launched DataTravel Groups. Called StarHub TV d’Lite, these Global, an enhancement to the initial We have started laying the foundation premium channels (including movies and DataTravel Asia-Pacific plan launched for 5G. Together with our technology sports content) are available in eight packs in 2016. This is a hassle-free solution for partners, we will be conducting more to non-StarHub TV customers. customers who hop between destinations tests in 2018 to ensure that our network frequently and over extended periods is ready for future demands. As a strategic investor in mm2 Asia, – a flat rate for data roaming in multiple we have joined the company to be a destinations within 30 days. Pay TV co-producer of the hit singing competition In the pay TV space, we have seen the ‘The Voice’. To reflect the wide appeal of The plan offers StarHub Mobile postpaid rapid proliferation of OTT players in the this popular singing competition, ‘The Voice’ customers 2GB or 3GB bundles for use market. To address this, we are constantly aired on Hub E City in Singapore as well as on all mobile networks across 50 improving our online streaming service Astro’s AEC Channel in Malaysia, making destinations in Asia-Pacific, Europe and StarHub Go to give our customers more it a truly regional collaboration. As a result, North America. As a unique advantage, flexible viewing options. the competition was the highest rated DataTravel connects customers’ phones programme across all our Asian channels to the strongest available mobile network StarHub Go offers customers a single in 2017. signals. This means that customers can subscription for a wide variety of enjoy peace-of-mind, eliminating the content from English entertainment to We have introduced a TV audience likelihood of bill shock, as they need not Korean dramas to documentaries and measurement system, called StarHub manually search for or lock their phones to variety shows. In addition, StarHub SmarTAM, which can track both a specific preferred mobile network. Mobile postpaid customers can enjoy real-time and time-shift viewing of TV 40 Overview content across our TV channels. To make Deserving up-and-comers got their turn on better use of our data on hand, we have stage too. The winners for My Favourite TVB partnered with Nielsen, a leading global Actor and Actress awards are Vincent Wong performance measurement company. and Ali Lee respectively. Both won in this highly-coveted category for the first time. Under this partnership, we fused StarHub SmarTAM with Nielsen’s data to provide Silver Anniversary advertisers and media agencies a wider To translate our long-standing ties with range of variables to analyse their target partners into something tangible for our audiences. They can slice and dice customers, we have roped the partners Silver Anniversary Strategy the data and analyse what is the most in to help celebrate StarHub TV’s 25th effective marketing campaign, and turn anniversary. We organised lucky draws StarHub TV began in 1992 and was formerly known as Singapore Cable Vision. this into a science rather than an art. where prizes are in the form of holidays providing the experience of a lifetime. In 2017, StarHub TV celebrated its TVB's Golden Anniversary Such experiences for our customers are 25th anniversary with a slew of lucky In 2017, we celebrated the silver only made possible with the enthusiasm draws where prizes were in the form of anniversary of our partnership with of these partners. holidays providing the experience of a lifetime. Fortunate StarHub customers Hong Kong’s TVB. For 50 years, TVB has got behind the scenes with studio tours, produced many memorable shows and The winners get to go behind the attended live show recordings and even many of our customers grew up watching scenes with studio tours, attend live Performance met top celebrities up close. the dramas. Generations of Hong Kong show recordings and even a chance to actors and actresses have become meet the top celebrities up close. household names here too. Examples of the top prizes are: round trip tickets to WrestleMania in New Orleans; In October, we organised the annual Game of Thrones tour in Northern Ireland; StarHub TVB Awards – the eighth time tickets to The Voice S14 Finale LIVE in this star-studded event has been held Los Angeles; passes to the Saturday here. Ever-popular veterans such as Night Live Experience in Chicago; entry Wayne Lai and Nancy Sit were conferred passes to the Isle of MTV Malta in Europe; StarHub WeChat Go SIM the 25th Anniversary Most Popular TVB tickets to visit the home of X Factor in Governance Drama Male and Female Character London; studio tour in Korea organised awards for their timeless portrayals of by ONE and last but not least, a TVB City iconic TV characters. exclusive tour. Sustainability According to Singapore Tourism Board, tourist arrivals from China increased 36% in 2016 from the year before. In a 2017 survey by Hotels.com, Singapore is the top Asia Pacific destination that Chinese travellers want to visit in the next 12 months. StarHub WeChat Go SIM is designed to better meet the mobile needs of the growing number of visitors from China. Its users will be able to enjoy unlimited social messaging on the WeChat app. Implementation of Mobile Connect signals Financials the industry’s commitment to roll out a simple yet secure digital identity solution for Singapore. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 41 HUBBING IN REVIEW Consumer (cont’d) We appreciate the value of such There was also the sports exclusive partnerships. To mark programme, ‘Be Schooled’ such fruitful relationships, we have where former student athletes introduced the ‘Only on StarHub’ put their sporting skills and talent campaign, which highlights our unique to the test as they compete against offerings on StarHub TV with a slew the current school team. The of on-air promotions. programme was nominated for ‘Best Sports Programme’ at the Go Local New York TV Festival held in April. We can do more than just showcasing our international offerings. We are To help make our National Day StarHub TV d’Lite actively promoting and creating our celebration more meaningful, We seek to offer a wide range of both content unique, and local content as well. we started showing three other and viewing options to cater to customers During the year, we continued to programmes in the month of August. with different viewing appetites. With the new tap on the Public Service Broadcast d’Lite Packs, customers with specific interests Contestable Funds Scheme offered ‘Love In Transit’ (下一站#爱), can zero in on their favourite content without having to subscribe to the Basic Groups. by the regulator, IMDA. which has a total of ten episodes, is a beautiful sketch of special StarHub TV customers can enjoy premium The scheme allows us to commission moments in the lives of the channels via the various packs offered along and produce a variety of local characters, as they go about using the content genres like Movies, Sports, programmes ranging from animations the different transport modes of Chinese, Malay and Tamil. to sports to travelogues. The Singapore. Some of the stories are programmes are also shown via the comical, others will make us frown, StarHub Go app, where our customers but the attitudes and behaviours can enjoy these local creations for free, shown are real. and at their own leisure. For the thousands of commuters For example, there was a travel show, out there, their daily journey might Focus on Value ‘Let’s go Gai Gai’, where popular and be a drudgery, but somewhere bubbly host Michelle Chia helped within that transient moment, there fulfil the travel wishes of some under is always this special spark, that can privileged families, bringing them to somehow lighten up their lives in different parts around the world. ways unexpected. To differentiate our broadband offerings from the crowd, we are always striving to offer something extra to our Broadband customers. For instance, we introduced the enhanced version of our network-based content filtering system called JuniorProtect Plus. We also tied up with Linksys to offer customers the next generation Max-Stream EA7500v2 wireless router. This device allows not just connection for multiple devices, but supports concurrent video streaming at 4K and HD quality as well. 42 Overview ‘Timescapes’ is a collection of five give our passionate content creators animated short films. Each film a platform to tell their stories that are centres on life, love and home, and uniquely Singapore – and to pass on We can do more different characters’ stories are unique such traditions to a wider community. than just showcasing in their own ways, but the common international content. ground which we can all relate to: the Residential Broadband stories are set against Singapore’s On the Broadband front, we We are actively past and present. endeavour to remain a competitive promoting and broadband provider. For a few creating our unique One of the five short films, the years now, we have been competing and local content too. Strategy award-winning, ‘The Violin’, weaves with the newer, smaller players. a beautiful tale of a violin’s 80 years To differentiate our broadband in different hands from the banks of offerings from the crowd, we are Boat Quay to the Victoria Concert Hall. always striving to offer something The backdrops differ but the narrative extra. For example, in March, we remains firmly rooted to Singaporeans’ introduced the enhanced version of passion for music and their country. our network-based content filtering system (which works for smartphones To round up this year’s local too) called JuniorProtect Plus. programming, there was a short film Performance called ‘Paper House’. This film is an In July, we announced a tie-up with adaptation of the novel ‘Paper City’ by leading networking equipment vendor novelist Dave Chua and comic artist Linksys to offer our broadband Koh Hong Teng. customers access to the next generation Max-Stream EA7500v2 The film’s protagonist is an Indian wireless router. This device allows not teenager, who was shooting a just connection for multiple devices, documentary of the funeral of the but supports concurrent video grandfather of his best friend, a streaming at 4K and HD quality as well. Chinese. The movie brings out the Governance complex relations as a family interacts In August, we started offering the as they grief. The movie is also a Google WiFi home mesh networking showcase of traditions and practices devices for our customers, as sole the family tries to adhere to. authorised retailer. Each basic pack of these three hockey-puck like In the same vein, many Singaporeans devices weave a seamless home feel compelled to carry certain WiFi network, cleverly managing traditional practices; we are proud signal coverage and balancing usage to carry the Singapore flag high and required across the home. Sustainability Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 43 HUBBING IN REVIEW Enterprise loT DATA ANALYTICS BUSINESS Data & Internet Revenue Voice Revenue We have formed alliances with like-minded industry $m $m partners and have made acquisitions to beef up our capabilities in the 391 57 400 60 fast-growing area of 347 54 53 cyber security. Before 321 331 we become part of a 46 Smart Nation, we want to 300 be a Smart Company first. 40 200 20 With our own 100 robust fixed network and ever-improving mobile coverage, 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 we are well positioned to provide Smart Nation services. 44 Overview Over the years, we have been investing Hubtricity is derived from three words: and rolling out our own fibre network to Hubbing – our core communications better capture new opportunities in the offerings; Tri – the three core networks enterprise space. We have formed alliances powering Hubbing; and City – where we with like-minded industry partners and operate and where we serve. The core we have made acquisitions to beef up function of Hubtricity is our command our capabilities in the fast-growing area cockpit, where we monitor how our of cyber security. Before we become part mobile, pay TV and fixed networks and of a Smart Nation, we want to be a Smart services are performing. Company first. Hubtricity Strategy As we do so, we understand better The enterprise market for IT and how customers are using and The new facility acts as a foundation to accelerate service innovation and co-creation communications is huge, and it is also responding to our service offerings with partners and customers. The centrepiece enjoying a new lease of life as both private through call-centre metrics, and social is the converged command cockpit, where companies and public organisations invest media and digital analytics from our we can monitor how our fixed, mobile and more in their own digital transformation. ‘Curiosity’ hub. By gathering and parsing pay TV networks and services are performing Those who have done it, reap the rewards such real-time data, we are in a good and understand how customers are using and responding to our service offerings through from having the ability to do things costposition to deliver the highest service call-centre metrics and social media analytics. effectively and smartly. level possible to our customers. This state-of-the-art system provides us with Performance the real-time data needed to deliver the Technology consultancy firm Forrester Like-minded Partners highest service level to customers. forecasted that the worldwide enterprise In 2017, we have announced joint We will help transform Singapore into a vibrant IT market will grow by about 5% to hit projects with like-minded partners that and connected Smart Nation, enhancing US$3.2 trillion between 2018 and 2019. are eager to start building up capabilities people’s everyday lives, strengthening Software and services will continue to be in this new digital economy. enterprise capabilities and deepening the biggest tech categories, with cloud Singapore’s international connectivity. being the primary growth enabler. On the In October, we signed a Memorandum local front, with Singapore’s Smart Nation of Understanding with the NTUC push, the enterprise IT market will remain aimed to enable working people to Innovation via Digital Engagement as one of the larger technology markets embrace workplace digitalisation Governance in this region. By end of March 2018, and support on-the-go learning. This the Singapore government would have three-year partnership leverages on awarded some $2.4 billion worth of NTUC’s networks in reaching out to info-comm and technology contracts. all working people in Singapore, as well as StarHub’s thought leadership With our own continuously-expanding as an innovative info-communications fixed network and ever-improving provider, to empower working people mobile coverage, StarHub, as a leading to be future-ready. communications provider, is perfectly Sustainability positioned to provide the base on which all In November, we announced a manners of Smart Nation applications and partnership with leading engineering We have announced joint projects with likeservices are to be built on. firm ST Kinetics. The partnership is to minded partners that are eager to start building up capabilities in this new digital economy. deploy robots that can help save on Hubtricity manpower and make necessary chores Some examples included a MoU with the To deliver the full potential of our such as laundry a more efficient one. NTUC aimed to enable working people to networks, we have invested in a facility The robots, called the TUG, are made embrace workplace digitalisation and support on-the-go learning, our partnership with for our partners and ourselves to come by Aethon, which is a US-based robot leading engineering firm ST Kinetics to deploy together and create new services and making subsidiary of ST Engineering, robots that can help save on manpower and applications for the Smart Nation. Dubbed the parent company of ST Kinetics. The make necessary chores such as laundry a the ‘Hubtricity’, the 58,000 sq ft innovation robots are managed via a corporate Financials more efficient one, and the launch of ‘Fasttrack centre was officially launched in March. WiFi network. Trade’, Singapore’s first digital trade platform for SMEs using blockchain technology, with leading insurer Prudential. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 45 HUBBING IN REVIEW Enterprise (cont’d) For us, this partnership with ST Kinetics is While we sign up new business partners, part of our Connected Building initiative to we continue to build on long-time ties. provide IoT solutions that help companies We announced a collaboration with Nokia implement green, productivity or safety to push forward with IoT ecosystem concepts in business environments. By development in Singapore at a quicker deploying TUG, what was previously a pace. We have an ambitious plan to offer Cyber Security Strengthened seven-step manual process has been cut related commercial services in 2018. We acquired two cyber security companies down to just three automated ones. We (as of January 2018), putting us in a stronger are ready to support a wider adoption Under the partnership, Nokia, with position to deliver secure Smart Nation, among other users. its expertise in mobile networking, will mission-critical ICT and digital solutions. support our ecosystem partners and The unique combination of ASTL’s end-to-end Within the same month of November, we us in the development of use cases. cyber security solutions and our telco-centric, also announced two other partnerships. Applications are likely to include smart network-based capabilities, will make us one First, with leading insurer Prudential, parking, environmental sensors and video of the few providers who can offer customers we have jointly launched a partnership analytics. Nokia will also help StarHub integrated cyber security solutions specially to introduce ‘Fasttrack Trade’ (FTT) promote the benefits of IoT technology catered to their needs. Singapore’s first digital trade platform through various activities, including D’Crypt is a great asset with proven technology for SMEs using blockchain technology. developer outreach programmes and and R&D capabilities, and its cryptographic Proponents of the blockchain technology participation in IoT-related events. experience complements our Cyber Security have cited fail-safe authentication, security Centre of Excellence in terms of delivering effective solutions to meet an emerging and better convenience as reasons for In addition, Nokia Bell Labs, their generation of security and vulnerability threats. its popularity. deep expertise centre, will provide added consultancy services to StarHub and our The FTT aims to help SMEs suss out enterprise customers. The Singapore IoT business partners and distributors, to market is gaining momentum; we hope IoT Ecosystem buy and sell goods, track shipments, to give this a leg up with our combined receive and make payments, access expertise and reach. financing and buy insurance via this single platform, which is developed by fintech New Acquisitions, New Capabilities start-up Cites Gestion and with funding While we are glad to work with many from Prudential. trusted and long-time industry partners, We announced a collaboration with Nokia to push forward with IoT ecosystem development in Singapore at a quicker pace. Under the partnership, Nokia, with its We understand better how customers expertise in mobile networking, will support are responding to our service our ecosystem partners and us in the development of use cases. offerings through call-centre metrics, and social media and digital analytics. In addition, Nokia Bell Labs, their deep expertise centre, will provide added consultancy services to our enterprise customers and us. The Singapore IoT market is gaining momentum; we hope to give this a leg up with our combined expertise and reach. 46 Enterprise Sector Overview Hubbing Hubbing Hubbing Enterprise Digital Vertical To include an expanded Creating marketplaces for Stay focused on selected range of new services and enterprises to serve and verticals like the government, Strategy solutions to complement our target customers better. financial services, hospitality, existing offers. transport, SMEs, and healthcare. it makes sense to build up our own security solutions and our telco-centric, strengths too. This is especially relevant as network-based capabilities will make us Performance the industry changes rapidly and enterprise one of the few providers who can offer To stay relevant customers require tailored solutions. We customers integrated cyber security as the industry are anticipating that certain capabilities will solutions specially catered to their needs. enjoy fast-growing demand. In this light, we changes rapidly need to take decisive steps to bring such In December, we made the other bold move. and enterprise skills and expertise on board if we are to We announced the intention to acquire the customers require be a reliable and meaningful player in the cryptographic and secure communications tailored solutions, enterprise IT market. solutions provider, D’Crypt. D’Crypt is a we must build great asset with proven technology and To this end, we made two significant R&D capabilities, and its cryptographic up our own Governance acquisitions as of January 2018. First, experience complements our Cyber strengths. we acquired a majority stake in ASTL Security Centre of Excellence in terms with a plan to buy the remaining shares of delivering effective solutions to meet in 2020. ASTL is a cyber security systems an emerging generation of security and integrator specialising in the provision of vulnerability threats. security solutions, consulting and managed security services. With them, we can now These two companies are a welcome offer the full spectrum of cyber security addition to the StarHub family, putting us solutions, making us well placed to meet in a stronger position to deliver secure Sustainability this demand. Furthermore, the unique Smart Nation, mission-critical ICT and combination of ASTL’s end-to-end cyber digital solutions. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE How We Govern Ourselves Strengthening StarHub’s business practices and culture through transparency, accountability and integrity. Corporate Governance Statement 1. BOARD MATTERS • Set StarHub’s values and standards StarHub is committed to continually uphold The Board's Conduct of Affairs (including ethical standards), to corporate governance and sustainability ensure that the Group’s obligations to practices and policies that promote The Board's Role shareholders and stakeholders are welltransparency, accountability and integrity. The Board oversees the business understood and duly met; We believe this is critical to the long-term performance and affairs of the Group. The sustainability of our business and value Board leads, directs and works closely • Provide guidance on the social, ethical creation for our stakeholders. with Management, to ensure alignment of and environmental impact of the Group’s interests of the Board and Management with activities and monitor compliance with Corporate Governance Report 2017 that of the shareholders, so as to achieve StarHub’s sustainability policies and StarHub has complied, in all material the long-term sustainable success of the practices; and respects, with the principles and guidelines various businesses of the Group. of the Code of Corporate Governance • Ensure the Group’s compliance with all (Code) issued by the Monetary Authority relevant laws and regulations. of Singapore on 2 May 2012, and in some The Board’s key roles and responsibilities areas, has made improvements, for the are as follows: year ended 31 December 2017 (FY2017). • Provide entrepreneurial leadership and The Board and individual Directors act in The disclosures in this report sets out guidance to Management and steer good faith and make decisions objectively our compliance of the corporate the Group through its strategy and in the best interests of StarHub and all its governance framework, policies corporate plan; shareholders. and practices for FY2017. • Ensure that the necessary financial and The Board has established a framework human resources are in place for the on authorisation and approval limits for Group to meet its objectives; capital and operating expenditure, as well as specified transactions including acquisitions • Establish a framework of prudent and and disposals of investments, procurement effective controls which enables risks of goods and services, bank facilities and to be assessed and managed in order cheque signatories. Within this framework, to safeguard shareholders’ interests the Board has set relevant authority and and StarHub’s assets. This framework approval sub-limits for delegation to is supported by clear and robust various Management levels to optimise procedures and delegated authorities; operational efficiency. • Regularly review the performance Board Committees of Senior Management and the The Board has constituted the following remuneration framework of the Board Board committees (Board Committees) to and Senior Management; assist the Board in the discharge of its functions: • Review and approve key operational and business initiatives, major funding and • the Audit Committee (AC); investment proposals, acquisitions • the Strategy Committee (SC); and divestments; • the Nominating Committee (NC); • the Executive Resource and • Recognise that the perceptions of Compensation Committee (ERCC); and key stakeholder groups affect StarHub’s • the Risk Committee (RC). reputation, identify the key stakeholder groups (which include customers, suppliers and business partners) and guide Management in StarHub’s strategy and approach in addressing the concerns of these key stakeholder groups; 48 CHAIRMAN Steven Terrell Clontz Overview BOARD OF DIRECTORS 12 Directors: 6 independent Directors & 6 non-independent Directors EXECUTIVE RESOURCE AUDIT STRATEGY NOMINATING AND COMPENSATION RISK Strategy COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Chairman: Paul Ma Kah Woh Chairman: Nihal Vijaya Chairman: Rachel Eng Chairman: Teo Ek Tor Chairman: Stephen 3 independent Directors Devadas Kaviratne Yaag Ngee 1 independent Director Geoffrey Miller & 1 non-independent Director 3 independent Directors, 2 independent Directors & 2 non-independent 1 independent Director 3 non-independent Directors & 1 non-independent Director Directors & 2 non-independent & 1 co-opted member Directors Performance MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE RISK COMMITTEE Chairman: CEO Chairman: CEO Members: Members: Chief Financial Officer CFO, Chief Enterprise Business Group, Chief Enterprise Business Group Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Technology Chief Marketing Officer Officer, Chief Information Officer, Chief Strategic Partnership Officer, General Counsel, Head Government and Strategic Affairs, Head Customer Service Experience, Head Human Resource, VP Product, Governance VP Cybersecurity and SmartHub, VP Business Excellence, Security and Data Protection, VP Corporate Planning The composition of the Board Committees the Board for its consideration and decision. require the Board’s review and approval. and their specific responsibilities and authority Minutes of the meetings of the AC, SC, NC StarHub’s Constitution allows Board are set out in the relevant sections of this and RC are also circulated to the Board meetings to be held via audio and video Report. The detailed Terms of Reference for its information, while the minutes of the conferencing to facilitate the Board’s of the respective Board Committees are meetings of the ERCC are available to the decision-making process. Sustainability available on the StarHub Investor Relations Directors on request. (IR) website. Each Board Committee is Board meetings for the upcoming financial required to operate and make decisions on Board Meetings year are scheduled in advance before matters within its Terms of Reference. For FY2017, the Board held a total of five the end of the current financial year to meetings. In keeping with past practice, enable Directors to plan ahead and attend Additional Board committees may be formed the annual full-day Board Strategy offsite the upcoming financial year’s Board to undertake specific duties if necessitated meeting was held to conduct an in-depth meetings according to the respective by business requirements. review and discussion on the Group’s meeting schedules. strategic direction and to consider the The Board receives updates from the Board Group’s budget for the upcoming A summary of the number of Board and Committee Chairmen at Board meetings, on financial year. Board Committee meetings held in FY2017 Financials key matters raised and/or decisions made at and the attendance of the Directors at these the last-held meeting of the respective Board Throughout the financial year, as and when meetings as well as the Annual General Committees. For any matter which requires deemed necessary by the Board, additional Meeting (AGM) and the Extraordinary the Board’s approval, the Board Committees Board meetings may be convened to General Meeting (EGM) held in FY2017, would recommend the course of action to consider urgent proposals or matters that is set out in the table in the following page: Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE How We Govern Ourselves (cont’d) Table 1 (Directors’ Attendance at Board/General Meetings During FY2017) Board Board Committee Meetings AGM Meetings AC SC NC ERCC RC & EGM No. of Meetings Held 5 4 4 2 5 2 1 Steven Terrell Clontz 5 – 4 2 – – 1 Tan Tong Hai 5 – – – – 1 1 Paul Ma Kah Woh 5 4 – – – 2 1 Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE 5 4 4 – – – 1 Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee(1) 5 4 – 2 – – 1 Teo Ek Tor 5 – – 2 5 – 1 Stephen Geoffrey Miller 5 – 4 – 5 2 1 Liu Chee Ming 5 – 4 – – – 1 Michelle Lee Guthrie(2) 1 – 1 – – – – Lim Ming Seong 5 4 4 – 4 – 1 Nasser Marafih 5 – – – – – 1 Naoki Wakai(3) 1 – – – – – – Notes: (1) Ms Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee was appointed as lead independent Director with effect from 8 August 2017. (2) Ms Michelle Lee Guthrie was appointed as a non-executive Independent Director with effect from 25 August 2017 and a SC Member with effect from 1 November 2017. (3) Mr Naoki Wakai was appointed as a non-executive Director with effect from 30 August 2017. (4) Mr Takeshi Kazami stepped down from the Board with effect from 4 August 2017. He attended all Board meetings during his tenure of service in 2017. Board Orientation and Continual • information on Directors’ duties and during Board meetings, and through emails Training & Development how to discharge those duties; and the StarHub Board Portal, on key StarHub has a comprehensive induction • the contact details of the Board and legal, regulatory, industry and accounting programme for all newly-appointed Directors Senior Management; changes which affect the Group. In FY2017, that is bespoke for the Group’s business • the terms of reference of the respective the Directors participated in a Digital and operations. Briefings are conducted Board Committees; and Transformation training session, organised by Management for the newly-appointed • the insider trading policy and Directors’ by industry members. Directors to familiarise with the Group’s share trading policy of StarHub. business activities, strategic directions, In addition, the Directors are free to conduct financials, policies, governance practices, The Board encourages the Directors to independent or collective discussions with corporate culture as well as key regulatory, continually develop and refresh their Management and subject matter experts legal and industry developments which professional knowledge and skills, and on any area of interest or concern. Where affect the Group. The induction programme keep themselves abreast of relevant needed, operational site visits are organised also includes meetings with the CEO and developments in the Group’s business to enable the Directors to have a clear Senior Management. and the regulatory and industry-specific understanding of issues faced by the Group. environments in which the Group operates. Each Director is issued a tablet which he To this end, the Company Secretary or she can use to access the StarHub facilitates the arrangement of internal Board Portal. The StarHub Board Portal is briefings as well as external seminars specifically designed to provide relevant and trainings for the Directors (including information and up-to-date guidelines and those conducted by StarHub’s panel of policies that will help Directors to discharge law firms and the Singapore Institute of their duties properly, including: Directors in conjunction with the SGX-ST). In addition, the Company Secretary and • Board meeting information and members of Senior Management also Board papers; provide regular updates to the Directors 50 Overview Board Composition and Guidance Independence 6 5 1 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Independent, non-executive Directors Non-independent, non-executive Directors Executive Director/CEO Independent, Non-Executive Directors Non-Independent, Non-Executive Directors Executive Director/CEO Ms Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee Mr Steven Terrell Clontz Mr Tan Tong Hai Strategy (NC Chairman and Lead Independent Director) (Chairman) Mr Paul Ma Kah Woh Mr Stephen Geoffrey Miller (AC Chairman) (RC Chairman) Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE Mr Lim Ming Seong (SC Chairman) Dr Nasser Marafih Mr Teo Ek Tor Mr Naoki Wakai (ERCC Chairman) Mr Liu Chee Ming Performance Ms Michelle Lee Guthrie The Board comprises 12 Directors, of announced in November 2017 that recommends, and the Board is of the firm which half are non-executive independent Mr Tan will be stepping down as executive view, that for FY2018, Mr Kaviratne and Directors. The Chairman, Mr Steven Terrell Director and CEO on 1 May 2018. The Group Mr Teo are independent in mind and Clontz, is not an independent Director within is conducting a global executive search for objectivity. When assessing objectivity the meaning of the Code given his executive its new CEO. and independent judgement, the NC and position at Singapore Technologies the Board would consider, inter alia, the Telemedia Pte Ltd. The individual profile of the Directors approach, character and attitude of each and the principal directorships and non-executive Director, including whether Governance The Board has appointed Ms Eng as the lead chairmanships in any listed companies such Director: independent Director, whose role includes: held by the Directors currently and in the preceding three years, are found in • is free from any interest and any • ensuring she is available to shareholders the ‘Board of Directors’ and ‘Directors’ business or other relationship which for consultation and direct communication, Particulars’ sections of the Annual Report. could, or could reasonably be perceived where they have concerns on matters to, interfere with the exercise of the which contact via the normal channels The NC assesses the independence of Director’s independent business of the Chairman, the CEO or the CFO each non-executive Director annually, judgement with a view to the best has failed to resolve or is inappropriate; particularly those who have served more interests of the Group; and Sustainability than nine years. As at 1 January 2018, • serving as a liaison between the Chairman three independent Directors, namely • has any material contractual relationship and the independent Directors; and Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE, with the Group other than as a Director. Mr Teo Ek Tor and Mr Liu Chee Ming, • having the authority to call for and lead have served on the Board for more than Any Director who has an interest or meetings of independent Directors nine years. After careful rigorous review, relationship which is likely to impact on his/ without the presence of other Directors the NC recommends, and the Board is her independence or conflict with a subject and provide feedback to the Chairman. of the firm view, that for FY2017, Mr Nihal under discussion by the Board is required No independent Directors’ meeting was Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE, Mr Teo to immediately declare his/her interest or held in FY2017. However, at least one Ek Tor and Mr Liu Chee Ming1 have each relationship to the Board, remove himself/ independent Directors’ meeting will demonstrated the essential independence herself from the information flow, and Financials be held in the financial year ending of mind and objectivity of judgement to act abstain from participating in any further 31 December 2018. honestly and in the best interests of the discussion or voting on the subject matter. Group in the discharge of their Directors’ Mr Tan Tong Hai, the CEO, remains the sole duties, and therefore considers them The Board, through the NC, annually executive Director on the Board. It was to be independent. In addition, the NC examines its size and composition to ensure (1) Mr Liu Chee Ming will be retiring as a non-executive Director and will not be offering himself for re-election at the AGM in 2018. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE How We Govern Ourselves (cont’d) its overall effectiveness. Given the scope Chairman and CEO the Group’s business operations as well as and nature of the Group’s operations, the In StarHub, there is a clear division in the effective implementation of the Group’s Board is of the view that its current size responsibilities between the leadership of strategies and policies. of 12 is conducive and facilitates effective the Board and Management. The Chairman decision-making. In this regard, the Board and the CEO of StarHub are separate Board Membership has also taken into account the complexity persons, ensuring an appropriate balance StarHub has instituted a formal and and requirements of the Group’s business. of powers, increased accountability and transparent process for the selection, greater capacity for the Board to make appointment and re-appointment of The Board consists of Directors who are independent decisions. No one individual Directors to the Board. To this end, the business leaders and professionals of high holds considerable concentration of power Board established the NC to lead and calibre and integrity. They possess a broad within the Group. facilitate this process with written terms of range of core competencies and experience reference that clearly set out its authority in banking, accounting and finance, legal, The Chairman is Mr Steven Terrell Clontz, and duties. regulatory, technical, business and industry who is a non-executive Director and knowledge, management and strategic unrelated to the CEO. He: Nominating Committee (NC) planning experience, and customer-based experience and knowledge. The Board, as • leads the Board to ensure its Membership a group, constantly seeks to identify areas effectiveness on all aspects of its role; Ms Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee, NC Chairman of focus and maintain an appropriate mix and lead independent Director of expertise, experience (both local and • sets the agenda and ensures that Mr Steven Terrell Clontz, non-executive international), knowledge, gender, culture adequate time is available for Chairman of the Board and nationality. The NC has developed discussion of all agenda items, in Mr Teo Ek Tor, independent Director a skills matrix which is reviewed by the particular strategic issues; Board on a regular basis, as one criteria Key Responsibilities for Director appointments. The NC also • promotes a culture of openness and • To lead and facilitate the process for considers gender diversity in relation to constructive debate at the Board; the selection, appointment and rethe Board composition. Following the appointment of Directors to the Board appointment of Ms Michelle Lee Guthrie • ensures that the Directors receive in FY2017, the Board currently comprises 2 complete, adequate and timely • To make sure the Board comprises female Directors out of 12 Directors. StarHub information. He works with the CEO individuals with the necessary skills, believes that a well-balanced Board with in relation to the Board’s requirements knowledge and experience to ensure diversified skills encourages robust and for information in order to contribute that it is effectively discharging quality deliberations among the Directors, effectively to the Board decisionits responsibilities and to have and mitigates ‘group thinking’ in decisionmaking process; oversight of all matters relating to making. The Board enjoys the unique corporate governance contribution that each Director brings to the • encourages effective communication development of the overall strategy of the with shareholders; Group by way of alternative perspectives All the NC members are non-executive and fresh challenges during discussions. • encourages constructive relations within Directors who are independent of The immense network of contacts across the the Board and between the Board Management. During FY2017, the NC industries which such diversity provides has and Management. As the primary link held 2 meetings. proven invaluable to StarHub. between the Board and Management, he provides continuity between Board The Board notes that Mr Steven Terrell The Chairman and Directors support the meetings and thereby oversees the Clontz is regarded as non-independent CEO in stakeholder engagements, including effective implementation of the under the Code in view of his executive with shareholders, business partners Board’s decisions; role at Singapore Technologies Telemedia and regulators. Pte Ltd. However, after due consideration, • facilitates the effective contribution the Board and the NC are of the view that In furtherance of their duties, the Directors of non-executive Directors; and his appointment does not interfere with are given access to independent the exercise of his independent business professional advice at StarHub’s expense • promotes high standards of judgement or prevent him from acting should they deem such advice necessary. corporate governance. objectively in the best interests of the Group At least once a year, non-executive Directors in carrying out his duties. The Board and meet to discuss, inter alia, Management’s The CEO is Mr Tan Tong Hai. He leads the NC further note that Mr Clontz is not performance without the presence the Management and has full executive involved in the day-to-day running of the of Management. responsibility for the day-to-day running of Group’s business and operations, and is 52 Overview independent of Management, with a clear independent and are able to objectively of Board independence and the mix separation of role between Management exercise their judgement in the best and diversity of skills, experience and and the deliberations of the NC. interests of the Group. knowledge of the Board; In proposing a Director as a candidate Directors with multiple board • information management and Board for appointment or re-election, the NC representations and/or other principal processes, including level and timeliness considers several factors, including the commitments (as defined in the Code) of information provided to the Board; composition, the diversity and the need must ensure that they are able to devote for progressive renewal of the Board, each sufficient time and attention to the affairs • integrity and corporate social candidate’s competencies, commitment, of StarHub to adequately carry out their responsibility of StarHub; Strategy contribution and performance (including duties as Directors of StarHub. The NC has attendance, preparedness, participation reviewed the individual performance of each • managing StarHub’s performance; and candour) as well as potential conflicts of Director and is satisfied that all Directors interest. This is to ensure that an appropriate have dedicated adequate time to the affairs • the effectiveness of Board Committees; balance of skills, experience, expertise and of StarHub and have properly discharged diversity is maintained, enabling the Board their duties for FY2017, and will continue • CEO performance and succession planning; to stay engaged and agile in meeting the to do so in FY2018. Although no maximum needs of the Group. External consultants limit has been formally set by the Board • Director development and are engaged to assist with the selection on the number of listed company board management; and process if necessary. All new appointments representations a Director with multiple Performance to the Board are subject to the approval board representations may hold, the NC is • risk management. of StarHub’s regulator, namely the Infoof the view that the duties of all Directors communications Media Development have been fully discharged based on the As part of the evaluation process, detailed Authority of Singapore. time and attention devoted by each Director, questionnaires were completed by each their individual abilities and their respective Director, with feedback on the key areas. In accordance with StarHub’s Constitution, individual contribution of skills, knowledge Individual interviews with each Director all Directors who are appointed by the and experience and their commitment to the were carried out. Board during the financial year are affairs of StarHub. required to retire and stand for election by The annual review process facilitates shareholders at the first AGM of StarHub The Board does not have any alternate consideration by the Board of its Governance after their appointment. The Code requires Directors. All Directors dedicate their membership, including renewal all Directors to retire and stand for re-election personal time and attention to the affairs considerations. The results of the by shareholders at least once in every threeof StarHub. performance evaluation exercise are year period. collected, analysed and presented to the Board Performance NC, in consultation with the Chairman. The NC reviews and considers the StarHub believes that Board performance The NC reviews and recommends to the independence of each Director on an annual is ultimately reflected in the performance Board the follow-up actions required to basis. If the NC considers that a Director is of the Group. The NC has the responsibility strengthen the Board’s leadership so as to independent notwithstanding the existence of assessing the effectiveness of the Board improve the effectiveness of the Board’s Sustainability of specific relationships or circumstances as a whole, and the contribution of the oversight of StarHub. Where appropriate, described in the Code that may potentially Board Committees and each Director to the Management may also be involved in affect the Director’s independent status, the effectiveness of the Board. the review process, and will assist in NC will provide its view to the Board for the implementing the necessary measures. Board’s determination. The NC will consider For FY2017, the Board engaged the factors such as the Director’s independent assistance of Aon Hewitt Singapore Pte Access to Information business judgement, objectivity, integrity Ltd (Aon Hewitt) as independent external At least five (5) business days prior to and conduct in acting honestly in the best consultants to facilitate the annual each Board and Board Committee interests of the Group. Conversely, the evaluation of the performance of the Board meeting, Management provides the NC has the discretion to consider that and the Board Committees. The evaluation Directors with timely information that is a Director is not independent even in process identifies key issues pertaining to relevant to matters on the agenda for the Financials the absence of specific relationships or the effectiveness, efficiency and functioning meeting, except for sensitive matters to be circumstances described in the Code, and of the Board and the Board Committees, tabled at the meeting itself. All sensitive will similarly provide its views to the Board in particular: Board materials that are communicated for the Board’s determination. The NC electronically are encrypted with passwords has considered and is of the view that all • the adequacy of the Board composition, to safeguard security. Throughout the the independent Directors are sufficiently including the Board size, the degree financial year, the Board also receives Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE How We Govern Ourselves (cont’d) monthly management and financial reports 2. REMUNERATION MATTERS The ERCC comprises three non-executive providing updates on key performance Procedures for Developing Directors who are independent of indicators and a financial analysis of the Remuneration Policies Management, with the ERCC Chairman Group, and regular analysts’ reports and being an independent Director. During media articles on StarHub and the industry. The Board has instituted a formal and FY2017, the ERCC held 5 meetings. Collectively, such reports enable the transparent procedure for developing Directors to constantly keep abreast of key policies on executive remuneration and The Board notes that Mr Stephen Geoffrey issues and developments in the industry determining the remuneration packages Miller and Mr Lim Ming Seong are regarded as well as challenges and opportunities for of individual Directors. The Board has as non-independent under the Code in view the Group, thereby facilitating informed and established the ERCC to ensure that this is of Mr Miller’s executive role and Mr Lim’s sound decisions. duly implemented. directorship at Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd. However, after due Independent of the information provided Executive Resource and consideration, the Board and the NC are to the Directors as described above, Compensation Committee (ERCC) of the view that such appointments do not Management is available at all times to interfere with the exercise of independent answer any queries raised by the Directors. Membership judgement by Mr Miller and Mr Lim on Frequent dialogue and interactions take Mr Teo Ek Tor, ERCC Chairman and the Board or prevent them from acting place between Management and the independent Director objectively in the best interests of the Group Directors. Consequently, the Directors Mr Stephen Geoffrey Miller, in carrying out their duties. The Board and are able to gain a deeper understanding non-executive Director the NC further note that Mr Miller and Mr Lim of StarHub’s operations and information, Mr Lim Ming Seong, are not involved in the day-to-day running allowing them to better strategise and guide non-executive Director of the Group’s business and operations, StarHub in their role as Directors. and are independent of Management, Key Responsibilities with a clear separation of role between Furthermore, the StarHub Board Portal • Ensure the implementation of Management and the deliberations of allows the Directors to securely access a formal and transparent procedure the ERCC. and read Board and Board Committee for developing policies on executive papers and materials electronically, using remuneration and determining In overseeing StarHub’s remuneration tablet devices provided by StarHub at the remuneration packages of policies, the ERCC’s key duties are to review their convenience. individual Directors and recommend the following to the Board for endorsement: The Directors have separate and • Succession planning for the CEO, independent access to the Company the CFO and other key management • the general remuneration framework and Secretaries, who are trained in legal personnel. Potential candidates for specific remuneration packages for key and company secretarial practices. The immediate, medium and long-term management personnel (as defined in Company Secretaries administer, attend needs are identified each year the Code); and and prepare minutes of all Board meetings and are responsible for ensuring that board • Assessing and approving • the remuneration framework for each procedures are followed and that applicable performance share awards and Director (including Director’s fees, rules and regulations are complied with. restricted stock awards under allowances and share-based awards). Under the direction of the Chairman, they StarHub’s approved share plans, facilitate good information flows within the and recommending the grant of When reviewing and recommending the Board and its Board Committees, between share awards to Directors and key remuneration framework and packages, the the Board and Management, and advise management personnel for the ERCC covers all aspects of remuneration the Board on all legal and corporate Board’s approval including but not limited to Director’s fees, governance matters. The Company salaries, allowances, bonuses, options, Secretaries are the primary channel of • Assessing and approving candidates share-based incentives and awards, and communication between StarHub and for key appointments benefits in kind. The framework and the SGX. The Company Secretaries also packages are linked to: facilitate the orientation of new Directors • Overseeing the development and assist in arranging professional of Management and reviewing • the performance of StarHub, the Group development and training for the Directors succession plans for key positions in and the relevant individual; as required. The appointment and the the Group removal of the Company Secretaries are • industry practices and compensation subject to the Board’s approval. norms; and 54 Overview • the need to attract key management During FY2017, the ERCC engaged Aon Cash Component personnel in order to ensure the Hewitt to conduct a Pay-for-Performance Each non-executive Director receives a continuing development of talent and the Alignment Study. The results showed that basic retainer fee, attendance fee and travel renewal of strong leadership for StarHub. there was sufficient evidence indicating allowance (for overseas Directors). NonPay-For-Performance Alignment for StarHub executive Directors who perform additional With regards to the CEO and key in both absolute and relative terms over services in Board Committees receive management personnel, the ERCC ensures the four-year period from the financial year additional fees. The Board Chairman and that the remuneration paid to them is 2013 to the financial year 2016. Additionally, the Chairman of each Board Committee strongly linked to the achievement of the ERCC also took into consideration also receive a higher fee compared with business and individual performance the challenges in the industry/market as the members of the Board and the well as the job complexity and found the Strategy targets. The performance targets are respective Board Committees, in view determined by the ERCC based on realistic CEO’s total compensation to be aligned of their greater responsibilities. yet stretch levels each year to motivate to the performance of StarHub. Aon them to achieve a high degree of business Hewitt also conducted a Compensation Share Component performance with emphasis on both short Risk Assessment. The ERCC reviewed The restricted share awards consist of the and long-term quantifiable objectives. the various compensation risks that may outright grant of fully-paid shares, without arise and introduced mitigating policies to any vesting conditions attached. However, All decisions by the ERCC are made by a better manage the risk exposure that was in order to encourage the alignment of the majority of votes of the ERCC members identified. The ERCC has been undertaking interests of the non-executive Directors present and voting. periodic reviews of the compensationand shareholders, non-executive Directors Performance related risks. who receive the restricted share awards No ERCC member or any Director is are required to hold a minimum number of involved in deliberations in respect of Level and Mix of Remuneration shares in StarHub with a value equivalent any remuneration, compensation, shareDisclosure on Remuneration to the prevailing annual basic retainer fee, based incentives or any form of benefits or the aggregate of (a) the total number of to be granted to such individual, or where Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration StarHub shares awarded as part of their there are conflicts of interests. The CEO Non-executive Directors receive 70% remuneration for the financial year ended is present at all ERCC discussions on the of their Directors’ remuneration in cash 31 December 2011 and each subsequent compensation and incentive policies for and the remaining 30% in share awards financial year thereafter and (b) 50% of the StarHub’s key staff, such as share awards, granted pursuant to the StarHub Restricted total number of shares awarded from the Governance bonus framework, salary and other incentive Stock Plan. This remuneration structure financial year ended 31 December 2007 schemes, save for ERCC discussions which encourages non-executive Directors to hold to 31 December 2010, whichever is lower. relate to the CEO’s own compensation, shares in StarHub so as to better align the Non-executive Directors can only dispose terms and conditions of service or the interests of the non-executive Directors with of all their shares in StarHub one year after review of his performance, of which he the interests of shareholders and the longceasing to be a Director. The number of absents himself. term interests of StarHub. shares to be awarded to a participating non-executive Director will be determined The ERCC has access to expert professional by reference to the volume weighted advice on remuneration of the Board and average price of a share on the SGX-ST Sustainability executives. The ERCC has appointed Aon Cash over the 14 trading days commencing on the Hewitt as its remuneration consultant Component ex-dividend date that immediately follows for FY2017 and is satisfied that the the forthcoming AGM. The number of shares independence and objectivity of Aon Hewitt to be awarded will be rounded down to the Non-Executive is not affected by any relationship between Directors’ nearest hundred, with cash to be paid in lieu StarHub and Aon Hewitt respectively. Remuneration of the remaining shares arising. The ERCC reviews StarHub’s obligations Share The non-executive Directors’ remuneration arising in the event of termination of Component for FY2017 will be subject to shareholders’ an executive Director’s and/or any key approval at the upcoming AGM in FY2018. management personnel’s contracts of Financials service, to ensure that such contracts of service contain fair and reasonable termination clauses. The ERCC aims to be fair and avoid rewarding poor performance. Prior to any such termination, the ERCC’s approval is required. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE How We Govern Ourselves (cont’d) Table 2 (Annual Fees for the Board and the Board Committees) Annual Fees for the Board Board Chairman: $165,000 Non-Executive Director: $65,000 Additional Annual Fees for the Board Committees Type of Committee Chairman Member Audit Committee $43,000 $25,000 Strategy Committee $30,000 $16,000 Nominating Committee $24,000 $15,000 Executive Resource and Compensation Committee $30,000 $16,000 Risk Committee $30,000 $16,000 Breakdown of Directors’ Remuneration The following shows the composition of Directors’ remuneration for FY2017: Executive Director’s Remuneration Share-based Fixed(1) Variable(2) Benefits(3) Compensation(4) Total Name of Executive Director ($) ($) ($) ($) ($) Tan Tong Hai 995,615 1,210,700 79,862 2,050,297 4,336,474(5) Total paid, including shares vested based on actual performance 2,543,942 Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration Cash-based Share-based Total Name of Non-Executive Director ($) ($) ($) Steven Terrell Clontz(a) 188,650.00 80,850.00 269,500.00 Paul Ma Kah Woh 110,950.00 47,550.00 158,500.00 Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE 124,950.00 53,550.00 178,500.00 Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee(b) 103,950.00 44,550.00 148,500.00 Teo Ek Tor 103,068.00 44,172.00 147,240.00 Stephen Geoffrey Miller(a) 119,532.00 51,228.00 170,760.00 Liu Chee Ming 91,000.00 39,000.00 130,000.00 Michelle Lee Guthrie(c) 26,002.90 11,144.10 37,147.00 Lim Ming Seong 117,250.00 50,250.00 167,500.00 Nasser Marafih 89,250.00 38,250.00 127,500.00 Naoki Wakai(a)(d) 18,607.40 – 18,607.40 Non-Executive Director who resigned during FY2017 Takeshi Kazami(a)(e) 33,101.60 – 33,101.60 (1) Fixed refers to base salary, Annual Wage Supplement and fixed allowances earned for FY2017. (2) Variable refers to incentives paid and accrued for the year pursuant to StarHub’s performance bonus scheme and Economic Value Added (EVA) scheme for FY2017. StarHub’s performance bonus scheme is the “balanced scorecard” scheme used to determine the annual performance bonuses payable to StarHub’s employees. The EVA scheme rewards StarHub’s employees for sustainable shareholder value creation over the medium term, with alignment to StarHub’s strategic business objectives. Under the EVA scheme, each of StarHub’s employees is given clear objectives on his personal scorecard, which are aligned to StarHub’s overall strategic objectives of growth and profitability, creating customer value, operational efficiency, excellence and optimal customer management, and developing a motivated and well-trained workforce. A notional EVA bank account is set up for each senior executive, into which the annual EVA performance bonus earned by him for each year is credited. One-third of the total amount in his EVA bank account is payable annually at a later date in the following financial year, and the remaining balance in his EVA bank account is payable to him upon his resignation or termination of employment (other than for cause), subject to certain conditions being met. The balance in the EVA bank account will increase or decrease depending on StarHub’s EVA performance in subsequent years. (3) Benefits are stated on the basis of direct costs to StarHub, and include tax equalisation, housing and other non-cash benefits such as leave, medical scheme and club membership. (4) Shares awards granted to the Executive Director, Mr Tan Tong Hai, under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (RSP) and the StarHub Performance Share Plan (PSP) are subject to pre-determined performance targets set over a one-year and three-year performance periods respectively. The figures shown are based on the fair value of the shares at 100% of each of the RSP and PSP conditional awards. They may not be indicative of the actual value at vesting which can range from 0% to 100% of the RSP conditional award and 0% to 150% of the PSP conditional award. Over the last two financial years 2015 and 2016, the average number of shares vested to 56 participants of the RSP and the PSP has been less than 100% of the conditional awards granted. Time-based share awards were also granted under the RSP, with a Overview vesting period of two years. (5) Refers to total remuneration including contingent shares granted but not vested, subject to performance. (a) Fees are payable to Director’s employer company. (b) No additional fees were paid to Ms Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee in her capacity as lead independent Director. (c) Ms Michelle Lee Guthrie was appointed as non-executive Director on 25 August 2017. (d) Mr Naoki Wakai was appointed as non-executive Director on 30 August 2017. He had declined the share award and will only receive the cash component of his remuneration. Mr Wakai does not hold any share in StarHub. (e) Mr Takeshi Kazami stepped down from the Board with effect from 4 August 2017. Mr Kazami had earlier declined the share award and will only receive the cash component of his remuneration in the amount of $33,101.60 for FY2017. Mr Kazami does not hold any share in StarHub. Details of the share awards granted by StarHub to the non-executive Directors under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan can be found in Strategy the Directors’ Statement. CEO/Executive Director and Key A. Fixed Component: EVA Incentive Plan (EIP) Management Personnel Remuneration The fixed component comprises the The EIP rewards employees for The ERCC seeks to ensure that the level base salary, Annual Wage Supplement sustainable shareholder value creation and mix of remuneration for the CEO and (AWS) and fixed allowances. over the medium-term achieved by growing key management personnel are competitive profits, deploying capital efficiently and and relevant, aligned with shareholders’ B. Variable Cash Component: managing the risk profile and risk time interests and promote the long-term The variable cash component horizon of the Group’s business. A portion success of the Group. includes the Annual Variable Bonus of the annual performance-related bonus Performance and Economic Value Added (EVA) of the key management personnel is tied Remuneration for the CEO2 and key Incentive Plan. to the EVA achieved by the Group in the management personnel comprises financial year. a fixed component, variable cash Annual Variable Bonus (AVB) component, share-based component The AVB is a cash-based incentive for Under the EIP, one-third of the accumulated and market-related benefits: the CEO and key management personnel, EVA performance bonus, comprising the which is linked to the achievement of EVA performance bonus declared for the annual performance targets. current financial year and the balance brought forward from preceding financial Individual performance objectives are set years, is paid out in cash each financial Governance Fixed Component at the beginning of each financial year. year. The remaining two-thirds are carried The objectives are aligned to the overall forward in the individual key management strategic, financial and operational goals personnel’s EVA bank account. The balance of the Group, and are cascaded down to a in the EVA bank account will increase or select group of key management personnel decrease depending on StarHub’s EVA using scorecards, creating alignment performance in subsequent years. This Variable Cash between the performance of the Group, mechanism encourages the CEO and Component StarHub and the individual. While the key management personnel to work for performance objectives are different for sustainable EVA generation and adopt CEO/Executive Sustainability each executive, they are assessed on the strategies that are aligned with the longDirector and Key Management same principles across the following four term interests of the Group. Personnel broad categories of targets: Remuneration Based on the ERCC’s assessment that the Share-based • Business; actual performance of the Group in FY2017 Compensation • Customer; had partially met the pre-determined targets, • Process; and the resulting annual payout under EVA • People was adjusted accordingly to reflect the performance level achieved. The target AVB for the CEO and key management personnel is pre-set at a fixed C. Share-based Compensation: Financials Market-related percentage of their annual base salary, StarHub Performance Share Plan (PSP) Benefits and is adjusted based on the Group’s The PSP serves as a long-term incentive to performance at the end of each financial motivate the key management personnel to year. The final AVB payout can range from strive for superior performance and to align 0 to 1.5 times of the target payout. their interests with that of shareholders. (2) As an executive Director, the CEO is remunerated as a key management personnel of StarHub. He does not receive Directors’ fees for his Board directorship with StarHub. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE How We Govern Ourselves (cont’d) Pursuant to the PSP, the ERCC has decided The Group has attained an achievement capped at 1.0 times of the conditional to grant contingent awards on an annual factor which is reflective of not meeting the award. The shares will be released in three basis, conditional on meeting targets set pre-determined target performance levels for tranches of 50%, 25% and 25% over three for a three-year performance period. The PSP awards granted in FY2015 based on the consecutive years. performance measures used in PSP grants performance period from 2015 to 2017. during FY2017 are: The Group has attained an achievement StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (RSP) factor which is reflective of not meeting • Returns on Capital Invested (ROIC) The RSP is established with the objective the pre-determined target performance growth; and of motivating managers and key talent to level for RSP awards granted in FY2016 strive for sustained long-term growth and based on the performance period from • Absolute Total Shareholder Return superior performance of the Group. It also 2016 to 2017. However, the Group has (TSR) against Cost of Equity hurdles aims to foster a share ownership culture attained an achievement factor which is (i.e. measure of Wealth Added). among employees within the Group and reflective of meeting the pre-determined to better align employees’ incentives with target performance levels for RSP A minimum threshold performance is shareholders’ interests. awards granted in FY2017 based on the required for any performance shares to be performance period of 2017. The resulting released to the recipient at the end of the Pursuant to the RSP, the ERCC has decided shares vested were adjusted accordingly performance period. The actual number of to grant contingent awards on an annual to reflect the performance level achieved. performance shares released will depend basis, conditional on the achievement of on the achievement of set targets over the annual performance targets. The objectives D. Market-related Benefits: performance period. For the performance are aligned to the overall strategic, financial The benefits provided are comparable measure of ROIC, the achievement factor and operational goals of the Group. with local market practices. ranges from 0 to 1.5 times of 35% of the conditional award. For the performance A minimum threshold performance is Remuneration of the Top Five Key measure of Absolute TSR, the achievement required for any restricted shares to be Management Personnel factor ranges from 0 to 1.5 times of the released to the recipient at the end of the The details of the remuneration of the conditional award. performance period. The actual number top five key management personnel of shares released will depend on the (who are not also Directors or the CEO) The final PSP award is conditional on the achievement of the pre-determined target are set out in Table 3 below (in bands of vesting of the shares under the Restricted performance levels over the performance $250,000 and percentage terms for the Stock Plan (RSP) which have the same period, and will be determined by the ERCC services rendered by them to the Group performance end period. at the end of the performance period, for FY2017). Table 3 Share-based Remuneration Fixed(1) Variable(2) Benefits(3) Compensation(4) Total bands(5) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) Dennis Chia 36 21 3 39 100 C Chong Yoke Sin 27 6 2 65 100 C(6) Howie Lau 59 19 6 16 100 A Jeannie Ong 39 19 3 39 100 B Veronica Lai 41 18 4 37 100 B Total including contingent shares granted but not vested, subject to performance $6,555,767 Total paid, including shares vested based on actual performance $4,287,445 (1) Fixed refers to base salary, Annual Wage Supplement and fixed allowances earned for FY2017. (2) Variable refers to incentives paid and accrued for the year pursuant to StarHub’s performance bonus scheme and Economic Value Added (EVA) scheme for FY2017. StarHub’s performance bonus scheme is the “balanced scorecard” scheme used to determine the annual performance bonuses payable to StarHub’s employees. The EVA scheme rewards StarHub’s employees for sustainable shareholder value creation over the medium term, with alignment to StarHub’s strategic business objectives. A notional EVA bank account is set up for each senior executive, into which the annual EVA performance bonus earned by him for each year is credited. One-third of the total amount in his EVA bank account is payable annually at a later date in the following financial year, and the remaining balance in his EVA bank account is payable to him upon his resignation or termination of employment (other than for cause), subject to certain conditions being met. The balance in the EVA bank account will increase or decrease depending on StarHub’s EVA performance in subsequent years. (3) Benefits are stated on the basis of direct costs to StarHub, and include tax equalisation, housing and other non-cash benefits such as leave, medical scheme and club membership. (4) Share awards granted under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan (RSP) and the StarHub Performance Share Plan (PSP) are subject to pre-determined performance targets set over a one-year and three-year performance periods respectively. The figures shown are based on the fair value of the shares at 100% of each of the RSP and PSP conditional awards. They may not be indicative of the actual value at vesting which can range from 0% to 100% of the RSP conditional award and 0% to 150% of the PSP conditional award. Time-based share awards were also granted under the RSP, with a vesting period of two years. (5) Remuneration bands: “A” refers to remuneration between $750,001 and $1,000,000 per annum “B” refers to remuneration between $1,000,001 and $1,250,000 per annum “C” refers to remuneration between $1,500,001 and $1,750,000 per annum (6) Dr Chong Yoke Sin joined StarHub with effect from 3 April 2017. Accordingly, the amount of actual compensation received was based on the period from 3 April 2017 to 31 December 2017. There was share-based compensation granted to Dr Chong Yoke Sin as a one-off time-based restricted award of 400,000 shares. 58 If an executive Director or any key The SC comprises 6 non-executive opportunities, and evaluates the impact of Overview management personnel of StarHub is Directors and a co-opted member who external developments and factors, such as involved in fraud or misconduct, which are independent of Management. The emerging or evolving competitive activity, results in a re-statement of StarHub’s SC members possess deep knowledge disruptive technologies and regulatory financial results or financial loss to StarHub, of the converging info-communications developments, on the Group’s strategy and the Board may reclaim the unvested and media industries in which the Group execution. This enables the Group to adjust components of remuneration from such is operating in, and collectively have its strategic plan as needed accordingly. executive Director or key management relevant expertise and experience in personnel under all incentive plans for finance, mergers and acquisitions, legal, The SC tracks the Group’s progress against the relevant period, to the extent such regulatory, technical, management, strategic goals; and provides constructive incentive has been earned but not yet consumer enterprise and strategic challenge and advice on the strategic Strategy released or disbursed. The Board, taking planning experience. This enables the SC options. These include the acquisition into account the ERCC’s recommendation, to fulfil its oversight responsibilities relating strategy, capital strategy, market capabilities may decide whether and to what extent, to the Group’s intermediate and long-term and resource requirement, as well as the such recoupment of the incentive is strategy development and implementation. transformation strategy aimed at sustaining appropriate, based on the specific facts and growth, competitiveness and innovation circumstances of the case. No such fraud or The SC is assisted by the Management into the future. misconduct occurred in FY2017. Investment Committee (MIC), comprising the CEO, Chief Financial Officer, Chief During FY2017, the SC held 4 meetings During FY2017, no employee of the Marketing Officer and Chief Enterprise (including a full-day strategy meeting). Group whose remuneration exceeded Business Group. Performance $50,000 per annum was an immediate 4. ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT family member of any Director or the CEO. As part of the SC’s key functions, the SC Accountability guides Management on the strategic The Board provides a balanced and informed 3. STRATEGIC MATTERS planning process to ensure that the assessment of the Group’s performance, The SC supports, advises and Group’s strategic plan is developed with position and prospects to shareholders in provides direction to the Group on the measurable goals and time targets, and the Group’s quarterly and full-year operating formulation, review and execution of the is appropriately implemented. It reviews performance and financial results which Group’s strategies. both organic and inorganic growth are released via SGXNET, together with the associated press releases and presentation slides relating to the financial results. Strategy Committee (SC) Governance For FY2017, the Board has received written Membership assurance from the CEO and the CFO that Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE, SC Chairman and independent Director the financial statements give a true and fair Mr Steven Terrell Clontz, non-executive Chairman of the Board view of the Group’s operations and finances. Mr Stephen Geoffrey Miller, non-executive Director For the quarterly financial statements, Mr Liu Chee Ming, independent Director the Board provides a negative assurance Ms Michelle Lee Guthrie, independent Director confirmation to shareholders, in line with Mr Lim Ming Seong, non-executive Director the requirements of the SGX-ST Listing Mr Nikhil O. J. Eapen, co-opted SC member Manual. StarHub recognises that prompt Sustainability and full compliance with statutory reporting Key Responsibilities requirements is imperative in maintaining • Identifying and assessing significant intermediate and long-term opportunities (in terms shareholder confidence and trust. of new frontiers of organic and inorganic growth) and threats in the Group’s business areas and operations (including technology, competition, regulatory and financial) and Management updates the Board with the industry monthly management and financial reports which explain StarHub’s performance (in • Providing constructive input and recommendations to the Board on any strategic matter comparison with its forecasted performance reviewed by the SC which requires the Board’s approval and budget) and financial position on a timely basis. Other related business reports are also provided to the Board regularly and upon Financials request by the Board from time to time. StarHub has also procured the undertakings to comply with the SGX-ST Listing Rules from all Directors and executive officers, in compliance with SGX-ST Listing Rule 720(1). Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE How We Govern Ourselves (cont’d) Risk Management and The RC comprises 2 non-executive Directors In terms of internal controls, independent Internal Controls who are independent of Management, as audits are conducted by the external and The Board takes responsibility for the well as the CEO who is an executive Director. internal auditors on the effectiveness of the governance of risks and to this end, has During FY2017, the RC held 2 meetings. Group’s key internal control systems. The established and maintains a sound system The RC is assisted by the Management AC is responsible for reviewing the audit of risk management and internal controls Risk Committee (MRC), comprising relevant reports and assessing the effectiveness of the to safeguard shareholders’ interests and members of Senior Management. The MRC actions taken by Management in resolving StarHub’s assets. The RC assists the Board oversees, co-ordinates and monitors the any lapses or weaknesses in accordance with in its discharge of this responsibility. implementation of the enterprise-wide risk the recommendations made by the external management policies and procedures across and internal auditors, and taking into account the Group, including the Group’s insurance Management’s views. Risk Committee (RC) programme and the facilitation of selfassessment exercise required of significant For FY2017, the Board has received written Membership business units on an annual basis. The assurance from the CEO and the CFO that: Mr Stephen Geoffrey Miller, RC Chairman MRC also proactively identifies existing and (a) the financial records of the Group have Mr Tan Tong Hai, CEO and emerging significant risks, and manages them been properly maintained and the financial executive Director at the enterprise level within StarHub on an statements give a true and fair view of the Mr Paul Ma Kah Woh, ongoing basis. The MRC reports to the RC on Group’s operations and finances; and (b) the independent Director a regular basis. risk management system and internal controls of the Group are adequate and effective to In FY2017, the Group revamped its Enterprise address the financial, operational, compliance Key Responsibilities Risk Management (ERM) programme to and information technology risks which the • Review and recommend to the one that is centred on being inclusive, Group considers relevant and material to its Board the type and level of business multi-disciplinary and focuses on risks and current business environment and scope risk that the Group undertakes in opportunities that are pertinent to the Group’s of operations. achieving its business strategy, and business activities and that are aligned to the the appropriate risk management Group’s strategic objectives. The Group seeks Based on the risk management system and framework and policies for managing to embed risk management in its decisioninternal controls established and maintained StarHub’s risk making processes and key business activities by the Group, the reviews performed by at all levels and adopts a comprehensive and Management as supported by audit findings • Provide oversight in the design, practical approach to mitigating the of the external and internal auditors and the implementation and monitoring of Group’s risks. relevant written assurance from the CEO and the risk management framework, the CFO, the Board (with the concurrence and system of internal controls To improve risk management and mitigation, of the AC and the RC) is of the opinion that (including operational, compliance StarHub has identified certain top risks for the risk management system and internal and information technology controls), tracking and monitoring. These risks are controls of the Group are adequate and and to ensure that Management puts aligned with the Group’s strategic priorities, effective to address the financial, operational, in place action plans to mitigate the and were identified and prioritised in compliance and information technology risks identified risks where possible consultation with the RC and MRC. They as well as the risk management objectives are also supported by bottom-up risk which the Group considers relevant and • Review the adequacy and assessments conducted by the respective material to its current business environment effectiveness of StarHub’s risk business unit managers. The identified top and scope of operations. management system and system risks are also subject to in-depth discussions of internal controls (including at quarterly MRC meetings and bi-annual The Board notes that the risk management operational, compliance and RC meetings. system and internal controls of the Group information technology controls) provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance The RC has authority to investigate any that the Group will not be adversely affected • Review policies and procedures matter within its terms of reference, and by any event that can be reasonably foreseen for timely risk identification and has full access to and co-operation from as it strives to achieve its business objectives. containment Management. The RC will also have full However, the Board also notes that there is no discretion to invite any Director or executive risk management system and internal controls • Set and instill in StarHub an officer to attend its meetings, and to require that can provide absolute assurance in this appropriate risk-aware culture for Management to provide it with reasonable regard or against the occurrence of material effective risk governance resources to enable it to discharge its errors, poor judgement in decision-making, functions properly. human error, losses, fraud or other irregularities. 60 (ASTPL) purchase price allocation and (f) Overview Audit Committee critical accounting policies that might affect the integrity of the financial statements. Audit Committee (AC) During FY2017, the AC received updates from Management on the status of these Membership areas, reviewed and discussed with the Mr Paul Ma Kah Woh, AC Chairman and independent Director external auditors on the results of their Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE, independent Director audit, including their findings on the key Ms Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee, lead independent Director Mr Lim Ming Seong, non-executive Director areas of audit focus. Significant matters that were discussed with Management and the Key Responsibilities external auditors have been included as Key Strategy • Reviewing and approving quarterly and year-end financial results announcements and Audit Matters (KAMs) in the Independent financial statements, before recommending to the Board for approval Auditors’ Report on pages 136 to 142 of the Annual Report. • Monitoring compliance with relevant statutory and listing requirements to ensure the integrity of the Group’s financial statements, including the relevance and consistency In assessing the KAMs, the AC took into of the accounting principles adopted consideration the appropriateness of revenue recognition, basis and estimates • Reviewing and reporting to the Board at least annually on the adequacy and in deriving accruals, appropriateness of effectiveness of StarHub’s internal controls (including financial controls, operational the assumptions and estimates made in Performance controls which impact financial controls, compliance with accounting and listing goodwill impairment assessment, estimates rules and regulations, as well as information technology controls relating to used in determining allowance for doubtful financial systems) debts for trade receivables, as well as the key assumptions applied in purchase price • Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function allocation in the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition • Reviewing the scope and results of the external audit, and the independence and of ASTPL. In addition to the views from objectivity of the external auditors (taking into account the nature, extent and cost the external auditors, subject matter of non-audit services provided by the external auditors during the financial year) experts, such as independent valuers, were consulted where necessary. The AC • Reviewing interested person transactions to ensure compliance with the SGX-ST concluded that Management’s accounting Governance Listing Manual and the Shareholders’ Mandate for Interested Person Transactions that treatment and estimates in each of the is renewable annually KAMs were appropriate. • Making recommendations to the Board on the proposals to the shareholders for the The AC has explicit authority to investigate appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors, and approving the any matter within its terms of reference, remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor with full access to and co-operation from Management. The AC also has full • Commissioning and reviewing findings of internal investigations into suspected fraud, discretion to invite any Director or executive irregularity, failure of internal controls or violation of any law that is likely to have a officer to attend its meetings, and to require material impact on the Group’s results Management to provide it with reasonable Sustainability resources to enable it to discharge its • Reviewing reports made under StarHub’s Whistle Blowing Policy, and where appropriate, directing the investigation of such matters and the follow-up of any functions properly. actions to be taken The AC has performed a review of the independence and objectivity of the The AC comprises 4 non-executive Directors, During FY2017, the AC held 4 meetings external auditors, as well as the volume with a majority (including the AC Chairman) and met with the external auditors without and type of non-audit services provided by being independent Directors. The AC Management at least once. the external auditors during FY2017. The members are appropriately qualified to aggregate amount of external auditors’ fees discharge their responsibilities and collectively The significant areas of focus by the AC in paid for FY2017 and the breakdown for the have strong accounting and related financial relation to the financial statements for FY2017 Financials audit and non-audit services are set out and legal management expertise and are key areas of Management’s estimates and in Note 22.3 to the Financial Statements experience. They keep abreast of changes to judgement applied for key financial issues, of the Annual Report. accounting standards and issues which affect including (a) revenue recognition, (b) accruals, the Group, through, inter alia, consultation (c) impairment assessment of goodwill, (d) with the external and internal auditors and valuation of trade receivables, (e) acquisition seminars (including those organised by SID). of Accel Systems & Technologies Pte. Ltd. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE How We Govern Ourselves (cont’d) Based on such review, the AC is satisfied major findings and corrective actions taken to its shareholders through regular, effective that the independence of the external by Management. and non-discriminatory communication auditors has not been compromised by with shareholders. the provision of the non-audit services The AC conducts a review of the adequacy and that Rules 712 and 715 of the SGX-ST and effectiveness of the internal audit StarHub provides regular and timely Listing Manual have been complied with. function annually, to ensure that StarHub information to the investment community The external auditors have also confirmed maintains an effective internal audit function regarding the Group’s performance, their independence. Accordingly, the AC that is adequately staffed and independent progress and prospects as well as major has recommended to the Board that KPMG of the audited activities. industry and corporate developments and LLP be nominated for re-appointment as the other relevant information. StarHub solicits Group’s external auditors at the upcoming During FY2017, the AC met with the and considers the views of shareholders AGM. To further maintain the independence internal auditor once without the presence via: (a) periodic analyst and media briefings of KPMG LLP, the AC ensures that the audit of Management. throughout the year, (b) regular meetings partner in-charge of the Group is rotated between the CEO, the StarHub IR team and every five years. None of the Directors 5. SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS institutional investors through international (including the AC members) or Senior AND RESPONSIBILITIES road shows and conferences organised by Management is or has in the past two years StarHub respects shareholders’ rights and major brokerage firms and (c) third-party been a former partner, director or employee promotes the fair and equitable treatment perception studies on StarHub. of the Group’s external auditors. of all shareholders. StarHub keeps all of its shareholders sufficiently informed of its Apart from SGXNET announcements and Internal Audit corporate affairs and activities, including any the annual report, the StarHub IR website The internal audit function of the Group changes to StarHub or its business which at www.starhub.com/ir, which is regularly for FY2017 was carried out by two may materially affect the price or value of updated, is the main source of information independent firms, RSM Risk Advisory Pte. StarHub shares, on a timely basis. for shareholders. It houses all media Ltd. (“RSM”) and PricewaterhouseCoopers releases, financial results, annual reports, Risk Services Pte. Ltd (“PWC”). RSM ceased All new material price-sensitive information SGXNET announcements, presentation to be an internal auditor of the Group is disclosed on an adequate, accurate materials, archived webcasts and with effect from 2 May 2017 and PWC and timely basis via SGXNET, which are conference calls, as well as other corporate was appointed with effect from 5 January also posted on the StarHub IR website. information relating to the Group. Investors 2017. The internal auditor is guided by the StarHub recognises that the release of may also elect to be notified of any new Standards for the Professional Practice of timely and relevant information is central updates via an e-mail alert service. However, Internal Auditing, prescribed by the Institute to good corporate governance and assists new material price-sensitive information of Internal Auditors. shareholders to make informed such as financial results are released investment decisions. via SGXNET before being posted on the The internal auditor reports to the AC StarHub IR website or before any media or functionally, and to the CEO and the CFO All shareholders are entitled to attend and analyst conferences are conducted. This administratively. The AC approves the vote at general meetings and are afforded ensures fair and non-selective disclosure of appointment, removal, evaluation and the opportunity to participate effectively information to all shareholders. compensation of the internal auditor. The in the general meetings. Shareholders internal auditor has unfettered access to all of are allowed to appoint up to two proxies Shareholders may direct their queries and StarHub’s documents, records, properties and to attend, speak and vote in their place concerns to the StarHub IR team at the personnel, including access to the AC. at general meetings. Under StarHub’s contact particulars given at the StarHub IR Constitution and pursuant to the Companies website. The StarHub IR team is also prompt The internal auditor adopts a risk-based (Amendment) Act 2014, shareholders who in keeping Management fully apprised of auditing approach in developing the annual are nominee companies, custodian banks shareholder views and sentiments. internal audit plan, which focuses on or Central Provident Fund agent banks material internal controls, including financial, (Relevant Intermediaries) may appoint more StarHub declares dividends on a quarterly operational, compliance and information than two proxies to attend, speak and vote basis, and informs its shareholders of technology controls, across the Group’s at the upcoming AGM and at subsequent the dividend payments in the respective business. The internal audit plan general meetings. quarterly and full year financial results is submitted to the AC for its review and announcements via SGXNET. approval at the start of each financial year. 6. COMMUNICATION WITH Periodic internal audit reports are submitted to SHAREHOLDERS 7. CONDUCT OF SHAREHOLDER the AC detailing the internal auditor’s progress StarHub protects and facilitates the exercise MEETINGS in executing the internal audit plan and any of shareholders’ rights. StarHub reaches out At general meetings, StarHub encourages 62 Overview shareholder participation through 8. OTHER CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (a) commencing two weeks prior to the active discussion at the question and PRACTICES AND POLICIES announcement of the Group’s results answer session. for each of the first three quarters of Interested Person Transactions its financial year and ending on the Notices of the AGM and the annual reports Interested person transactions (IPTs) entered date of announcement of the relevant are generally issued to all shareholders into by any of the entities in the Group are results; and (including foreign shareholders) at least governed by the Shareholders’ Mandate for 21 days prior to the scheduled AGM. This Interested Person Transactions as approved (b) commencing one month prior to the provides ample time for shareholders to by shareholders each year at StarHub’s EGM, announcement of the Group’s full review the notice of AGM and annual reports as well as the disclosure and shareholder year results and ending on the date of Strategy before the AGM and appoint their proxies approval requirements under Chapter 9 of the announcement of the relevant results. to attend the AGM if they wish. As part SGX-ST Listing Manual. Review procedures of StarHub’s commitment towards more have been established by StarHub to ensure • All Management and employees directly environmentally-friendly and sustainable that all IPTs are undertaken on an arm’s length involved in the preparation of the practices, StarHub will discontinue the basis and on normal commercial terms, and Group’s quarterly and full year results practice of mailing out CD-ROMs for our are not prejudicial to the interests of StarHub are prohibited from dealing in StarHub’s annual reports and circulars and will notify and its minority shareholders. Under the securities during the period commencing shareholders that the electronic documents review procedures, the IPT terms and pricing one month prior to the announcement are available on the StarHub IR website. are to be (a) consistent with StarHub’s usual of each of the Group’s quarterly and full Physical copies of StarHub’s annual report business practices and policies and no more year results and ending on the date of Performance and circulars will be made available favourable to the interested persons than announcement of the relevant results. upon request. those extended to unrelated third parties; and (b) fair and reasonable. StarHub will All Directors, Management and employees All Directors (in particular the Chairman of also consider factors such as specification are notified by email prior to the start the Board and the respective Chairmen compliance, track record, experience and of each trading blackout period and of the Board Committees) and Senior expertise, as well as preferential rates/ the restrictions are only lifted after the Management attend all general meetings discounts for bulk purchase. An authorised announcement of the respective financial to address shareholders’ queries. senior officer who does not have any conflict results. The policy also discourages trading of interest in relation to the IPT will determine on short-term considerations and reminds The external auditors are also present to whether the price and terms are fair and Directors, Management and employees Governance address shareholders’ queries about the reasonable. Where possible, competitive of their obligations under insider conduct of audit and the preparation and quotations or tenders for purchase trading laws. content of the auditors’ report. Registered transactions are procured. shareholders are invited to attend and In addition, StarHub has also adopted a participate actively in such general In FY2017, there were no IPTs or related party share trading policy for Directors which meetings, including seeking clarification transactions that can be classified as financial requires Directors and Senior Management and/or querying the Group’s strategic assistance to entities other than StarHub’s to give prior notice of their intended dealing direction, business, operations, performance subsidiary companies as well as associated in StarHub’s securities to the Chairman, and proposed resolutions. company, SHINE Systems Assets Pte. Ltd. CEO and the Head of Investor Relations Sustainability through the Company Secretary, in order StarHub ensures that there will be separate StarHub does not provide loans to Directors to facilitate compliance by the Directors resolutions at general meetings on each as a matter of corporate policy and therefore and Senior Management. substantially separate issue. Voting is no loans have been provided by StarHub to carried out systematically and all resolutions the Directors in FY2017. StarHub has also adopted a policy against passed are properly recorded. To enhance acquiring any of its shares pursuant to its transparency and efficiency in the voting Securities Dealings Share Purchase Mandate where a priceprocess and results, electronic poll voting is StarHub has adopted an enhanced insider sensitive development has occurred or conducted. The results showing the number trading policy with respect to dealings in the been the subject of a decision, until the of votes cast for and against each resolution securities of StarHub by the Directors and development has been publicly announced. and the respective percentages are employees of the Group. The policy imposes Financials announced via SGXNET on the same day of trading blackout periods which exceed the While the SGX-ST Listing Manual permits the general meeting. requirements of the SGX-ST Listing Manual, the Board to seek a general mandate from pursuant to which: StarHub’s shareholders to allot and issue Minutes of general meetings are made • All Directors and employees of the Group up to 20% of StarHub’s total issued share available on the StarHub IR website. are prohibited from dealing in StarHub’s capital, the Board has decided to limit securities during the period: the mandate to 15% only. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE How We Govern Ourselves (cont’d) In addition, for the specific mandate from Employee Code of Conduct and Rules “Confidential”, “For Internal Use” or “For StarHub’s shareholders to allot and issue on Business Conduct Public Distribution”. This helps to safeguard Shares under the StarHub Performance To guide employees in carrying out their the information and documents, ensures Share Plan and the StarHub Restricted Stock duties and responsibilities with high that only appropriate persons have access Plan, the Board has limited the aggregate standards of personal and corporate to that information and that access is on a number of Shares available for grant under integrity when dealing with StarHub, its need-to-know basis only. the StarHub Performance Share Plan and competitors, customers, suppliers and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan to 8% of the community, StarHub has put in place Compliance Leave Policy StarHub’s total issued share capital (instead the following: StarHub has a Compliance Leave Policy of the permitted 15% under the SGX-ST which applies to employees who hold Listing Manual), taking into account any • StarHub’s Employee Code of Conduct Senior Manager positions and above, outstanding unvested share awards. and Ethics; finance advocates and employees with sensitive job functions such as handling Whistle Blowing Policy • Corporate Gift and Hospitality Policy; monies, inventories, payroll processing StarHub does not tolerate ethical and and approvals, risk management and legal violations. The Group has instituted a • Terms & Conditions Business Partner purchasing of goods and services. Under robust procedure which provides accessible and Vendor Relationships; the Compliance Leave Policy, such channels for employees and external employees are required to go on mandatory parties (such as our customers, suppliers, • Purchasing Procedure; and block leave for a period of at least five contractors and other stakeholders who consecutive working days each calendar may have a business relationship with the • Request for Proposal/Tender Procedure. year. This arrangement allows covering Group) to report any concern or complaint officers to fully step into the duties of the in relation to any irregularity, inappropriate These policies and procedures cover employee on leave, as an additional check behavior, legal or ethical violation or other business conduct (including employees’ and balance against any breaches. This serious breaches of internal processes compliance with anti-corruption and antiis an additional risk mitigation measure in a responsible manner. Such reporting bribery laws), conduct in the workplace, voluntarily put in place to enhance channels include a dedicated whistle protection of StarHub’s assets, proprietary corporate governance. blowing email and the direct channel to and confidential information, intellectual AC Chairman and the General Counsel (via property, conflict of interest, non-solicitation email and/or mail). of customers and employees, and 9. ACCOLADES AND AWARDS workplace health and safety. In parallel, As a testament to our unwavering All complaints raised will be promptly the Purchasing Procedure and Request for commitment to continually uphold high and thoroughly investigated and the Proposal/Tender Procedure cover internal standards of corporate governance, investigation will be dealt with in confidence controls on tenders, vendor selection StarHub has been the proud recipient of and on a need-to-know basis. The and purchasing to ensure transparency, numerous awards and accolades from the investigation outcome together with a objectivity and compliance. investment community over the years. In recommendation on the necessary actions FY2017, StarHub was the only Singaporean to be taken will be reported to the AC The Employee Code of Conduct and Ethics, company to be listed on Equileap’s 2017 Chairman and the General Counsel, for a the Corporate Gift and Hospitality Policy, the Gender Equality Global Report and Ranking, decision on the appropriate course of action. Purchasing Procedure and the Request for for our policies and commitment to gender On a quarterly basis, a consolidated report Proposal/Tender Procedure are available equality. Other significant awards received of all whistle blowing cases for the quarter on StarHub’s intranet, while the Terms & by StarHub include the Best Stakeholder (if any) will be submitted for review by Conditions Business Partner and Vendor Engagement and Materiality in the the AC. Relationships are available on StarHub’s Sustainable Business Awards Singapore intranet and corporate website for easy 2017, the Most Profitable Company The Group’s whistle-blowing policy aims to access by all employees and members of (Transport/Storage/Communications encourage the reporting of such matters the public. Category) in the The Edge Singapore in good faith, by lending confidence that Billion Dollar Club 2017, the Runner-up – employees and other persons making Document Classification Policy Singapore Corporate Governance Award such reports will be treated fairly and StarHub has a document classification (Telecommunication Services Category) and accorded with due protection against any policy to guide employees in their the Sustainability Award in the SIAS 17th reprisals. The Group’s whistle-blowing handling of information and documents Investors’ Choice Award. policy is available on StarHub’s intranet and relating to the Group’s business, activities corporate website for easy access by all and operations. Such information and employees and members of the public. documents are required to be classified as 64 Overview DISCLOSURE GUIDE – CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2012 Guideline Questions How has the Company complied? (a) Has the Company complied with all the principles and StarHub has complied, in all material aspects, with the principles and guidelines of the Code? If not, please state the specific guidelines of the Code of Corporate Governance (Code) issued by the deviations and the alternative corporate governance Monetary Authority of Singapore on 2 May 2012. practices adopted by the Company in lieu of the General recommendations in the Code. (b) In what respect do these alternative corporate Not applicable. governance practices achieve the objectives of the Strategy principles and conform to the guidelines in the Code? Board Responsibility The Board has established a framework on authorisation and approval limits for capital and operating expenditure, as well as specified transactions including acquisitions and disposals of investments, procurement of goods What are the types of material transactions which require and services, bank facilities and cheque signatories. Within this framework, Guideline 1.5 approval from the Board? the Board has set relevant authority and approval sub-limits for delegation to various Management levels to optimise operational efficiency. Board approval is required for all transactions which exceed the relevant authorisation and Performance approval limits. Members of the Board (a) What is the Board’s policy with regard to diversity in The Board recognises the importance and value of diversity. It constantly identifying director nominees? seeks to maintain an appropriate mix of expertise, experience (both local and international), knowledge, gender, culture and nationality in its composition. With Board diversity, each Director is able to bring in his or her unique contribution to the development of the overall strategy of the Group by way of alternative perspectives and fresh challenges during discussions. (b) Please state whether the current composition of the The Board consists of Directors who possess a broad range of core Governance Board provides diversity on each of the following – skills, competencies and experience in banking, accounting and finance, legal, experience, gender and knowledge of the Company, regulatory, technical, business and industry knowledge, management and elaborate with numerical data where appropriate. and strategic planning experience, and customer-based experience and knowledge. Gender diversity is also considered in relation to the Board composition. Following the appointment of Ms Michelle Lee Guthrie in Guideline 2.6 FY2017, the Board currently contains 2 female Directors out of 12 Directors. The individual profile of the Directors can be found in the ‘Board of Directors’ section of the Annual Report. (c) What steps has the Board taken to achieve the balance In proposing a Director as a candidate for appointment or re-election, the and diversity necessary to maximize its effectiveness? NC considers several factors, including the composition, the diversity and the need for progressive renewal of the Board, each candidate’s competencies, Sustainability commitment, contribution and performance (including attendance, preparedness, participation and candour) as well as potential conflicts of interest. This is to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills, experience, expertise and diversity is maintained, enabling the Board to stay engaged and agile in meeting the needs of the Group. External consultants are engaged to assist with the selection process if necessary. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Disclosure Guide (cont’d) Guideline Questions How has the Company complied? Please describe the board nomination process for the The NC leads the process for the selection and appointment of new Directors Company in the last financial year for (i) selecting and re-election of incumbent Directors, with written terms of reference that and appointing new directors and (ii) re-electing clearly set out its authority and duties. It takes into account several factors, incumbent directors. including the composition, the diversity and the need for progressive renewal of the Board, each candidate’s competencies, commitment, contribution and performance (including attendance, preparedness, participation and candour) Guideline 4.6 as well as potential conflicts of interest. This is to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills, experience, expertise and diversity is maintained, enabling the Board to stay engaged and agile in meeting the needs of the Group. External consultants are engaged to assist with the selection process if necessary. All new appointments to the Board are subject to the approval of StarHub’s regulator, namely the Info-communications Media Development Authority of Singapore. (a) Are new directors given formal training? If not, please Yes, new Directors are given formal training. explain why. (b) What are the types of information and training provided (i) StarHub has a comprehensive induction programme for all newlyto (i) new directors and (ii) existing directors to keep appointed Directors that is bespoke for the Group’s business and them up-to-date? operations. Briefings are conducted by Management for the newlyappointed Directors to familiarise with the Group’s business activities, strategic directions, financials, policies, governance practices, corporate culture as well as key regulatory, legal and industry developments which affect the Group. The induction program includes meetings with the CEO Guideline 1.6 and Senior Management. (ii) Existing Directors are provided with regular updates on key legal, regulatory, industry and accounting changes which affect the Group. The updates are given by the Company Secretary and members of Senior Management during Board meetings, and through emails and the StarHub Board Portal. Directors are also encouraged to attend external seminars and trainings (including those conducted by StarHub’s panel of law firms and the Singapore Institute of Directors in conjunction with the SGX-ST). In FY2017, the Directors participated in a Digital Transformation training session, organised by industry members. (a) What is the maximum number of listed company board StarHub has not prescribed a maximum number of listed company board representations that the Company has prescribed for its representations that a Director may hold. directors? What are the reasons for this number? (b) If a maximum number has not been determined, what The NC is responsible for determining whether each Director is able are the reasons? to adequately devote sufficient time and attention to discharge their responsibilities to the Company. The NC is of the view that the duties of all Directors have been fully discharged based on the time and attention Guideline 4.4 devoted by each Director, their individual abilities and their respective individual contribution of skills, knowledge and experience and their commitment to the affairs of StarHub. The table of attendance can be found in the Corporate Governance Report. (c) What are the specific considerations in deciding on the The specific considerations are as set out in (b) above. capacity of directors? 66 Overview Guideline Questions How has the Company complied? Board Evaluation (a) What was the process upon which the Board reached For FY2017, the Board engaged the assistance of Aon Hewitt Singapore Pte the conclusion on its performance for the financial year? Ltd as independent external consultants to facilitate the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board and the Board Committees. The evaluation process identifies key issues pertaining to the effectiveness, efficiency and functioning of the Board and the Board Committees, in particular (i) the adequacy of the Board composition, including the Board size, the degree of Board independence and the mix and diversity of skills, experience and knowledge of the Board, (ii) information management and Board processes, Strategy including level and timeliness of information provided to the Board, (iii) integrity and corporate social responsibility of StarHub, (iv) managing StarHub’s performance, (v) the effectiveness of Board Committees, (vi) CEO performance and succession planning, (vii) Director’s training and Guideline 5.1 development and (viii) risk management. As part of the evaluation process, detailed questionnaires were completed by each Director, with feedback on the key areas. Individual interviews with each Director were carried out. Feedback and comments received from the Directors are reviewed by the NC in consultation with the Board Chairman, and tabled to the Board for discussion. Performance (b) Has the Board met its performance objectives? Based on the NC’s review, the Board and the various Board Committees operate effectively, and each Director is contributing to the overall effectiveness of the Board. Independence of Directors Does the Company comply with the guideline on the Yes. The current StarHub Board comprises 12 Directors, of which half are nonproportion of independent directors on the Board? If not, executive independent Directors. Guideline 2.1 please state the reasons for the deviation and the remedial action taken by the Company. Governance (a) Is there any director who is deemed to be independent There is no Director who is deemed to be independent by the Board, by the Board, notwithstanding the existence of a notwithstanding the existence of a relationship as stated in the Code that relationship as stated in the Code that would otherwise would otherwise deem him not to be independent. deem him not to be independent? If so, please identify Guideline 2.3 the director and specify the nature of such relationship. (b) What are the Board’s reasons for considering him Not applicable. independent? Please provide a detailed explanation. Has any independent director served on the Board for more As at 1 January 2018, three independent Directors, namely Mr Nihal Vijaya than nine years from the date of his first appointment? If so, Devadas Kaviratne CBE, Mr Teo Ek Tor and Mr Liu Chee Ming, have served Sustainability please identify the director and set out the Board’s reasons on the Board for more than nine years. After careful rigorous review, the NC for considering him independent. recommends, and the Board is of the firm view, that for FY2017, Mr Kaviratne, Mr Teo and Mr Liu have each demonstrated the essential independence of mind and objectivity of judgement to act honestly and in the best interests of the Group in the discharge of their Directors’ duties, and therefore considers them to be independent. When assessing objectivity and independent judgement, the NC and the Board would consider, inter alia, the approach, character and attitude of each non-executive Director, including whether such Guideline 2.4 Director (i) is free from any interest and any business or other relationship which could, or could reasonably be perceived to, interfere with the exercise of the Director’s independent business judgement with a view to the best interests of the Group and (ii) has any material contractual relationship with Financials the Group other than as a Director. Mr Liu will be retiring as a non-executive Director and will not be offering himself for re-election at the AGM in 2018. The NC recommends, and the Board is of the firm view, that for FY2018, Mr Kaviratne and Mr Teo are independent in mind and objectivity. Three additional independent Directors, Mr Paul Ma Kah Woh, Ms Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee and Ms Michelle Lee Guthrie, were appointed between FY2015 and FY2017. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Disclosure Guide (cont’d) Guideline Questions How has the Company complied? Disclosure on Remuneration Has the Company disclosed each director’s and the CEO’s Yes, the details of each Director’s and the CEO’s remuneration are remuneration as well as a breakdown (in percentage or dollar fully disclosed. terms) into base/fixed salary, variable or performance-related Guideline 9.2 income/bonuses, benefits in kind, stock options granted, share-based incentives and awards, and other long-term incentives? If not, what are the reasons for not disclosing so? (a) Has the Company disclosed each key management Yes, the details of each key management personnel’s remuneration are personnel’s remuneration, in bands of S$250,000 or fully disclosed. in more detail, as well as a breakdown (in percentage or dollar terms) into base/fixed salary, variable or performance-related income/bonuses, benefits in kind, stock options granted, share-based incentives and Guideline 9.3 awards, and other long-term incentives? If not, what are the reasons for not disclosing so? (b) Please disclose the aggregate remuneration paid to The aggregate remuneration paid to the top five key management the top five key management personnel (who are not personnel (who are not Directors or the CEO) is as disclosed in the directors or the CEO). Corporate Governance Report. Is there any employee who is an immediate family member No of a director or the CEO, and whose remuneration exceeds Guideline 9.4 S$50,000 during the year? If so, please identify the employee and specify the relationship with the relevant director or the CEO. (a) Please describe how the remuneration received by The ERCC seeks to ensure that the level and mix of remuneration for the executive directors and key management personnel has CEO (Executive Director) and key management personnel are competitive been determined by the performance criteria. and relevant, aligned with shareholders’ interests and promote the longterm success of the Group. Remuneration for the CEO and key management personnel comprises a fixed component, variable cash component, share-based component and market-related benefits. The performance targets are determined by the ERCC based on realistic yet stretched levels Guideline 9.6 each year to motivate them to achieve a high degree of business performance with emphasis on both short and long-term quantifiable objectives. (b) What were the performance conditions used to determine Please refer to the performance conditions used to determine the CEO’s and their entitlement under the short-term and long-term key management personnel’s entitlement under the short-term and long-term incentive schemes? incentive schemes as set out in the Corporate Governance Report. (c) Were all of these performance conditions met? If not, Not all performance conditions were met. The reason was due to declining what were the reasons? performance of Total Shareholder Return (TSR). 68 Overview Guideline Questions How has the Company complied? Risk Management and Internal Controls What types of information does the Company provide to Throughout the financial year, the Board receives monthly management and independent directors to enable them to understand its financial reports providing updates on key performance indicators and a business, the business and financial environment as well financial analysis of the Group, and regular analysts’ reports and media articles as the risks faced by the Company? How frequently is the on StarHub and the industry. Other related business reports are also provided information provided? to the Board regularly and upon request by the Board from time to time. Collectively, such reports enable the Directors to constantly keep abreast of key issues and developments in the industry as well as challenges and opportunities for the Group, thereby facilitating informed Strategy and sound decisions. At least 5 business days prior to each Board and Board Committee meeting, Management provides the Directors with timely information that is relevant to matters on the agenda for the meeting, except for sensitive matters to be Guideline 6.1 tabled at the meeting itself. This is to give Directors sufficient time to review and consider the matters being tabled and/or discussed. The Board also receives updates from the Board Committee Chairmen at Board meetings on key matters raised and/or decisions made at the last-held meeting of the respective Board Committees. For any matter which requires the Board’s approval, the Board Committees would recommend the course of action to Performance the Board for its consideration and decision. Minutes of the meetings of the AC, SC, NC and RC are also circulated to the Board for its information, while the minutes of the meetings of the ERCC are available to the Directors on request. The Board has access to Management at all times to answer any queries raised by the Directors. Frequent dialogue and interactions take place between Management and the Directors. Does the Company have an internal audit function? If not, Yes, the Company has an internal audit function. Guideline 13.1 please explain why. Governance (a) In relation to the major risks faced by the Company, The Board’s view on the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal controls including financial, operational, compliance, and risk management systems (including financial, operational, compliance information technology and sustainability, please state and information technology controls) established and maintained by the the bases for the Board’s view on the adequacy and Group is made with the concurrence of the AC and the RC based on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls and reviews performed by Management as supported by audit findings of the risk management systems. external and internal auditors and the relevant written assurance from the CEO and the CFO. Guideline 11.3 In assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal controls, the Board ensures that material assets are properly safeguarded, integrity and availability of critical information and systems (including accounting records) Sustainability are maintained, and reliable financial information is prepared in compliance with applicable internal policies, laws and regulations. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Disclosure Guide (cont’d) Guideline Questions How has the Company complied? (b) In respect of the past 12 months, has the Board received Yes. For FY2017, the Board has received written assurance from the CEO assurance from the CEO and the CFO as well as the and the CFO that: (i) the financial records of the Group have been properly internal auditor that: (i) the financial records have been maintained and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the properly maintained and the financial statements give true Group’s operations and finances and (ii) the risk management system and and fair view of the Company's operations and finances; internal controls of the Group are adequate and effective to address the and (ii) the Company's risk management and internal financial, operational, compliance and information technology risks which the control systems are effective? If not, how does the Board Group considers relevant and material to its current business environment assure itself of points (i) and (ii) above? and scope of operations. In addition, Management has implemented an enhanced process to sign off assurance to the CEO and the CFO, in order to enhance the current processes for supporting the Board’s opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management system and internal Guideline 11.3 controls of the Group. Based on the risk management system and internal controls established and maintained by the Group, the reviews performed by Management as supported by audit findings of the external and internal auditors and the relevant assurance from the CEO and the CFO, the Board (with the concurrence of the AC and the RC) is of the opinion that the risk management system and internal controls of the Group are adequate and effective to address the financial, operational, compliance and information technology risks as well as risk management objectives which the Group considers relevant and material to its current business environment and scope of operations. (a) Please provide a breakdown of the fees paid in total to The aggregate amount of external auditors’ fees for FY2017 and the the external auditors for audit and non-audit services for breakdown for the audit and non-audit services are set out in Note 22.3 to the financial year. the Financial Statements of the Annual Report. (b) If the external auditors have supplied a substantial Non-audit fees amount to less than 50% of the total fees paid to the external Guideline 12.6 volume of non-audit services to the Company, please auditor of StarHub in FY2017. The AC has also reviewed the volume and type state the bases for the Audit Committee’s view on the of non-audit services provided by the external auditors. Based on such review, independence of the external auditors. the AC is satisfied that the independence of the external auditors has not been compromised by the provision of the non-audit services and that Rules 712 and 715 of the SGX-ST Listing Manual have been complied with. The external auditors have also confirmed their independence. Communication with Shareholders (a) Does the Company regularly communicate with StarHub, through its Investor Relations (IR) team, communicates regularly shareholders and attend to their questions? How with shareholders and the investment community through regular, effective often does the Company meet with institutional and and non-discriminatory communication including regular dialogues retail investors? and timely disclosures of material and other pertinent information via SGXNET announcements. (b) Is this done by a dedicated investor relations team (or Yes, StarHub has a dedicated IR team. equivalent)? If not, who performs this role? Apart from SGXNET announcements and the annual report, the StarHub IR Guideline 15.4 website at www.starhub.com/ir, which is regularly updated, is the main source of information for shareholders. It houses all media releases, financial results, annual reports, SGXNET announcements, presentation materials, archived (c) How does the Company keep shareholders informed webcasts and conference calls, as well as other corporate information relating of corporate developments, apart from SGXNET to the Group. Investors may also elect to be notified of any new updates via announcements and the annual report? an e-mail alert service. The CEO and the StarHub IR team also have regular meetings with institutional investors through international road shows and conferences organised by major brokerage firms. If the Company is not paying any dividends for the financial Not applicable. StarHub has been paying dividends on a quarterly basis Guideline 15.5 year, please explain why. for FY2017. 70 DIRECTORS' PARTICULARS Overview Principal Directorships/Chairmanships in other listed companies & other major appointments, both present and held over the preceding 3 years Age in Present Principal Directorships/ Past Principal Directorships/ Year Chairmanships & Appointments Chairmanships & Appointments Director 2018 (from 31 Dec 2014 to 30 Dec 2017) Steven Terrell Clontz 68 PSA International Pte Ltd InterDigital, Inc. STT GDC Pte. Ltd. Jasper Technologies, Inc Cloud9 Technologies, LLC CenturyLink, Inc. Strategy Commerce Topco, LLC Tan Tong Hai 55 StarHub Cable Vision Ltd. Board Member – StarHub Internet Pte Ltd Workforce Singapore StarHub Mobile Pte Ltd StarHub Online Pte Ltd Chairman of Board of Governors – Nanyang Polytechnic Paul Ma Kah Woh 71 Mapletree Investments Pte Ltd Mapletree Logistics Trust Performance Mapletree Greater China Commercial Management Limited Trust Management Ltd National University of Singapore PACC Offshore Services Holdings Ltd Nihal Vijaya Devadas 74 DBS Bank Ltd PT TVS Motor Company Indonesia Kaviratne CBE Olam International Limited TVS Motor (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Caraway Pte. Ltd. SATS Ltd. GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Akzo Nobel India Limited Bain & Company South East Asia (Indonesia) Governance Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee 50 Olam International Limited Governor – Raffles Girls’ School SPH REIT Management Pte Ltd (Secondary) Certis CISCO Security Pte. Ltd. Member of CMFAS Examination Board – The Institute of Banking Board Member – Public Utilities Board & Finance Board Member – Singapore Institute of Technology Board Member – APREA (Asia Pacific Real Estate Association) Singapore Chapter Teo Ek Tor 65 PrimeFounders Pte Ltd – Sustainability PrimePartners Group Pte Ltd PrimePartners Corporate Finance Pte Ltd Aris PrimePartners Asset Management Pte Ltd WhiteRock Medical Company Pte Ltd Stephen Geoffrey Miller 55 Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd – Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. STT GDC Pte. Ltd. Telechoice International Limited Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 71 DIRECTORS' PARTICULARS (cont’d) Principal Directorships/Chairmanships in other listed companies & other major appointments, both present and held over the preceding 3 years Age in Past Principal Directorships/ Year Present Principal Directorships/ Chairmanships & Appointments Director 2018 Chairmanships & Appointments (from 31 Dec 2014 to 30 Dec 2017) Liu Chee Ming 67 Haitong Securites Co., Ltd Kader Holdings Company Limited OUE Hospitality REIT Management Pte. Ltd. Founder BEA Trust Co., Ltd. OUE Hospitality Trust Management Pte. Ltd. Japfa Ltd STT GDC Pte. Ltd. Platinum Holdings Company Limited Michelle Lee Guthrie 53 Australian Broadcasting Corporation Pacific Star Network Auckland International Airport Limited Modern Times Group Plan International Lim Ming Seong 71 CSE Global Limited Singapore Technologies First Resources Ltd Kinetics Limited Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Limited Amplus Communications Pte Limited STT GDC Pte. Ltd. Nasser Marafih 57 Ooredoo Q.S.C. – Naoki Wakai 53 President & CEO – NTT Singapore Pte Ltd. Emerio Globesoft Pte Ltd NTT Comunications (Vietnam) Ltd. NTT MSC Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia) PT. NTT Indonesia 72 AWARDS AND INDUSTRY HONOURS Overview Advertising | Branding | Marketing Corporate Hall of Fame Awards 2017 2017 Corporate Knights’ Global 100 • SILVER: Best Use of Data Campaign of the Year • Ranked 69th in the list of the world’s most (DataJump) sustainable company • Listed on the ranking for five consecutive years HWM+HardwareZone.com Tech Awards 2017 • Best Pay TV Service (Singapore) Equileap’s 2017 Gender Equality Global Report • Seventh win in a row and Ranking Strategy • Ranked 117th for its policies and commitment to Loyalty & Engagement Awards 2017 gender equality • SILVER: Best Partnership in a Loyalty Programme • Only Singaporean company to be listed • SILVER: Best Use of Technology (HubTreats) • BRONZE: Most Innovative Loyalty Programme IR Magazine Awards & Conference – South East Asia 2017 (HubTreats) • SECOND RUNNER-UP: Best Investor Event Performance New York Festivals 2017 National Volunteer & Philanthropy Centre's Inaugural • GOLD: Sports Programme Promotion Champions of Good 2017/18 (US Open 2016) • One of 45 companies recognised as catalysts • Nominated as a finalist in five other categories of change for corporate giving PromaxBDA Asia Awards 2017 SIAS 18th Investors' Choice Award 2017 • GOLD: Best Sports Campaign • RUNNER-UP: Corporate Governance Award • Three SILVERS: Best Entertainment Campaign, (Telecommunication Services category) Best Out-of-House Station Image and Best Use of Design • Sustainability Award Governance The Mob-Ex Awards 2017 Singapore Computer Society’s IT Leader Awards 2017 • BRONZE: Best App – Consumer Brand (StarHub Go) • IT Professional of the Year: Dr Lim Woo Lip Sustainable Business Awards Singapore 2017 • Best Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality: Technology StarHub Sustainability NetworkWorld Asia Readers' Choice Product The Edge Singapore Billion Dollar Club 2017 Excellence 2017 • Most Profitable Company in the • WINNER: IP Services Infrastructure, for the third Transport/Storage/Communications category consecutive year Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 73 INVESTOR RELATIONS A well-run Company overseen by a Board committed to corporate governance excellence and a strong management team that has rich experience in execution. Engaging Our Our Investor Calendar FY2017 Shareholders 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 4Q17 • FY2016 results • 1Q17 Results • 1H2017 Results • 3Q17 Results Singapore Singapore Singapore London • Investor Roadshows • Investor Roadshows • StarHub Smart Nation Tour • SGX-UBS Singapore Corporate Day • HSBC ASEAN Conference • dbAccess Asia Conference for HSBC Singapore • Maybank Kim Eng Invest ASEAN • StarHub Smart Nation Tour for • Investor Roadshows • UOB Kay Hian Asian Gems • Deutsche Bank Smart Nation Day Deutsche Bank • StarHub Smart Nation Tour Conference Bangkok • Citi ASEAN C-Suite Conference for Sell-side Analysts • Investor Roadshows • CLSA ASEAN Forum Kuala Lumpur • Morgan Stanley APAC Summit Hong Kong • SGX-Maybank Kim Eng Conference Tokyo • Credit Suisse Asian Hong Kong • SGXMaybank-Mizuho Singapore Investment Conference • CLSA Investors’ Forum Corporate Day Q: Why should StarHub be part In Conversation with and holding our fair share of the mobile, Jeannie Ong CSPO of any investors’ portfolio? TV and broadband markets. Coupled with our own nationwide fibre backbone and undersea submarine cable landing stations, A: We are a well-run Company overseen by a Board that is committed to corporate governance excellence; a strong management team that has rich experience in execution, we are ready to repeat the same feat in the enterprise market. backed by the team of talented StarHubbers who are Lastly, we are focused on sustainability. passionate about our cause. We are the only local We constantly measure and assess the telco that pays dividends quarterly since 2005 and our impact of the landscape and stakeholders dividend yield is one of the highest in the local market. on the Company and vice versa. As our customers benefit from our better-quality In addition, we have a strong balance sheet and we services, we will be in a better position to are able and willing to invest so that we can capture deliver a long-term positive impact on our new growth areas. As of January 2018, we have made wider community with our focus on five two major acquisitions (ASTL and D’Crypt), adding new key areas; the environment, supporting capabilities that complements our enterprise offerings. youth and social inclusion, partnering for This makes us the only real contender to the incumbent innovation, improving customer experience in the enterprise market. We made our name capturing and supply chain integrity. 74 Q: What is your approach in engaging the investment community? Hubtricity is our recently launched 58,000 square feet innovation centre and converged operations cockpit. The centre demonstrates our extensive connectivity Overview and deep competency in data analytics and cyber A: We have put in place a comprehensive and proactive IR engagement programme. They include non-deal roadshows, investor conferences and one-on-one security. It is also a co-working space for partners and start-up companies to create solutions for a Smart Nation. meetings held locally, regionally as well as in Europe and USA. Over the past year, we have chalked up more We always tell our investment story in a forthcoming than 150 engagements with the investment community. manner, engaging investors through good and bad Strategy times to ensure consistency. We also ensure that We also organise an ‘Investor Day’ whenever we have we are always responsive and pre-emptive in our new technologies and strategies to share. For the approach. Besides that, we are attuned to changing year, we partnered with two foreign broking houses to ways in how we are seen by the wider community. organise ‘StarHub Smart Nation’ tours at ‘Hubtricity’. We held one for the sell-side analysts too. For example, sustainability is no longer a ‘nice-to-have’ consideration. We are early in recognising this as we The investment community has largely seen us are now in our seventh annual sustainability report through ‘consumer lens’ and so there is a need to and have been part of Corporate Knights’ Global 100 remind and educate them that the Enterprise business ranking of the world’s 100 most sustainable companies Performance is our next growth engine. The tours allowed us to for five consecutive years. showcase our capabilities in cyber security, data analytics, connected buildings and smart retail Over the past year, we have redefined our approach services. It also provided the opportunity to introduce towards sustainability by looking at the supply chain Dr Chong Yoke Sin, our Chief of Enterprise Business management as we want to be mindful of the effect Group to the investors and hear her enterprise we have on our environment, community, partners, strategies. Lastly, we got to display Hubtricity. customers and employees. Governance Q: What are the top three questions usually asked by investors? StarHub Go (OTT service) and the use of analytics to understand which content is valuable, are ways that we are managing the business. We are also working with content partners on various forums to protect their A: intellectual property rights. The top two questions are on the competitive and structural challenges, and the last is on our dividend Since 2005, the Company has been paying quarterly Sustainability payment policy. dividends based on the principle that the Board believes in returning cash to shareholders as soon Most sell-side analysts are bearish on the Singapore as practical. As the info-communications industry telco sector because of a fourth mobile entrant and tends to produce lumpy quarterly earnings and to the possible disruptions it may cause. But what they provide certainty to investors, it makes sense for us to may have overlooked are the practical challenges that announce an absolute dividend payout amount at the the new entrant is facing in rolling out their network in beginning of the year rather than a payout ratio based two countries simultaneously. Furthermore, we expect on earnings. more MVNOs to come into play in 2018 and compete directly with the fourth entrant. To this end, the Board takes a forward three-year view of our earnings, free cash flow, growth prospects, Financials It is no secret that TV customers have changed the investment needs and an optimal balance sheets. Our way that they are consuming content. Most are using preference is to make sustainable dividend payments. OTT apps or visiting non-sanctioned websites to view The Board has recommended to pay four cents per content; from sports to movies to dramas. Offering quarter per ordinary share in FY2018. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 75 RISK MANAGEMENT Our Approach to Enterprise StarHub’s Enterprise Risk Management Risk Management Framework The StarHub Group’s Enterprise Risk Through our Enterprise Risk Management framework, we seek to: Management (ERM) program is centered on being exhaustive, multi-disciplinary • Achieve an accurate, comprehensive understanding of StarHub’s key risks and focuses on risks and opportunities and opportunities through a combined top-down and bottom-up approach that are pertinent to our business to identifying and mitigating our risks; activities both from an operational and execution basis as well as being • Identify and prioritise key risks and opportunities which are aligned to our aligned to our company's strategic business activities and strategic objectives; objectives. The Group seeks to embed risk management in its decision making • Promote a culture of risk management which entails awareness, processes and key business activities at accountability and ownership of risk and risk mitigation; all levels and adopts a comprehensive and practical approach to mitigating • Maintain consistent oversight of StarHub’s Top Risks at the Board our risks. and Management Levels. These are illustrated in the diagram below: DESCRIPTION EXPLANATION MACRO Risks that are fundamental Considers strategic and to the company systemic risks that are critical to the existence of the company Synthesised for greater value by the Risk Committee Prioritised for Business unit and operational Management Focus 1. information are synthesised into key themes for discussion at the MRC Level BOARD AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT LEVEL Aligned to StarHub's STRATEGIC RISKS Strategic Objectives Covers operational risks Business unit and operational at the business unit levels activities, risks and risk mitigation actions are identified Comprehensive yet through a comprehensive set of 2. practical risk identification and assesment interviews and ground activities BUSINESS UNIT LEVEL OPERATIONAL RISKS MICRO 76 StarHub's Top Risks Overview To improve risk management and mitigation, StarHub has identified Top Risks for tracking and monitoring. These risks are aligned with the company’s strategic priorities, and were identified and prioritised in consultation with the Risk Committee and Management Risk Committee. They are also supported by bottom-up risk assessments conducted by the respective business unit managers. Key risks are also subject to in-depth discussions at quarterly Management Risk Committee Meetings, bi-annual Risk Committee Meetings and other appropriate Board Committees. Strategy StarHub’s Risk Management framework has identified the following strategic risk parameters and is summarised in the table below: KEY RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Customer StarHub continues to face competition StarHub’s focus is to be a leader in providing a superior customer Experience in retaining and attracting customers experience across all of its service lines. in the telecommunications, media and technology space as consumers • To help gauge StarHub’s performance across customer touch points, have rising expectations of network StarHub adopts the Net Promoter Score (NPS) metric to measure capacity, coverage speeds, superior satisfaction across a customer’s journey. Performance customer service and overall value for money. • StarHub benchmarks itself against the Customer Satisfaction Index of Singapore (CSISG). In Q1’2017’s edition of the CSISG survey, StarHub scored the highest in the Broadband and Pay TV sub-sector. • StarHub utilises data analytics to gain insights and to better understand customer profiles, needs and behaviors. Through these insights, StarHub conducts targeted marketing and promotional activities to reward loyal customers and ensures that its offerings exceeds customer needs and expectations. Governance Trusted StarHub needs to ensure availability • StarHub has policies, guidelines and procedures in place to ensure Provider and resilience of its network that network infrastructure and information systems are up-to-date, infrastructure and systems. reliable and secure. Additionally, as custodians of • StarHub ensures strict compliance with Info-Communications and customer data, StarHub needs to Media Development Authority of Singapore (IMDA) Resiliency Codes ensure adequate and effective data of Practices and is subjected to rigorous independent external audits privacy and security measures are on its network infrastructure. in place. Sustainability • StarHub has a centralised Personal Data Protection Office with defined Personal Data and Protection procedures and guidelines to ensure strict compliance with legislations from the Singapore Personal Data Protection Act and to mitigate breach of data and privacy risks. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 77 RISK MANAGEMENT (cont’d) KEY RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION Growth in The increasingly saturated • StarHub has entered into new areas such as cyber security, data New and telecommunications market has analytics, over-the-top (OTT) and ICT managed services to generate Adjacent seen a need for StarHub to extend additional sources of revenue. For example, StarHub’s SmartHub Businesses out into new business areas to Analytics-as-a-Service offering enables businesses to leverage remain competitive and meet our big data analytics to gain valuable customer insights for better customers' broader requirements. decision-making. Such initiatives are challenged by crowded markets, competition from • StarHub has begun to look for investment opportunities to augment other potential investors, legal and its existing business and to find new sources of revenue. More regulatory restrictions and other recently, StarHub acquired Accel Systems & Technologies in socio-political factors. July 2017 and D’Crypt in January 2018 to strengthen its value proposition in the areas of cyber security, cryptographic and digital With the acquisition of new security, secure info-communications (ICT) and the Internet of Things businesses, StarHub faces the (IoT); areas vital to Singapore’s vision of a robust, secure Smart challenge of identifying suitable Nation platform. targets, integrating newly acquired businesses into our operations, • To mitigate risks associated with the acquisition of businesses, and generating synergies from StarHub has implemented systematic processes in the evaluation these acquisitions. and decision-making of investment leads. These are augmented with clear post-integration plans, with business and corporate involvement. Increasing StarHub operates in a highly StarHub differentiates itself through superior network performance Competition competitive environment with and the provision of innovative products, solutions and offerings that and the impending entry of a fourth protect and enable organisations. Technological Mobile Operator, Mobile Virtual Disruption Network Operators (MVNO) and • To enhance its mobile network coverage and provide unparalleled OTT providers in the media network performance StarHub invested in acquiring 700MHz, distribution space. 900MHz and 2.5GHz spectrum bands in the IMDA auction held in April 2017. StarHub has also rolled out 2.5GHz TDD-LTE technology in populated areas such as the CBD area, Orchard Road, Changi Airport, Marina Bay and the various transport hubs in Singapore. This allows significantly higher download and upload mobile data speeds in congested areas. • StarHub has pledged its support to Singapore’s Smart Nation vision by opening a 58,000 square feet innovation centre and converged operations cockpit named Hubtricity. This facility enables StarHub to showcase its deep competencies in data analytics and cyber security, accelerate innovation and support the tech start-up ecosystem. • StarHub continues to enhance and refine its enterprise propositions by offering digital solutions such as Analytics-as-a-Service, cloud platforms, cyber security solutions and next-generation connectivity solutions such as connected buildings, connected cars and connected living. 78 Overview KEY RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION People With increasing competition for • StarHub benchmarks its Human Resource practices by taking part and Talent talent from new entrants in the in multi-industry studies such as the Aon Hewitt Best Employee Management Telecommunications sector, StarHub Survey to identify key areas for improvement. Additionally, StarHub continues to face the key risk of has its own internal employee experience surveys with follow-up attracting and retaining talent. focus group discussions to better understand and address employee concerns. The increased pace of technological disruption, digitalisation of business • StarHub continues to place strong emphasis on attracting, hiring and processes and the ventures into retaining talent with competitive remuneration packages, recognition Strategy new business environments have and award and talent development programs. resulted in the need to attract and retain human talent with the skill sets • StarHub has a defined learning and development roadmap for and capabilities required to drive the its employees. Employees are encouraged to enrol in personal business forward. development courses conducted by internal and external training providers, aligned with their own development roadmap. • StarHub has a robust succession plan in place to ensure leadership continuity and the transfer of necessary knowledge and information. Performance Cyber Security As owners of Critical Information • StarHub has implemented security policies, procedures and systems Threats to Infrastructure (CII), StarHub is based on international standards such as ISO 27001. We will StarHub’s exposed to the spectrum of cyber continue to benchmark ourselves against relevant frameworks to Critical security-related threats prevalent minimize the risk of security incidents. Information in the digital era. Infrastructure • StarHub regularly conducts rigorous penetration testing and A cyber incident on StarHub’s Critical vulnerability assessments on its networks and systems to Information Infrastructure could ensure that vulnerabilities detected and resolved in a timely potentially cause: and effective manner. Governance ◃ Disruptions to StarHub’s network; ◃ Interruptions to services provided • StarHub has defined business continuity management procedures to customers; and disaster recovery plans and conducts regular crisis exercises to ◃ Leakage of sensitive and/or ensure operational readiness in the event of a disruption. confidential information; and ◃ Significant regulatory fines • StarHub has provided submissions to the government on the new and penalties. Cyber Security Act and also implemented policies, procedures and training to ensure that StarHub is compliant with the new Act. Evolving StarHub’s business is subjected • StarHub’s regulatory team reviews regulatory requirements on a Sustainability Regulatory to the fast moving regulatory consistent basis and proactively engages IMDA where necessary. and Legal landscape that reflects the dynamic Landscapes nature of the telecommunications • StarHub’s regulatory team has regular engagements with internal industry. Apart from complying business units to provide advice on IMDA requirements and to with prevailing legislations and monitor compliance with existing obligations. regulatory requirements, radical regulatory and legislative changes • StarHub has robust internal policies, guidelines and procedures to may result in a significant impact to ensure compliance with prevailing laws and regulations. StarHub’s business. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 79 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) Sustainability Contents Introduction Sustainability at StarHub 82 Our Vision Supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals 82 Overview Engagement with Stakeholders 84 Sustainability Material Topics 84 Delivering Our Sustainability Strategy 85 for the Future ENVIRONMENT Addressing Environmental Challenges Commitment 86 Environmental Strategy 86 Energy Consumption 87 Emissions 87 Waste Management 87 Strategy Water Consumption 87 Environmental Data 88 SOCIAL Supporting Youth, Social and Digital Inclusion Approach to Youth, Social and Digital Inclusion 90 Safe Online Environment 90 Contributions in-Summary 90 Social Inclusion 91 Performance Youth and Employability 92 Airtime Sponsorship for Social Campaigns 93 MARKETPLACE Partnering for Innovation Enabling Resource Efficiency 94 Enabling Innovation to Manage Digital Transformation 94 Improving Customer Experience Responsible Marketing 96 Pricing and Billing 97 Service Quality 97 Governance Protection and Privacy of Customer Data 98 Cyber Security 98 Promoting Supply Chain Integrity Commitment 100 Code of Conduct 100 Risk Assessment 101 Inspiring an GOVERNANCE inclusive, cohesive Being a Responsible Business community built Corporate Governance 102 Sustainability Anti-corruption 102 on a carbon-lite Fair and Competitive Market 102 economy. CULTURE Employees 103 Workplace Health and Safety 107 Employee Data 107 Appendix About this Report 108 >92 >2,000 Materiality Process 108 Material Topics Boundaries 109 Financials StarHub Value Creation Scorecard 110 Memberships and Associations 111 GRI Content Index 112 tonnes of e-waste beneficiaries from Independent Limited Assurance Report 116 recycled through StarHub's community RENEW investment 80 Inspiring Change StarHub LtdAnnual StarHubLtd AnnualReport Report2017 2017 81 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) Introduction Supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals At StarHub, we do not just connect people Our sustainability strategy is designed to to products and services. We connect support our business and global efforts people to people, people to the things to address some of the world’s biggest they love, and people with life. Our challenges: growing inequality, high youth company culture and our technology Sustainability at StarHub unemployment, market disruption caused have the power to enable sustainability For StarHub, sustainability means using by technology and artificial intelligence, and for ourselves and for others. our core strengths as a company to help pressure on our natural resources. spread the benefits of our ICT solutions far At StarHub, we do not only create and wide in Singapore, while strengthening The good news is that the world has agreed happiness by providing special moments our business and upholding the highest on a plan to put us on a more sustainable in homes, we also inspire change by standards of responsible business conduct. path and ensure that no one is left behind. improving the lives of people in our communities and the operations of our Our approach to sustainability is centred In 2015, UN Member States set out the businesses in Singapore. around five main pillars as shown below. 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, including its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and the Paris Agreement to tackle climate change. We have an opportunity and responsibility Inspiring Change to play our part in delivering these landmark & Driving Transparency agreements. By supporting the SDGs, we will help create a better world in which our business can grow and we can more effectively achieve our mission to help people improve their lives through learning. For StarHub, operating responsibly is an important first step in supporting the SDGs. Addressing Supporting Partnering Improving Promoting Beyond that, we have identified eight SDGs Environmental Youth, Social and for Customer Supply Chain where we believe we have an opportunity Challenges Digital Inclusion Innovation Experience Integrity to make the biggest impact through our business practices, products and services, 01. 02. 03. 04. 05. programmes, and partnerships. The SDGs we focus on are closely aligned with the issues we have identified as material to our business. page 84 for more on our material issues Responsible Business Practices 82 Overview How StarHub supports SDG 5 How StarHub supports SDG 8 How StarHub supports SDG 9 How StarHub supports SDG 10 Although there is no mandatory Communication networks and As an ICT company, the need for StarHub aims to reduce inequality gender quota for women in high-speed internet have changed quality, reliable, sustainable and by offering equal remuneration, leadership positions in Singapore, the way we live, work and play. resilient infrastructure is evident. At hiring opportunities and career the Code of Corporate Governance It also has the potential to help StarHub, we work with governments advancements based on merit and Strategy requires companies to consider us transit to a more efficient and businesses to constantly improve performance regardless of gender, diversity as part of the Board economy. At StarHub, we have the access and coverage of our age, ethnicity and disability. nomination process. At StarHub, we been investing in our infrastructure networks. We continue to upgrade our make a conscious effort to embed to build one of the most advanced infrastructure and acquire wireless About gender: The average salary gender diversity and equality telecommunications, wireless and spectrums to ensure that StarHub ratio for female to male is 1:1.1. considerations in our businesses fibre networks in Singapore while provides fast and reliable connections processes. In 2017, 42% of permanent also taking into consideration resilient to any externalities that About disability: We employed employees were women with 36% of how we can reduce our energy may impede our customers from a two persons with physical disabilities senior roles being filled by women. requirements. At the same time, seamless experience. in 2017. Within our Board, two directors are StarHub’s Machine-to-Machine women, an increase of one from 2016. (M2M) solutions are helping See how we are improving StarHub Sparks Fund: StarHub's Performance customers to drive productivity customers’ experience through community investment arm, the and efficiency with automated building faster, more reliable and StarHub Sparks Fund aims to intelligence while reducing their resilient network infrastructure. enhance the employability, life skills environmental footprint. page 97 and connectivity needs of the less privileged, whereby over 2,000 people have benefited in 2017. Governance How StarHub supports SDG 11 How StarHub supports SDG 12 How StarHub supports SDG 13 How StarHub supports SDG 17 Through StarHub’s mobile and Consumers are often disposing The Singapore government is Pursuing sustainable development broadband services, we have their older gadgets for newer and placing strong emphasis on reducing cannot be done alone but in connected more than 2.7 million more sophisticated mobile phones, the nation’s emissions to combat partnerships with other organisations. customers on our network in 2017. We laptops and/or electronic devices. climate change. At StarHub, we Leveraging on StarHub’s expertise continue to commit our resources to As a result, the amount of electronic commit to doing our part in addressing and resources, we partner with nonimprove the resilience and security waste (e-waste) generated is growing climate change by reducing our governmental organisations (NGOs) of our infrastructure for customers rapidly. As an ICT company, StarHub energy consumption. to support youth, social and digital Sustainability connected through our networks. inevitably handles and disposes inclusion in Singapore. StarHub is also working with partners electronic equipment and devices. We More importantly, StarHub is to innovate IoT (Internet of Things) commit to collecting all our e-waste expanding its digital and IoT solutions As a signatory of the UN Global solutions to optimise city operations and have it recycled by licenced to help business customers to monitor Compact and member of the Global and infrastructure to address e-waste contractors. Through and improve their energy consumption Compact Network Singapore, environmental sustainability. our flagship e-waste recycling and emissions. StarHub seeks to partner like-minded programme, RENEW, we encourage corporations to drive positive change. See how we are working with a the Singapore public to recycle their See how we are enabling customers local shipping port to identify water unwanted electronic products. to reduce their energy consumption See how we are partnering with consumption patterns, detect through our IoT solutions public agencies, non-profit and civil abnormalities and minimise water loss See how much e-waste has been page 95 organisations in Singapore on youth, page 94 collected from the recycling bins all social and digital inclusion over Singapore and recycled. Financials page 90 page 87 See how we are trialling new energy reduction initiatives in our networks and infrastructure page 87 Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 83 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) Engagement with Stakeholders Many different people inside and outside of StarHub TRADE NGOs & ADVOCACY have a stake in our business. Everyone from our UNIONS GROUPS suppliers, investors and employees are impacted by the actions we take. INVESTORS MEDIA We are committed to listening to our stakeholders SENIOR and responding to their needs. We believe their MANAGEMENT perspectives offer valuable insights for improving our business, implementing our sustainability strategy, and meeting our goal to deliver our sustainability vision. OUR SUPPLIERS STAKEHOLDER CUSTOMERS ENGAGEMENT In 2017, we worked with an external consultant to conduct a survey of our employees in order to better understand their expectations from StarHub on sustainability issues. We also engaged with our EMPLOYEES BUSINESS senior management, to collect their feedback and LOCAL PARTNERS COMMUNITIES views which represent that of the markets, on our sustainability initiatives and identify new areas of risks and opportunities for StarHub. DISTRIBUTORS/ GOVERNMENT RETAILERS & REGULATORS In 2018, we will continue to find the most effective channels for interacting with other stakeholder groups EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS and to expand our stakeholder engagement to INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS include suppliers. Sustainability Material Topics Materiality Matrix With our sustainability plan 10.0 and approach to reporting, we focus on the topics that matter most to our business Data security and our stakeholders. 9.5 Talent acquisition, retention and development Employee health, safety and wellness Responsible Service quality For the purpose of the report, business Customer privacy practices we undertook a comprehensive Clarity of pricing and billing IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS 9.0 Diversity and inclusion Responsible marketing materiality assessment in 2017, Disaster preparedness Local innovation Employee engagement following best practice outlined and response Online Safety by the international reporting Providing solutions that are socially inclusive and accessible to people standard, the Global Reporting 8.5 Child safety Providing solutions that enable Initiative (GRI). sustainable lifestyles Supporting local communities Gender Implementing e-waste programmes Providing solutions that equality Based on consultation and an enable other companies to reduce their environmental impact analysis of the areas that are 8.0 Addressing climate change and most important to our employees, other environmental challenges we identified a shortlist of 22 topics that are most relevant to the sustainability of our business. 7.5 Through further consultation with senior leaders at StarHub, we Radio frequency emissions narrowed these down to 13 topics we believe are most material at 7.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.0 9.0 10.0 this time. SIGNIFICANCE TO BUSINESS More details about our materiality assessment process are on pages 108-109 Employees Customers Governance & Management Environment ICT for the Environment & Sustainable Lifestyles of the appendix. 84 Overview Delivering Our Sustainability Strategy Our intention to inspire change and drive transparency is at the centre of our sustainable business strategy. Each of our five objectives has the potential to deliver meaningful benefits for our customers and the wider society; and each one will be achieved by means of our business objectives. In 2017, StarHub reviewed its approach to sustainability, aligning to its business objectives and creating the foundation for supply chain integrity. As part of the review, we are also undertaking a target-setting exercise that is geared towards aligning action plans with overall business strategy and priorities, driven and owned across functions. Looking forward, StarHub shall communicate clear targets along with each objective and report the progress made to meet these targets. Strategy SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES Addressing Supporting Youth, Partnering Improving Promoting Environmental Social and Digital for Customer Supply Chain Challenges Inclusion Innovation Experience Integrity Performance Information, communications Unemployment among The technologies we deploy Our business depends on Our businesses rely on a and technology companies younger people generates can have a significant impact building strong, long-lasting large supply chain spanning such as StarHub are a range of serious social in our customers’ overall relationships with a variety over 1,000 companies. significant energy users and and economic challenges. emissions and quality of life. of customers, including are therefore a source of the small and medium-sized We seek to ensure the greenhouse gas emissions The rapid growth of StarHub continues to businesses. safety, well-being and ethical associated with climate digital technologies in the innovate within our core treatment of all who work change. workplace has enhanced business to help these Our customers expect the with StarHub in any capacity, productivity for many customers apply best from our services and anywhere in the world. Preserving our planet companies. However, the the best solutions solutions. We use a wide is at the centre of our increased use of technology to minimise their own energy range of methods to gather However, there is a broad sustainability plan. is also leading to a sharp needs and empower people feedback from customers, range of labour rights and reduction in the number of to manage every aspect of including the Net Promoter safety and environmental Governance We are as keen on reducing traditional semi-skilled and their own lives in a smarter System (NPS) index and risks inherent with such a our environmental footprint back-office jobs available way through the use of IoT. social media channels. In complex supply chain, and as we are on helping in many economies. our view, acting responsibly many of those risks also arise businesses and communities is absolutely integral to in the business operations in Singapore to tackle the We believe that StarHub business performance. under our own direct control. same challenge. can play an important role in helping young people Further details of our One of our initiatives gain the skills required to approach to supply chain involves expanding thrive within the global integrity and safety risks can recycling channels and digital economy through our be found on pages 100-101 promoting them. In 2017, community investment. in this report. for instance, over 92 tonnes of electronic waste, representing an increase of over 56% from the previous Sustainability year was collected through RENEW, our flagship public recycling programme. GROWTH OBJECTIVES Improve Drive Enterprise Enhance Products Customers' Experience Business Growth and Services OUR IMPACTS Financials ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE • MARKETPLACE StarHub's environmental footprint Improvement in service level Revenue and earnings Customers' environmental footprint Customers' efficiency Cost efficiency Sustainable consumption of natural resources Employability and inclusion Shareholders returns Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 85 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) Addressing Environmental Challenges At StarHub, we are conscious of the need to StarHub’s Six-Point Commitment to the Environment understand and minimise our environmental impact as we continue to enhance our competitiveness and expand our business 1 2 3 and network infrastructure. Minimising Adhere to Reduce environmental Commitment environmental impact environmental loads through Our six-point commitment to our of our operations and recommendations efficient resource environmental policy guides our continually reviewing by the relevant use, waste reduction approach to conducting our business in our environmental authorities and recycling and an environmentally responsible manner. goals and minimising We focus on monitoring and managing commitment emissions our energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and waste. We continue to motivate employees, customers and communities to respect the environment and encourage them to apply the same in their personal lives. Our Corporate Sustainability Advocate works with cross4 5 6 functional representatives to implement various environmental initiatives. Adopt Implement employee Disclosing environmentally education programmes environmental friendly to raise awareness information technologies, on environmental and supporting Environmental Strategy where possible issues and our environmental StarHub is working on a strategy with Green Policy conservation targets which aims to reduce the impact initiatives of our activity, while providing solutions to the environmental challenges of our times using digital technology. WASTE ENERGY CONSUMPTION ENVIRONMENTAL OUR MANAGEMENT & EMISSIONS STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY Reducing waste generation, Striving for energy-efficient Innovative paths to reducing through reduction, recycling operations and adopting carbon footprints, raising and reuse energy-efficient technologies, awareness and promoting while consistently monitoring action by employees and implementing initiatives to reduce energy consumption 86 ENVIRONMENTAL Energy Consumption The carbon tax will drive companies to paper in 2017, the equivalent of saving Overview Our technical centres such as data centres improve their environmental practices and 411 trees. This is a significant increase of and base stations form the basis of our for StarHub, our approach to reduce our 8 tonnes from 2016. products and services which are also the emissions is by implementing initiatives main energy consumption sources. As that reduce our energy consumption and REcycling Nation’s Electronic Waste such, we focus on operating our technical improve energy efficiency. (RENEW) is StarHub’s flagship e-waste centres in an energy-efficient manner and recycling programme launched in 2012 that adopting energy-efficient technologies. We constantly monitor our emissions and encouraged the Singapore community to seek to increasingly track emissions from recycle their unwanted electronic products. Despite a decrease in our fuel additional sources that were not tracked consumption, our total energy consumption previously to help us better understand RENEW expanded in 2014 when we Strategy increased this year as we expanded the our carbon footprint. started our collaboration with DHL and measurement of our energy consumption TES providing more opportunities for the to include three technical centres and These include instituting a robust public to recycle simply by depositing the opening of a new StarHub shop at measurement of refrigerant gases and their unwanted electronic products into Changi Airport Terminal 3 that operates expanding the coverage to business the RENEW bins. DHL collects the e-waste round-the-clock. travel emissions in 2018. from all bins in Singapore and delivers to TES’s e-waste recycling facility. We have We are trialling an “intelligent power saving Moving forward, we will continue been expanding the initiative and the mode” on our 3G base transceiver stations to evaluate opportunities to reduce amount of e-waste collected increased (BTS) that will be activated during low traffic our emissions. every year. As of 2017, there were 401 bins Performance hours between 12am and 5am daily. During in 356 locations. Over 92 tonnes of e-waste this period, the number of frequency Waste Management were collected from the public. carriers being transmitted is reduced We strive to reduce waste generation resulting in an observed energy reduction through prevention, reduction, recycling Water Consumption of 10%. We will be scaling up our trial on and reuse. Our main types of waste As a service provider, our water 4G BTS in 2018. include electronic waste (e-waste) consumption, drawn from municipal and general waste such as paper and sources is almost limited to within our We have also switched the fluorescent packaging waste. offices, shops and data centres. The impact lighting to LED lighting in our data centres of our operations on water conservation is and replaced the existing air-conditioning We generated 241.7 tonnes of e-waste from limited, however we see it as integral to our Governance systems with new systems that use the our operations. All e-waste generated are environmental practices. Our head office inverter technology which provides collected and recycled by licensed e-waste building was awarded Green Mark Gold more control on the cooling output of contractors. Thanks to the effort of raising by the Building & Construction Authority. the air-conditioning system compared to employees’ awareness of conserving the Based on our utilities bills, our water traditional ones, thus reducing energy environment, we recycled 24 tonnes of consumption in 2017 was 27,633m3. consumption and operating cost. Emissions Singapore has pledged to reduce national Sustainability emission intensity by 36% from 2005 levels by 2030 and to stabilise the Top five items recycled through RENEW country’s emissions with the aim of peaking around 2030. Singapore has introduced a carbon tax in 2019 that will impact large direct emitters which produce over 25,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent of greenhouse gases a year. Companies impacted are also required to submit emissions reports and monitoring 1 2 3 4 5 plans that are verified by an independent Cables Laptops Modems/ Mouse/ CPU Financials third party annually. Routers Keyboards Computers 11,716 kg 8,481 kg 6,828 kg 3,530 kg 2,539 kg Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 87 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) Environmental Data Energy Consumption Electricity Use gigajoules million kWh 2017 386,219 81,801 2017 128 2016 439,721 2016 120 2015 448,012 2015 122 2014 437,466 2014 119 StarHub Additional Technical Centres Energy Intensity Fuel Consumption gigajoules per $million revenue thousand litres 2017 195 2017 23 81 92 2016 183 2016 24 93 103 2015 183 2015 42 113 114 2014 183 2014 32 117 123 Diesel (stationary combustion) Diesel (mobile combustion) Petrol (mobile combustion) Emissions Intensity Emission Sources tonnes CO2e per $million revenue 2017 22.8 Fuel consumption 2016 22.7 (stationary and mobile 2015 23.2 combustion) 1% Purchased 2014 22.9 electricity (StarHub and Exclusive Partners) 99% 88 ENVIRONMENT Overview Water Consumption cubic meters 2017 27,633 2016 28,421 2015 27,500 Strategy 2014 27,832 Electronic Waste Generated from Operations Electronic Waste Collected Through RENEW tonnes tonnes 2017 242 2017 92 Performance 2016 379 2016 59 2015 117 2015 32 2014 385 2014 9 EMISSION SOURCES1 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 Governance Scope 1 Stationary combustion 61 65 112 Mobile combustion 426 487 568 Fugitive emissions (refrigerant gases) – 9 1,252 Total Scope 1 emissions (tonnes CO2e) 487 561 1,932 Scope 2 Sustainability Purchased electricity 54,145 53,957 54,774 Total Scope 2 emissions (tonnes CO2e) 54,145 53,957 54,774 Scope 3 Electricity consumption by Exclusive Partners 190 187 217 Total Scope 3 emissions (tonnes CO2e) 190 187 217 Total emissions (tonnes CO2e) 54,822 54,705 56,923 Financials 1 The CO2 equivalent emissions for fossil fuel sources are calculated based on the United Kingdom Greenhouse Gas Inventory that is compiled according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (2006) Guidelines. The CO2 equivalent emissions for electricity purchased is calculated based on the Singapore Energy Statistics 2017 by Energy Market Authority. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 89 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) Supporting Youth, Social and Digital Inclusion At StarHub, we believe the digital We partner with innovative organisations communications revolution represents a and government agencies to effect strong profound social good: our networks and positive outcomes for segments of the services play a critically important role community. As much as possible, we raise in hundreds of millions of people’s lives, awareness of these issues through engaging empowering individuals and enhancing our customers and business partners in our businesses. However, we also recognise the community investment effort. consequences of digital disruption from an employment perspective, hence we believe Safe Online Environment we should do what we can to help ensure Staying connected is becoming a norm employability and bridge the digital divide. and, children and young people are getting their first mobile device at a younger age. Approach to Youth, Therefore, protecting children from harm Social and Digital Inclusion when using digital media is an important Supporting youth and social Inclusion is one of our five main goals in our sustainability issue to us and we want to create a safe online experience for them. $730,840 strategy for several reasons. invested We provide JuniorProtect Service as a Valuein local community Firstly, we aim to help younger internet users Added Service that parents may subscribe programmes in 2017 in Singapore make the most of the online to protect their children from accessing world and deal with any potential challenges inappropriate content on their mobile device and risks. With the internet now as one of or home broadband. StarHub has prethe most important sources of information, defined categories that parents can choose education and entertainment for many to block for children between 7-12 and 13-16 people, it is vital that we help children and years old. In addition, JuniorProtect Service young people use the internet in a safe and also allows parents to track their children’s responsible way. location through their mobile phone, set surfing curfew and restrict data access. In Secondly, we consider that ICT, when particular, restricting data access prevents accessible and available, can serve as children from overconsuming data resulting 13 critical enablers that allow persons with in excessive costs. JuniorProtect Service disabilities to realise full and effective provides parents with a peace of mind charity opportunities to participate, on the basis knowing their children are surfing the digital of equality, in all aspects of society and world safely. partners development. Our technologies can help persons with disabilities gain a Contributions in-Summary greater access to knowledge and In 2017, StarHub donated a total of $730,840 independent living. to 13 voluntary welfare organisations or 2,105 non-profit organisations in various We also believe that employability gives programmes that aim to enhance persons with disabilities increased financial connectivity, employability and critical life independence and a sense of self-worth skills of less privileged youth and families. when they are a contributing member of Together with employees, customers and people the society. A number of our programmes business partners, we supported several have benefited from are geared towards preparing people with community outreach initiatives that promote programmes supported disabilities or special needs for employment. social and economic integration. by StarHub 90 SOCIAL Overview Social Inclusion We piloted a project with SG Enable, an We raised $200,000 through the StarHub agency dedicated to enabling persons Open, an annual charity golf event for with disabilities, to enhance the mobility corporate clients. Through Community and connectivity of 40 graduating students Chest, this was donated to three non-profit from Special Education (SPED) schools organisations that support beneficiaries by contributing $15,000 in the form of with intellectual or developmental providing SIM cards and mobile plans for a Strategy disabilities and mental health issues to year. The SIM cards are placed in tracking live independently. Beneficiaries were devices to allow caregivers and parents equipped with life skills and vocational to monitor their locations and students to skills that enable them to be ready for travel more independently. employment and be integrated into the community. We have been supporting the Nurture programme run by the Central Singapore 1. Metta School – Metta students are Community Development Council (CDC) supported through a specialised since 2011 and contributed $120,000 programme for those with intellectual this year. The programme supported Performance disability to gain employability and 16 Nurture Centres and 481 underprivileged life skills to help them integrate better children in their academic study, into society. 375 Metta students expanding their learning platforms and were supported through the school’s opportunities to build character and specialised programme to gain values that would encourage them to employability and life skills to help give back to the community. them integrate better into society. 2. MINDS Towner Garden School – The CASE STUDY EXAMPLE school programmes cater to special Governance needs students with moderate Nurture 3.0, Central Singapore CDC intellectual or developmental disability and autism. 204 MINDS students currently enrolled are preparing Hanis (10 years old) for employment and are taught skills that enable them to be Hanis stays in a 2-room rental unit with a family of five. functionally independent. She was a very quiet and shy girl. After attending the 3. Singapore Anglican Community Nurture Class – Problem Solving module, she became more confident and was able to work out the answers by herself. Sustainability Services (SACS) – StarHub funded the employment internship programme She has become more open to sharing with her classmates and by SACS in 2017. This programme provides vocational and social skills teachers as well. training for people afflicted with mental health issues (PMHIs). StarHub’s Ryan (10 years old) Finance e-bills team contributed $6,300 worth of in-kind donation. Ryan first joined the programme in 2014 and he was observed 52 employers and co-workers were trained to enhance their knowledge to be struggling in following basic instructions as well as having and skills on working with PMHIs, and poor academic ability in terms of language and writing. However, Financials creating a conducive work environment through attending the Nurture programme regularly, he has for them. Five PMHIs were assessed to improved tremendously in his academic abilities and has be ready for employment and all five are employed. become more confident in public speaking. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 91 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) Youth and Employability CASE STUDY EXAMPLE Since April 2017, StarHub has partnered with Care Corner Crossroad Youth Hub Employment Support Programme, SPD to engage at-risk youth aged between 12 and 18 years old, who lack meaningful engagement at home and at school. Nurul The objective is to keep these children away from delinquency and provide Nurul was born with hearing impairment relying only on the them with after-school programmes partial hearing she has on her right ear through a cochlear and services, teaching critical life implant to help her in her communication. On top of her skills development and offering study support. We contributed $50,000 to the hearing challenges, she suffered from vision loss in her left programme, enrolling 33 new youth into eye at a young age due to cataract and was unable to see the programme and remaining crime-free. well. She is unable to participate in any strenuous activities 158 youth were also engaged during the street outreaches that raise awareness due to a heart condition too. amongst youth on counselling, programmes and support available. She worked full time as a banquet server after graduating from ITE but was keen to secure a better job so that she StarHub contributed $130,000 to fund the Employment Support Programme (ESP) can also help to contribute and support her family. Nurul by SPD (formerly known as Society for the approached SPD in March 2017 for employment assistance Physically Disabled). ESP equips persons and was enrolled into the Employment Support Programme with disabilities (PWDs) with Microsoft to attend training courses to better equip her with skills Office skills as well as job matching or sheltered workshop options after the necessary for a successful employment. She attended the completion of the course. 111 PWDs were Skills Enabling Training and ICDL Online Essentials modules trained, of whom 39 were successfully and where she learnt about transiting from school to work, purposefully employed. Client satisfaction is measured at the end of every module. communication techniques and preparing for job interviews. 94% of the PWDs trained were satisfied with the training received and felt that Shortly after attending modules, she was matched to a bank they could apply what they learnt to their clerk job opening with UOB Scan Hub and was shortlisted future job. StarHub's sponsorship of the programme was acknowledged in the for the interview. She was offered the job following the SPD Charity Show 2017. interview and started working as a bank clerk. The training she receives in the modules helped her to carry out the tasks efficiently and communicate better with her colleagues despite her hearing disability. Recognising her efforts and willingness to learn, the management has decided to rotate her to other departments to pick up new skills and knowledge. The training at SPD has equipped me with skills for admin work. I am happy to be able to find a better job so I can now support myself and contribute to my family. Nurul 92 SOCIAL Overview Since 2010, StarHub has been working with Connect Centre Pte Ltd and subsequently, Agape Connecting People Pte Ltd (Agape). Both are social enterprises with missions to reintegrate ex-offenders and inmates to mainstream society by equipping them with business skills. We do so by engaging them to perform a portion of our telesales operations, a small function CASE STUDY EXAMPLE of customer service. Customer Engagement Programmes Strategy In running the in-prison call centre, we require both organisations to work closely with the authorities to meet the rigorous StarHub also invites its customers to support security measures put in place within the facility, and to adhere to our workflow environmental and social causes. Through processes. Inmates undergo stringent the StarHub Rewards Redemption for Charity screening by prison authorities before they Programme, customers may redeem their reward qualify as agents. Only minimal personal points to make a donation to participating information is given to the agents, and no Performance paper and pen are allowed into the call non-profit organisations that StarHub specifies. centre premises. All conversations are In 2017, customers may contribute to MINDS recorded for quality as well as security Towner Garden School, Care Corner Counselling purposes as an added safeguard. Centre and WWF Singapore. A total of $72,100 Engaging in productive call centre work was donated based on the number of redemptions has also enabled inmates to focus on the made by customers in 2017. present and future, instead of dwelling on their past. This has transformed lives, and even paved way for the restoration and Governance reunification of family ties for some. Airtime Sponsorship for Social Campaigns As testament to the impact, an ex-inmate Leveraging on our business, our in-kind who was involved in StarHub Telesales work donations in the form of TV commercial for two years, has joined Agape upon his spots for social and environmental release. He has been an important asset, campaigns amounted to $700,000 being instrumental in improving the service in 2017. The campaigns included WWF’s StarHub has quality of the Agape operations. Earth Hour and President’s Challenge. This been working Working with such high-impact social helped the non-profit organisations reach with Connect Centre Pte Ltd Sustainability organisations is something we believe is a wider audience, raising awareness of aligned to building a more inclusive society. various causes. and subsequently, Agape Connecting People Pte Ltd (Agape). Both are social enterprises with missions to reintegrate ex-offenders and inmates Financials to mainstream society. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 93 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) SOLUTION Our battery-powered wireless modems Partnering connect to any smart meter, collecting consumption data and storing them in our for Innovation cloud for analysis. As a service provider of digital solutions, KEY FEATURES we want to inspire positive changes in our customers’ operations. Our aim is to offer • Water consumption profile visualised these advantages to as many customers over a variety of time periods (ie. half as possible that enable them to be more hourly, hourly, daily, monthly, etc.) efficient and sustainable. • Alerts when unauthorised usage and Enabling Resource Efficiency leaks are detected In a natural resource-scarce country like Singapore, the supply of water and • Automated reports configured to be energy sources are not infinite. As such, sent either daily, weekly or monthly the government is implementing regulations that require businesses to be • User-specific reports downloadable accountable for their water and energy in Comma Separated Values (CSV) consumption and to implement initiatives and Excel to reduce consumption. • Option to upload files (e.g. water, Our smart metering solutions help balance chart, Water Efficiency businesses enhance their capability to Management Plan, etc) monitor water and electricity consumption. With the aid of smart meters, businesses • Option to transmit data to PUB have access to accurate and real-time information on how water and electricity • Able to accommodate up to five are used in their operations and be notified user-accounts on basic plan when abnormalities are detected so that immediate actions can be taken to address • Option to transmit data to third-party the abnormalities. system via RESTful web service We have implemented a smart water metering system with a shipping port that will help them uncover leaks, unauthorised usage and faulty equipment that may not be operating optimally with the aim of reducing leakage and improving water use efficiency. With the smart meters, they will be able to monitor the water consumption and efficiency to understand the positive impact of the system. Accurate, real-time & As we strive to expand the uptake of granular data available these solutions in Singapore, we will on an easy-to-use also work with our customers to track cloud-based platform and measure the collective reduction of consumption and improvement in efficiency to demonstrate our collective contribution towards SDG 12. 94 MARKETPLACE Overview Enabling Innovation to In partnership with Laundry Network and and we provide 24/7 support and Manage Digital Transformation Republic Polytechnic, we are piloting the maintenance services. In addition, In expanding our Internet of Things (IoT) use of TUG robots as part of an innovation StarHub and Savioke can analyse the data strategy, we take a best-fit technology solution in three hotels to help streamline generated from the automated processes approach, offering IoT connectivity and hospitality laundry and housekeeping and provide specific insights that are working solutions based on our customers’ operations, reducing a seven-step manual valuable for the customers’ operations. business requirements. For example, we process to a three-step automated one. These are part of StarHub’s Connected have deployed robotic solutions for several This revolutionary solution which has Building initiative to provide solutions companies to help them streamline business received support from the Singapore that help companies implement green, processes and optimise efficiency, bringing Tourism Board, involves the use of different productivity or safety concepts in their Strategy about gains in productivity with the same technologies such as RFID, robotics, and business environments. number of employees. sensors, as well as an overhauled redesign of the housekeeping laundry cart in In 2018, we can look forward to more On 6 November 2017, we announced our a hotel. Central to the solution is the use partnerships in the area of collaborative partnership with ST Kinetics to deploy of advanced autonomous robots to robotics, sensor networks and augmented heavy-lifting autonomous TUG robots transport linen. intelligence platforms that further anchors that would help automate the movement StarHub in the space of realisable and of materials in business environments. Building on the success of Savioke’s Relay actionable IoT, resulting in positive Providing this solution on an as-a-service service delivery robot first deployed in 2016 outcomes that change the paradigm of the business model takes away the complexity at M Social Singapore, we have in 2017, industry for our customers. Performance of maintaining the robots for the customers. expanded this to four other hotels in the The deployment of these robots enables our Millennium & Copthorne Hotels and two customers to manage repetitive and tedious hotels in the Hotel Jen collection belonging tasks efficiently, thus freeing up staff to to Shangri-La Group in Singapore. focus on their core tasks. This helps to boost We integrated the robot into the hotels’ productivity and alleviate manpower crunch. existing systems for seamless workflows, Governance Sustainability Financials TUG Robot in operation Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 95 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) Improving Policy that guides and ensures that we comply with the Singapore Personal video that highlights different segments of our society and championing various Customer Data Protection Act (PDPA) – Do Not Call social causes. #RegardlessofColour was Registry. This means targeted marketing 2017’s theme of the commemorative Experience messages will not be sent to any Singapore video highlighting the importance of Customer experience starts from the mobile number unless explicit consent has Singapore’s racial diversity and harmony. very first touch point with our customers, been received from the recipient. We also took the opportunity to engage our be it through various media channels customers in redeeming their points on the or interactions with our service staff Our Customer Communication Guidelines Rewards Redemption platform to gift 500 to creating safe, secure and reliable provide support to our DNC Policy disadvantaged families movie tickets in our environments for our customers to access and further guidance on our customer festive year-end campaign. and use our services to providing aftersales communication materials. We use a service support. In order to create combination of local regulations and happiness through their experience with guidelines as well as internal policies and us, we strive to listen to their needs and guidelines when working with external recommend best fit solutions accordingly, creative and media agencies. In 2017, through service innovation and excellence StarHub had zero incidence of nonat every touch point. compliance with regulations concerning marketing communications including Responsible Marketing advertising and promotion. StarHub is committed to communicating We are continuously and advertising our products and services As an info-communications company, developing our responsibly. We comply with relevant local we are cognisant of our ability to promote customer service to regulations and guidelines such as the social cohesion through our products provide a seamless TV Advertising Code and the Television and services. We see cause-related Programme Sponsorship Code. marketing as part of our direction towards experience across responsible marketing. On an annual basis, all touchpoints, Our Data Protection Office oversees we celebrate our nation’s independence sales and service the adherence to our Do Not Call (DNC) with the launch of a commemorative transactions. Providing personalised offerings to customers 96 MARKETPLACE Overview Pricing and Billing We are continuously developing our We strive to make our bills clear and easy customer service to provide a seamless to read so that we can build a relationship experience across all touchpoints, sales of trust with our customers. Our customer and service transactions. New or improved service staff are provided with training to features were added to My StarHub App clearly communicate to our customers on for the convenience of customers and pricing structure and contract terms, in We continue to invest in infrastructural to encourage higher use. Some of these Strategy particular with the launch of new products upgrades for our mobile, broadband, include enhancements in the Bills section and services. and TV infrastructure that would: to include options to view recurring payment methods and updating of credit Customers may also access our Finance 1. Improve the resilience of our network card expiry, DataShare options to share and Billing page on our website for details services that allow customers to surf unused data with other mobile lines on understanding, managing and paying the internet and stream videos faster under the same billing account, activating their bills. Illustrations and explanations are even during peak hours and mega and viewing of DataTravel roaming data provided for various scenarios, products events (for example National Day balance, amongst many others. and services on the website. Parade, Formula 1 Singapore Grand Prix and New Year’s Eve Countdown) We also take customer feedback seriously Performance Service Quality as it is an important mechanism for us to In a highly competitive environment, 2. Make our networks faster and more understand consumer preferences and providing quality service from network efficient to enhance connectivity for enhance our product and service offerings. service to front-facing customer service the IoT age, support Singapore’s We have strengthened the Social Media plays an ever-growing role to maintaining Smart Nation initiatives and to team to better handle queries and foster customer interest and loyalty. Living in a prepare for next generation greater engagement with customers across fast-paced society that demands faster and mobile services (5G) all social media platforms. better coverage with minimal interruptions requires continuous upgrading of 3. Provide better quality of service, pricing We use the Net Promoter System (NPS) infrastructure to provide stable, reliable and and capability to StarHub’s customers index to gauge customers’ overall Governance high-speed data and network services to with the transition to StarHub’s own satisfaction of our products and services our customers. fibre-optic network as well as customers’ loyalty and follow up with those who have submitted 4. Ensure prompt service recovery with unfavourable ratings for our products or minimum human intervention in the services, to address their concerns. unfortunate event of service disruption 5. Optimise our service delivery lead time Sustainability We use the Net Promoter System (NPS) index to gauge customers’ overall satisfaction of our products and services as well as customers’ loyalty and follow up with those who have submitted unfavourable Financials ratings for our products or services, to address their concerns. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 97 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) Protection and Privacy The public may refer to our Data of Customer Data Protection Policy webpage that helps Keeping our customers’ data secure interested parties to understand how means protecting the data and the StarHub manages the collection, usage infrastructure that stores the data as well and disclosure of personal data. as supporting customers to keep their own data secured. Cyber Security Our charter is to ensure cyber We take customers’ privacy seriously and security resilience, protection of data our target is to achieve zero customer data and compliance to the upcoming breaches. We expect all our employees Cyber Security Bill. to comply with the Singapore Personal Data Protection Act (PDPA) and apply Our Security Team references the our Personal Data Protection Policy ISO27001 ISMS security standard to in the course of their daily work. This create the relevant security policies includes (and not limited to) contractors, including the Information Security Policy, telemarketers, service providers and Vendor Security Policy and Mobile temporary staff. Device Security Policy, and ensures its implementation. All employees need In 2017, there were We have a Data Protection Office which to comply with these policies which zero identified oversees the Singapore Personal Data are supplemented with procedures, leaks, thefts or Protection Programme within StarHub guidelines and checklists in ensuring the losses of customer to achieve compliance with PDPA. The confidentiality, integrity and availability of data. We have also Data Protection Office together with the our assets. Regulatory and Legal departments monitor received inputs from the upcoming legislative changes and We conduct an annual review of our external security ensures that the operations are aligned. employees’ eligibility to access restricted vendors which we Our Internal Audit serves as the monitoring areas including data centres based have reviewed arm to provide assurance to management on their job responsibilities. We also and taken the on the effectiveness of the control set specific targets for security incidents. measures. In 2017, all incidents detected necessary actions were mitigated. to enhance our In 2017, there were zero identified leaks, control measures. thefts or losses of customer data. We have These incidents include Distributed also received inputs from external security Denial-of-Service (DDoS), failed login, vendors which we have reviewed and vulnerability scan, trojan and malware, taken the necessary actions to enhance hacking tool activity. our control measures. One of the inputs received and actioned was to enhance our Some of our service offerings (Argonar implementation of CAPTCHA, a programme Cloud, Security Operations Centre) are that protects websites against bots by ISO27001 certified. generating and grading tests that humans can pass, on the StarHub DNC portal. 98 MARKETPLACE Overview StarHub’s newly launched Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) is a subscription-based service that delivers customised realtime threat alerts targeting Singapore, Strategy with details from a sectoral view to organisations with security operations We acquired a 80.4% stake in centre or an internal security team. Based Accel Systems & Technologies on the intelligence reports or real-time Pte. Ltd. strengthening our alerts received, customers can take cyber security portfolio precautionary actions or improve the response time to counter imminent and prevailing threats. For instance, in May 2017, we observed increased levels of StarHub Cyber Security CTI suspicious port 445 activities in Singapore, Performance two weeks before the outbreak of the Visibility on a National Level WannaCry ransomware. This allowed us to provide early warning to our customers and Singapore overview of real-time situation awareness and visibility urged firms that had yet to apply security patches to their Windows systems to do so. We acquired a 80.4% stake in Accel Singapore Attack Types Systems & Technologies Pte. Ltd. strengthening our cyber security portfolio, APT/Campaign 1.7% giving it the in-house capabilities to be Governance Botnet 38.98% an end-to-end provider of cyber security Malware 47.66% solutions and services. In addition to the acquisition, we have announced a Ransonware 11.66% commitment to invest up to S$10 million over two years to boost our roundthe-clock cyberthreat detection. This means doubling the size of our Security Visibility on a Sectoral Level Operations Centres and certified cyber security analysts and researchers. Granular view of attack types in vertical sectors Sustainability 1.7% SECTOR A 38.98% 47.66% 11.66% SECTOR B 14.29% 28.57% 42.86% 14.28% SECTOR C 14.29% 28.57% 57.14% Alert Type APT/Campaign Botnet Malware Ransonware Financials Statistics shown are for illustration purposes only Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 99 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) Promoting Supply Chain Integrity This year, we have reviewed our approach on In order to make significant progress on supplier management to ensure that companies environmental and social issues, we must supplying StarHub with products or services understand that our organisation is part of share our values and strive to meet the standards a larger system. that we mandate across our own business. StarHub’s business relies on international supply chains that span multiple tiers and are complex to manage. The risks in these supply chains range from Our Code is based on the core Moving forward, any new StarHub environmental issues to human right conventions of the International Labour supplier would be required to disclose abuses in electronic factories or in the Organization (ILO) Conventions on Labour their approach towards ethical, labour mining of metal and minerals. Standards, the United Nations Universal and environmental risks and other areas Declaration of Human Rights and the that form the focus of our Code. These This year, we have reviewed our approach UN Convention on the Rights of the suppliers would also need to acknowledge on supplier management to ensure Child, local laws and universally their understanding and acceptance of our that companies supplying StarHub with accepted fundamental principles. Code, and confirm they will comply with products or services share our values those requirements. and strive to meet the standards that we All StarHub suppliers shall comply with mandate across our own business. this Code and other applicable local In some instances, we may require laws. We encourage our suppliers to suppliers to provide evidence to support Commitment adhere to the highest level of compliance their disclosure. As a signatory to the United Nations Global and adopt a proactive approach to Compact initiative, StarHub is committed to continuous improvement. Suppliers are From 2018, our procurement team will implementing the United Nations Guiding also encouraged to communicate and be trained to actively promote and Principles on Business and Human Rights share this Code to their next tier suppliers, implement our Code and help throughout its business operations. agents, and third-party partners to ensure identify possible issues during their alignment of CSR expectations throughout engagement with suppliers and In order to make this commitment clear the supply chain. their representatives. to employees, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders, StarHub developed a StarHub understands the challenges in Risk Assessment Supplier Code of Conduct (Code) this year. the space that we and our business StarHub’s level of influence over This Code is based on the United Nations partners operate in and do not expect companies varies and we have the greatest Global Compact Ten Principles and shall be perfection in all aspects. We value influence over our tier 1 direct suppliers publicly available. transparency and partnership, and will and vendors whom we have contractual continuously work to support our suppliers agreements with. Code of Conduct in overcoming challenges and share StarHub is committed to corporate industry best practices. This year, we initiated a supplier risk sustainability and responsible sourcing to assessment process to analyse and ensure safe working conditions, respect Code of Conduct Implementation categorise our suppliers based on the level of worker rights, and environmentallyAll StarHub suppliers need to adhere of risk they pose to our organisation. Our conscious business operations. We strive to our Code, at a minimum. Where local intention is to ensure that our relationships to uphold the highest level of honesty and laws or national regulations are more with suppliers does not only consider integrity in our business and expect these stringent in the location that the business commercial goals but also focuses on the shared values from our partners. operates in, suppliers shall meet the identified risks. This assessment exercise highest requirement. is critical to prioritising our decisions and actions towards responsible sourcing. 100 MARKETPLACE Overview STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Strategy A COMPREHENSIVE A RISK-BASED DUE DILIGENCE, GOVERNANCE INVENTORY OF SUPPLIERS SEGMENTATION AND ESCALATION PROCESS As a first step on this process, Once StarHub completed Moving forward, StarHub will StarHub has conducted a its inventory of suppliers, align specific due diligence review of its tier 1 suppliers we proceeded with the activities with the risk category and vendors, what activities segmentation of our suppliers identified by the risk-based Performance it performs and how each of by risk level. segmentation. Our suppliers in them interacts with their own the high-risk category will be suppliers. To monitor supplier We have observed that with a subject to further due diligence risk successfully, StarHub also large majority of our suppliers investigations. had to identify the relevant based in Singapore, over 90% issues for each category of of our relationships are lowOrganisational alignment is suppliers and determine the risks. On the other hand, this also important when decisionrelative weight and importance segmentation allowed us to making rights are spread of each one. identify 47 suppliers that require across a range of businesses Governance special attention, with whom and functions. Our next This phase is also critical for StarHub will conduct additional priority is therefore to establish StarHub to ensure that moving due diligence in 2018. governance structures and forward, our business units have processes to address any a systematic way of tracking possible misalignments. our suppliers, making it easier to compare and collate them Finally, StarHub will need across our entire organisation. to define an escalation Sustainability framework to resolve future possible issues, such as managing requests for exceptions and the resolution of third-party breaches. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) Being Corporate Governance Anti-corruption As a public company listed on the We do not tolerate ethical and legal a Responsible Singapore Exchange, we adhere to the violations including corruption. We have put Business listing requirements as well as the Code of Governance 2012. The Singapore in place an Employee Code of Conduct and Ethics (Code) as well as Corporate Gift and Running a business responsibly and with Governance and Transparency Index (SGTI) Hospitality Policy and Terms & Conditions – integrity is expected by all our stakeholders. is the leading index for assessing corporate Business Partner and Vendor Relationships The trust of our stakeholders needs to be governance practices of Singapore(HR and Corporate Policies) that set out the earned and that is why it is critical that listed companies. As a testament to our standards of behaviour and procedures for we uphold the highest ethical standard commitment to responsible corporate employees when dealing with customers, in our conduct of business and seek to governance, our SGTI score has been business associates and stakeholders. promote openness and transparency to increasing every year to 94 out of 100 points These are accessible to all employees on our stakeholders. in 2017. For more details, please refer to the StarHub intranet. Employees are also our Corporate Governance Report on required to disclose personal relationships pages 48-70. and business activities with StarHub’s vendors and business partners, and with personnel employed by such vendors and Sustainability Governance Structure business partners. Errant employees will be subject Our Risk Committee provides guidance to appropriate disciplinary and legal actions on sustainability topics to be identified (including dismissal), for any 01. as material to the business and ensures non-compliance with the Code or the RISK the alignment and integration of our applicable HR and Corporate policies. COMMITTEE sustainability strategy and approach We are pleased to report that there was with our business model. no incidence of corruption in 2017. Our whistleblowing policy aims to encourage responsible and secure reporting of suspected unethical, illegal, The Management Risk Committee irregular or inappropriate conduct comprising StarHub’s Senior Leadership or activities in good faith, by lending 02. confidence that whistle-blowers will be Team is responsible for reviewing and MANAGEMENT treated fairly and accorded with due RISK determining material sustainability protection against any reprisals. Our COMMITTEE topics, developing sustainability strategy, reporting channels include a dedicated considering stakeholder feedback and whistleblowing email and a discreet expectations, and establishing priorities, channel to the Audit Committee Chairman goals and targets. and the General Counsel (via email and/or mail). Fair and Competitive Market The Corporate Sustainability Apart from our customers and employees, 03. our industry peers are also a driving force CORPORATE Advocate is responsible for developing, for us to pursue new development of SUSTAINABILITY implementing and coordinating products and service excellence to improve ADVOCATE programmes and initiatives our performance. As such, we respect and with the support of cross-functional comply with relevant legislation, licence representatives. obligations and codes of practice. 102 CULTURE Overview We are pleased to report that there was leave. In 2017, 143 of our employees no legal actions taken against StarHub for took the above-mentioned leave with anti-competitive behaviour in 2017. 98% return rate. We launched a mobile Employees MOU with Employee Union application (app) providing Our policies promote merit-based We have signed a Memorandum of employees easy and hiring and remuneration, teamwork, Understanding (MOU) with Singapore secured access to safe and healthy working conditions, Industrial and Services Employees’ healthcare benefits. diversity, reward and recognition for Union (SISEU) which allows rank and file performance, people development, employees to participate in recreational Strategy career growth, work-life balance, and social activities organised by SISEU. and employee volunteering. StarHub We maintain a collaborative partnership management regularly reviews HR and have open and timely dialogues enhanced internship placements in policies and performance including with SISEU. two key functions in the organisation, hiring, diversity and equal opportunity, jointly developing and implementing training, performance management and We will continue to work closely with the planned training program and occupational health and safety. SISEU to ensure that our employees’ skills assessments that are aligned with the stay relevant as we undergo business learning outcomes, and providing on-theOur workforce consists of transformation. job training and career guidance, as well 2,541 permanent employees. as mentoring of interns. Performance Career Development and Training Employee Benefits The need for highly skilled employees We continued to roll out learning We offer employees competitive with learning agility in the infoprogrammes that are targeted to remuneration packages commensurate communications sector will continue equip our managers with coaching, with experience, performance and to grow as our business continues to management and change management job responsibilities. Benefits exclusive implement new technology to enhance skills. We recognise that rapid changes to StarHub’s permanent employees, our services and prepare for the next are shaping our business landscape. include product benefits, comprehensive generation of technology such as the Therefore, it is critical that our employees Health Screening, additional insurance 5G network and the “Internet of Things”. are equipped with skills that are aligned coverages other than Work Injury Our management approach is to invest with our strategic imperatives and Governance Compensation insurance coverage, in people development to build a high business needs such as cyber security, medical and dental coverages, transport performing organisation. cloud services and analytics. allowance, training, claim for professional fees for joining professional associations, Our Learning & Development Framework We invested $2.5 million on training in Long Service Award, entry passes is focused on ensuring that our 2017, up from $2.1 million spent in the for places of interest and tokens for employees have the relevant learning previous year. We received $306,937 in special occasions. and development opportunities to build training subsidy from various government functional and technical skills to succeed agencies. In total, we provided 43,372 In 2017, we enhanced the healthcare in their jobs, and the management and hours of training. Training expenditure Sustainability benefits for employees, to provide leadership skills to inspire and engage per employee was $994. greater protection to our employees. teams to perform effectively. We launched a mobile application (app) StarHub employees received regular providing employees easy and secured We have established partnerships with performance and career development access to healthcare benefits. The ability multiple government agencies such reviews in 2017 as part of our to submit paperless healthcare claims as SkillsFuture Singapore, the IMDA, performance management system. on-the-go further enhances efficiency and the Economic Development Board Managers are equipped with relevant and productivity. to maximise learning and funding skills to conduct effective performance opportunities for our employees. and career development conversations Parental Leave with their teams. In order to support our StarHub employees also enjoy other We continued to collaborate in 2017, employees’ career development efforts, Financials benefits which include maternity leave, with post-secondary educational we continue to organise internal Career paternity leave and shared parental leave. institutions, namely Institute of Technical Coaching sessions. Eligible working fathers are entitled to Education, Nanyang Polytechnic and two weeks of paid paternity leave, and Republic Polytechnic. The scope of up to four weeks of shared parental collaboration includes offering relevant Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 103 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) Employee Engagement Recreational Activities Our vision of “Creating Happiness, Inspiring As employees spend a significant amount Change” applies not only to our external of time at work, our recreational club stakeholders but also to our employees committee, also known as the STAR Team, as we believe that happy and engaged is hard at work all year round to organise employees lead to happy customers. fun social events and activities to engage employees both inside and outside of It is therefore important to take the work. These include the ever-popular opinions of our employees into Fruits Fiesta, dragon-boating events, consideration if we want to keep building rock climbing, calligraphy and baking a happy and engaged workforce while workshops, Bring Your Kids to Work Day, growing our business. amongst others. In 2017, our employees took part in the biennial StarHub Employee Experience Survey to solicit feedback on their experience at work and to help the organisation identify key action areas in order to build an engaged and highperformance culture. The survey, which was conducted by Aon Hewitt, a global leader in human resource consulting, saw 83% response rate from the employees. Company efforts to address the previous key areas cited in last survey have paid off as satisfaction scores pertaining to Learning & Development, Performance Management and Collaboration have improved. However, we need to continue to focus on areas such as Enabling Processes and Career Development. Fruit Fiesta ‘Bring your kids to work’ Day 104 CULTURE Overview Engaging and Enabling Employees Digitally In the area of internal communication, we are embracing digital technology to reach out to our employees more Strategy effectively and meaningfully. Through social media channels such as Instagram and Twitter, employees are encouraged to share their videos and photos during themed campaigns and quizzes. For instance, during the one-week campaign #HealthyStarHubbers, participants got to share their photos on what they do to stay healthy at work. Performance Through quarterly e-news bulletins, HubbaBlog initiated in 2017 employees are kept updated on the latest corporate happenings and important topics such as workplace safety and health promotion. In 2017, we started a HubbaBlog, an internal blogging platform where a community of writers can share their views openly on various topics on that raise employees’ awareness on a weekly basis. This greatly helps to Employee Volunteering environmental issues and the natural facilitate greater interaction and open We encourage our employees to volunteer landscape. Such activities include a Governance new conversations and idea exchanges their time and skills in community initiatives. bottle lamp upcycling workshop followed among employees. All employees are entitled to up to two by a dragon-boating experience to (paid) days of volunteering leave. To gain awareness and insights on waste We are also active on LinkedIn to reach encourage employees to get involved in management and water conservation, out to the increasing pool of digitally social causes, StarHub contributed $500 an upcycling workshop together with 52 savvy jobseekers. Other than attracting to the ASPN Centre for Adults (capped at Nurture children on World Environment Day potential candidates, the platform is $100,000) for each employee who and a guided nature walk at Lower Peirce apt for promoting employee advocacy had taken the volunteer leave. 179 Reservoir to explore biodiversity and its link and thought leadership. Employees can employees volunteered 101 days in to corporate management. Sustainability connect with key StarHub leaders and 2017, raising $89,500 for the voluntary follow their corporate activities in real welfare organisation. Post-volunteering survey results showed time. Regular updates of company that most respondents felt that the news, achievements and employee Employees participated in company-wide volunteering opportunities were useful profiles help to further enhance the social outreach activities that provide in enriching their knowledge about employer branding. opportunities to contribute to our society. environmental and social issues. They are Such activities include helping out at soup likely to take some form of environmental kitchens, interacting with special needs action in their personal time and are happy students from MINDS Towner Garden to be able to contribute to society with School through an art-and-craft session, their time. engaging with youth at-risk at a community Financials event with Care Corner Crossroad More details about our community Youth Hub. initiatives and community partners that we work with can be read in the Employees also participated in our section on Supporting Youth, Social Green Learning Journeys and workshops and Digital Inclusion. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 105 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) Quotes from StarHubbers The green learning journey helped open our eyes to the diversity of flora and fauna that could be found in Singapore. It was coupled with some valuable insights about how Nature could teach us lessons in corporate life. Overall, it was a great experience! Learning about nature and upcycling with children from Nurture programme Jude Tan, Enterprise Business Group We learned a valuable lesson out in nature and experienced a handson upcycling session with children under the Nurture programme. Together, we created a plant and pencil holder from recycled wood. The children showed bouts of curiosity and the accomplished smiles on their faces made all that hard work worthwhile. Chow Xin Ying, Dishing out and packing food at Willing Hearts Soup Kitchen Corporate Communications Learning about biodiversity and business sustainability at Lower Peirce Reservoir Park 106 CULTURE Overview Workplace Health and Safety We associate the safety and health of our employees as one of the factors that contributes towards their performance in the company. As such, we have a responsibility to create a workplace environment Employee Data that ensures the safety and promotes the health of our employees. Employment Term by Gender Our management approach is to ensure workplace PERMANENT 1,465 1,076 health and safety by taking preventive measures based CONTRACT/ Strategy on risk assessment and creating employee awareness. TEMPORARY 94 144 StarHub’s Workplace Safety and Health Committee, FULL-TIME 1,554 1,210 represented by management and employees, periodically reviews policies, procedures and practices PART-TIME 5 10 relating to occupational health and safety. Nominated Male Female Risk Management Champions across the organisation work closely with the Risk Assessment team to assess risks for every work activity and process carried out at Seniority of Permanent Employees the workplace. Performance FUNCTION 1,067 849 EMPLOYEES StarHub continues to be a certified bizSafe Level 3 MIDDLE organisation, awarded by the Workplace Safety MANAGEMENT 329 188 and Health (WSH) Council Singapore based on SENIOR 69 39 MANAGEMENT an independent audit. We continue to grow our pool of first-aid trained employees to deal in Male Female emergency situations. Employees' Average Training Hours We adopt the WSH Council’s calculation methodology for our safety and health indicators. Incidences are FUNCTION 17.38 14.28 only tracked when they are reported to the Ministry of Governance EMPLOYEES Manpower or insurers for claims processing. In 2017, MIDDLE 20.52 19.89 MANAGEMENT there were zero fatalities and zero reported incidences. SENIOR 18.07 24.92 MANAGEMENT Employees may provide feedback on safety and health OVERALL 18.12 15.64 matters via the Workplace Safety and Health Feedback Form on our company intranet. Male Female Permanent Employees by Age Sustainability >50 YEARS OLD 257 14 20 30-50 YEARS OLD 1,883 97 84 <30 YEARS OLD 401 221 394 No. of employees No. of new hires No. of turnover Turnover & New Hire by Gender NO. OF Financials 290 208 TURNOVER NO. OF NEW 196 136 HIRES Male Female Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 107 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) Appendix About This Report For the first time, StarHub has sought an This is StarHub’s seventh annual independent limited assurance for this sustainability report. The information in this sustainability report to provide greater report covers StarHub’s Financial Year 2017 confidence to our readers on the accuracy period (1 January to 31 December 2017). of the information reported. Please refer to The scope of the report content covers all pages 116-119 for the assurance statement business units, StarHub shops (excluding and scope of data assured. The findings of Exclusive Partners unless otherwise stated), the assurance procedures are shared with data centres and subsidiaries (excluding StarHub’s Board. Accel Systems & Technologies Pte. Ltd., a new subsidiary acquired in 2017). Share with us your feedback on our sustainability practices by contacting This report is also prepared in accordance starhubcsr@starhub.com. with the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards): Core option. The GRI content index can be found at the end of this Materiality Process sustainability report. Please refer to pages 112-115. As in our previous reports, we have followed the GRI principles for defining the sustainability report content and quality. We 1. 2. have determined the report content using IDENTIFYING ASSESSING THE MATERIALITY the principles of stakeholder inclusiveness, SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS OF EACH SUSTAINABILITY TOPIC sustainability context, materiality and completeness. To ensure quality of the 22 sustainability topics were identified Each sustainability topic was assessed report, we have applied the GRI principles for consideration from a range of sources whether it is material based on the of accuracy, balance, clarity, comparability, including industry peer materiality importance of the topic to stakeholders reliability and timeliness. assessment benchmark and Global and significance of the topic to e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) the business This report also adheres to Singapore Exchange’s (“SGX”) Listing Rule 711A on preparing an annual sustainability report which describes our sustainability practices 3. INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT with reference to the primary components set out in Listing Rule 711B. Under SGX’s Employees were engaged to determine whether each sustainability topic is material Listing Rule 711A and 711B, all companies through the following methods: listed on the SGX are required to report their environmental, social and governance 1. A survey where almost 70 employees across functions and business units scored practices for any financial year ending on or each sustainability topic based on importance to them as stakeholders after 31 December 2017. 2. StarHub Sustainability Team scored each sustainability topic based on significance to the business and the Senior Leaderhip Team validated the scores There are no restatements of previously 3. Eight interviews were conducted with the Senior Leadership Team to understand their published information. views on possible sustainability-related risks and opportunities for StarHub 4. IDENTIFYING MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS The materiality threshold is defined by the average scores of all topics for (1) the stakeholders and (2) the business. Sustainability topics with scores above both average scores are material to StarHub 108 Overview Material Topics Boundaries Government Distributors Local Trade and Regulators Customers Employees Suppliers Investors Trade and Retailers Community Associations Unions NGOs Sustainability Topics Strategy Online Safety X X X Service Quality X X X Customer Privacy X X X Performance Data Security X X X X Clarity of Pricing and Billing X X X X Responsible Marketing X X X Talent Acquisition, Retention and X X X X Governance Development Employee Health, Safety and Wellness X X X Supporting Local Communities X X X X Employee Engagement X X X X X X X Sustainability Responsible Business Practices Addressing Climate Change and Other Environmental Challenges X X X X Implementing E-waste Programmes X X X X Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 109 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) StarHub Value Creation Scorecard PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 Environmental CO2e emissions generated (tonnes) 54,822 54,705 56,923 Carbon emission intensity per $million revenue (tonnes CO2e) 22.8 22.7 23.2 Energy intensity per $million revenue (gigajoules) 195 183 183 Water consumption (cubic metres) 27,633 28,421 27,500 Internal e-waste recycled (tonnes) 242 379 117 Paper recycled (kilogrammes) 24,230 16,012 19,295 Electricity used (million kWh) 128.0 119.9 121.7 Social Employees Permanent employees 2,541 2,685 2,758 Local employees (Singapore citizens) 75% 75% 75% New hires 332 283 320 Female employees 42% 42% 43% Female managers (% of Senior level) 36% 37% 36% Female managers (% of Middle level) 36% 36% 38% Females Heads of Department (% of HODs) 30% 33% 33% Average training hours per employee 17 19 20 Training expenditure per employee $994 $784 $611 1 Employee turnover rate 20% 12% 12% Number of reported work injuries 0 2 2 Fatal Accidents 0 0 0 Community Employee volunteerism participation 7% 5% 5% Community investment and donations to charities ($million) 0.7 0.8 1.1 Financial Revenue ($million) 2,401 2,397 2,444 Net profit ($million) 250 341 372 Dividends paid to shareholders ($million) 294 346 346 Suppliers Share of local suppliers as % of total supplier payments 93% 2 86% 89% Proportion of local suppliers 84% 2 85% 82.7% ¹ Figures include voluntary and involuntary turnover ² Figures for all purchase orders raised during the year, except for those related to content acquisition. The majority of our procurement is done through purchase orders. Suppliers are classified as local if the purchase order is raised for an entity located in Singapore, as these entities contribute to Singapore's economy, for example, through employment and taxes. As far as possible, we try to support local suppliers. 110 Memberships and Associations A list of StarHub’s memberships and associations is provided here: Overview Advertising Standards Authority of Singapore (ASAS) Promax Asia American Chamber of Commerce in Singapore (AmCham) Singapore Academy of Law Asia Digital Marketing Association (ADMA) Singapore Advanced Research & Education Network (SingAREN) Strategy Asia Pacific Network Information Centre (APNIC) Singapore Advertisers Association ASME (Association of Small & Medium Enterprises) Singapore Association of the Institute of Chartered Association of Media Owners (Singapore) Secretaries & Administrators British Chamber of Commerce, Singapore (BritCham) Singapore Business Federation (SBF) Business China Singapore Singapore Chinese Chamber of Commerce & Industry (SCCCI) Performance Cable Television Laboratories (CableLabs) Singapore Computer Society (SCS) CASBAA Singapore Corporate Counsel Association Cloud Security Alliance Singapore Chapter Singapore Hotel Association (SHA) Conexus Mobile Alliance Singapore Human Resource Institute (SHRI) Consumers Association of Singapore (CASE) Singapore Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry (SICCI) Governance Contact Centre Association of Singapore (CCAS) Singapore InfoComm Technology Federation (SiTF) CPA Singapore Institute of Directors Global Compact Network Singapore (GCNS) Singapore Institute of Management (SIM) Global TD-LTE Initiative Singapore International Chamber of Commerce (SICC) GSMA Singapore Manufacturers Federation (SMF) Sustainability Institute of Advertising Singapore Singapore National Employers’ Federation (SNEF) Institute of Singapore Chartered Accountants Singapore Retailers Association (SRA) Institute of Service Excellence at SMU Singapore Training & Development Association (STADA) Investor Relations Professionals Association of Singapore (IRPAS) Singapore-German Chamber Law Society of Singapore Singapore-Guangdong Collaboration Council (SGCC) Financials Lawnet for Legal Research TM Forum Pacific Telecommunications Council (PTC) Wireless Broadband Alliance (WBA) Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 111 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) GRI Content Index GRI STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE General Disclosures Page(s) 102-1 Name of the organisation StarHub Ltd 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8-9 102-3 Location of headquarters Singapore 102-4 Location of operations Mainly Singapore 102-5 Ownership and legal form 208-209 102-6 Markets served 8-9 GRI 102: General 102-7 Scale of the organisation 8-9, 103 Disclosures 2016 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 103, 107 102-9 Supply chain 100-101 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain None 102-11 Precautionary principle of approach 76-79 102-12 External initiatives 100, 102-103, 107-108 102-13 Membership of associations 111 GRI 102: General 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 10-13 Disclosures 2016 GRI 102: General 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 64, 102-103 Disclosures 2016 GRI 102: General 102-18 Governance structure 48-72 Disclosures 2016 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 84 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 103 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 84 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 84, 108 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 84 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 175 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 108-109 102-47 List of material topics 84 GRI 102: General 102-48 Restatements of information 108 Disclosures 2016 102-49 Changes in reporting 108 102-50 Reporting period 108 102-51 Date of most recent report 108 102-52 Reporting cycle 108 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 108 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 108 102-55 GRI Content Index 112-115 102-56 External assurance 116-119 112 GRI STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE Overview Topic-specific Disclosures Page(s) Addressing Climate Change and Other Environmental Challenges GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 86 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 86 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 86 Strategy 302-1 Energy consumption within and outside the organisation 88 302-2 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 Energy intensity 88 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 87 GRI 303: 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 87 Water 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 89 Performance GRI 305: 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 89 Emissions 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 89 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 88 Implementing E-waste Programmes GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 87 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 87 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 87 Governance GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 87 Waste 2016 Supporting Local Communities GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 90 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 90 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 90 Sustainability GRI 413: Operations with local community engagement, Local Communities 413-1 91-93 impact assessments, and development programs 2016 Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 113 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Vision for the Future (cont’d) GRI STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE Topic-specific Disclosures Page(s) Online Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 90 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 90 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 90 Responsible Marketing and Clarity of Pricing and Billing 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 96-97 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 96-97 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 96-97 GRI 417: Marketing and 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 96 Labelling 2016 Data Security and Customer Privacy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 98 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 98 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 98 GRI 418: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Customer Privacy 418-1 98 customer privacy and losses of customer data 2016 Service Quality 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 97 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 97 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 97 114 Overview GRI STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE Topic-specific Disclosures Page(s) Responsible Business Practice 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 102 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 102 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies Strategy GRI 205: 205-2 102 Anti-corruption and procedures 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 102 GRI 206: Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly Anti-competitive 206-1 102 practices Behaviour 2016 GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 110 Practices 2016 Performance Talent Acquisition, Retention and Development and Employee Engagement 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 103 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 107 GRI 401: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided Employment 401-2 103 to temporary or part-time employees Governance 2016 401-3 Parental leave 103 404-1 Average hours of training per employee 107 GRI 404: Training Programmes for updating employee skills and transition 404-2 103 and Education 2016 assistance programs Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 404-3 103 and career development reviews Employee Health, Safety and Wellness Sustainability 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 107 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 107 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 107 GRI 403: Workers representation in formal joint management-worker health and 403-1 107 Occupational safety committees Health & Safety Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 2016 403-2 107 absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 115 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Independent Limited Assurance Report To the Directors of StarHub Ltd Conclusion We were engaged by the Board of Directors of StarHub Ltd (the Company) to provide limited assurance on the accompanying StarHub Sustainability Report 2017 for the year ended 31 December 2017 (the Report), as set on pages 80 to 115, and the selected Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards disclosures (Selected GRI Disclosures) as identified below. Based on the evidence we obtained from the procedures performed as described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities section of our report, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that: (a) the Report has not described the sustainability practices on a comply-or-explain basis with reference to the following components as listed under Rule 711B of the Singapore Exchange’s (SGX) Listing Manual; – Material environmental, social and governance factors; – Policies, practices and performance; – Targets; – Sustainability reporting framework; and – Board statement; (b) the Report is not presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards); and (c) the Selected GRI Disclosures as identified in the table below, are not calculated, in all material respects, in accordance with the relevant topic-specific disclosures requirements in the GRI Standards. 116 Selected GRI Disclosures Overview MATERIAL TOPIC GRI STANDARDS TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURE SELECTED GRI DISCLOSURES Energy GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation and 468,020 gigajoules (GJ) GRI 302-2 outside of the organisation GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 195 GJ per $million revenue (including Exclusive Partners) Water GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 27,633 cubic metres Strategy Emissions GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 487 tonnes CO2e GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 54,145 tonnes CO2e GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 190 tonnes CO2e GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 22.8 tonnes CO2e per $million revenue Effluents and Waste GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Internal e-waste recycled: 242 tonnes Performance Paper recycled: 24,230 kilograms Employment GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Male Female Number of new employee hires 196 136 Number of 290 208 employee turnover Training and GRI 401-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Male Female Governance Education Function employees 17.38 14.28 Middle management 20.52 19.89 Senior 18.07 24.92 management Overall 18.12 15.64 Occupational GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Number of work-related injuries: 0 Sustainability Health and Safety diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of Number of fatal accidents: 0 work-related fatalities Procurement GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Share of local suppliers as a percentage Practices of total supplier payments: 93% Proportion of local suppliers as a percentage of total suppliers: 84% Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 117 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Independent Limited Assurance Report (cont’d) Basis for Conclusion Company complies with laws We conducted our limited assurance and regulations applicable to its engagement in accordance with Singapore activities; and Standard on Assurance Engagement – ensuring that staff involved with the 3000 Assurance Engagements other preparation and presentation of the than Audits or Reviews of Historical Report are properly trained, information Financial Information (SSAE 3000). Our systems are properly updated and that responsibilities are further described in any changes in reporting encompass all the Auditors’ Responsibilities section of significant reporting units. our report. The directors’ responsibilities include We have complied with the independence overseeing the Company’s sustainability and other ethical requirements of the reporting process. Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority (ACRA) Code of Professional Auditors’ Responsibilities Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants Our responsibility is to carry out a limited and Accounting Entities (ACRA Code), assurance engagement in accordance which is founded on fundamental principles with SSAE 3000 and to express a of integrity, objectivity, professional conclusion based on the work performed. competence and due care, confidentiality SSAE 3000 requires that we plan and and professional behaviour. perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Report is Our firm applies Singapore Standard free from material misstatement. The on Quality Control 1 and, accordingly, extent of our work performed depended maintains a comprehensive system of on our professional judgement and our quality control including documented assessment of the engagement risk. policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, A limited assurance engagement consists professional standards and applicable of making inquiries, primarily of persons legal and regulatory requirements. responsible for the preparation of information presented in the Report, and Responsibilities of Management applying analytical and other evidence Management is responsible for: gathering procedures, as appropriate. These procedures included: – preparing and presenting the Report in accordance with the GRI Standards and – Inquiries of management to gain an Rule 711B of the SGX Listing Manual, and understanding of StarHub's processes the information and assertions contained for determining the material issues for within it; StarHub's key stakeholder groups. – determining StarHub's objectives in – Interviews with senior management respect of sustainable development and relevant staff at group level and performance and reporting, including selected business unit level concerning the identification of stakeholders and sustainability strategy and policies for material issues; material issues, and the implementation – establishing and maintaining appropriate of these across the business. internal control systems that enable – Interviews with relevant staff at the the preparation and presentation of the corporate and business unit level Report and the selected GRI disclosures responsible for providing the information that are free from material misstatement, in the Report. whether due to fraud or error; – Visits to offices and data centres – preventing and detecting fraud and operating in Singapore selected on the for identifying and ensuring that the 118 Overview basis of a risk analysis including the Restriction on Use consideration of both quantitative and This report has been prepared for the qualitative criteria. Directors of StarHub Ltd for the purpose – Enquires about the design and of providing an assurance conclusion on implementation of the systems and the Report and Selected GRI Disclosures methods used to collect and report and may not be suitable for another on the GRI Disclosures, including the purpose. We disclaim any assumption of aggregation of the reported information. responsibility for any reliance on this report, – Comparing the GRI Disclosures to any person other than the Directors of presented in the Report to corresponding StarHub Ltd, or for any other purpose than Strategy information in the relevant underlying that for which it was prepared. sources to determine whether all the relevant information contained in such underlying sources has been appropriately included in the GRI Disclosures. – Reading the information presented in the Report to determine whether it is in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the sustainability KPMG LLP Performance performance of the Company. Public Accountants and Chartered Accountants The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature Singapore and timing from, and are less in extent 26 February 2018 than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained Governance had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Due to the inherent limitations of any internal control structure it is possible that errors or irregularities in the information presented in the Report may occur and not be detected. Our engagement is not designed to detect all weaknesses in the Sustainability internal controls over the preparation and presentation of the Report, as the engagement has not been performed continuously throughout the period and the procedures performed were undertaken on a test basis. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 119 Group Financial Review 1.1 Revenue Year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 2016 Incr/(Decr) $m % $m % $m % Mobile revenue 1,196.9 49.9 1,214.6 50.7 (17.8) (1.5) Pay TV revenue 348.9 14.5 377.8 15.8 (28.9) (7.6) Broadband revenue 214.0 8.9 216.8 9.0 (2.9) (1.3) Enterprise Fixed revenue 436.9 18.2 400.0 16.7 36.9 9.2 Total service revenue 2,196.6 91.5 2,209.2 92.2 (12.6) (0.6) Sales of equipment 204.0 8.5 187.5 7.8 16.5 8.8 Total 2,400.7 100.0 2,396.7 100.0 4.0 0.2 Numbers may not add up due to rounding. The Group’s total revenue of S$2,400.7 million remained stable with higher revenue from Enterprise Fixed services and sales of equipment, offset by lower revenue from Mobile, Pay TV and Broadband services. Mobile service revenue decreased by 1.5% due to lower voice, IDD and roaming usage, coupled with lower plan subscription and interconnect revenues. This was partly offset by higher mobile VAS subscription and higher data and Enterprise SMS usage. Pay TV and Broadband service revenues decreased 7.6% and 1.3% year-on-year (YoY) respectively, primarily due to lower subscriber base. Compared to last year, Enterprise Fixed service revenue grew by 9.2%, mainly driven by managed services and the consolidation of Accel Systems & Technologies Pte Ltd’s (ASTL) results. Excluding ASTL’s results, Enterprise Fixed service revenue would be higher by 6.0%. Revenue from sales of equipment increased by 8.8%, primarily due to higher sales of premium handsets. 1.2 Operating Expenses Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 Incr/(Decr) $m $m $m % Cost of sales 1,040.9 974.6 66.3 6.8 Other operating expenses 1,030.7 1,029.2 1.5 0.1 Total 2,071.6 2,003.8 67.8 3.4 Numbers may not add up due to rounding. The Group’s total operating expenses grew by 3.4% due to higher cost of sales and other operating expenses. A breakdown of total operating expenses is as follows: (i) Cost of Sales Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 Incr/(Decr) $m $m $m % Cost of equipment sold 475.6 447.8 27.8 6.2 Cost of services 464.4 409.5 55.0 13.4 Traffic expenses 100.9 117.3 (16.4) (14.0) Total 1,040.9 974.6 66.3 6.8 Numbers may not add up due to rounding. 120 Overview Cost of sales in 2017 was higher by 6.8%. This was attributed to higher cost of equipment sold and cost of services, partially mitigated by lower traffic expenses. The increase in cost of equipment sold was due to higher cost for premium handsets, while the increase in cost of services was primarily driven by higher managed services and fibre broadband cost. Traffic expenses were lower mainly due to decreases in domestic and international traffic volume. (ii) Other Operating Expenses Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 Incr/(Decr) Strategy $m $m $m % Staff costs 282.5 281.4 1.1 0.4 Operating leases 129.2 116.1 13.1 11.3 Marketing and promotions 122.1 133.7 (11.6) (8.6) Allowance for doubtful receivables 17.4 21.0 (3.6) (17.3) Repair and maintenance 99.1 96.9 2.3 2.3 Other expenses 100.0 115.1 (15.1) (13.1) Subtotal 750.4 764.2 (13.9) (1.8) Performance Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) 280.4 265.0 15.4 5.8 Total 1,030.7 1,029.2 1.5 0.1 Numbers may not add up due to rounding. Total other operating expenses remained stable in 2017. Other operating expenses as a percentage of total revenue remained unchanged at 42.9%. Analysis of major variances in other operating expenses is provided below: Staff costs Staff costs expense in 2017 included provisions for certain staff Allowance for doubtful receivables Governance benefits in order to rationalise and retain talent in recognition of Allowance for doubtful receivables was lower by S$3.6 million the business challenges and operating conditions. Excluding this driven by improved collections. one-time provision and reversal of prior year accruals no longer required, staff costs expense would have decreased by 1.3%. The Repair and maintenance decline in staff cost expense was due to lower headcount and Repair and maintenance expense increased by S$2.3 million, bonus expenses. mainly driven by maintenance cost for new systems and network infrastructure. Operating leases The increase in operating leases expense was mainly due to Other expenses Sustainability a one-off provision in 2017 and reversal of accruals no longer Other expenses were lower by S$15.1 million or 13.1%, mainly due to required in 2016. The one-off provision was for a leasing contract lower licence fees, higher miscellaneous income and lower foreign related to the cable network. Given plans to migrate cable exchange loss. customers to fibre broadband and IPTV services, the economic benefits expected from the lease is lower than the contractual Depreciation and amortisation cost. Excluding this one-off provision, operating leases expense Depreciation and amortisation expense was higher mainly due was lower by 10.7%, mainly from lower duct lease rental. the addition of 4G spectrum rights and the higher additions of intangible assets in 2017. Marketing and promotions The marketing and promotions expense decreased by 8.6% primarily driven by cost reduction initiatives to optimise marketing Financials and promotions expense. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 121 GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW (cont’d) 1.3 Profitability Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 Incr/(Decr) $m $m $m % Total revenue 2,400.7 2,396.7 4.0 0.2 Operating expenses (2,071.6) (2,003.8) 67.8 3.4 Other income 4.4 32.2 (27.8) (86.3) Profit from operations 333.5 425.1 (91.6) (21.6) Finance income 3.7 3.5 0.2 5.4 Finance expense (29.9) (26.2) 3.7 14.3 307.3 402.4 (95.1) (23.6) Non-operating (loss) / income (0.7) 9.5 (10.1) 107.0 Share of loss of associate (net of tax) (2.2) (1.6) 0.6 36.7 Profit before taxation 304.4 410.3 (105.9) (25.8) Taxation (54.8) (68.9) (14.1) (20.4) Profit for the year 249.6 341.4 (91.8) (26.9) EBITDA 613.9 690.1 (76.2) (11.0) Service revenue 2,196.6 2,209.2 (12.6) (0.6) EBITDA as a % of service revenue 27.9% 31.2% -3.3% pts Numbers may not add up due to rounding. Profit from operations decreased by S$91.6 million in 2017 to S$333.5 million. The decrease was mainly due to lower income grants and higher operating expenses, partially offset by higher total revenue. In 2017, EBITDA was lower by S$76.2 million YoY. Correspondingly, EBITDA margin as a percentage of service revenue declined 3.3% points to 27.9% when compared to 31.2% last year. The finance income in 2017 increased by S$0.2 million YoY. Finance expenses increased S$3.7 million or 14.3% mainly due to the issuance of S$300.0 million medium term notes in 2Q2016. The share of loss from associate was higher by S$0.6 million in 2017 when compared to last year. Profit before taxation decreased by S$105.9 million or 25.8% to S$304.4 million due to lower profits from operations, a one-time fair value gain of S$9.5 million in 2Q2016 and a fair value loss of S$0.7 million in 3Q2017 from the additional investment in mm2 Asia Ltd (“mm2”). As a result, taxation was correspondingly lower at S$54.8 million. 122 1.4 Liquidity and Resources Overview Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 $m $m Profit before taxation 304.4 410.3 Non-cash items & net finance expense adjustments 310.4 257.8 Changes in operating assets and liabilities (32.3) (63.7) Income tax paid (65.3) (53.7) Net cash from operating activities 517.2 550.7 Strategy Net cash used in investing activities (327.1) (389.3) Net cash used in financing activities (130.1) (49.6) Net change in cash and cash equivalents 60.0 111.8 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 285.2 173.4 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 345.2 285.2 Free Cash Flow (1) 221.3 184.0 (1) Free Cash Flow refers to net cash from operating activities less purchase of fixed assets in the cash flow statement. Performance The Group’s net cash from operating activities of S$517.2 million was S$33.5 million lower YoY. This was largely due to lower cash flow from operations and tax refund received in 4Q2016, partially offset by lower working capital needs. In 2017, the negative working capital changes of S$32.3 million were mainly due to higher trade receivables and inventories, coupled with lower other payables and net balances due to related parties. This was partially offset by higher trade payables and lower other receivables, deposits and prepayments. Net cash used in investing activities of S$327.1 million was lower by S$62.2 million as a result of lower purchase of property, plant and equipment, partially offset by investment in ASTL in 3Q2017. Governance The Group’s CAPEX payments amounted to S$295.9 million, representing 12.3% of total revenue. Excluding spectrum payments of S$69.3 million, CAPEX payments as a percentage of total revenue would have been 9.4% in 2017. Free cash flow was higher at S$221.3 million, compared to S$184.0 million last year. The improvement was mainly due to lower CAPEX payments. Net cash used in financing activities was S$80.5 million higher at S$130.1 million, largely from lower funds raised in 2017. Sustainability The resulting net cash generated was a surplus of S$60.0 million in 2017. As a result, cash and cash equivalents balance was higher at S$345.2 million, up from S$285.2 million a year ago. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 123 GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW (cont’d) 1.5 Financial Position As at 31 December 2017 2016 $m $m Non-current assets 1,519.3 1,455.3 Current assets 832.7 741.0 Less: Current liabilities 992.9 855.5 Less: Non-current liabilities 1,014.2 1,145.9 Net assets 344.9 194.9 Shareholders' equity 344.9 194.9 Attributable to owners of the Company 340.5 194.9 Non-controlling interests 4.4 – As of 31 December 2017, the Group’s total non-current assets were S$64.0 million higher at S$1,519.3 million compared to 31 December 2016. The increase was primarily due to higher intangible assets and available-for-sale financial assets stated at fair value arising from increased stake in mm2 in July 2017. This was partially offset by lower property, plant and equipment. Total current assets were higher at S$832.7 million as of 31 December 2017, up from S$741.0 million as of 31 December 2016. The increase was mainly from higher cash and cash equivalents, inventories and trade receivables, partially offset by lower other receivables, deposits and prepayments. Total current liabilities increased by S$137.4 million as of 31 December 2017 when compared to S$855.5 million as of 31 December 2016. The higher current liabilities were due to higher trade and other payables and reclassification of borrowings from non-current to current liabilities. As a result of the reclassification of borrowings and lower deferred tax liabilities, total non-current liabilities were lower by S$131.7 million to S$1,014.2 million as of 31 December 2017. The Group’s shareholders’ equity grew by S$145.6 million to S$340.5 million as of 31 December 2017 (excluding non-controlling interests of S$4.4 million). The increase was mainly due to the issuance of S$200.0 million of subordinated perpetual capital securities (S$199.6 million net of transaction expense) in 2017. Gearing The Group’s unsecured borrowing was lower by S$10.0 million at S$977.5 million as of 31 December 2017. On the account of a higher cash and cash equivalent balance and lower total borrowings, net debt was S$70.0 million lower at S$632.3 million as of 31 December 2017 compared to S$702.3 million as of 31 December 2016. As a ratio of the past 12 months’ EBITDA, the Group’s net debt was higher at 1.03 times as of 31 December 2017, up from 1.02 times as of 31 December 2016. 124 Overview Financial Statements 2017 Strategy Financials Directors’ Statement 126 Independent Auditors’ Report 136 Statements of Financial Position 143 Performance Income Statement 144 Statement of Comprehensive Income 145 Statements of Changes in Equity 146 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 150 Governance Notes to the Financial Statements 151 Sustainability Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 125 Directors’ Statement Year ended 31 December 2017 We are pleased to submit this statement to the members of the Company together with the audited financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2017. In our opinion: (a) the financial statements set out on pages 143 to 206 are drawn up so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2017 and the financial performance and the cash flows of the Group, and changes in equity of the Group and of the Company for the year ended on that date in accordance with the provisions of the Singapore Companies Act, Chapter 50 and Singapore Financial Reporting Standards; and (b) at the date of this statement, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company will be able to pay its debts as and when they fall due. Directors The directors in office at the date of this statement are as follows: Steven Terrell Clontz (Chairman) Tan Tong Hai (Chief Executive Officer) Ma Kah Woh Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee Teo Ek Tor Stephen Geoffrey Miller Liu Chee Ming Michelle Lee Guthrie (Appointed on 25 August 2017) Lim Ming Seong Nasser Marafih Naoki Wakai (Appointed on 30 August 2017) Directors’ Interests According to the register kept by the Company for the purposes of Section 164 of the Companies Act, Chapter 50, particulars of interests of directors who held office at the end of the financial year (including those held by their spouses and infant children) in shares, debentures, warrants, share options and share awards in the Company and in related corporations (other than wholly-owned subsidiaries) are as follows: Holdings at beginning Holdings of the year/ at end Names of director and corporation in which interests are held date of appointment of the year The Company Ordinary shares Steven Terrell Clontz 80,700 107,700 126 Directors’ Interests (continued) Overview Holdings at beginning Holdings of the year/ at end Names of director and corporation in which interests are held date of appointment of the year The Company Ordinary shares Tan Tong Hai 1,343,530 531,424 Strategy Ma Kah Woh 81,780 96,580 Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE 19,000 23,000 Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee 6,900 19,800 Teo Ek Tor 168,738 186,438 Liu Chee Ming 191,584+ 204,984+ Lim Ming Seong 237,136 255,436 Nasser Marafih 66,330 77,930 Related Corporations Olam International Limited Performance Euro Medium Term Note Programme Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE US$200,000(1) US$200,000(1) Singapore Technologies Engineering Ltd Ordinary Shares Governance Lim Ming Seong 98,336 8,336 Singapore Telecommunications Limited Ordinary Shares Ma Kah Woh 380 380 TeleChoice International Limited Sustainability Ordinary Shares Lim Ming Seong 60,000 60,000 + Held (partly or wholly) by a nominee. (1) US$200,000 of the US$300,000,000 in principal amount of 4.5% fixed rate notes due 2020 under Olam International Limited’s Euro Medium Term Note Programme. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 127 Directors’ Statement Year ended 31 December 2017 Directors’ Interests (continued) Holdings at beginning Holdings of the year/ at end Names of director and corporation in which interests are held date of appointment of the year The Company Conditional awards of shares under StarHub Performance Share Plan Tan Tong Hai 278,600(2) – Conditional awards of shares under StarHub Performance Share Plan 2014 Tan Tong Hai 261,200(3) 261,200(3) 261,200(4) 261,200(4) – 559,000(5) Conditional awards of shares under StarHub Restricted Stock Plan Tan Tong Hai 64,464(6) – Conditional awards of shares under StarHub Restricted Stock Plan 2014 Tan Tong Hai 156,200(7) – 156,200(8) 156,200(8) – 23,430(9) – 210,000(10) (2) A conditional award was granted in March 2014. The award lapsed in 2017 as the threshold performance targets were not achieved during the performance period from 2014 to 2016. (3) A conditional award was granted in March 2015. The performance period was from 2015 to 2017. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved, while up to 1.825 times the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretch performance targets are met or exceeded. (4) A conditional award was granted in March 2016. The performance period is from 2016 to 2018. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved, while up to 1.825 times the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretch performance targets are met or exceeded. (5) A conditional award was granted in April 2017. The performance period is from 2017 to 2019. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved, while up to 1.5 times the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretch performance targets are met or exceeded. (6) A conditional award was granted in March 2014. The performance period was from 2014 to 2015. The final award was granted in March 2016 based on the actual level of achievement of the pre-determined performance targets. The shares under the final award were partially delivered in 2016, and the balance was delivered in 2017. (7) A conditional award was granted in March 2015. The award lapsed in 2017 as the threshold performance targets were not achieved during the performance period from 2015 to 2016. (8) A conditional award was granted in March 2016. The performance period was from 2016 to 2017. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved, while up to 1.5 times the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretch performance targets are met or exceeded. Shares will be delivered in phases according to the stipulated vesting periods. (9) A time-based share award was granted in March 2017. The shares under the award were partially delivered in 2017 and the balance will be delivered in 2018. (10) A conditional award was granted in April 2017. The performance period was over the one year of 2017. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved, while up to 1.0 time the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the target performance level of the predetermined targets are met or exceeded. 128 Directors’ Interests (continued) Except as disclosed in this statement, no director who held office at the end of the financial year had interests in shares, debentures, Overview warrants, share options or share awards of the Company, or of its related corporations, either at the beginning of the financial year or at date of appointment if later, or at the end of the financial year. There were no changes in the above-mentioned directors’ interests in the Company between the end of the financial year and 21 January 2018. Except as disclosed under the “Share-based Payments” section of this statement, neither at the end of nor at any time during the financial year, was the Company a party to any arrangement whose objects are, or one of whose objects is, to enable the directors of the Company Strategy to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company or any other body corporate. Share-based Payments The Company has in place the StarHub Performance Share Plan 2014 and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan 2014 (collectively, “StarHub Share Plans 2014”, and each, “StarHub PSP 2014” and “StarHub RSP 2014” respectively). The StarHub Share Plans 2014 were approved and adopted at the Extraordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) of the Company held on 14 April 2014, in replacement of the then existing StarHub Performance Share Plan and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan which were Performance adopted by the Company on 16 August 2004 (collectively, “StarHub Share Plans 2004”, and each, “StarHub PSP 2004” and “StarHub RSP 2004” respectively). The StarHub Share Plans 2004 together with the StarHub Share Option Plan 2004 were terminated at the EGM of the Company held on 14 April 2014. The Company had also in 2000 adopted the StarHub Pte Ltd Share Option Plan (“StarHub Share Option Plan 2000”) and terminated the same in 2004. Since 31 May 2015, there were no outstanding or unexercised options under the StarHub Share Option Plan 2000 and StarHub Share Option Plan 2004 (collectively StarHub Share Option Plans ). The StarHub Share Plans 2014, the StarHub Share Plans 2004, the StarHub Share Option Plan 2004 and the StarHub Share Option Plan 2000 (collectively, “Plans”) are administered by the Company’s Executive Resource and Compensation Committee (“ERCC”) comprising Governance three directors, namely Teo Ek Tor, Stephen Geoffrey Miller and Lim Ming Seong. The Company designates Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd as its parent company (“Parent Company”) for purposes of the Plans. StarHub Share Plans 2014 and StarHub Share Plans 2004 (collectively, the “StarHub Share Plans”) (i) The StarHub Share Plans were implemented with the objectives of motivating key executives to strive for superior performance and sustaining long-term growth for the Group. (ii) The termination of the StarHub Share Plans 2004 was without prejudice to the rights of holders of awards accepted and outstanding Sustainability under the StarHub Share Plans 2004 as at the date of termination. The outstanding awards under the StarHub Share Plans 2004 were vested according to the terms of the StarHub Share Plans 2004 and the respective grants. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 129 Directors’ Statement Year ended 31 December 2017 Share-based Payments (continued) (iii) The following persons were/shall be eligible to participate in the StarHub Share Plans, respectively at the absolute discretion of the ERCC: (1) employees (including executive directors) and non-executive directors of the Group; (2) employees (including executive directors) and non-executive directors of the Parent Group who meet the relevant age and rank criteria and whose services have been seconded to a company within the Group and who shall be regarded as an employee of the Group for the purposes of the StarHub Share Plans; and (3) employees and non-executive directors of the Company’s associated companies, who in the opinion of the ERCC, have contributed or will contribute to the success of the Group. (iv) Under the StarHub PSP 2004 and the StarHub PSP 2014, awards of shares are granted on an annual basis, conditional on targets set for a performance period, currently prescribed to be a three-year period. Awards represent the right of a participant to receive fully paid shares, their equivalent cash value or combinations thereof, free of charge, upon the participant achieving prescribed performance targets set based on medium-term corporate objectives. Awards are released once the ERCC is satisfied that the prescribed performance targets have been achieved. The actual number of shares given will depend on the level of achievement of the prescribed performance targets over the performance period. Since the commencement of the StarHub PSP 2004 to the financial year ended 31 December 2017, conditional awards aggregating 9,050,250 shares have been granted under the aforesaid plan. For share awards granted prior to and during the financial year ended 31 December 2013, no shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved, while up to twice the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretch performance targets are met or exceeded. For share awards granted during and after the financial year ended 31 December 2014, no shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved, while up to 1.825 times the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretch performance targets are met or exceeded. The performance targets benchmark (a) the performance of the Company’s Total Shareholders’ Return (“TSR”) measured against the MSCI Asia-Pacific Telecommunications Index (including Japan) over the performance period, and (b) the Wealth Added which measures investment performance in terms of the Company’s TSR against shareholders’ expected returns using cost of equity as a benchmark. Since the commencement of the StarHub PSP 2014 to the financial year ended 31 December 2017, conditional awards aggregating 2,406,900 shares have been granted under the aforesaid plan. For share awards granted during and after the financial year ended 31 December 2016, no shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved, while up to 1.825 times the number of shares that are the subject of the award will be delivered if the stretch performance targets are met or exceeded. The performance targets benchmark (a) Returns on Invested Capital (“ROIC”), and (b) the Wealth Added which measures investment performance in terms of the Company’s TSR against shareholders’ expected returns using cost of equity as a benchmark. 130 Share-based Payments (continued) Details of share awards granted under the StarHub PSP 2004 and StarHub PSP 2014 (collectively, the “StarHub PSP Share Plans”) Overview are as follows: Aggregate share awards granted since Aggregate commencement of the share awards Share awards granted StarHub PSP Share Plans Share awards vested outstanding as at Participants during the financial year to 31 December 2017 during the financial year 31 December 2017 StarHub PSP 2004 Strategy Executive director: Tan Tong Hai – 960,400 – – Key executives – 7,178,650 – – Total – 8,139,050 – – StarHub PSP 2014 Performance Executive director: Tan Tong Hai 559,000 1,081,400 – 1,081,400 Key executives 656,900 1,325,500 – 1,164,083 Total 1,215,900 2,406,900 – 2,245,483 (v) Under the StarHub RSP 2004 and the StarHub RSP 2014, awards granted vest only after the satisfactory completion of time-based service conditions (time-based restricted awards) or where the award is performance-related, after a further period of service Governance beyond the performance period (performance-based restricted awards). No minimum vesting periods are prescribed under the StarHub RSP 2004 and the StarHub RSP 2014 and the length of the vesting period in respect of each award will be determined on a case-by-case basis. Performance-based restricted awards differ from awards granted under the StarHub PSP 2004 and the StarHub PSP 2014 in that an extended vesting period is imposed beyond the performance period. The performance-based restricted awards represent the right of a participant to receive fully paid shares, their equivalent cash value or combinations thereof, free of charge, upon the participant achieving prescribed performance targets. The actual number of shares to be released depends on the level of attainment of the performance targets over the performance period. Sustainability For performance-based restricted awards granted prior to and during the financial year ended 31 December 2007, (a) the first performance target benchmarks the performance of the Company’s TSR measured against the Straits Times Index (“STI”) over the performance period; and (b) the second performance target used is measured against Free Cash Flow (“FCF”). For performance-based restricted awards granted during and from financial year ended 31 December 2008 to financial year ended 31 December 2013, the performance targets used are measured against the Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”) and the FCF respectively. For performance-based restricted awards granted during and from financial year ended 31 December 2014 to financial year ended 31 December 2016, the performance targets used are measured against the Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”) and the Earnings Financials Before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation (“EBITDA”). For performance-based restricted awards granted during and from financial year ended 31 December 2016 onwards, the performance targets used are aligned to the overall strategic financial and operational goals of the Group. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 131 Directors’ Statement Year ended 31 December 2017 Share-based Payments (continued) Since the commencement of the StarHub RSP 2004 to the financial year ended 31 December 2017: (1) performance-based restricted awards aggregating 17,413,000 shares have been granted under the aforesaid Plan. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved, while up to 1.3 times or as the case may be 1.5 times, the number of shares that are the subject of the award, will be delivered if the stretch performance targets are met or exceeded; (2) a time-based restricted award of 100,000 shares has been granted on 15 January 2009. The shares under this award were vested in three equal tranches over a 3-year period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011 according to a specified vesting schedule; (3) a time-based restricted award of 213,000 shares has been granted on 17 May 2010. The shares under this award were vested in May 2011 upon the participants’ continued tenure as non-executive directors of the Company for a full one-year period from the date of grant; (4) a restricted award of 155,900 shares has been granted on 7 June 2012. The shares under this award formed 30% of the non-executive directors’ remuneration for the financial year ended 31 December 2011 and were vested immediately without any further vesting period; (5) a restricted award of 99,400 shares has been granted on 10 May 2013. The shares under this award formed 30% of the non-executive directors’ remuneration for the financial year ended 31 December 2012 and were vested immediately without any further vesting period; and (6) a time-based restricted award of 30,000 shares has been granted on 10 March 2014. The shares under this award were vested in two equal tranches over a 2-year period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2016 according to a specified vesting schedule. Since the commencement of the StarHub RSP 2014 to the financial year ended 31 December 2017: (1) performance-based restricted awards aggregating 7,075,400 shares have been granted under the aforesaid Plan. No shares will be delivered if the threshold performance targets are not achieved, while up to 1.5 times, the number of shares that are the subject of the award, will be delivered if the stretch performance targets are met or exceeded; (2) restricted awards aggregating 544,200 shares have been vested to non-executive directors of the Company as part of their directors’ remuneration, and were vested immediately upon grant; (3) a time-based restricted award of 32,500 shares has been granted on 8 July 2015. The shares under this award were vested in two equal tranches over a 2-year period from 8 July 2015 to 7 July 2017 according to a specified vesting schedule; (4) a time-based restricted award of 240,000 shares has been granted on 20 May 2016. The shares under this award were vested in two equal tranches over a period from 20 May 2016 to 7 July 2017 according to a specified vesting schedule; (5) a time-based restricted award of 592,590 shares has been granted on 15 March 2017. The shares under this award will vest in two equal tranches over a period from 15 March 2017 to 15 January 2018; and (6) a time-based restricted award of 400,000 shares has been granted on 6 April 2017. The shares under this award will vest in three tranches over a 3-year period from 13 April 2018 to 15 April 2020. 132 Share-based Payments (continued) Details of share awards granted under the StarHub RSP 2004 and the StarHub RSP 2014 (collectively, the “StarHub RSP Plans”) are Overview as follows: Aggregate share awards granted since Aggregate commencement of the share awards Share awards granted StarHub RSP Share Plans Share awards vested outstanding as at Participants during the financial year to 31 December 2017 during the financial year 31 December 2017 StarHub RSP 2004 Strategy Non-executive directors: Steven Terrell Clontz – 40,100 – – Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE – 103,700 – – Teo Ek Tor – 91,100 – – Liu Chee Ming – 76,100 – – Lim Ming Seong – 106,900 – – Nasser Marafih – 50,400 – – Performance Executive director: Tan Tong Hai – 739,400 64,464 – Key employees – 15,143,700 611,530 – StarHub RSP 2014 Non-executive directors: Governance Steven Terrell Clontz 27,000 67,600 27,000 – Ma Kah Woh 14,800 18,000 14,800 – Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE 19,100 61,100 19,100 – Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee 12,900 19,800 12,900 – Teo Ek Tor 17,700 55,800 17,700 – Liu Chee Ming 13,400 43,300 13,400 – Lim Ming Seong 18,300 57,200 18,300 – Nasser Marafih 11,600 34,900 11,600 – Sustainability Executive director: Tan Tong Hai 256,860 569,260 23,430 389,630 Key employees 3,053,030 7,771,230 409,065 4,627,782 Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 133 Directors’ Statement Year ended 31 December 2017 Share-based Payments (continued) During the financial year, a total of 1,306,589 treasury shares were transferred pursuant to the StarHub Share Plans. As at 31 December 2017, no participant has been granted and/or received shares pursuant to the release of awards granted under the StarHub Share Plans, which, in aggregate, represents 5% or more of the aggregate of: (a) the total number of new shares available under the StarHub Share Option Plans and the StarHub Share Plans collectively; and (b) the total number of existing shares delivered pursuant to options exercised under the StarHub Share Option Plans and awards released under the StarHub Share Plans collectively. Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee as at the date of this statement are as follows: Ma Kah Woh, independent non-executive director (Chairman) Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne CBE, independent non-executive director Rachel Eng Yaag Ngee, lead independent non-executive director Lim Ming Seong, non-executive director The Audit Committee has held four meetings since the last directors’ statement. In performing its functions in accordance with Section 201B of the Singapore Companies Act, Chapter 50, the Audit Committee met with the Company’s external and internal auditors to discuss the scope of their work, the results of their examination and evaluation of the Company’s internal accounting control system. The Audit Committee has also reviewed the following: (1) assistance provided by the Company’s officers to the internal and external auditors; (2) financial statements of the Group and the Company prior to their submission to the directors of the Company for adoption; and (3) interested person transactions (as defined in Chapter 9 of the Listing Manual of the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited) of the Company and its subsidiaries and the Company’s compliance with the review procedures of such transactions. The Audit Committee has full access to management and is given the resources required for it to discharge its functions. It has full authority and the discretion to invite any director or executive officer to attend its meetings. The Audit Committee also recommends the appointment of the external auditors and reviews the level of audit and non-audit fees. The Audit Committee has undertaken a review of all non-audit services provided by the external auditors, and is satisfied that the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors are not compromised as a result thereof, and has recommended to the Board of Directors that KPMG LLP be nominated for re-appointment as auditors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company. 134 Auditors Overview The auditors, KPMG LLP, have expressed their willingness to accept re-appointment. The Board of Directors has, on the date of this statement, authorised these financial statements for issue. On behalf of the Board of Directors Strategy Steven Terrell Clontz Tan Tong Hai Director Director Singapore 14 February 2018 Performance Governance Sustainability Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 135 Independent Auditors’ Report Members of the Company StarHub Ltd Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion We have audited the financial statements of StarHub Ltd (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (the “Group”), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position of the Group and the statement of financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2017, the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated cash flow statement of the Group, and the statement of changes in equity of the Company for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies as set out on pages 143 to 206. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Group and the statement of financial position of the Company are properly drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Singapore Companies Act, Chapter 50 (the “Act”) and Financial Reporting Standards in Singapore (“FRSs”) so as to give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group and the financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2017 and of the consolidated financial performance, consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group and changes in equity of the Company for the year ended on that date. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Singapore Standards on Auditing (“SSAs”). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority (“ACRA”) Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants and Accounting Entities (“ACRA Code”) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Singapore, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the ACRA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 136 Overview Revenue recognition ($2,400.7 million) (Refer to note 3.11 ‘Significant accounting policies’ and note 21 ‘Revenue’) The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Group’s revenue streams are derived from the Our audit approach was performed with a high reliance on the Group’s IT systems provision of Mobile, Pay TV, Broadband, Enterprise and key manual controls. Fixed services and sales of equipment. They included in particular: In addition, numerous products and services offered with promotional rates and discounts add • Testing the design and implementation, and operating effectiveness of to the complexities. Judgement is required to controls over the capture and recording of revenue transactions from network Strategy determine the amount and timing of revenue to switches to the billing system, and subsequently to the accounting system. be recognised. Our IT specialists tested the relevant automated controls, including interface controls between different IT applications. Information used to recognise revenue is based on data captured in network switches, which • Testing the design and implementation, and operating effectiveness of are interfaced with billing and management IT relevant manual controls over initiation, authorisation, recording, and reporting systems. processing of revenue transactions. Impact of product and service variety, different • Performing test calls to check completeness and accuracy of revenue pricing models, together with complexities transactions transmitted from the source systems to the accounting systems. Performance in telecommunication systems and related configurations of system generated information • Testing key manual reconciliation controls used by management of certain give rise to the risk that revenue may not be revenue streams over revenue recognition. accurately recorded. • Assessing the appropriateness of revenue recognition policy for the products and services offered by the Group. Findings We noted no significant issues on the completeness, existence and accuracy of revenue recorded in the year. Accruals ($498.8 million) Governance (Refer to note 3.6(i) ‘Significant accounting policies’ and note 14 ‘Trade and other payables’) The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Group incurs significant costs in its operations. Our procedures included: Due to complexities in the telecommunication • Obtaining an understanding of and assessed management’s process and industry, negotiations with suppliers and other basis for making accruals. various parties for payments of certain transactions may take a significant amount of time to complete. • Reading contracts of certain significant accruals and considering the accounting treatment and timing of recognition. Sustainability Judgement is required in determining the level of accruals needed. • Testing the accruals utilised during the year to actual invoices and checking Management performed a detailed review of that the utilisation of accruals have been correctly accounted for. each of its significant accrual accounts relying on historical trend of observable claims and actual • Testing key reconciliations used by management to assess the completeness costs to assess the sufficiency of these accruals. and accuracy of liabilities and accruals. • Assessing management’s basis for reversal of significant accruals resulting from changes in management’s assessment. • Assessing the reasonableness of basis and key assumptions used by management in deriving certain accruals by comparing the assumptions to Financials historical performance, future business plans and external market information. Findings We found over-accruals in the estimates used by management. The effects of these over-accruals were not found to be significant to the income statement for the year. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 137 Independent Auditors’ Report Members of the Company StarHub Ltd Impairment assessment of goodwill ($239.5 million) (Refer to note 3.7 (ii) ‘Significant accounting policies’ and note 5 ‘Intangible assets’) The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Goodwill is subject to an annual impairment test or more frequently Our audit procedures included: if there are indications of impairment. The determination of the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit ( CGU ) requires • Evaluating management’s determination of CGU based on judgement on the part of management in both identifying and our knowledge of the business acquisition giving rise to the valuing the CGU. goodwill and our understanding of the current business of the Group. Included in the Group’s goodwill of $239.5 million at 31 December 2017, is the goodwill of $220.3 million which arose • Assessing key assumptions used in the cash flow projections from the acquisition of StarHub Cable Vision Ltd (“SCV”) in by comparing them against historical performance, future 2002. Management considers SCV to be an essential part of the business plans and external market reports. Group’s fully integrated info-communications business. Hence, for impairment testing purposes, management has allocated the • Independently deriving applicable discount rates from available industry data and comparing these with those goodwill to the CGU comprising the Group’s integrated fixed, used by management. mobile, cable and broadband operations. The remaining goodwill of $19.2 million arose through acquisition • Performing stress tests using plausible range of key assumptions or discount rates, and analysing the impact of Accel Systems & Technologies Pte. Ltd. in 2017. to the carrying amount. Management applies the value-in-use (discounted cash flow) method to determine the recoverable amount of the CGUs. Key • Considering the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect of impairment testing, including those in respect assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are the discount of the sensitivities of the recoverable amount to variations rates, growth rates and taking into consideration the competitive in assumptions. pressures on EBITDA margins. These estimates require judgement and the determination of the recoverable amount is a key focus area for our audit. Findings The Group has a basis to determine the CGU for goodwill allocation purpose. We found that the assumptions and resulting estimates used in the discounted cash flow projections for material CGU were within acceptable range. We found the Group’s disclosure in the financial statements to be compliant with financial reporting standards. 138 Overview Valuation of trade receivables ($201.5 million) (Refer to note 3.7 (i) ‘Significant accounting policies’ and note 11 ‘Trade receivables’) The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Group has a policy to provide allowances for trade Our audit procedures included: receivables on specific individual balances and on its receivables portfolio collectively. • Performing tests of controls over the Group’s collection procedures, and the Group’s assessment of the provision Determining the amount of allowance requires management’s required at every period end. judgement on overdue debts and the amount of collection Strategy default based on past collection trends. • Assessing the suitability of its policy for the allowance of doubtful debts. There is a risk that the allowance of doubtful debts recognised may be insufficient. • Evaluating the ageing profile of trade receivables and critically assessing the Group’s provision levels by considering the historical cash collection trends. • Discussing with management on the recoverability of past due debts to assess the sufficiency of allowance for trade receivables through specific and collective provisioning. Performance • Considering the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in relation to the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provision. Findings We found that the level of allowance of doubtful debts as at 31 December 2017 to be adequate. We have considered the Group’s disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in deriving the allowance to be sufficient. Governance Sustainability Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 139 Independent Auditors’ Report Members of the Company StarHub Ltd Acquisition of Accel Systems & Technologies Pte. Ltd. – Purchase Price Allocation (Refer to note 3.1 ‘Significant accounting policies’ and note 32 ‘Acquisition of subsidiary’) The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit During the financial year, the Group acquired a total of 80.4% Our audit procedures included: interest in Accel Systems & Technologies Pte. Ltd. (“ASTPL”) over two phases. • Examining the terms and conditions of the sale and purchase agreements and interviewed key management personnel to FRS 103 Business Combinations requires the Group to recognise understand the commercial substance of the transaction. the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at fair value at the date of acquisition, with the excess of the acquisition • Considering the objectivity, independence and cost over the identified fair values recognised as goodwill. competency of the external specialists, and the scope of their engagement. Management engaged an external firm of specialists to perform the purchase price allocation, including valuation of the identified • Discussing with management and the external specialists on assets and liabilities. the purchase price allocation, including the identification and valuation of intangible assets acquired. We compared the There is judgement and inherent uncertainty involved in the methodologies and key assumptions used in determining the identification and valuation of these assets and liabilities. fair values assigned to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed to generally accepted market practices and market data. • Reviewing the appropriateness of the useful lives assigned to the identified intangible assets, having regard to the expected use of these assets. • Considering the disclosures for the acquisition. Findings We noted management’s key assumptions applied in the purchase price allocation in arriving at the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed to be within a reasonable range. We found the disclosures of the acquisition to be appropriate. Other information Management is responsible for the other information contained in the annual report. Other information is defined as all information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon. Other than the Directors’ Statement, which we have obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, the other sections included in the Annual Report are expected to be made available to us after that date. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate actions in accordance with SSAs. We have nothing to report in this regard with respect to the Directors’ Statement. 140 Responsibilities of management and directors for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with the provisions of Overview the Act and FRSs, and for devising and maintaining a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide a reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorised use or disposition; and transactions are properly authorised and that they are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of true and fair financial statements and to maintain accountability of assets. In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Strategy The directors’ responsibilities include overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SSAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. Performance As part of an audit in accordance with SSAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls. • Obtain an understanding of internal controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the Governance circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group Sustainability to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 141 Independent Auditors’ Report Members of the Company StarHub Ltd We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal controls that we identify during our audit. We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless the law or regulations preclude public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements In our opinion, the accounting and other records required by the Act to be kept by the Company and by those subsidiary corporations incorporated in Singapore of which we are the auditors have been properly kept in accordance with the provisions of the Act. The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditors’ report is Ong Chai Yan. KPMG LLP Public Accountants and Chartered Accountants Singapore 14 February 2018 142 Statements of Financial Position As at 31 December 2017 Group Company Overview 2017 2016 2017 2016 Note $m $m $m $m Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 4 870.1 918.0 425.2 431.0 Intangible assets 5 557.6 463.8 92.3 78.3 Subsidiaries 6 – – 2,507.8 2,472.8 Associate 7 23.7 25.9 27.8 27.8 Available-for-sale financial assets 8 60.0 40.0 60.0 40.0 Strategy Amounts due from related parties 9 7.9 7.6 7.9 7.6 1,519.3 1,455.3 3,121.0 3,057.5 Current assets Inventories 10 71.9 49.6 0.7 0.7 Trade receivables 11 201.5 172.2 167.7 141.7 Other receivables, deposits and prepayments 12 183.5 212.2 47.2 43.6 Amounts due from related parties 9 30.6 21.8 24.8 19.4 Cash and cash equivalents 13 345.2 285.2 321.1 236.0 Performance 832.7 741.0 561.5 441.4 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 14 (736.5) (707.9) (334.2) (309.4) Amounts due to related parties 9 (64.8) (67.1) (334.3) (356.5) Borrowings 15 (120.0) (10.0) (120.0) (10.0) Provision for taxation (71.6) (70.5) (20.7) (15.4) (992.9) (855.5) (809.2) (691.3) Governance Net current liabilities (160.2) (114.5) (247.7) (249.9) Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 14 (22.4) (21.6) (22.5) (21.6) Borrowings 15 (857.5) (977.5) (857.5) (977.5) Deferred income 16 (0.9) (1.4) (0.9) (1.4) Deferred tax liabilities 17 (133.4) (145.4) (73.9) (73.5) (1,014.2) (1,145.9) (954.8) (1,074.0) Sustainability Net assets 344.9 194.9 1,918.5 1,733.6 Equity Share capital 18 299.7 299.7 299.7 299.7 Perpetual capital securities 19 199.9 – 199.9 – Reserves 20 (159.1) (104.8) 1,418.9 1,433.9 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 340.5 194.9 1,918.5 1,733.6 Non-controlling interests 4.4 – – – Total equity 344.9 194.9 1,918.5 1,733.6 Financials The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 143 Income Statement Year ended 31 December 2017 Group 2017 2016 Note $m $m Revenue 21 2,400.7 2,396.7 Operating expenses 22 (2,071.6) (2,003.8) Other income 23 4.4 32.2 Profit from operations 333.5 425.1 Finance income 24 3.7 3.5 Finance expense 24 (29.9) (26.2) Net finance costs (26.2) (22.7) Non-operating (loss)/income 25 (0.7) 9.5 Share of loss of associate, net of tax 7 (2.2) (1.6) Profit before taxation 304.4 410.3 Taxation 26 (54.8) (68.9) Profit for the year 249.6 341.4 Profit attributable to: Owners of the Company 249.0 341.4 Non-controlling interests 0.6 – Profit for the year 249.6 341.4 Earnings per share (in cents) Basic 27 14.2 19.8 Diluted 27 14.1 19.7 EBITDA 28 613.9 690.1 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 144 Statement of Comprehensive Income Year ended 31 December 2017 Group Overview 2017 2016 $m $m Profit for the year 249.6 341.4 Other comprehensive income Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets, net of taxation 5.6 12.5 Strategy Foreign currency translation differences 0.1 – Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of taxation (14.5) 3.9 Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of taxation (8.8) 16.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 240.8 357.8 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the Company 240.2 357.8 Non-controlling interests 0.6 – Performance Total comprehensive income for the year 240.8 357.8 Governance Sustainability Financials The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 145 Statements of Changes in Equity Year ended 31 December 2017 SharePerpetual Goodwill based Fair NonShare capital Treasury written payments value Hedging Translation Retained Total controlling Total capital securities shares off reserve reserve reserve reserve profits reserves interests equity Group $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2017 299.7 – (12.3) (276.3) 14.1 12.5 4.4 1.3 151.5 (104.8) – 194.9 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year – – – – – – – – 249.0 249.0 0.6 249.6 Other comprehensive income/(loss) Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets – – – – – 5.6 – – – 5.6 – 5.6 Foreign currency translation differences – – – – – – – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of taxation – – – – – – (14.5) – – (14.5) – (14.5) Total comprehensive income/ (loss) for the year – – – – – 5.6 (14.5) 0.1 249.0 240.2 0.6 240.8 Transactions with equity holders of the Company, recognised directly in equity Contributions by and distributions to equity holders of the Company Acquisition of subsidiary with non-controlling interests – – – – – – – – – – 3.8 3.8 Issue of Perpetual capital securities – 199.6 – – – – – – – – – 199.6 Accrued Perpetual capital securities distribution – 4.3 – – – – – – (4.3) (4.3) – – Perpetual capital securities distribution paid – (4.0) – – – – – – 0.7 0.7 – (3.3) Issue of shares pursuant to share plans – – 4.1 – (4.1) – – – – – – – Share-based payment expenses – – – – 3.4 – – – – 3.4 – 3.4 Tax impact on transfer of treasury shares – – – – (0.4) – – – – (0.4) – (0.4) Dividends paid (Note 30) – – – – – – – – (293.9) (293.9) – (293.9) Total transactions with equity holders of the Company – 199.9 4.1 – (1.1) – – – (297.5) (294.5) 3.8 (90.8) At 31 December 2017 299.7 199.9 (8.2) (276.3) 13.0 18.1 (10.1) 1.4 103.0 (159.1) 4.4 344.9 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 146 Goodwill Share-based Overview Share Treasury written payments Fair value Hedging Translation Retained Total Total capital shares off reserve reserve reserve reserve profits reserves equity Group $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2016 293.5 – (276.3) 12.3 – 0.5 1.3 156.3 (105.9) 187.6 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year – – – – – – – 341.4 341.4 341.4 Strategy Other comprehensive income Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets – – – – 12.5 – – – 12.5 12.5 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of taxation – – – – – 3.9 – – 3.9 3.9 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 12.5 3.9 – 341.4 357.8 357.8 Performance Transactions with equity holders of the Company, recognised directly in equity Contributions by and distributions to equity holders of the Company Treasury shares purchased by the Company – (12.3) – – – – – – (12.3) (12.3) Issue of shares pursuant Governance to share plans 6.2 – – (6.2) – – – – (6.2) – Share-based payment expenses – – – 7.2 – – – – 7.2 7.2 Tax impact on transfer of treasury shares – – – 0.8 – – – – 0.8 0.8 Dividends paid (Note 30) – – – – – – – (346.2) (346.2) (346.2) Total transactions with equity holders of the Company 6.2 (12.3) – 1.8 – – – (346.2) (356.7) (350.5) At 31 December 2016 299.7 (12.3) (276.3) 14.1 12.5 4.4 1.3 151.5 (104.8) 194.9 Sustainability Financials The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 147 Statements of Changes in Equity (continued) Year ended 31 December 2017 Perpetual Merger/ Share-based Share capital Treasury capital payments Fair value Hedging Retained Total Total capital securities shares reserve reserve reserve reserve profits reserves equity Company $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2017 299.7 – (12.3) 276.5 14.1 12.5 – 1,143.1 1,433.9 1,733.6 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year – – – – – – – 273.9 273.9 273.9 Other comprehensive income Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets – – – – – 5.6 – – 5.6 5.6 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – – 5.6 – 273.9 279.5 279.5 Transactions with equity holders of the Company, recognised directly in equity Contributions by and distributions to equity holders of the Company Issue of Perpetual capital securities – 199.6 – – – – – – – 199.6 Accrued Perpetual capital securities distribution – 4.3 – – – – – (4.3) (4.3) – Perpetual capital securities distribution paid – (4.0) – – – – – 0.7 0.7 (3.3) Issue of shares pursuant to share plans – – 4.1 – (4.1) – – – – – Share-based payment expenses – – – – 3.4 – – – 3.4 3.4 Tax impact on transfer of treasury shares – – – – (0.4) – – – (0.4) (0.4) Dividends paid (Note 30) – – – – – – – (293.9) (293.9) (293.9) Total transactions with equity holders of the Company – 199.9 4.1 – (1.1) – – (297.5) (294.5) (94.6) At 31 December 2017 299.7 199.9 (8.2) 276.5 13.0 18.1 – 1,119.5 1,418.9 1,918.5 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 148 Merger/ Share-based Overview Share Treasury capital payments Fair value Hedging Retained Total Total capital shares reserve reserve reserve reserve profits reserves equity Company $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2016 293.5 – 276.5 12.3 – 0.5 992.2 1,281.5 1,575.0 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year – – – – – – 497.1 497.1 497.1 Strategy Other comprehensive income/(loss) Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets – – – – 12.5 – – 12.5 12.5 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of taxation – – – – – (0.5) – (0.5) (0.5) Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year – – – – 12.5 (0.5) 497.1 509.1 509.1 Transactions with equity holders Performance of the Company, recognised directly in equity Contributions by and distributions to equity holders of the Company Treasury shares purchased by the Company – (12.3) – – – – – (12.3) (12.3) Issue of shares pursuant to share plans 6.2 – – (6.2) – – – (6.2) – Share-based payment expenses – – – 7.2 – – – 7.2 7.2 Tax impact on transfer of treasury shares – – – 0.8 – – – 0.8 0.8 Dividends paid (Note 30) – – – – – – (346.2) (346.2) (346.2) Governance Total transactions with equity holders of the Company 6.2 (12.3) – 1.8 – – (346.2) (356.7) (350.5) At 31 December 2016 299.7 (12.3) 276.5 14.1 12.5 – 1,143.1 1,433.9 1,733.6 Sustainability Financials The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 149 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 $m $m Cash flow from operating activities Profit before taxation 304.4 410.3 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation, net of asset grants 280.4 265.0 Income related grants (4.4) (32.0) Share-based payments 3.4 7.2 Changes in fair value of financial instruments – 1.2 Net finance costs 26.2 22.7 Non-operating loss/(income) 0.7 (9.5) Share of loss of associate, net of tax 2.2 1.6 Others 1.9 1.6 614.8 668.1 Changes in: Inventories (22.3) 4.7 Trade receivables (24.8) (18.9) Other receivables, deposits and prepayments 22.2 (19.3) Trade and other payables 9.3 19.9 Amounts due from related parties (9.9) 5.3 Amounts due to related parties (6.8) (55.4) Cash generated from operations 582.5 604.4 Income tax paid (65.3) (53.7) Net cash from operating activities 517.2 550.7 Cash flow from investing activities Interest received 3.4 3.3 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1.9 0.8 Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (295.9) (366.7) Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets (15.0) (18.0) Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired (Note 32) (22.6) – Repayment of loan from/(loan to) an associate 1.1 (8.7) Net cash used in investing activities (327.1) (389.3) Cash flow from financing activities Net proceeds from issue of Perpetual capital securities 199.6 – Treasury shares purchased by the Company – (12.3) Grants received 8.2 34.0 Proceeds from issue of medium term notes – 300.0 Repayment of bank loans (10.0) – Dividend paid to owners of the Company (293.9) (346.2) Perpetual capital securities distribution paid (4.0) – Interest paid (30.0) (25.1) Net cash used in financing activities (130.1) (49.6) Net change in cash and cash equivalents 60.0 111.8 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 285.2 173.4 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (Note 13) 345.2 285.2 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 150 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 These notes form an integral part of the financial statements. The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors of StarHub Ltd on Overview 14 February 2018. 1 Domicile and Activities StarHub Ltd (“StarHub” or the “Company”) is incorporated in the Republic of Singapore and has its registered office at 67 Ubi Avenue 1, #05-01 StarHub Green, Singapore 408942. The principal activities of the Company are those relating to the operation and provision of telecommunications services and other businesses relating to the info-communications industry. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 6 Strategy to the financial statements. The consolidated financial statements relate to the Company and its subsidiaries (together the “Group” and individually as “Group entities”), and the Group’s interest in its equity-accounted investee. 2 Basis of Preparation 2.1 Statement of compliance The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Singapore Financial Reporting Standards (“FRS”). Performance 2.2 Basis of measurement The financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis except for certain financial assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting policies below. 2.3 Functional and presentation currency The financial statements are presented in Singapore dollars, which is the Company’s functional currency. All financial information presented in Singapore dollars has been rounded to the nearest million, unless otherwise stated. Governance 2.4 Significant accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRSs requires management to make judgements in the application of accounting policies. It also requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported income and expenses during the financial year. These estimates are based on management’s best knowledge and judgement of current events and environment. Actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected. Sustainability Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 151 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 2 Basis of Preparation (continued) 2.4 Significant accounting estimates and judgements (continued) In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 3, management is of the opinion that there is no instance of application of judgement which is expected to have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements, apart from those involving estimations described below. The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are: • Measurement of recoverable amounts relating to goodwill impairment The carrying value of the Group’s goodwill is assessed for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that the goodwill might be impaired. The impairment assessment requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the cash generating unit (“CGU”) to which the goodwill is allocated. Assessing the value-in-use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the CGU and apply an appropriate discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. Actual cash flows will differ from these estimates as a result of differences between assumptions used and actual operations (see Note 5). • Measurement of impairment losses on investments in subsidiaries and recoverable amounts of loans to subsidiaries The carrying values of investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment whenever there is any indication that the investment is impaired. This determination requires significant judgement. The Group’s fixed, mobile, cable and broadband operations are integrated and generate interdependent cash flows, the assessment is performed on the same CGU determined for purposes of assessing impairment of goodwill (see Note 5). Accel Systems & Technologies Pte. Ltd. ( ASTPL ), a newly acquired subsidiary is a separate CGU on its own. • Measurement of recoverable amounts of trade receivables and amounts owing from related parties The Group evaluates whether there is any objective evidence that trade receivables and amounts owing from related parties are impaired, and determine the amount of impairment loss as a result of the inability of the debtors to make the required payments. The Group bases the estimates on the ageing of the receivables balance, credit worthiness of the debtors and historical write-off experience. The Group has a policy to provide allowance for receivable balances on specific individual balances and on its receivables portfolio collectively. If financial conditions of the debtors were to deteriorate, actual write-offs would be higher than that estimated. • Adequacy of accruals Assessing the adequacy of accruals made at the reporting date requires the Group to make judgements in determining the level of accruals needed for costs that span the year end where settlement has not been fully and finally made. Due to the complexities in the telecommunication industry, agreement on amounts payable to suppliers may take a significant amount of time. The Group determines the sufficiency of these accruals based on historical trend of observable claims and actual costs. Actual payments may differ from these estimates when the final settlements are reached between the parties. • Acquisition of subsidiary – determination of fair value of consideration transferred (including contingent consideration) and fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed (see Note 32). 152 2 Basis of Preparation (continued) 2.5 Changes in accounting policies Overview Revised standards The Group has applied the following amendments for the first time for the annual period beginning 1 January 2017: • Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to FRS 7); • Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses (Amendments to FRS 12); and • Clarification of the scope of FRS 112 (Improvements to FRSs 2016). Other than the amendments to FRS 7, the adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the current or prior period and Strategy is not likely to affect future periods. Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to FRS 7) From 1 January 2017, as a result of amendments to FRS 7, the Group has provided additional disclosure in relation to the changes in liabilities arising from financing activities for the year ended 31 December 2017. Comparative information has not been presented (see Note 15). 2.6 Full convergence with Singapore Financial Reporting Standards (International) (SFRS(I)) and adoption of new standards Performance Applicable to 2018 financial statements (a) Convergence with SFRS(I) Summary of the requirements In December 2017, the Accounting Standards Council ( ASC ) issued the Singapore Financial Reporting Standards (International) (SFRS(I)). Singapore-incorporated companies that have issued, or are in the process of issuing equity or debt instruments for trading in a public market in Singapore, will apply SFRS(I) with effect from annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The Group’s financial statements for the financial year ending 31 December 2018 will be prepared in accordance with SFRS(I). As a result, this will be the last set of financial statements prepared under the current FRS. Governance Potential impact on the financial statements When the Group adopts SFRS(I) in 2018, the Group will apply SFRS(I) 1 with 1 January 2017 as the date of transition for the Group and the Company. SFRS(I) 1 generally requires that the Group applies SFRS(I) on a retrospective basis, as if such accounting policy had always been applied. If there are changes to accounting policies arising from new or amended standards effective in 2018, restatement of comparatives may be required because SFRS(I) 1 requires both the opening balance sheet and comparative information to be prepared using the most current accounting policies. SFRS(I) 1 provides mandatory exceptions and optional exemptions from retrospective application, but these are often different from those specific transition provisions in individual FRSs applied to the FRS financial statements. Except as described below, the Group does not expect the application of the mandatory Sustainability exceptions and the optional exemptions in SFRS(I) 1 to have any significant impact on the financial statements: (i) Investments in subsidiaries at deemed cost The Group, through its “Hubbing” strategy, operates and delivers its Mobile, Pay TV, Broadband and Enterprise Fixed services on an operationally integrated network, customer service, sales, marketing and administration support. However, the cost of investment in the subsidiaries held by the Company is not reflective of the real business value of the respective subsidiaries. As such, the optional exemption under SFRS(I) 1 which allows the use of fair value as the deemed cost as at the date of transition will be elected to reflect the appropriate fair value of the Company’s investment in subsidiaries through the fair value of its subsidiaries. Financials The Company expects the carrying value of investments in subsidiaries to increase with a corresponding increase in retained earnings as at 1 January 2017. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 153 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 2 Basis of Preparation (continued) 2.6 Full convergence with Singapore Financial Reporting Standards (International) (SFRS(I)) and adoption of new standards (continued) Applicable to 2018 financial statements (continued) (a) Convergence with SFRS(I) (continued) Potential impact on the financial statements (continued) (ii) Merger/capital reserve The Company’s merger/capital reserve arose from the acquisition of StarHub Cable Vision Ltd. (“SCV”) in 2002 (see Note 20). The Company will transfer the merger/capital reserve to retained earnings upon adoption of SFRS(I). In adopting the new framework, the Group will be required to apply the specific transition requirements in SFRS(I) 1 First-time Adoption of Singapore Financial Reporting Standards (International). In addition to the adoption of the new framework, the following new SFRS(I)s, amendments to and interpretations of SFRS(I) are effective from the same date. • SFRS(I) 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and Amendments to SFRS(I) 15 Clarifications to SFRS(I) 15; • SFRS(I) 9 Financial Instruments; • Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions (Amendments to SFRS(I) 2); • Transfers of Investment Property (Amendments to SFRS(I) 1-40); • Deletion of short-term exemptions for first-time adopters (Amendments to SFRS(I) 1); • Measuring an Associate or Joint Venture at Fair Value (Amendments to SFRS(I) 1-28); • Applying SFRS(I) 9 Financial Instruments with SFRS(I) 4 Insurance Contracts (Amendments to SFRS(I) 4); and • SFRS(I) INT 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration. The Group does not expect the application of the above standards and interpretations to have a significant impact on the financial statements, except for SFRS(I) 15. (b) SFRS(I) 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Summary of the requirements SFRS(I) 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognised. It also introduces new cost guidance which requires certain costs of obtaining and fulfilling contracts to be recognised as separate assets when specified criteria are met. SFRS(I) 15 provides a five-step model for revenue recognition arising from contracts with customers which requires revenue be recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration which an entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. This new standard will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under FRS. A full retrospective application is required for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 in alignment with SFRS(I) 1 First time Adoption of SFRS(I). 154 2 Basis of Preparation (continued) 2.6 Full convergence with Singapore Financial Reporting Standards (International) (SFRS(I)) and adoption of new standards Overview (continued) Applicable to 2018 financial statements (continued) (b) SFRS(I) 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (continued) Summary of the requirements (continued) The key elements of SFRS(I) 15 that have material impact on the Group’s revenue and cost recognition are as follows: Bundled products and services Strategy Under SFRS(I) 15, revenue will be allocated to the individual elements within bundled products and services based on their relative standalone selling prices at contract inception. Variable consideration Certain contracts with customers include variable considerations like right of return, trade discounts or volume rebates. Currently, the Group recognises revenue from the sale of goods measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns and allowance, trade discounts and volume rebates. If revenue cannot be reliably measured, the Group defers revenue recognition until the uncertainty is resolved. Under SFRS(I) 15, such provisions will be estimated at contract inception and every reporting period, and adjusted against revenue. Performance Material Right Under SFRS(I) 15, options to acquire additional goods or services represent separate performance obligations if they provide the customer a material right that the customer would not otherwise receive. In these cases, revenue from the contract is deferred and recognised when future goods and services are transferred or when the option expires. The transaction price is allocated to performance obligations (including the option) based on relative standalone selling prices. Contract modification Changes in scope or price (or both) of a contract that is approved by parties to the contract are contract modifications. SFRS(I) 15 prescribes the treatments of contract modifications depending on the attributes of the modification and the remaining goods Governance and/or services. Contract cost SFRS(I) 15 requires the incremental costs of obtaining a contract to be recognised as an asset if the entity expects to recover those costs. Those incremental costs are limited to the costs that the entity would not have incurred if the contract had not been successfully obtained. A practical expedient is available, allowing the incremental costs of obtaining a contract to be expensed if the associated amortisation period would be 12 months or less. Transition The following practical expedients are available when applying SFRS(I) 15 retrospectively. Sustainability For completed contracts, an entity need not restate contracts that begin and end within the same annual reporting period or are completed contracts at the beginning of the earliest period presented, and for those with variable consideration, the use of transaction price of the variable consideration at the date the contract was completed is allowed. For contracts that were modified before the beginning of the earliest period presented, an entity need not retrospectively restate the contract for those contract modifications. Instead, an entity shall reflect the aggregate effect of all of the modifications that occur before the beginning of the earliest period presented. For all reporting periods presented before the date of initial application, an entity need not disclose the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an explanation of when the entity expects to recognise that amount as revenue. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 155 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 2 Basis of Preparation (continued) 2.6 Full convergence with Singapore Financial Reporting Standards (International) (SFRS(I)) and adoption of new standards (continued) Applicable to 2018 financial statements (continued) (b) SFRS(I) 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (continued) Potential impact on the financial statements The Group plans to adopt SFRS(I) 15 in its financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018, using the retrospective approach. As a result, the Group will apply all of the requirements of SFRS(I) 15 retrospectively, and the comparative period presented in the 2018 financial statements will be restated. Summary of the potential impact from the adoption of SFRS(I) 15 are as follows: The Group expects an increase in the revenue allocated to sales of equipment and a corresponding reduction in the revenue allocated to services under SFRS(I) 15. Due to the requirement to estimate and account for variable consideration and material rights, deferral of service revenue is expected. The Group expects operating expenses to be lower at initial adoption of standard due to deferment of the recognition of the cost of acquiring customers over the contract duration. The Group plans to adopt the practical expedient to expense the incremental costs of obtaining a contract that has a contract period of less than 12 months. The Group expects an increase in total assets at initial adoption due to the recognition of contract assets arising mainly from allocation of revenue to sale of equipment and deferment of cost of acquiring customers. The Group plans to apply all the practical expedients available. (c) SFRS(I) 9 Financial Instruments Summary of the requirements SFRS(I) 9 replaces most of the existing guidance in FRS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. It contains new requirements for classification and measurement of financial instruments, a new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets, and new general hedge accounting requirements. It also carries forward the guidance on recognition and derecognition of financial instruments from FRS 39. SFRS(I) 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early adoption permitted. Retrospective application is generally required, except for hedge accounting. For hedge accounting, the requirements are generally applied prospectively, with some limited exceptions. Restatement of comparative information is not mandatory. If comparative information is not restated, the cumulative effect is recorded in opening equity as at 1 January 2018. Potential impact on the financial statements SFRS(I) 9 will impact the classification and measurement of the Group’s financial instruments and will require certain additional disclosures. Changes in accounting policies resulting from the adoption of SFRS(I) 9 will generally be applied by the Group retrospectively, except as described below: • The Group plans to adopt the exemption in SFRS(I) 1 allowing it not to restate comparative information in the 2018 SFRS(I) financial statements. Differences in the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities resulting from the adoption of SFRS(I) 9 are recognised in retained earnings and reserves as at 1 January 2018. 156 2 Basis of Preparation (continued) 2.6 Full convergence with Singapore Financial Reporting Standards (International) (SFRS(I)) and adoption of new standards Overview (continued) Applicable to 2018 financial statements (continued) (c) SFRS(I) 9 Financial Instruments (continued) Potential impact on the financial statements (continued) • The following assessments have to be made on the basis of facts and circumstances that existed at 1 January 2018: – The determination of the business model within which a financial asset is held. – The determination of whether the contractual terms of a financial asset give rise to cash flows that are solely Strategy payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. • New hedge accounting requirements are applied prospectively. All hedging relationships designated under FRS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement at 31 December 2017 that meet the criteria for hedge accounting under SFRS(I) 9 at 1 January 2018 will be regarded as continuing hedging relationships. Classification and measurement For financial assets currently held at fair value, the Group expects to continue measuring most of these assets at fair value under SFRS(I) 9. The Group plans to elect to present in other comprehensive income the changes in fair value of its available-for-sale Performance (“AFS”) equity securities that are held by the Group and the Company because these investments are not held for trading. As at 1 January 2018, the Group and the Company does not expect any material changes in the carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities. Impairment SFRS(I) 9 replaces the current ‘incurred loss’ model with a forward-looking expected credit loss (“ECL”) model. The new impairment model will apply to financial assets measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income (“FVOCI”), except for investments in equity instruments, and certain loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts. Governance The Group plans to apply the simplified approach and record lifetime ECL on all trade receivables and any contract assets arising from the application of SFRS(I) 15. The Group and Company do not expect any material impact. Applicable to financial statements for the year 2019 and thereafter The following new SFRS(I), amendments to and interpretations of SFRS(I) are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2019: • SFRS(I) 16 Leases • SFRS(I) INT 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments • Sustainability Income tax consequences of payments on financial instruments classified as equity (Amendments to IAS 12)# Except for those marked as #, the ASC has issued the above new SFRS(I), amendments to and interpretations of IFRS as SFRS(I). The Group is still in the process of assessing the impact of the new SFRS(I)s, amendments to and interpretations of SFRS(I)s on the financial statements. The Group’s preliminary assessment of SFRS(I) 16, which is relevant and have a more significant impact to the Group, is as described below. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 157 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 2 Basis of Preparation (continued) 2.6 Full convergence with Singapore Financial Reporting Standards (International) (SFRS(I)) and adoption of new standards (continued) Applicable to 2019 financial statements and thereafter (continued) (d) SFRS(I) 16 Leases Summary of the requirements SFRS(I) 16 eliminates the lessee’s classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and introduces a single lessee accounting model. Applying the new model, a lessee is required to recognise right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value. SFRS(I) 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in FRS 17 Leases. Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating leases or finance leases, and to account for these two types of leases using the FRS 17 operating lease and finance lease accounting models respectively. However, SFRS(I) 16 requires more extensive disclosures to be provided by a lessor. When effective, SFRS(I) 16 replaces existing lease accounting guidance, including FRS 17 Leases, INT FRS 104 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease; INT FRS 15 Operating Leases-Incentives; and INT FRS 27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease. SFRS(I) 16 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with early adoption permitted if SFRS(I) 15 is also applied. Potential impact on the financial statements The Group plans to adopt the standard when it becomes effective in 2019 and expects to apply the standard using the modified retrospective approach. The Group also expects the ROU assets recognised at date of initial application to be equal to their lease liabilities. The Group is likely to elect the practical expedient not to reassess whether a contract contains a lease at the date of initial application, 1 January 2019. Accordingly, existing lease contracts that are still effective on 1 January 2019 will be accounted for as lease contracts under SFRS(I) 16. The Group is currently assessing the quantitative impact on the financial statements. The Group will perform a detailed analysis of the standard, including the transition options and practical expedients in 2018. 158 3 Significant Accounting Policies Overview The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently by the Group entities to all periods presented in these financial statements, except as explained in Note 2.5, which addresses changes in accounting policies. 3.1 Basis of consolidation (i) Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method in accordance with FRS 103 Business Combinations as at the date of acquisition, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group. The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are Strategy generally recognised in the income statement. Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date and included in the consideration transferred. If the contingent consideration that meets the definition of a financial instrument is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, other contingent consideration is remeasured at fair value at each reporting date and subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in income statement. When share-based payment awards (replacement awards) are exchanged for awards held by the acquirees’ employees (acquirees’ awards) and relate to past services, then all or a portion of the amount of the acquirer’s replacement awards is Performance included in measuring the consideration transferred in the business combination. This determination is based on the marketbased value of the replacement awards compared with the market-based value of the acquiree’s awards and the extent to which the replacement awards relate to past and/or future service. Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets in the event of liquidation are measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets, at the date of acquisition. The measurement basis taken is elected on a transaction-by-transaction basis. All other non-controlling interests are measured at acquisition date fair value, unless another measurement basis is required by FRSs. Governance Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling interests even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance. Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred. Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no adjustments are made to goodwill and no gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. Adjustments to non-controlling interests arising from transactions that do not involve the loss of control are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary. (ii) Subsidiaries Sustainability Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. The accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed when necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group. Investments in subsidiaries are stated in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost less impairment losses. Subsidiaries Financials are consolidated with the Company in the Group’s financial statements. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 159 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3.1 Basis of consolidation (continued) (ii) Subsidiaries (continued) Acquisitions of subsidiaries from related corporations controlled by the ultimate holding company, Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited (“Temasek”), are accounted for as reconstructions of businesses under common control using the historical cost method similar to the “pooling of interest” method. Under the historical cost method, the acquired assets and liabilities were recorded at their existing carrying amounts. The consolidated financial statements included the results of operations, and the assets and liabilities, of the pooled enterprises as part of the Group for the whole of the current and preceding periods. To the extent that the par value of the shares issued in consideration for these transactions exceeded the par value of the shares held by the related corporations, the difference was recognised as a merger reserve in the Group’s financial statements. (iii) Loss of control When control over a subsidiary is lost as a result of a transaction, event or other circumstances, the Group derecognises all assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity related to the subsidiary. Any surplus or deficit arising on the loss of control is recognised in the income statement. Any remaining interest in the previous subsidiary is recognised at its fair value at the date that control is lost. Subsequently, it is accounted for as an equity-accounted investee or as an available-for-sale financial asset depending on the level of influence retained. (iv) Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds 20% or more of the voting power of another entity. Investment in associates is accounted for using the equity method. They are recognised initially at cost, which includes transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the income statement and other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity-accounted investee, the carrying amount of the investment, together with any long-term interests that form part thereof is reduced to zero, and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation to fund the investee’s operations or has made payments on behalf of the investee. (v) Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. 160 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3.2 Foreign currencies Overview (i) Foreign currencies transactions Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date. The foreign currency gain or loss on monetary items is the difference between amortised cost in the functional currency at the beginning of the year, adjusted for effective interest and payments during the year, and the amortised cost in foreign currency translated at the exchange rate at the end of the year. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items in a foreign currency Strategy that are measured in terms of historical cost are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Foreign currency differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement, except for the following differences which are recognised in other comprehensive income arising on the translation of: • available-for-sale equity instruments (except on impairment in which case foreign currency differences that have been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement); or • qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent the hedge is effective. (ii) Foreign operations Performance The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to Singapore dollars at exchange rates at the reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated to Singapore dollars at average rates during the year. Foreign currency translation differences are recognised in other comprehensive income, and presented in the foreign currency translation reserve in equity. However, if the foreign operation is a non-wholly-owned subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate share of the translation difference is allocated to the non-controlling interests. When a foreign subsidiary is disposed of such that control is lost, the cumulative amount in the foreign currency translation reserve related to that foreign subsidiary is transferred to the income statement as an adjustment to profit or loss arising on disposal. When the Group disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation while retaining control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests. 3.3 Property, plant and equipment Governance (i) Recognition and measurement Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. The cost of self-constructed assets include the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for their intended use, and when the Group has an obligation to remove the asset or restore the site, an estimate of the costs of dismantling and Sustainability removing the assets and restoring the site on which they are located and capitalised borrowing costs. Gains or losses arising from the retirement or disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined as the difference between the estimated net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement on the date of retirement or disposal. (ii) Subsequent costs Subsequent expenditure relating to existing property, plant and equipment is added to the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits, in excess of the originally assessed standard of performance of the existing asset, will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced component is derecognised. The costs of Financials the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement as incurred. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 161 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3.3 Property, plant and equipment (continued) (iii) Depreciation Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives (or lease term, if shorter) of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment as follows: Leasehold buildings 30 years to 42 years Leasehold improvements Shorter of lease term or 5 years Network equipment and infrastructure 2 years to 15 years Office equipment, computers and furniture and fittings 2 years to 5 years Motor vehicles 5 years Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted as appropriate, at the end of each reporting date. No depreciation is provided on freehold property or in respect of property, plant and equipment under construction. 3.4 Intangible assets (i) Goodwill Goodwill that arises upon the acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is presented together with investments in associates. Acquisitions prior to 1 January 2001 Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries that occurred prior to 1 January 2001 was written off against reserves in the year of acquisition and has not been retrospectively capitalised and amortised. Acquisitions occurring between 1 January 2001 and 31 December 2009 Goodwill arising on acquisitions represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree. Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010 For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: • the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus • the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus • if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the pre-existing equity interest in the acquiree, over the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Any goodwill that arises is tested annually for impairment. When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the income statement. Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as described in Note 3.7(ii). Goodwill that has previously been taken to the reserves is not taken to the income statement when the business is disposed of or the goodwill is impaired. Similarly, negative goodwill that has previously been taken to reserves is not taken to the income statement when the business is disposed. In respect of associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment, and an impairment loss on such an investment is not allocated to any asset, including goodwill, that forms part of the carrying amount of the associates. 162 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3.4 Intangible assets (continued) Overview (ii) Telecommunications and spectrum licences Telecommunications and spectrum licences costs incurred are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. These costs are amortised to the income statement using the straight-line method over the period of the licence, being 10 years to 21 years, commencing from the effective date of the licence. (iii) Computer software Computer software comprises software purchased from third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software. Computer Strategy software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. These costs are amortised to the income statement using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of 2 years to 5 years. Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is added to the carrying value only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred. Computer software integral to a related item of equipment is accounted for as property, plant and equipment. (iv) Customer contracts and relationships Performance Customer contracts and relationships are acquired in business combinations and carried at fair value at the date of acquisition, and amortised to the income statement using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of 3 to 14.5 years. Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted if appropriate. 3.5 Inventories Inventories comprise goods held for resale and reserved telephone numbers. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of goods held for resale is determined on the weighted average basis. Reserved telephone numbers are stated at cost and accounted for using the specific identification basis. Governance Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Allowance for obsolescence is made for all deteriorated, damaged, obsolete and slow-moving inventories. 3.6 Financial instruments (i) Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity securities, trade and other receivables (including amounts due from related parties), cash and bank balances, trade and other payables (including amounts due to related parties), and borrowings. Sustainability Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits with financial institutions with maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. For the purpose of presentation in the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand and which form an integral part of the Group’s cash management. A financial instrument is recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets are derecognised when the Group's contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial assets expire or if the Group transfers the financial asset to another party without retaining control or transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset. On disposal of a financial asset, the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying amount is recognised in the income statement. Any amount in the fair value reserve relating to that asset is reclassified to the income statement. Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are accounted for at trade date, i.e. the date that the Group commits itself to purchase or sell the asset. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 163 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3.6 Financial instruments (continued) (i) Non-derivative financial instruments (continued) Financial liabilities are derecognised if the Group's obligations specified in the contract expire or are discharged or cancelled. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statement of financial position when, and only when, the Group has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through profit or loss, any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described below: Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Such assets are initially measured at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. Loans and receivables comprise cash and cash equivalents, and trade and other receivables (including amounts due from related parties, excluding prepayments). Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified in any of the above categories of financial assets. Available-for-sale financial assets are initially measured at fair value (normally the transaction price) plus any directly attributable transaction costs. When the fair value at initial recognition differs from the transaction price, for fair value evidenced by a quoted price in an active market, the difference will be recognised as a gain or loss in the income statement. For all other cases, the difference would be recognised to other comprehensive income. Subsequent to initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value and changes therein are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the fair value reserve in equity. When an investment is derecognised, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is reclassified to the income statement. Available-for-sale financial assets comprise equity securities. Trade and other payables Trade and other payables (including amounts due to related parties, excluding deferred income, unearned revenue, marked-to-market financial instruments, net GST payable and employee benefits) are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Borrowings Borrowings are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transactions costs) and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings. 164 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3.6 Financial instruments (continued) Overview (ii) Share capital Ordinary Shares Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of new equity shares are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects. Repurchase, disposal and reissue of share capital (treasury shares) Where share capital recognised as equity is repurchased and held as treasury shares, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, net of any tax effects, is presented as a deduction from equity. Where such shares are Strategy subsequently reissued, sold or cancelled, the consideration received is recognised as a change in equity. No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. Perpetual Capital Securities The perpetual securities do not have a maturity date and the Company is able to elect to defer making a distribution subject to the terms and conditions of the securities issue. Accordingly, the Company is not considered to have a contractual obligation to make principal repayments or distributions in respect of its perpetual capital securities issue. The perpetual securities are presented within equity. Distributions are treated as dividends which will be directly debited from equity. Costs directly attributable to the issue of the perpetual capital securities are deducted against the proceeds from the issue. Performance (iii) Derivative financial instruments, including hedge accounting The Group uses interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks and foreign exchange risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are remeasured at fair value prevailing at reporting date. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged as described below. The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the Governance reporting date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the reporting date, being the present value of the quoted forward price. Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly Sustainability in other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity. When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, or the forecast transaction for a non-financial asset or non-financial liability becomes a firm commitment for which fair value hedge accounting is applied, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from other comprehensive income and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability. If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or financial liability, the associated gains and losses that were recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified into the income statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 165 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3.6 Financial instruments (continued) (iii) Derivative financial instruments, including hedge accounting (continued) Cash flow hedges (continued) For other cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in other comprehensive income is removed and recognised in the income statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in other comprehensive income and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised immediately in the income statement. Other non-trading derivatives When a derivative financial instrument is not designated in a hedge relationship that qualifies for hedge accounting, all changes in its fair value are recognised immediately in the income statement. 3.7 Impairment (i) Non-derivative financial assets A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss, including an interest in an associate, is assessed at the end of each reporting period to determine whether there is objective evidence that it is impaired. A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably. Loans and receivables Objective evidence that financial assets (including equity securities) are impaired can include default or delinquency by a debtor, restructuring of an amount due to the Group on terms that the Group would not consider otherwise, indications that a debtor or issuer will enter bankruptcy, adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers or issuers, economic conditions that correlate with defaults or the disappearance of an active market for a security. In addition, for an investment in an equity security, a significant or prolonged decline in its fair value below its cost is objective evidence of impairment. The Group considers evidence of impairment for loans and receivables at both specific asset and collective level. All individually significant loans and receivables are assessed for specific impairment. All individually significant receivables found not to be specifically impaired are then collectively assessed for any impairment that has been incurred but not yet identified. Loans and receivables that are not individually significant are collectively assessed for impairment by grouping together loans and receivables with similar risk characteristics. In assessing collective impairment, the Group uses historical write-off patterns and ageing of receivables. Bad debts are written off when incurred. 166 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3.7 Impairment (continued) Overview (i) Non-derivative financial assets (continued) Available-for-sale financial assets Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets are recognised by reclassifying the losses accumulated in the fair value reserve in equity to the income statement. An impairment loss in respect of on the cumulative loss that is reclassified from equity to the income statement is the difference between the acquisition cost, and the current fair value, less any impairment loss recognised previously in the income statement. Any subsequent recovery in the fair value of an impaired available-for-sale equity security is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the fair value reserve in equity. Strategy Associates An impairment loss in respect of an associate is measured by comparing the recoverable amount of the investment with its carrying amount in accordance with Note 3.7(ii). An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a favourable change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. (ii) Non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use, the Performance recoverable amount is estimated each year at the same time. An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its related cash generating unit (“CGU”) exceeds its estimated recoverable amounts. The recoverable amount of an asset or its CGU is the greater of its value-in-use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or CGU. For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independent of those from other assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs. For the purpose of goodwill impairment testing, CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are aggregated so that the level at which impairment testing is performed reflects the lowest level within the Group at Governance which goodwill is monitored for internal reporting purposes. Impairment losses recognised in the income statement in respect of CGU are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU (group of units) and then, to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the CGU (group of units) on a pro rata basis. An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss Sustainability is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. All reversals of impairment are recognised in the income statement. Goodwill that forms part of the carrying amount of an investment in an associate is not recognised separately, and therefore is not tested for impairment separately. Instead, the entire amount of the investment in an associate is tested for impairment as a single asset when there is objective evidence that the investment in an associate may be impaired. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 167 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3.8 Employee benefits (i) Share-based payment Performance Share Plans and Restricted Stock Plans The Performance Share Plans and the Restricted Stock Plans are accounted as equity-settled share-based payments. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The share-based expense is amortised and recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period. At each reporting date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of shares that the participating employees and directors are expected to receive based on non-market vesting conditions. The difference is charged or credited to the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. (ii) Defined contribution plans Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement when incurred. (iii) Other short-term benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided. (iv) Other long-term benefits Long-term employee benefit obligations are measured on performance conditions over a period of three years. The Group adopts an incentive compensation plan, which is tied to the creation of Economic Value Added (“EVA”) for its management personnel executives. An EVA bank is used to hold incentive compensation credited in any year. Typically one-third of the accumulated EVA-based bonus, comprising the EVA declared in the financial year and the balance of such bonus brought forward from preceding years is paid out in cash each year, with the balance being carried forward to the following year. The balances of the EVA bank in future will be adjusted by the yearly EVA performance of the Group and the payouts made from the EVA bank. 3.9 Customer loyalty programmes For customer loyalty programmes, the fair value of the consideration received or receivable from a sales transaction which attracts customer loyalty credits or points is allocated between the customer loyalty points and the other component of the sale. The amount allocated to the customer loyalty points is estimated by reference to the fair value of the customer loyalty points for which they could be redeemed. The fair value of the customer loyalty points is estimated by taking into account the expected redemption rate and the timing of such expected redemptions. Such amount is deferred and recorded as unearned revenue until the customer loyalty points are redeemed. At this juncture, the cost of fulfilling the customer loyalty credits is also recognised. 3.10 Provisions Provisions are recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. 168 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3.11 Revenue recognition Overview Revenue comprises fees earned from telecommunications services, managed services, system integration and solution projects, broadband access, Pay TV, related advertising space and sales of equipment. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is recognised in the income statement as follows: • Revenue from telecommunications, broadband and cable television services and advertising space is recognised at the time such services are rendered. Revenue billed in advance of the rendering of services is deferred and presented in the statement of financial position as unearned revenue. • Revenue from managed services, system integration and solution projects is recognised based on percentage of completion Strategy using cost to cost method. • Revenue from sales of pre-paid phone cards for which services have not been rendered is deferred and presented in the statement of financial position as unearned revenue. Upon the expiry of pre-paid phone cards, any unutilised value of the cards is taken to the income statement. • Revenue from sales of equipment is recognised upon delivery and acceptance of the equipment sold. Performance • Revenue from bundled products and services is recognised based on values allocated to the individual elements of the bundled products and services in accordance to the earning process of each element. 3.12 Finance income and costs Finance income comprises interest income on bank deposits. Interest income is recognised on a time-apportioned basis taking into account the principal outstanding at the applicable rate. Finance costs comprise interest expense and similar charges. They are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method, except to the extent that they are capitalised as being directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or Governance production of an asset which necessarily takes a substantial period of time to prepare for its intended use or sale. 3.13 Government grants Government grants received, which are designated for the purchase of property, plant and equipment, are accreted to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, so as to match the related depreciation expense. Government grants received, which are designated for operating expenditure, are recognised on a systematic basis in the income statement over the periods necessary to match the related cost which they are intended to compensate. Sustainability 3.14 Marketing and promotions Advertising costs are expensed when incurred. The direct costs of acquiring customers, including commission and promotion expenses, are recognised in the income statement when incurred. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 169 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 3 Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 3.15 Operating leases Where the Group has the use of assets under operating leases, payments made under the leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the terms of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease payments made. Contingent rentals are charged to the income statement in the accounting period in which they are incurred. 3.16 Income taxes Income taxes comprise current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes are recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case such tax is recognised in equity, or in other comprehensive income. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences at the balance sheet date arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax is provided based on the expected realisation or settlement of the temporary differences, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised for: • temporary differences on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss; • temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and associate to the extent that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and • taxable temporary differences on the initial recognition of goodwill. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. 3.17 Dividends Interim dividends to the Company’s shareholders are recognised in the financial year in which they are declared payable. Final dividends to the Company’s shareholders are recognised in the financial year in which the dividends are approved by the shareholders. 3.18 Segment reporting Segment information is presented based on the information reviewed by chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) for performance assessment and resource allocation. The Group operates primarily in Singapore and delivers its Mobile, Pay TV, Broadband, Enterprise Fixed revenue and equipment sales on an operationally integrated network, and has a centralised customer service, sales, marketing and administration support. Based on the financial information regularly reviewed by the CODM, the Group has one operating and reporting segment. 170 4 Property, Plant and Equipment Overview Office equipment, Network computers Leasehold Leasehold Freehold equipment & and furniture Motor Construction buildings improvements property Infrastructure and fittings vehicles in progress Total Group $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost At 1 January 2016 9.2 48.2 1.7 3,346.7 171.1 6.5 60.5 3,643.9 Additions – – – 6.8 16.4 0.7 231.6 255.5 Transfers – 1.3 – 234.4 – – (235.7) – Strategy Disposals/Write-offs – (3.2) – (117.0) (10.9) (0.3) – (131.4) At 31 December 2016 9.2 46.3 1.7 3,470.9 176.6 6.9 56.4 3,768.0 At 1 January 2017 9.2 46.3 1.7 3,470.9 176.6 6.9 56.4 3,768.0 Acquisition through business combination – 0.1 – – 1.7 – – 1.8 Additions – – – 1.7 15.9 1.3 165.3 184.2 Performance Transfers 1.1 7.7 – 173.0 – – (181.8) – Disposals/Write-offs – (7.2) – (302.8) (4.0) (0.3) – (314.3) At 31 December 2017 10.3 46.9 1.7 3,342.8 190.2 7.9 39.9 3,639.7 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 1 January 2016 2.0 44.7 – 2,560.9 140.7 5.6 – 2,753.9 Charge for the year 0.3 1.5 – 209.9 13.9 0.4 – 226.0 Disposals/Write-offs – (2.3) – (116.5) (10.8) (0.3) – (129.9) At 31 December 2016 2.3 43.9 – 2,654.3 143.8 5.7 – 2,850.0 At 1 January 2017 2.3 43.9 – 2,654.3 143.8 5.7 – 2,850.0 Governance Charge for the year 0.3 2.4 – 214.2 13.6 0.5 – 231.0 Disposals/Write-offs – (7.0) – (300.1) (4.0) (0.3) – (311.4) At 31 December 2017 2.6 39.3 – 2,568.4 153.4 5.9 – 2,769.6 Carrying amount At 31 December 2016 6.9 2.4 1.7 816.6 32.8 1.2 56.4 918.0 At 31 December 2017 7.7 7.6 1.7 774.4 36.8 2.0 39.9 870.1 Sustainability Staff costs capitalised in construction in progress for the Group during the year amounted to $3.3 million (2016: $3.4 million). Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 171 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 4 Property, Plant and Equipment (continued) Office equipment, Network computers Leasehold Leasehold equipment & and furniture Motor Construction buildings improvements infrastructure and fittings vehicles in progress Total Company $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost At 1 January 2016 9.2 39.8 1,325.7 116.3 2.0 41.4 1,534.4 Additions – – – 12.5 – 100.1 112.6 Transfers – 1.3 117.9 – – (119.2) – Disposals/Write-offs – (3.2) (24.2) (2.0) – – (29.4) At 31 December 2016 9.2 37.9 1,419.4 126.8 2.0 22.3 1,617.6 At 1 January 2017 9.2 37.9 1,419.4 126.8 2.0 22.3 1,617.6 Additions – – – 10.3 0.2 79.4 89.9 Transfers 1.0 7.0 79.2 – – (87.2) – Disposals/Write-offs – (3.8) (87.0) (2.5) – – (93.3) At 31 December 2017 10.2 41.1 1,411.6 134.6 2.2 14.5 1,614.2 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2016 2.0 37.0 982.4 99.9 1.7 – 1,123.0 Charge for the year 0.3 1.1 81.8 8.4 0.1 – 91.7 Disposals/Write-offs – (2.3) (23.8) (2.0) – – (28.1) At 31 December 2016 2.3 35.8 1,040.4 106.3 1.8 – 1,186.6 At 1 January 2017 2.3 35.8 1,040.4 106.3 1.8 – 1,186.6 Charge for the year 0.3 2.1 83.1 8.9 0.1 – 94.5 Disposals/Write-offs – (3.4) (86.3) (2.4) – – (92.1) At 31 December 2017 2.6 34.5 1,037.2 112.8 1.9 – 1,189.0 Carrying amount At 31 December 2016 6.9 2.1 379.0 20.5 0.2 22.3 431.0 At 31 December 2017 7.6 6.6 374.4 21.8 0.3 14.5 425.2 172 5 Intangible Assets Overview Telecommunications Customer and spectrum Software in contracts and licences Software development Goodwill relationships Total Group $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost At 1 January 2016 155.8 518.1 16.7 220.3 – 910.9 Additions 80.3 0.3 35.1 – – 115.7 Transfers – 34.9 (34.9) – – – Strategy Disposals/Write-offs – (3.6) – – – (3.6) At 31 December 2016 236.1 549.7 16.9 220.3 – 1,023.0 At 1 January 2017 236.1 549.7 16.9 220.3 – 1,023.0 Acquisition through business combination – – – 19.2 10.0 29.2 Additions 69.3 0.3 45.5 – – 115.1 Transfers – 37.7 (37.7) – – – Performance Disposals/Write-offs – (3.1) – – – (3.1) At 31 December 2017 305.4 584.6 24.7 239.5 10.0 1,164.2 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2016 78.8 444.0 – – – 522.8 Charge for the year 9.1 30.9 – – – 40.0 Disposals/Write-offs – (3.6) – – – (3.6) At 31 December 2016 87.9 471.3 – – – 559.2 Governance At 1 January 2017 87.9 471.3 – – – 559.2 Charge for the year 15.8 33.8 – – 0.9 50.5 Disposals/Write-offs – (3.1) – – – (3.1) At 31 December 2017 103.7 502.0 – – 0.9 606.6 Carrying amount At 31 December 2016 148.2 78.4 16.9 220.3 – 463.8 At 31 December 2017 201.7 82.6 24.7 239.5 9.1 557.6 Sustainability Impairment testing for CGUs containing goodwill The carrying values of the Group’s goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries as at 31 December 2017 were assessed for impairment during the financial year. 2017 2016 Group $m $m Carrying value of goodwill from acquisition of: – StarHub Cable Vision Ltd (“SCV”) 220.3 220.3 – Accel Systems & Technologies Pte. Ltd. (“ASTPL”) 19.2 – 239.5 220.3 Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 173 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 5 Intangible Assets (continued) Impairment testing for CGUs containing goodwill (continued) The Group, through its “Hubbing” strategy, operates and delivers its Mobile, Pay TV, Broadband and Enterprise Fixed services on an operationally integrated network, customer service, sales, marketing and administration support. For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill arising from the acquisition of SCV of $220.3 million is allocated to the cash generating unit (“CGU”) comprising the Group’s integrated fixed, mobile, cable and broadband operations. This represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for impairment for internal management purposes. The goodwill arising from the acquisition of ASTPL of $19.2 million is allocated to the entity which is also the CGU. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined based on value-in-use calculations. The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are the discount rates, growth rates and taking into consideration the competitive pressures on EBITDA margins. The value-in-use calculations apply a discounted cash flow model using cash flow projections based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by management. The Group has used cash flow projections of five years. The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections for the goodwill arising from acquisition of SCV and ASTPL is 6.3% (2016: 6.6%) and 10.7% (2016: nil) respectively. The forecast long-term growth rate used to extrapolate both cash flow projections beyond the fifth year is nil (2016: nil). No impairment charge was required for the carrying amount of respective goodwill assessed as at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 as the recoverable value was in excess of the carrying value. A reasonable change to the key assumptions applied is not likely to cause the recoverable value to be below the carrying value. Telecommunications Software in licences Software development Total Company $m $m $m $m Cost At 1 January 2016 – 442.4 14.5 456.9 Additions 0.3 – 31.0 31.3 Transfers – 30.7 (30.7) – Disposals/Write-offs – (0.1) – (0.1) At 31 December 2016 0.3 473.0 14.8 488.1 At 1 January 2017 0.3 473.0 14.8 488.1 Additions – – 41.3 41.3 Transfers – 34.4 (34.4) – Disposals/Write-offs – (0.1) (0.2) (0.3) At 31 December 2017 0.3 507.3 21.5 529.1 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2016 – 386.3 – 386.3 Charge for the year 0.1 23.5 – 23.6 Disposals/Write-offs – (0.1) – (0.1) At 31 December 2016 0.1 409.7 – 409.8 At 1 January 2017 0.1 409.7 – 409.8 Charge for the year – 27.1 – 27.1 Disposals/Write-offs – (0.1) – (0.1) At 31 December 2017 0.1 436.7 – 436.8 Carrying amount At 31 December 2016 0.2 63.3 14.8 78.3 At 31 December 2017 0.2 70.6 21.5 92.3 Staff costs capitalised in software in development for the Group and Company during the year amounted to $2.5 million (2016: $2.4 million). 174 6 Subsidiaries Overview Company 2017 2016 $m $m Investments in subsidiaries, at cost 1,244.1 1,209.1 Loans to subsidiaries 1,270.7 1,270.7 Discount implicit in the interest-free loan to a subsidiary 21.9 21.9 2,536.7 2,501.7 Allowance for impairment losses (28.9) (28.9) 2,507.8 2,472.8 Strategy During the year, the Company acquired 80.4% equity interest in ASTPL for $35.0 million. See Note 32 for details. At 31 December 2017, the loans to the subsidiaries are unsecured, not repayable within the next 12 months and bear interest ranging from 2.64% to 2.75% (2016: 2.86% to 3.04%) per annum. In the previous financial year, loans to subsidiaries of $714.7 million were reclassified from amounts due from related parties to form part of the Company’s interest in subsidiaries. Performance The subsidiaries directly held by the Company are as follows: Country of incorporation/ Effective equity Name of company Principal activities business interest held by the Group 2017 2016 % % StarHub Cable Vision Ltd. (1) Provision of subscription television and Singapore 100 100 television broadcasting services Governance StarHub Mobile Pte Ltd (1) Provision of mobile telecommunications services Singapore 100 100 StarHub Internet Pte Ltd (1) Dormant Singapore 100 100 StarHub Online Pte Ltd (1) Provision of broadband access services Singapore 100 100 Nucleus Connect Pte. Ltd. (1) Provision of high speed wholesale Singapore 100 100 broadband services StarHub (Mauritius) Ltd (2) Investment holding company and for acquisition Mauritius 100 100 Sustainability of info-communication and infotainment services StarHub (Hong Kong) Limited (3) Provision of telecommunication services Hong Kong 100 100 StarHub Shop Pte Ltd (4) Dormant Singapore 100 100 StarHub, Inc. (4) Dormant United States 100 100 Accel Systems & Technologies Provision of cyber security solutions, Singapore 80.4 – Pte. Ltd. (3) professional services for system integration and security operations and management Financials (1) Audited by KPMG LLP Singapore (2) Audited by KPMG Mauritius, a member firm of KPMG International (3) Audited by another firm (4) Not required to be audited by laws of the country of incorporation Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 175 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 7 Associate Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Investment in associate 27.8 27.8 27.8 27.8 Share of post-acquisition reserves (4.1) (1.9) – – 23.7 25.9 27.8 27.8 Country of incorporation/ Effective equity Name of company Principal activities business interest held by the Group 2017 2016 % % SHINE Systems Assets Pte. Ltd. (1) Investment in, ownership or lease of Singapore 30 30 infrastructure assets and provision of data centre services (1) Audited by KPMG LLP Singapore The following summarises the financial information of the associate, based on its financial statements prepared in accordance with FRS, amended for fair value adjustments on acquisition: 2017 2016 $m $m Summarised Statement of Financial Position Non-current assets 233.4 202.5 Current assets 17.4 23.6 Current liabilities (13.6) (16.9) Non-current liabilities (158.2) (122.9) Net assets 79.0 86.3 Reconciliation to carrying amount: Opening net assets 86.3 91.7 Loss for the year (7.3) (5.4) Closing net assets 79.0 86.3 Summarised Statement of Comprehensive Income Total revenue 13.3 4.2 Loss for the year, representing total comprehensive loss for the year (7.3) (5.4) Group’s share in % 30% 30% Group’s share of loss of associate (net of tax) for the year (2.2) (1.6) Carrying amount of interest in associate at end of the year 23.7 25.9 176 8 Available-for-sale Financial Assets Overview Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Quoted equity securities 60.0 40.0 60.0 40.0 During the year, the Group acquired additional interest in the equity security. The acquisition resulted in the recognition of a day one fair value loss of $0.7 million (2016: fair value gain arising on initial acquisition of $9.5 million) (see Note 25). Strategy 9 Balances with Related Parties The immediate and ultimate holding companies are Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. and Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited respectively. These companies are incorporated in the Republic of Singapore. 9.1 Amounts due from related parties Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Performance Current Amounts due from (trade): – Ultimate holding company 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 – Subsidiaries – – 7.4 2.1 – Related corporations 30.4 20.6 17.2 16.1 – Loan to associate – 1.1 – 1.1 30.6 21.8 24.8 19.4 Non-current Governance Amount due from (trade): – Loan to associate 7.9 7.6 7.9 7.6 All outstanding current trade balances with ultimate holding company, subsidiaries and related corporations are unsecured, interestfree and repayable on demand. During the year, the Company impaired and subsequently forgave the balances owing by certain subsidiaries amounting to $216.7 million. Other than above, the outstanding balances with ultimate holding company, subsidiaries and related corporations are not impaired as at the financial year end. In 2017, the current loan to associate which was unsecured, bears interest rate of 2.86% and 2.96% per annum and was repaid in October 2017 and December 2017 respectively. Sustainability The non-current loan to associate is unsecured, bears interest rate of 3.53% (2016: 3.53%) per annum and is repayable in June 2021. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 177 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 9 Balances with Related Parties (continued) 9.2 Amounts due to related parties Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Current Amounts due to (trade): – Subsidiaries – – 304.6 338.5 – Associates 1.0 – 1.0 – – Related corporations 59.1 67.1 24.0 18.0 Amounts due to (non-trade): – Non-controlling interests 4.7 – 4.7 – 64.8 67.1 334.3 356.5 The amounts due to subsidiaries include unsecured, interest bearing amounts of $140.0 million (2016: $178.7 million) at interest rates ranging from 1.13% to 1.30% (2016: 0.95% to 1.73%), per annum and are repayable on demand. Included in these amounts is a balance of $87.4 million (2016: nil) placed by certain subsidiaries to the Company under a cash pooling arrangement. The remaining amounts due to subsidiaries and related corporations have trade terms and are unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand. 9.3 The Company’s balances with subsidiaries included amounts netted under agreed master netting arrangements. The amounts before netting are as follows: Gross amounts Gross amounts offset Net amounts Company $m $m $m 2017 Current Amounts due from subsidiaries 900.6 (893.2) 7.4 Amounts due to subsidiaries 1,197.8 (893.2) 304.6 2016 Current Amounts due from subsidiaries 458.5 (456.4) 2.1 Amounts due to subsidiaries 794.9 (456.4) 338.5 10 Inventories Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Equipment held for resale 71.0 47.7 0.7 0.7 Maintenance and project inventories 0.9 1.9 – – 71.9 49.6 0.7 0.7 Allowance (written back)/ made during the year (0.2) 0.5 0.1 (0.4) In 2017, inventories of $475.6 million (2016: $447.8 million) were recognised as an expense and included in ‘cost of sales’. In the previous financial year, the Company transferred its equipment held for resale amounting to $36.9 million to one of its subsidiaries. 178 11 Trade Receivables Overview Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Trade receivables 248.2 213.0 212.0 181.6 Allowance for doubtful receivables (46.7) (40.8) (44.3) (39.9) 201.5 172.2 167.7 141.7 The trade receivables of the Company include amounts billed under a combined billing arrangement to customers for services provided by certain subsidiaries. Strategy The Group’s and the Company’s primary credit risk exposure arises through its trade receivables, which include corporate and retail customers. There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group and the Company have a large number of customers. The recorded allowances for doubtful receivables have been made based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical collections experience. Due to these factors, management believes that no additional credit loss allowance is required. The age analysis of trade receivables past due but not impaired at the reporting date is as follows: Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Performance $m $m $m $m Past due 1 – 15 days 39.9 33.3 37.3 30.3 Past due above 15 days 74.7 69.1 58.0 49.3 114.6 102.4 95.3 79.6 The movements in allowance for doubtful receivables in respect of trade receivables during the year are as follows: Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Governance At beginning of year 40.8 33.1 39.9 31.3 Allowance for doubtful receivables 17.4 21.0 5.8 7.5 Recharged to subsidiaries – – 10.1 14.4 Allowance utilised (11.5) (13.3) (11.5) (13.3) At end of year 46.7 40.8 44.3 39.9 12 Other Receivables, Deposits and Prepayments Sustainability Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Grant receivables 1.5 6.2 – – Accrued revenue 88.4 115.4 8.6 8.0 Deposits 7.2 4.2 4.0 1.1 Prepayments 76.6 65.4 25.5 17.5 Other receivables 9.8 15.6 9.1 11.6 Mark-to-market financial instruments Financials – Forward exchange contracts – 5.4 – 5.4 183.5 212.2 47.2 43.6 Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 179 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 13 Cash and Cash Equivalents Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Fixed deposits 274.0 214.3 273.5 214.3 Cash at bank and in hand 71.2 70.9 47.6 21.7 345.2 285.2 321.1 236.0 Fixed deposits relates to deposits with financial institutions with maturities of three months or less (2016: three months or less) with effective interest rates ranging from 0.35% to 1.88% (2016: 0.80% to 1.25%) per annum. At the reporting date, cash and cash equivalents of the Company include $87.4 million (2016: nil) cash from subsidiaries pooled together and managed centrally by the Company in bank balances and fixed deposits as part of the Group’s cash management and treasury activities. 14 Trade and Other Payables Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Note $m $m $m $m Current Trade payables 105.1 91.3 69.3 72.1 Accruals 498.8 472.1 222.0 201.1 Unearned revenue 108.3 129.4 18.8 21.3 Deferred income 16 0.9 0.8 0.9 0.8 Deposits from customers 11.2 14.3 11.0 14.1 Mark-to-market financial instruments – Forward exchange contracts 12.2 – 12.2 – 736.5 707.9 334.2 309.4 Non-current Unearned revenue 22.4 21.6 22.5 21.6 15 Borrowings Group and Company 2017 2016 Note $m $m Current Bank loans 15.1 120.0 10.0 Non-current Bank loans 15.1 337.5 457.5 Medium term notes 15.2 520.0 520.0 857.5 977.5 180 15 Borrowings (continued) Reconciliation of movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities Overview Borrowings $m Balance at 1 January 2017 987.5 Changes from financing cash flows Repayment of bank loans (10.0) Interest paid (30.0) Strategy Total changes from financing cash flows (40.0) Total liability-related other changes 30.0 Balance at 31 December 2017 977.5 15.1 Bank loans Group and Company 2017 2016 $m $m Performance Repayable: – Within 1 year 120.0 10.0 – After 1 year but within 5 years 337.5 457.5 457.5 467.5 At 31 December 2017, the unsecured bank loans bear interest at rates ranging from 1.29% to 2.98% (2016: 1.67% to 2.98%) per annum. There is no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value of the bank loans. Governance 15.2 Medium term notes The Company has established a multicurrency medium term note programme with a maximum aggregate principal amount of $1,000.0 million in September 2011. In September 2012, the Company issued a $220.0 million 10-year medium term note which bears interest rate of 3.08% per annum and is repayable in September 2022. In June 2016, the Company issued a $300.0 million 10-year medium term note which bears interest of 3.55% per annum and is repayable in June 2026. On 29 May 2017, the Company has updated and amended its $1,000.0 million multicurrency medium term note programme to a $2,000.0 million multicurrency debt issuance programme with the inclusion of the mechanism for the issuance of, and the terms Sustainability and conditions of, perpetual securities. The amendments do not affect the validity of the existing term notes issued by the Company under the original programme. As at 31 December 2017, the fair value of the medium term note is $533.9 million (2016: $525.0 million). Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 181 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 16 Deferred Income Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Deferred grants At beginning of year 2.2 8.9 2.2 1.6 Grants receivable 0.7 1.7 0.7 1.7 Amount accreted to the income statement (1.1) (8.4) (1.1) (1.1) At end of year 1.8 2.2 1.8 2.2 Deferred grants to be accreted: Current (within 1 year) 0.9 0.8 0.9 0.8 Non-current (after 1 year but within 5 years) 0.9 1.4 0.9 1.4 Total 1.8 2.2 1.8 2.2 Deferred income refers to government grants received. Assets related grants are recognised over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Income related grants are recognised on a systematic basis over the periods to match the related cost. 17 Deferred Tax Liabilities Movements in deferred tax liabilities during the year are as follows: Recognised Recognised Acquired in income in other in business At statement comprehensive Recognised combination At Group 1 January 2017 (Note 26) income in equity (Note 32) 31 December 2017 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (148.9) 4.9 – – (2.0) (146.0) Other payables and accruals 2.3 6.7 2.1 – – 11.1 Derivatives (0.9) – 0.9 – – – Share-based payment transactions 2.1 (0.3) – (0.3) – 1.5 Total (145.4) 11.3 3.0 (0.3) (2.0) (133.4) 182 17 Deferred Tax Liabilities (continued) Overview Recognised Recognised in income in other At statement comprehensive Recognised At Group 1 January 2016 (Note 26) income in equity 31 December 2016 2016 $m $m $m $m $m Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (134.3) (14.6) – – (148.9) Other payables and accruals 1.8 0.5 – – 2.3 Strategy Derivatives (0.1) – (0.8) – (0.9) Share-based payment transactions – 1.3 – 0.8 2.1 Unutilised capital allowances 8.4 (8.4) – – – Unutilised tax losses 4.1 (4.1) – – – Total (120.1) (25.3) (0.8) 0.8 (145.4) Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefits through future taxable profits is probable. Performance Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 2017 2016 $m $m Tax losses 3.8 3.7 Deferred tax assets 0.6 0.6 Governance The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets in respect of the above tax losses and capital allowances as the Group does not expect to recover these potential deferred tax assets in the foreseeable future. The Group reassesses the recovery of these potential deferred tax assets annually. Recognised At in income Recognised At Company 1 January 2017 statement in equity 31 December 2017 2017 $m $m $m $m Deferred tax liabilities Sustainability Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (77.9) (1.6) – (79.5) Other payables and accruals 2.3 1.8 – 4.1 Share-based payment transactions 2.1 (0.3) (0.3) 1.5 Total (73.5) (0.1) (0.3) (73.9) Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 183 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 17 Deferred Tax Liabilities (continued) Recognised Recognised in other At in income comprehensive Recognised At Company 1 January 2016 statement income in equity 31 December 2016 2016 $m $m $m $m $m Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (61.8) (16.1) – – (77.9) Other payables and accruals 0.6 1.7 – – 2.3 Derivatives (0.1) – 0.1 – – Share-based payment transactions – 1.3 – 0.8 2.1 Total (61.3) (13.1) 0.1 0.8 (73.5) 18 Share Capital 2017 2016 Number of Number of shares shares Company ’000 $m ’000 $m Issued and fully paid ordinary shares: At beginning of year 1,731,651 299.7 1,729,795 293.5 Issue of ordinary shares under the StarHub Performance Share Plans and StarHub Restricted Stock Plans – – 1,856 6.2 At end of year 1,731,651 299.7 1,731,651 299.7 The holders of ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares) are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares) rank equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets. 19 Perpetual Capital Securities On 16 June 2017, the Company issued subordinated perpetual securities (the “perpetual securities”) with an aggregate principal amount of $200 million. Incremental costs incurred amounting to $0.4 million was recognised in equity as a deduction from the proceeds. Such perpetual securities bear distributions at a rate of 3.95% per annum, payable semi-annually. Subject to the relevant terms and conditions in the offering memorandum, the Company may elect to defer making distributions on the perpetual securities, and is not subject to any limits as to the number of times a distribution can be deferred. As a result, the perpetual securities do not meet the definition for classification as a financial liability under FRS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation. The whole instrument is presented within equity, and distributions are treated as dividends. During the financial year, distributions amounting to $4.3 million were accrued to perpetual security holders of which $4.0 million has been paid. 184 20 Reserves Overview Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Treasury shares (8.2) (12.3) (8.2) (12.3) Merger/Capital reserve – – 276.5 276.5 Fair Value Reserve 18.1 12.5 18.1 12.5 Goodwill written off (276.3) (276.3) – – Share-based payments reserve 13.0 14.1 13.0 14.1 Hedging reserve (10.1) 4.4 – – Translation reserve 1.4 1.3 – – Strategy Retained profits 103.0 151.5 1,119.5 1,143.1 (159.1) (104.8) 1,418.9 1,433.9 Treasury shares comprise the cost of the Company’s shares held by the Group. In the previous financial year, the Company bought 3,894,100 ordinary shares from the market at a consideration of $12.3 million. There was transfer of 1,306,589 treasury shares to share-based payments reserve during the year (2016: Nil). Performance The merger/capital reserve comprises reserve arising from the acquisition of a subsidiary, StarHub Cable Vision Ltd. (“SCV”), on 2 July 2002 and represents the excess of the fair value of the Company’s shares issued as consideration for the acquisition of SCV over its par value. The fair value reserve comprises the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets until the assets are derecognised or impaired. The goodwill written off represents the excess of consideration paid on the acquisition of subsidiaries prior to 1 January 2001 over the Group’s share of the fair value of net assets acquired. The share-based payments reserve comprises the cumulative value of services received from employees and directors recorded in Governance respect of the grant of share options and share awards. The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions. The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency translation differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations. 21 Revenue Sustainability Group 2017 2016 $m $m Mobile revenue 1,196.9 1,214.6 Pay TV revenue 348.9 377.8 Broadband revenue 214.0 216.8 Enterprise Fixed revenue 436.9 400.0 Sales of equipment 204.0 187.5 2,400.7 2,396.7 Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 185 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 22 Operating Expenses Group 2017 2016 $m $m Cost of equipment sold 475.6 447.8 Cost of services 464.4 409.5 Traffic expenses 100.9 117.3 Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) 280.4 265.0 Marketing and promotions 122.1 133.7 Staff costs 282.5 281.4 Allowance for doubtful receivables 17.4 21.0 Repairs and maintenance 99.1 96.9 Operating leases 129.2 116.1 Other expenses 100.0 115.1 2,071.6 2,003.8 Included in the Group’s cost of services is government grant amounting to $4.2 million (2016: $3.2 million). 22.1 Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) Depreciation and amortisation expenses comprise the following: Group 2017 2016 $m $m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 231.0 226.0 Accretion of asset grants to the income statement (1.1) (1.0) 229.9 225.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 50.5 40.0 Total 280.4 265.0 22.2 Staff costs The following are included in staff costs: Group 2017 2016 $m $m Defined contribution plans 26.5 27.4 Share-based payments 3.4 7.2 Government grants Wage Credit Scheme (2.0) (4.7) 186 22 Operating Expenses (continued) 22.2 Staff costs (continued) Overview 22.2.1 Key management personnel compensation The key management personnel compensation is as follows: Group 2017 2016 $m $m Short-term employee benefits 12.7 10.4 Share-based payments 3.2 4.4 Strategy 15.9 14.8 Included in the above is the total compensation to directors of the Company which amounted to $5.3 million (2016: $4.7 million). Key management personnel also participate in the StarHub Performance Share Plans and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plans. The short term benefits include the Group balanced scorecard incentive programme to reward employees for achieving or exceeding performance target. Conditional awards of shares of 1,215,900 (2016: 656,300 shares) under the StarHub Performance Share Plans and conditional Performance awards of shares of 689,000 (2016: 557,800 shares) under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plans were granted to the key management personnel of the Group during the year. Awards of 134,800 shares (2016: 120,300 shares) under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plans were vested and delivered to certain non-executive directors of the Group as part of their non-executive directors’ remuneration, without any performance or vesting conditions attached, during the year. Based on the actual level of achievement of the pre-determined performance targets over the 2014 to 2016 performance period, final awards comprising nil (2016: 79,800) shares were delivered to the key management personnel of the Group during the year under the 2014 conditional awards granted to key management personnel of the Group in March 2014 pursuant to the StarHub Governance Performance Share Plans. Based on the actual level of achievement of the pre-determined performance targets over the 2015 to 2016 performance period, final awards comprising nil (2016: 359,634) shares were delivered to the key management personnel of the Group during the year under the 2015 conditional awards granted to the key management personnel of the Group in March 2015 pursuant to the StarHub Restricted Stock Plans. All conditional share awards (except for the time-based restricted share awards) granted to the key management personnel of the Group were on the same terms and conditions as those offered to other employees of the Group. Sustainability As at 31 December 2017, 2,245,483 (2016: 1,761,100) of the conditional awards of shares under the StarHub Performance Share Plans, and 1,487,210 (2016: 1,309,434) of the conditional awards of shares under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plans granted to the key management personnel were outstanding. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 187 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 22 Operating Expenses (continued) 22.2 Staff costs (continued) 22.2.2 Share-based Payments StarHub Performance Share Plans Under the StarHub PSP 2004 and the StarHub PSP 2014 (collectively the “StarHub Performance Share Plans”), conditional awards of shares are granted. Awards represent the right of a participant to receive fully paid shares, their equivalent cash value or combinations thereof, free of charge, upon the participant achieving prescribed performance targets set based on medium-term corporate objectives. Awards are released once the Company’s Executive Resource and Compensation Committee is satisfied that the prescribed performance targets have been achieved. There is no vesting periods beyond the performance achievement periods. During the financial year ended 31 December 2017, the conditional grants of 1,215,900 (2016: 656,300) shares under the StarHub Performance Share Plans were made to the key employees of the Group. These represent the number of shares to be delivered when performance targets at “on-target” level are achieved, or as the case may be when the time-based service conditions are completed. The movements of the number of shares under the StarHub Performance Share Plans, the fair values of the grant at measurement date and the assumptions of the fair value model for the grants of the Company are as follows: Balance Number of Number of Balance outstanding at performance performance outstanding at 2017 1 January 2017 shares granted shares forfeited 31 December 2017 Date of grant ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 10 March 2014 570 – (570) – 16 March 2015 535 – (19) 516 22 March 2016 656 – (62) 594 6 April 2017 – 1,216 (81) 1,135 Total 1,761 1,216 (732) 2,245 Balance Number of Number of Number of Balance outstanding at performance performance performance outstanding at 2016 1 January 2016 shares granted shares vested shares forfeited 31 December 2016 Date of grant ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 31 May 2013 429 – (86) (343) – 10 March 2014 570 – – – 570 16 March 2015 535 – – – 535 22 March 2016 – 656 – – 656 Total 1,534 656 (86) (343) 1,761 The fair value of the shares is estimated using a Monte-Carlo simulation methodology at the measurement dates, which are grant dates of the share awards. The assumptions under the model used for the grant in 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Year of grant 2017 2016 Fair value $1.18 $1.46 Share price $2.85 $3.32 Expected volatility of the Company’s shares 15.53% 15.28% Expected volatility of MSCI Asia-Pacific Telecommunications Component Stock – 14.14% Expected dividend yield 5.53% 5.70% Risk-free interest rates 1.39% 1.16% 188 22 Operating Expenses (continued) 22.2 Staff costs (continued) Overview 22.2.2 Share-based Payments (continued) StarHub Restricted Stock Plans Under the StarHub RSP 2004 and StarHub RSP Plan 2014 (collectively the “StarHub Restricted Stock Plans”), awards granted vest only after the satisfactory completion of time-based service conditions (time-based restricted awards) or where the award is performance-related after a further period of service beyond the performance targets completion date (performance-based restricted awards). Strategy During the financial year ended 31 December 2017, the conditional grants of 3,497,690 (2016: 2,884,800) shares under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plans were made to non-executive directors and key employees of the Group. These represent the number of shares to be delivered when performance targets at “on-target” level are achieved, or as the case may be when the time-based service conditions are completed. During the financial year ended 31 December 2017, 178,900 (2016: 141,300) shares under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plans were vested and delivered to certain non-executive directors of the Company as part of their non-executive directors’ remuneration, without any performance or vesting conditions attached. The movements of the number of shares under the StarHub Restricted Stock Plans, the fair values of the grant at measurement date Performance and the assumptions of the fair value model for the grants of the Company are as follows: Not delivered Balance Number of Number of Number of (below Balance outstanding at restricted restricted restricted performance outstanding at 2017 1 January 2017 shares granted shares vested shares forfeited target) 31 December 2017 Date of grant ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 10 March 2014 713 – (695) (18) – – 16 March 2015 2,106 – – (104) (2,002) – Governance 8 July 2015 16 – (16) – – – 22 March 2016 2,380 – – (285) – 2,095 20 May 2016 147 – (120) – – 27 15 March 2017 – 593 (296) (15) – 282 6 April 2017 – 2,717 – (103) – 2,614 29 May 2017 – 188 (179) (9) – – Total 5,362 3,498 (1,306) (534) (2,002) 5,018 Balance Number of Number of Number of Balance Sustainability outstanding at restricted restricted restricted outstanding at 2016 1 January 2016 shares granted shares vested shares forfeited 31 December 2016 Date of grant ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 31 May 2013 692 – (672) (20) – 10 March 2014 2,340 – (764) (863) 713 16 March 2015 2,266 – – (160) 2,106 8 July 2015 32 – (16) – 16 22 March 2016 – 2,460 – (80) 2,380 20 May 2016 – 267 (120) – 147 23 May 2016 – 157 (141) (16) – Financials Total 5,330 2,884 (1,713) (1,139) 5,362 Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 189 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 22 Operating Expenses (continued) 22.2 Staff costs (continued) 22.2.2 Share-based Payments (continued) StarHub Restricted Stock Plans (continued) The fair value of the share awards is estimated using a Monte-Carlo simulation methodology at the measurement dates, which are grant dates of the share awards. The assumptions under the model used for the grant in 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Year of grant 2017 2016 Fair value $2.44 $2.83 $2.91 $3.33 Share price $2.83 $2.85 $3.32 $3.45 Expected volatility of the Company’s shares 15.53% 15.58% 10.79% 15.28% Expected dividend yield 5.53% 7.07% 5.46% 5.70% Risk-free interest rates 0.99% 1.40% 0.70% 1.14% 22.3 Other expenses Included in other expenses are the following: Group 2017 2016 $m $m Fees paid to auditors of the Company: – Audit 0.5 0.4 – Non-audit 0.4 0.4 Foreign currency exchange (gain)/loss, net (0.1) 3.7 Changes in fair value of financial instruments – 1.2 23 Other Income Group 2017 2016 $m $m Corporate recharges to related parties – 0.2 Income related grants 4.4 32.0 4.4 32.2 190 24 Net Finance Costs Overview Group 2017 2016 $m $m Interest income: – Bank deposits 3.4 3.4 – Associate 0.3 0.1 Finance income 3.7 3.5 Interest expense: – Bank loans 12.5 13.4 Strategy – Medium term note 17.4 12.8 Finance costs 29.9 26.2 25 Non-operating (Loss)/Income Group 2017 2016 Performance $m $m Fair value (loss)/gain on initial recognition of Available-for-sale (“AFS”) financial assets (0.7) 9.5 The fair value gain on initial recognition of AFS financial assets arose from the difference between the transaction price and the fair value of the quoted investment at the point when the transaction was concluded. 26 Taxation Group 2017 2016 Governance $m $m Current tax Current income tax 67.9 52.5 Over provision in prior year (1.8) (8.9) 66.1 43.6 Deferred tax Reversal and origination of temporary differences (12.1) 17.2 Sustainability Under provision in prior year 0.8 8.7 Utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets – (0.6) (11.3) 25.3 Total income tax in the income statement 54.8 68.9 Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 191 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 26 Taxation (continued) A reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the applicable corporate tax rate for the years ended 31 December is as follows: Group 2017 2016 $m $m Profit before taxation 304.4 410.3 Income tax using Singapore tax rate of 17% 51.7 69.8 Income not subject to tax (0.1) (3.4) Non-deductible expenses 4.1 4.4 Utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets – (0.6) Over provision in prior year, net (1.0) (0.2) Tax benefit – (1.3) Others 0.1 0.2 Total income tax in the income statement 54.8 68.9 The Group’s utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets in prior year related to unutilised tax losses and unutilised capital allowances transferred from its subsidiaries under the group tax relief system in the Republic of Singapore. Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income for the years ended 31 December are as follows: Group 2017 2016 $m $m Cash flow hedge, before taxation (17.5) 4.7 Taxation 3.0 (0.8) Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedge (14.5) 3.9 27 Earnings Per Share ( EPS ) Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (excluding treasury shares) during the year. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (excluding treasury shares), for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which comprise share options granted to employees under the StarHub share plans. Group 2017 2016 $m $m Profit attributable to owners of the Company 249.0 341.4 Less: Perpetual capital securities distribution (4.3) – Adjusted profit attributable to owners of the Company 244.7 341.4 192 27 Earnings Per Share ( EPS ) (continued) Overview Number of shares 2017 2016 ’000 ’000 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (basic) during the year # 1,728,789 1,727,348 Adjustment for dilutive effect of share plans 7,263 7,123 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) during the year 1,736,052 1,734,471 # Excludes treasury shares. Strategy 28 Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation The earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation (“EBITDA”) is a supplementary indicator of performance used by the Group. The measurement of EBITDA is not governed by FRS. The Group defines EBITDA as follows: Group 2017 2016 $m $m Profit before taxation 304.4 410.3 Performance Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) 280.4 265.0 Finance income (3.7) (3.5) Finance expense 29.9 26.2 Non-operating loss/(income) 0.7 (9.5) Share of loss of associate (net of tax) 2.2 1.6 EBITDA 613.9 690.1 Governance 29 Related Party Transactions The Company has entered into contractual agreements on behalf of its subsidiaries, and recharges its subsidiaries based on terms agreed between the parties involved. In the normal course of business, the Group purchases and sells info-communications services to related companies. The related party transactions are carried out on terms negotiated between the parties which are intended to reflect competitive terms. Sustainability Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 193 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 29 Related Party Transactions (continued) Other than disclosed above and elsewhere in the financial statements, significant transactions of the Group and the Company with related parties during the financial year were as follows: Group 2017 2016 $m $m Ultimate holding company Sales 0.4 0.4 Associate Purchase of property, plant and equipment 2.8 5.0 Rental expenses 0.7 1.9 Purchase of services 2.1 0.2 Related corporations Sales 66.7 60.7 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 15.2 13.3 Rental expenses 69.3 77.7 Purchase of services 127.6 142.3 Purchase of inventories 176.5 147.0 30 Dividends Group and Company 2017 2016 $m $m Final dividend of $0.05 (2016: $0.05) per share (1-tier tax exempt) paid in respect of the previous financial year 86.4 86.5 Interim dividends of $0.12 (2016: $0.15) per share (1-tier tax exempt) paid in respect of the current financial year 207.5 259.7 293.9 346.2 31 Segment Reporting Segment information is presented based on the information reviewed by the chief operating decision makers (“CODM”) for performance assessment and resource allocation. The CODM assess the Group’s financial performance using performance indicators which include revenue, EBITDA, capital expenditure and cash flow of the Group. The Group operates primarily in Singapore in one segment. The Group delivers its Mobile, Pay TV, Broadband, Enterprise Fixed services and equipment sales on a fully integrated network, and has a centralised customer service, sales, marketing and administration support. The Group has a large and diversified customer base which consists of individuals and corporations. There was no single customer that contributed to 10% or more of the Group’s revenue. 194 31 Segment Reporting (continued) Overview The Group’s reportable segment information is as follows: Group 2017 2016 $m $m Mobile revenue 1,196.9 1,214.6 Pay TV revenue 348.9 377.8 Broadband revenue 214.0 216.8 Enterprise Fixed revenue 436.9 400.0 Sales of equipment 204.0 187.5 Total revenue 2,400.7 2,396.7 Strategy EBITDA 613.9 690.1 Depreciation and amortisation (net of asset grants) (280.4) (265.0) Finance income 3.7 3.5 Finance expense (29.9) (26.2) Non-operating (loss)/income (0.7) 9.5 Share of loss of associate (net of tax) (2.2) (1.6) Performance Profit before taxation 304.4 410.3 Taxation (54.8) (68.9) Profit for the year 249.6 341.4 Assets and liabilities Non-current assets 1,519.3 1,455.3 Current assets 832.7 741.0 Total assets 2,352.0 2,196.3 Governance Borrowings 977.5 987.5 Other non-current liabilities 156.7 168.4 Other current liabilities 872.9 845.5 Total liabilities 2,007.1 2,001.4 Other information Capital expenditure 299.3 371.2 Free cash flow * 221.3 184.0 Sustainability * Free cash flow refers to net cash from operating activities less purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in the consolidated cash flow statement. The measurement of free cash flow is not governed by FRS. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 195 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 32 Acquisition of Subsidiary On 26 May 2017, the Group entered into a conditional sale and purchase agreement to acquire 51% of the shares and voting interests in ASTPL. The transaction was completed on 10 July 2017 and as a result, the Group obtained control of ASTPL. On 7 July 2017, the Group entered into another conditional sale and purchase agreement to acquire the remaining 49% of the shares and voting interests in ASTPL in 2 Phases: 29.4% in Phase 2 and 19.6% in Phase 3. Phase 2 was completed on 11 July 2017 increasing the Group’s equity interest from 51% to 80.4%. ASTPL will enable the Group to strengthen its cyber security portfolio and give the Group the in-house capabilities to be an end-to-end provider of cyber security solutions and services. For the six months ended 31 December 2017, ASTPL contributed revenue of $13.3 million and profit of $3.8 million to the Group’s results. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2017, management estimated that consolidated revenue would have been $24.9 million, and consolidated profit for the year would have been $5.4 million. In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments, that arose on the date of acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2017. Acquisition-related costs The Group incurred acquisition-related costs of $0.3 million on legal fees and due diligence costs. These costs have been included in other expenses. Consideration transferred The following table summarises the acquisition date fair value of each major class of consideration transferred: 2017 $’m Contingent consideration 4.7 Cash 30.3 Total consideration transferred 35.0 Contingent consideration The Group has agreed to pay the selling shareholders in the next financial year (“FY”) an additional consideration not exceeding $4.7 million if the acquiree’s cumulative net profit before tax for FY ending 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2018 exceeds an agreed performance target. The Group has included $4.7 million as contingent consideration related to the additional consideration, which represents its fair value at the date of acquisition and at 31 December 2017. 196 32 Acquisition of Subsidiary (continued) Overview 2017 Notes $’m Property, plant and equipment 4 1.8 Intangible assets 5 10.0 Trade receivables 4.5 Other receivables, deposits and prepayments 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents 7.7 Total assets 26.1 Strategy Trade and other payables 3.6 Provision for taxation 0.9 Deferred tax liabilities 2.0 Total liabilities 6.5 Total identifiable net assets acquired 19.6 Less: Non-controlling interests (“NCI”) (3.8) Performance Add: Goodwill 5 19.2 Total purchase consideration 35.0 Less: Accrued contingent consideration (4.7) Less: Cash and cash equivalents (7.7) Net cash outflow on acquisition 22.6 Measurement of fair values The valuation techniques used for measuring the fair value of materials assets acquired were as follows: Governance Assets required Valuation techniques Property, plant and equipment Market comparison technique and cost technique: The valuation model considers quoted market prices for similar items when they are available, and depreciated replacement cost when appropriate. Depreciated replacement cost reflects adjustments for physical deterioration as well as functional and economic obsolescence. Intangible assets Multi-period excess earnings method: The multi-period excess earnings method considers the present value of net cash flows related to contributory assets. Sustainability Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 197 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 32 Acquisition of Subsidiary (continued) Goodwill Goodwill arising from the acquisition has been recognised as follows: 2017 $’m Total consideration transferred 35.0 NCI, based on their proportionate interest in the recognised amounts of the assets and liabilities of the acquiree 3.8 Fair value of identifiable net assets (19.6) Goodwill 19.2 The goodwill is attributable mainly to the skills and technical talent of ASTPL’s work force, and the synergies expected to be achieved from integrating the company into the Group’s existing cyber security capabilities. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. 33 Financial Risk Management Financial risk management objectives and policies Exposure to credit, liquidity, interest risk, foreign exchange and market risks arises in the normal course of the Group’s business. The Group has written risk management policies and guidelines which set out its overall business strategies, its tolerance of risk and its general risk management philosophy, and has established processes to monitor and control the hedging of transactions in a timely and accurate manner. Derivative financial instruments are used to reduce exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. While these are subject to the risk of market rates changing subsequent to acquisition, such changes are generally offset by opposite effects on the items being hedged. The Group’s accounting policy in relation to derivative financial instruments is set out in Note 3.6(iii). Credit risk Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Periodic frequent credit review and counterparty credit limits are practised. The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk from trade receivables due to its large diversified customer base. Credit evaluations are performed on corporate customers requiring credit. Identification documents are obtained from retail customers. Deposits are obtained for certain categories of higher risk customers. The Group places its cash and cash equivalents and enters into treasury transactions only with creditworthy banks and financial institutions. The maximum credit risk exposure is represented by the carrying value of each financial asset in the statement of financial position. 198 33 Financial Risk Management (continued) Liquidity risk Overview The Group actively monitors its liquidity risk and manages its operating cash flows, debt maturity profile and availability of funding. The Group maintains sufficient level of cash and cash equivalents, expects to generate sufficient cash flows from its operation, and has available funding through diverse sources of committed and uncommitted credit facilities from banks and the capital market through its multicurrency debt issuance programme to ensure that there are adequate credit facilities which may be utilised when the need arises to meet its working capital requirements. At the end of the reporting period, assets held by the Group and the Company for managing liquidity risk included cash and shortterm deposits, as well as available credit from its multicurrency debt issuance programme. In addition, the Group also reviews Strategy compliance with loan covenants. The following are the expected contractual undiscounted cash outflows (including interest payments) of financial liabilities: Contractual cash flows After After 1 year but within 5 years but within Carrying amount Total Within 1 year 5 years 10 years $m $m $m $m $m Group Performance 2017 Non-derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 977.5 1,128.9 145.0 646.6 337.3 Trade and other payables ^ 615.1 615.1 615.1 – – Amounts due to related parties 64.8 64.8 64.8 – – 1,657.4 1,808.8 824.9 646.6 337.3 2016 Non-derivative financial liabilities Governance Borrowings 987.5 1,169.3 34.3 560.3 574.7 Trade and other payables ^ 577.7 577.7 577.7 – – Amounts due to related parties 67.1 67.1 67.1 – – 1,632.3 1,814.1 679.1 560.3 574.7 Company 2017 Non-derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 977.5 1,128.9 145.0 646.6 337.3 Sustainability Trade and other payables ^ 302.3 302.3 302.3 – – Amounts due to related parties 334.3 334.3 334.3 – – 1,614.1 1,765.5 781.6 646.6 337.3 2016 Non-derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 987.5 1,169.3 34.3 560.3 574.7 Trade and other payables ^ 287.3 287.3 287.3 – – Amounts due to related parties 356.5 356.5 356.5 – – Financials 1,631.3 1,813.1 678.1 560.3 574.7 ^ The carrying amount of trade and other payables disclosed in the table excludes deferred income, unearned revenue and marked-to-market financial instruments. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 199 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 33 Financial Risk Management (continued) Liquidity risk (continued) The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flow hedges are expected to affect profit or loss: Contractual cash flows After 1 year but within Carrying amount Total Within 1 year 5 years Group and Company $m $m $m $m 2017 Derivative financial liabilities Forward exchange contracts used for hedging (gross-settled) (12.2) – Outflow (351.8) (283.7) (68.1) – Inflow 339.6 273.3 66.3 (12.2) (12.2) (10.4) (1.8) 2016 Derivative financial assets Forward exchange contracts used for hedging (gross-settled) 5.4 – Outflow (117.5) (117.5) – – Inflow 122.9 122.9 – 5.4 5.4 5.4 – The maturity analysis shows the contractual undiscounted cash flows of the Group and the Company’s derivative financial instruments on the basis of their earliest possible contractual maturity. The cash inflows/(outflows) disclosed relate to those instruments held for risk management purposes and which are usually not closed out prior to contractual maturity. It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis above could occur significantly earlier, or at significantly different amounts. 200 33 Financial Risk Management (continued) Market risk Overview Interest rate risk The Group’s exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s debt obligations. The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that at least 50 percent of its exposure to changes in interest rates on bank loans is on a fixed rate basis. Interest rate swaps, denominated in Singapore dollars, have been entered into to achieve this purpose. At 31 December 2016, the Group had outstanding interest rate swap agreements with notional principal amounts totalling $20.0 million in cash flow hedges against borrowings. These interest rate swaps would mature over the remaining term of Strategy 0.5 years to hedge the floating semi-annual interest payments on borrowings. The fixed interest payable had interest rates at 0.86% per annum. There are no outstanding interest rate swap agreements as at 31 December 2017. Sensitivity analysis The Group’s and the Company’s borrowings are denominated in Singapore dollars. An increase/decrease in the floating interest rates by 100 basis points, with all other variables remaining constant, does not have a material impact in the Group’s and the Company’s profit before taxation. Foreign currency risk Performance The Group incurs foreign exchange risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currencies of Group entities. The currency giving rise to this risk is primarily the United States Dollar. The Group’s and the Company’s exposures to United States Dollar are as follows: Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Trade and other receivables 39.7 72.9 15.4 11.9 Cash and cash equivalents 33.0 55.3 18.3 43.9 Governance Trade and other payables (120.1) (156.8) (50.3) (49.0) (47.4) (28.6) (17.1) 6.8 For operations with significant expenditure denominated in foreign currencies, forward exchange contracts are entered into to hedge the foreign currency risk on committed payment obligations. At 31 December 2017, the Group and the Company have outstanding forward exchange contracts with notional principal amounts of approximately $351.8 million (2016: $117.5 million). Certain forward exchange contracts are entered into by the Company on behalf of a subsidiary. In respect of other monetary liabilities held in foreign currencies, the Group ensures that the net exposure is kept to an acceptable Sustainability level by buying foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary to address any shortfalls. Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 201 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 33 Financial Risk Management (continued) Market risk (continued) Foreign currency risk (continued) Sensitivity analysis The Group and Company had assessed that a reasonable change in the exchange rate would not result in a material impact on the Group’s and Company’s results. Other market price risk The Group has investments in quoted equity shares. The market value of these investments will fluctuate with market conditions. Sensitivity analysis The Group and Company had assessed that a reasonable change in the share price would not result in a material impact on the Group’s and Company’s equity. Classification of financial instruments Carrying amount Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents 345.2 285.2 321.1 236.0 Trade receivables 201.5 172.2 167.7 141.7 Other receivables # 106.9 141.4 21.7 20.7 Amounts due from related parties 38.5 29.4 32.7 27.0 692.1 628.2 543.2 425.4 Available-for-sale financial assets Quoted equity securities 60.0 40.0 60.0 40.0 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade and other payables ^ (482.2) (465.2) (169.8) (168.3) Amounts due to related parties (64.8) (67.1) (334.3) (356.5) Borrowings (977.5) (987.5) (977.5) (987.5) (1,524.5) (1,519.8) (1,481.6) (1,512.3) Fair value hedging instruments Forward exchange contracts used for hedging (12.2) 5.4 (12.2) 5.4 # The carrying amount of other receivables disclosed in the table excludes prepayments. ^ The carrying amount of trade and other payables disclosed in the table excludes deferred income, unearned revenue, marked-to-market financial instruments, net GST payable and employee benefits. 202 33 Financial Risk Management (continued) Estimation of fair values Overview The following summarises the significant methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments of the Group and Company: Derivatives Marked to market valuations of the forward exchange contracts are provided by the banks. For interest rate swaps, valuations are also provided by the banks. Those quotes are tested using pricing models or discounted cash flow techniques. Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based on management’s best estimates and the Strategy discount rate is a market related rate for a similar instrument at the reporting date. Where other pricing models are used, inputs are based on market related data at the reporting date. Borrowings The fair values of borrowings which reprice within one year of reporting date were assumed to equate the carrying value. All other borrowings are calculated using discounted cash flow models based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate at the reporting date. Amounts due from related parties (non-current) Non-current amounts due from related parties are calculated using discounted cash flow model based on the present value of future Performance principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate at the reporting date. Available-for-sale quoted equity securities The carrying amount of the available-for-sale financial assets approximates its fair value. Other financial assets and liabilities The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities with maturity of less than one year (including trade and other receivables, amounts due from related parties, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and amounts due to related parties) are assumed to approximate their fair values. Governance Interest rates used in determining fair values The Group and the Company use the interbank swap yield as of year-end plus an adequate constant credit spread to discount financial instruments. The interest rates used are as follows: 2017 2016 % per annum % per annum Derivatives N.A. 0.86 Sustainability Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 203 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 33 Financial Risk Management (continued) Estimation of fair values (continued) Fair value hierarchy The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined as follows: Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). The following table represents the assets and liabilities measured at fair value, using Level 1 and Level 2 valuation methods, at reporting date: Group and Company Fair value 2017 2016 level $m $m Financial assets Marked-to-market financial instruments – Forward exchange contracts 2 – 5.4 Available-for-sale financial assets 1 60.0 40.0 Financial liabilities Marked-to-market financial instrument – Forward exchange contracts 2 12.2 – There were no transfers between level 1 and 2 in 2017 and 2016. 34 Capital Management The Group regularly reviews its financial position, capital structure and use of capital, with the objective of achieving long-term capital efficiency, optimum shareholders’ total returns, including the level of dividends, and appropriate strategic positioning. From time to time, the Group may purchase its own shares on the market; the timing of these purchases depends on market prices. Such share purchases are intended to be used for issuing shares under the StarHub Performance Share Plan and StarHub Restricted Stock Plan programmes. Other than for such specific purposes, the Group does not have a defined share buy-back plan. The Group manages the use of capital centrally and all borrowings to fund the operations of the subsidiaries are managed by the Company. The capital employed by the Company consists of equity attributable to shareholders, bank borrowings from financial institutions and medium term note issued. The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirement. There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. 204 35 Commitments (a) Capital and other financial commitments Overview Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Contracted and not provided for in the financial statements: – Capital expenditures 570.8 182.8 160.4 95.7 – Other operating expenditures 324.6 460.1 – – 895.4 642.9 160.4 95.7 As at 31 December 2017, the Group has outstanding capital and other financial commitments with related companies amounting to Strategy $18.5 million (2016: $12.5 million), which has been included above. Included in the capital expenditures contracted by the Company is an amount of approximately $0.3 million (2016: $0.2 million) which has been entered into on behalf of certain of its subsidiaries. (b) Operating leases Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Performance Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Payable: – Within 1 year 80.1 60.1 47.8 44.3 – Within 2 to 5 years 140.9 90.4 101.0 80.1 – After 5 years 197.5 190.7 197.4 190.7 418.5 341.2 346.2 315.1 Governance As at 31 December 2017, the Group has outstanding operating lease commitments with related companies amounting to $305.6 million (2016: $219.4 million), which have been included above. Included in the operating lease commitments of the Company is $10.0 million (2016: $7.0 million) which is contracted on behalf of a subsidiary. The operating leases include lease of premises and network infrastructure. The leases have varying terms and renewal rights. Sustainability Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 205 Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 36 Subsequent Events Dividend declaration The directors have proposed a final dividend of $0.04 (2016: $0.05) per share, tax exempt (one tier), totalling $69.2 million (2016: $86.4 million) in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2017. This proposed final tax exempt dividend has not been recognised as at year end and will be submitted for shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2018. Acquisition of subsidiary On 24 January 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of 65% of D’Crypt Pte Ltd, a privately-owned company based in Singapore, which is in the business of designing and developing high security assurance products and technology in telecommunication systems, equipment and related products, for cash consideration of $57.5 million. The acquisition is expected to improve the Group’s capabilities in areas such as cryptographic and digital security, secure info-communication technologies (“ICT”) and Internet of Things. At the reporting date, the accounting for the business combination is not yet complete. 206 Interested Person Transactions and Material Contracts (Pursuant to SGX-ST Listing Manual Rule 907 and Rule 1207(8)) Aggregate value of all Overview interested person transactions conducted under a Shareholders’ Mandate pursuant to Rule 920 of the SGX-ST Listing Manual (excluding transactions less than $100,000) 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 $m Transactions for the Sale of Goods & Services Strategy CapitaLand Limited & its associates 3.8 Singapore Power Limited & its associates 0.2 Singapore Technologies Engineering Ltd & its associates 1.4 Singapore Telecommunications Limited & its associates 26.6 TeleChoice International Ltd & its associates 93.2 Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited & its associates (other than those disclosed above) 11.5 136.7 Performance Transactions for the Purchase of Goods & Services Ascendas Real Estate Investment Trust & its associates 3.9 Mapletree Singapore Industrial Trust & its associates 39.2 CapitaLand Limited & its associates 0.3 Mapletree Commercial Trust & its associates 3.6 SembCorp Industries Ltd & its associates 8.0 Singapore Power Limited & its associates 23.0 Singapore Telecommunications Limited & its associates 59.1 TeleChoice International Ltd & its associates 255.8 Governance Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited & its associates (other than those disclosed above) 17.7 410.6 There were no interested person transactions (excluding transactions less than $100,000 and transactions conducted under a Shareholders’ Mandate pursuant to Rule 920 of the SGX-ST Listing Manual) entered into by StarHub Ltd and its subsidiaries for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. During the financial year ended 31 December 2017, there were no material contracts entered into by StarHub Ltd or any of its subsidiaries involving the interests of the CEO, any Director or controlling shareholder. Sustainability Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 207 Shareholding Information As at 5 March 2018 Class of shares : Ordinary share Voting rights : One vote per share Total number of issued shares excluding treasury shares : 1,729,331,877 Total number of treasury shares held : 2,319,566 Percentage of treasury shares held against the total number of : 0.13% issued shares excluding treasury shares Total number of subsidiary holdings (as defined in the SGX-ST : Nil Listing Manual) Distribution of shareholdings Size of shareholdings No. of shareholders % of shareholders No. of shares % of issued share capital 1 – 99 194 0.80 8,297 0.00 100 – 1,000 4,530 18.70 3,686,999 0.21 1,001 – 10,000 15,888 65.61 69,456,548 4.01 10,001 – 1,000,000 3,581 14.79 127,018,159 7.34 1,000,001 and above 24 0.10 1,531,481,440 88.44 Total 24,217 100.00 1,731,651,443 100.00 Substantial shareholders Number of shares Name Direct interest Deemed interest % of issued share capital!(7) Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited – 972,994,795 (1) 56.26 Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd – 965,845,290 (2) 55.85 STT Communications Ltd – 965,845,290 (2) 55.85 Asia Mobile Holding Company Pte. Ltd. – 965,845,290 (2) 55.85 Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. 965,845,290 – 55.85 Ooredoo Q.S.C. – 965,845,290 (3) 55.85 Ooredoo Investment Holding S.P.C. – 965,845,290 (3) 55.85 Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation – 171,490,520 (4) 9.92 NTT Communications Corporation 171,490,520 – 9.92 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – 86,483,841 (5) 5.00 BlackRock, Inc. – 86,483,841 (6) 5.00 Notes: (1) Temasek Holdings (Private) Limited (Temasek) is deemed to have an interest in 972,994,795 shares of StarHub in which Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte Ltd group and other associated companies of Temasek have direct or deemed interests. (2) ST Telemedia is deemed to have an interest in 965,845,290 shares of StarHub held by Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. (AMH), a subsidiary of Asia Mobile Holding Company Pte. Ltd. (AMHC), which is in turn a wholly-owned subsidiary of STT Communications Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ST Telemedia. AMHC holds approximately 75% of the total issued share capital of AMH. (3) Ooredoo Investment Holding S.P.C. (OIH) and Ooredoo Q.S.C. (Ooredoo) are deemed to have an interest in 965,845,290 shares of StarHub held by AMH. QIH holds approximately 25% of the total issued share capital of AMH. QIH is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ooredoo. (4) Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation (NTT) is deemed to have an interest in 171,490,520 shares of StarHub held by NTT Communications Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NTT. (5) The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. is deemed to have an interest in 86,483,841 shares of StarHub held by the entity that holds the direct interest, through its over 20% ownership of BlackRock, Inc. (6) BlackRock, Inc. is deemed to have an interest in 86,483,841 shares of StarHub held by the entity that holds the direct interest, of which it has an indirect control. (7) The shareholding percentage is based on the number of issued shares of StarHub excluding treasury shares. 208 Twenty largest shareholders Overview No. Name of shareholder Number of shares held % of issued share capital (1) 1 Asia Mobile Holdings Pte. Ltd. 965,845,290 55.85 2 NTT Communications Corporation 171,490,520 9.92 3 Citibank Nominees Singapore Pte Ltd 129,553,386 7.49 4 DBS Nominees Pte Ltd 106,216,153 6.14 5 HSBC (Singapore) Nominees Pte Ltd 44,608,244 2.58 6 DBSN Services Pte Ltd 31,018,050 1.79 7 Raffles Nominees (Pte) Ltd 19,846,237 1.15 Strategy 8 United Overseas Bank Nominees Pte Ltd 12,959,907 0.75 9 Singapore Press Holdings Limited 10,411,230 0.60 10 OCBC Nominees Singapore Pte Ltd 4,974,760 0.29 11 Philip Securities Pte Ltd 3,704,265 0.21 12 Chen Chun Nan 3,604,000 0.21 13 Yeo Kok Pin 3,544,000 0.21 14 OCBC Securities Private Limited 3,491,575 0.20 15 BPSS Nominees Singapore (Pte.) Ltd. 3,411,052 0.20 16 DB Nominees (Singapore) Pte Ltd 3,344,453 0.19 Performance 17 Chen Siong Seng 1,840,000 0.11 18 Merrill Lynch (Singapore) Pte Ltd 1,719,687 0.10 19 Peh Kwee Chim 1,600,000 0.09 20 DBS Vickers Securities (Singapore) Pte Ltd 1,398,890 0.08 Total 1,524,581,699 88.16 (1) The shareholding percentage is based on the number of issued shares of StarHub excluding treasury shares. Shareholding held in hands of the public Governance Based on the information available to StarHub as at 5 March 2018, approximately 28.72% of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) of StarHub was held by the public. Accordingly, StarHub has complied with Rule 723 of the SGX-ST Listing Manual. Sustainability Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 209 Notice of Twentieth Annual General Meeting STARHUB LTD (Incorporated in the Republic of Singapore) NO SERVICE OF FOOD Co. Reg. No. 199802208C Please be informed that StarHub Ltd will not be serving food at the Annual General Meeting. Tea and coffee will be provided. NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Twentieth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Meeting Room 331, Level 3, Suntec Singapore Convention & Exhibition Centre, 1 Raffles Boulevard, Suntec City, Singapore 039593 on 19 April 2018 at 10.00 a.m. for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1 To receive and adopt the Directors’ Statement and the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended Resolution 1 31 December 2017 and the Auditors’ Report therein. 2 To re-elect the following Directors who will retire pursuant to Article 99 of the Company’s Constitution and who, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election: (a) Ms Michelle Lee Guthrie; and Resolution 2 (b) Mr Naoki Wakai. Resolution 3 The profiles of Ms Guthrie and Mr Wakai can be found in the Board of Directors section of the StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017. 3 To re-elect the following Directors who will retire and who, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election: (a) Mr Steven Terrell Clontz; Resolution 4 (b) Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne (independent member of Audit Committee); and Resolution 5 (c) Dr Nasser Marafih. Resolution 6 The profiles of Mr Clontz, Mr Kaviratne and Dr Nasser can be found in the Board of Directors section of the StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017. Mr Liu Chee Ming is also retiring as a Director, but will not be offering himself for re-election. 4 To approve the sum of S$1,586,856.00 (FY2016: S$1,727,857.00) as Directors’ Remuneration for the financial year Resolution 7 ended 31 December 2017 comprising: (a) S$1,126,311.90 to be paid in cash (FY2016: S$1,226,929.90); and (b) S$460,544.10 to be paid in the form of restricted share awards (FY2016: S$500,927.10). 5 To declare a final dividend of four cents per ordinary share for the financial year ended 31 December 2017. Resolution 8 6 To re-appoint KPMG LLP as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration. Resolution 9 210 Special Business Overview To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions: 7 That authority be and is hereby given to the Directors to: Resolution 10 (a) (i) issue shares of the Company (“shares”) whether by way of rights, bonus or otherwise; and/or (ii) make or grant offers, agreements or options (collectively, “Instruments”) that might or would require shares to be issued, including but not limited to the creation and issue of (as well as adjustments to) warrants, debentures or other instruments convertible Strategy into shares, at any time and upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes and to such persons as the Directors may in their absolute discretion deem fit; and (b) (notwithstanding the authority conferred by this Resolution may have ceased to be in force) issue shares in pursuance of any Instrument made or granted by the Directors while this Resolution was in force, Performance provided that: (1) the aggregate number of shares to be issued pursuant to this Resolution (including shares to be issued in pursuance of Instruments made or granted pursuant to this Resolution) does not exceed 50% of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares and subsidiary holdings) (as calculated in accordance with subparagraph (2) below), of which the aggregate number of shares to be issued other than on a pro rata basis to shareholders of the Company (including shares to be issued in pursuance of Instruments made or granted pursuant to this Resolution) does not exceed 15% of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares and subsidiary holdings) (as calculated in accordance with subparagraph (2) below); Governance (2) (subject to such manner of calculation as may be prescribed by the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (“SGX-ST”)) for the purpose of determining the aggregate number of shares that may be issued under subparagraph (1) above, the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares and subsidiary holdings) shall be based on the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares and subsidiary holdings), at the time this Resolution is passed, after adjusting for: (i) new shares arising from the conversion or exercise of any convertible securities or share options or vesting of share awards which are outstanding or subsisting at the time this Resolution is passed; and Sustainability (ii) any subsequent bonus issue, consolidation or subdivision of shares, and, in sub-paragraph (1) above and this sub-paragraph (2), “subsidiary holdings” has the meaning given to it in the Listing Manual of the SGX-ST; (3) in exercising the authority conferred by this Resolution, the Company shall comply with the provisions of the Listing Manual of the SGX-ST for the time being in force (unless such compliance has been waived by the SGX-ST) and the Constitution for the time being of the Company; and Financials (4) (unless revoked or varied by the Company in General Meeting) the authority conferred by this Resolution shall continue in force until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date by which the next Annual General Meeting of the Company is required by law to be held, whichever is the earlier. Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 211 Notice of Twentieth Annual General Meeting 8 That authority be and is hereby given to the Directors to: Resolution 11 (a) offer and grant awards in accordance with the provisions of the StarHub Performance Share Plan 2014 (the “PSP 2014”) and/or the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan 2014 (the “RSP 2014”) (the PSP 2014 and the RSP 2014, together the “Share Plans”); and (b) allot and issue from time to time such number of ordinary shares as may be required to be allotted and issued pursuant to the vesting of awards granted under the Share Plans, provided that the aggregate number of ordinary shares allotted and issued under the Share Plans shall not exceed the limits specified in the rules of the Share Plans. 9 To transact such other business as may be transacted at an Annual General Meeting of the Company. By Order of the Board Veronica Lai Company Secretary Singapore, 4 April 2018 Notes: 1. (a) A member who is not a relevant intermediary is entitled to appoint not more than two proxies to attend, speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting. Where such member’s form of proxy appoints more than one proxy, the proportion of the shareholding concerned to be represented by each proxy shall be specified in the form of proxy. (b) A member who is a relevant intermediary is entitled to appoint more than two proxies to attend, speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting, but each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by such member. Where such member’s form of proxy appoints more than two proxies, the number and class of shares in relation to which each proxy has been appointed shall be specified in the form of proxy. “Relevant intermediary” has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 181 of the Companies Act, Cap. 50 of Singapore. 2. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. 3. The instrument appointing a proxy or proxies (a form is enclosed) must be lodged at the office of the Share Registrar of the Company, M & C Services Private Limited, at 112 Robinson Road, #05-01, Singapore 068902 (Attn: The Share Registrar) not less than 72 hours before the time appointed for the Annual General Meeting. Completion and return of the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies shall not preclude a member from attending and voting at the Annual General Meeting. In such event, the relevant instrument appointing a proxy or proxies will be deemed to be revoked. 4. In the case of an equality of votes under any one of the Resolutions set out above, the chairman will not exercise his entitlement to a casting vote at the Annual General Meeting of the Company notwithstanding Article 68 of the Constitution of the Company. Explanatory Notes: Resolution 7 Resolution 7 is to approve the payment of an aggregate sum of S$1,586,856.00, as Directors’ remuneration for the non-executive Directors of the Company (including Mr Takeshi Kazami who resigned as a non-executive Director on 4 August 2017) for the financial year ended 31 December 2017. If approved, each of the non-executive Directors will receive 70% of his/her Directors’ remuneration in cash and (with the exception of Mr Takeshi Kazami and Mr Naoki Wakai) 30% of his/her Directors’ remuneration in the form of a restricted share award. Mr Takeshi Kazami and Mr Naoki Wakai have declined the restricted share award grant and will only receive the cash component of their remuneration. See the section on “2. Remuneration Matters” in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report 2017 for the rationale in relation to the shares component of the non-executive Directors’ remuneration. The number of shares to be awarded will be based on the volume weighted average price of a share in the Company listed on the SGX-ST over the 14 trading days commencing on the ex-dividend date that immediately follows the Annual General Meeting. The number of shares to be awarded will be rounded down to the nearest hundred, with cash to be paid in lieu of the remaining shares arising. The restricted share awards will consist of the grant of fully paid shares, without any performance or vesting conditions attached. However, in order to encourage alignment of the interests of the Directors with the interests of shareholders, non-executive Directors who received the aforesaid restricted share award are required to hold shares worth at least (a) the prevailing annual basic retainer fee, or (b) the aggregate of (i) the total number of shares awarded as part of their remuneration for the financial year ended 31 December 2011 and each subsequent financial year thereafter and (ii) 50% of the total number of shares awarded from the financial year ended 31 December 2007 to the financial year ended 31 December 2010, whichever is lower. Non-executive Directors can dispose of all their shares one year after ceasing to be a Director. 212 Resolution 10 Overview Resolution 10 is to empower the Directors to issue shares and to make or grant instruments (such as warrants or debentures) convertible into shares, and to issue shares in pursuance of such instruments, up to a number not exceeding in total 50% of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares and subsidiary holdings), with a sub-limit of 15% for issues other than on a pro rata basis to shareholders. For the purpose of determining the aggregate number of shares that may be issued, the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares and subsidiary holdings) shall be based on the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares and subsidiary holdings) at the time that Resolution 10 is passed, after adjusting for (a) new shares arising from the conversion or exercise of any convertible securities or share options or vesting of share awards which are outstanding or subsisting at the time that Resolution 10 is passed, and (b) any subsequent bonus issue, consolidation or subdivision of shares. Resolution 11 Resolution 11 is to empower the Directors to offer and grant awards and to allot and issue ordinary shares pursuant to the Share Plans provided that the aggregate number of ordinary shares allotted and issued under the Share Plans shall not exceed the limits specified in the rules of the Share Plans. Approval for the adoption of the Share Plans was given by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 14 April 2014. The grant of awards under the respective Share Strategy Plans will be made in accordance with their respective provisions. NOTICE OF BOOKS CLOSURE AND FINAL DIVIDEND PAYMENT DATE Notice is hereby given that, subject to the approval of the shareholders to the final dividend at the Twentieth Annual General Meeting, the Register of Members and the Transfer Books of the Company will be closed on 27 April 2018. Duly completed registrable transfers received by the Company’s share registrar, M & C Services Private Limited, 112 Robinson Road, #05-01, Singapore 068902 up to the close of business at 5.00 p.m. on 26 April 2018 (“Entitlement Date”) will be registered to determine members’ Performance entitlements to the final dividend. Subject as aforesaid, persons whose securities accounts with The Central Depository (Pte) Limited are credited with ordinary shares as at 5.00 p.m. on the Entitlement Date will be entitled to the final dividend. The final dividend, if so approved by shareholders, will be paid on 10 May 2018. Personal data privacy: By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting and/or any adjournment thereof, a member of the Company (i) consents to the collection, use and disclosure of the member’s personal data by the Company (or its agents or service providers) for the purpose of the processing, administration and analysis by the Company (or its agents or service providers) of proxies and representatives appointed for the Annual Governance General Meeting (including any adjournment thereof) and the preparation and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating to the Annual General Meeting (including any adjournment thereof), and in order for the Company (or its agents or service providers) to comply with any applicable laws, listing rules, take-over rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the “Purposes”), (ii) warrants that where the member discloses the personal data of the member’s proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents or service providers), the member has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the collection, use and disclosure by the Company (or its agents or service providers) of the personal data of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes, and (iii) agrees that the member will indemnify the Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses and damages as a result of the member’s breach of warranty. Sustainability Financials Inspiring Change StarHub Ltd Annual Report 2017 213 Corporate Information Board of Directors Executive Resource and Auditors Steven Terrell CLONTZ (Chairman) Compensation Committee KPMG LLP TAN Tong Hai (CEO) TEO Ek Tor (Chairman) Public Accountants and Chartered Paul MA Kah Woh Stephen Geoffrey MILLER Accountants Nihal Vijaya Devadas KAVIRATNE CBE LIM Ming Seong 16 Raffles Quay #22-00 Rachel ENG Yaag Ngee Hong Leong Building TEO Ek Tor Risk Committee Singapore 048581 Stephen Geoffrey MILLER Stephen Geoffrey MILLER (Chairman) Partner-in-charge: ONG Chai Yan LIU Chee Ming TAN Tong Hai (appointed w.e.f. 1 January 2016) Michelle Lee GUTHRIE Paul MA Kah Woh LIM Ming Seong Subsidiaries Nasser MARAFIH Company Secretaries StarHub Mobile Pte Ltd Naoki WAKAI Veronica LAI Kwai-Yi StarHub Cable Vision Ltd. KONG Pooi Foong StarHub Internet Pte Ltd Audit Committee StarHub Online Pte Ltd Paul MA Kah Woh (Chairman) Registration Number StarHub Shop Pte Ltd Nihal Vijaya Devadas KAVIRATNE CBE 199802208C StarHub, Inc. Rachel ENG Yaag Ngee StarHub (Hong Kong) Limited LIM Ming Seong Registered Address StarHub (Mauritius) Ltd 67 Ubi Avenue 1 Nucleus Connect Pte. Ltd. Strategy Committee #05-01 StarHub Green Accel Systems & Technologies Pte. Ltd. Nihal Vijaya Devadas KAVIRATNE CBE Singapore 408942 D’Crypt Pte Ltd (Chairman) Tel : (65) 6825 5000 Steven Terrell CLONTZ Fax : (65) 6721 5000 Associate Stephen Geoffrey MILLER SHINE Systems Assets Pte. Ltd. LIU Chee Ming Share Registrar Michelle Lee GUTHRIE M & C Services Private Limited Investor Relations LIM Ming Seong 112 Robinson Road #05-01 For enquiries on the Group’s business Nikhil O. J. EAPEN Singapore 068902 performance, contact the Investor Relations team at email: ir@starhub.com Nominating Committee Rachel ENG Yaag Ngee (Chairman) Steven Terrell CLONTZ TEO Ek Tor All rights reserved. Some of the information in this report constitute “forward looking statements” which reflect StarHub’s current intentions, plans, expectations, assumptions and beliefs about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which may be outside StarHub’s control. You are urged to view all forwardlooking statements with caution. No information herein should be reproduced without the express written permission of StarHub. All information herein is correct at the time of publication. For updated information, please contact our Corporate Office. 214 IMPORTANT 1. Relevant intermediaries as defined in Section 181 of the Companies Act, Cap 50 of Singapore, may appoint more than two proxies to attend, speak and vote at Proxy Form the Annual General Meeting. 2. For CPF/SRS investors who have used their CPF/SRS moneys to buy StarHub Ltd Twentieth Annual General Meeting shares, this form of proxy is not valid for use and shall be ineffective for all intents and purposes if used or purported to be used by them. CPF/SRS investors should STARHUB LTD contact their respective Agent Banks/SRS Operators if they have any queries (Incorporated in the Republic of Singapore) regarding their appointment as proxies. Co. Reg. No. 199802208C 3. By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s), the member accepts and agrees to the personal data privacy terms set out in the Notice of the Twentieth Annual General Meeting dated 4 April 2018. 4. Please be informed that StarHub Ltd will not be serving food at the Annual General Meeting. Tea and coffee will be provided. I/We, NRIC/Passport/Co. Reg. No. of (Address) being a member/members of StarHub Ltd (the “Company”) hereby appoint: NRIC/Passport Proportion of Name Address Number Shareholdings (%) and/or (delete as appropriate) as my/our proxy/proxies to attend, speak and vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company to be held at Meeting Room 331, Level 3, Suntec Singapore Convention & Exhibition Centre, 1 Raffles Boulevard, Suntec City, Singapore 039593 on 19 April 2018 at 10.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof. I/We direct my/our proxy/proxies to vote for or against the Resolutions to be proposed at the AGM as indicated hereunder. In the absence of specific directions, the proxy/proxies will vote or abstain as he/they may think fit, as he/they will on any other matter arising at the AGM and at any adjournment thereof. No. Resolutions For * Against * Ordinary Business 1 To receive and adopt the Directors’ Statement and the Audited Financial Statements and the Auditors’ Report therein 2 To re-elect Ms Michelle Lee Guthrie as Director 3 To re-elect Mr Naoki Wakai as Director 4 To re-elect Mr Steven Terrell Clontz as Director 5 To re-elect Mr Nihal Vijaya Devadas Kaviratne as Director 6 To re-elect Dr Nasser Marafih as Director 7 To approve the Directors’ Remuneration 8 To declare the Final Dividend 9 To re-appoint KPMG LLP as Auditors and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration Special Business 10 To authorise Directors to allot and issue shares 11 To authorise Directors to offer and grant awards and to allot and issue shares pursuant to, and subject to the limits specified in, the StarHub Performance Share Plan 2014 and the StarHub Restricted Stock Plan 2014 * If you wish to exercise all your votes “For” or “Against” the relevant Resolution, please tick (√) within the relevant box provided. Alternatively, if you wish to exercise your votes both “For” and “Against” the relevant Resolution, please indicate the number of Shares in the boxes provided. * Voting will be conducted by poll. Dated this day of 2018. Total Number of Shares Held Signature(s) or Common Seal of members IMPORTANT: PLEASE READ NOTES OVERLEAF 3rd fold here & fold flap Affix Postage Stamp STARHUB LTD 112 Robinson Road #05-01 Singapore 068902 Attn: The Share Registrar 2nd fold here Notes: 1. Please insert the total number of shares held by you. If you have shares entered against your name in the Depository Register (maintained by The Central Depository (Pte) Limited), you should insert that number of shares. If you only have shares registered in your name in the Register of Members (maintained by or on behalf of the Company), you should insert that number of shares. If you have shares entered against your name in the Depository Register and shares registered in your name in the Register of Members, you should insert the aggregate number of shares. If no number is inserted, the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies shall be deemed to relate to all the shares held by you. 2. (a) A member who is not a relevant intermediary is entitled to appoint not more than two proxies to attend, speak and vote at the meeting. Where such member’s form of proxy appoints more than one proxy, the proportion of the shareholding concerned to be represented by each proxy shall be specified in the form of proxy. (b) A member who is a relevant intermediary is entitled to appoint more than two proxies to attend, speak and vote at the meeting, but each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by such member. Where such member’s form of proxy appoints more than two proxies, the number and class of shares in relation to which each proxy has been appointed shall be specified in the form of proxy. “Relevant intermediary” has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 181 of the Companies Act, Cap. 50 of Singapore. 3. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. 4. The instrument appointing a proxy or proxies must be deposited at the office of the Share Registrar of the Company, M & C Services Private Limited, at 112 Robinson Road, #05-01, Singapore 068902, not less than 72 hours before the time appointed for the Annual General Meeting. Completion and return of the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies shall not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting. In such event, the relevant instrument appointing a proxy or proxies will be deemed to be revoked. 5. The instrument appointing a proxy or proxies must be under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in writing. Where the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies is executed by a corporation, it must be executed either under its seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised. Where an instrument appointing a proxy is signed on behalf of the appointor by an attorney, the letter or power of attorney or a duly certified copy thereof must (failing previous registration with the Company) be lodged with the instrument of proxy, failing which the instrument may be treated as invalid. 6. A corporation which is a member may authorise by resolution of its directors or other governing body such person as it thinks fit to act as its representative at the Annual General Meeting, in accordance with Section 179 of the Companies Act, Cap. 50 of Singapore. 7. The Company shall be entitled to reject the instrument appointing a proxy or proxies if it is incomplete, improperly completed or illegible or where the true intentions of the appointor are not ascertainable from the instructions of the appointor specified in the instrument (including any related attachment) appointing a proxy or proxies. In addition, in the case of a member whose shares are entered against his name in the Depository Register, the Company may reject any instrument appointing a proxy or proxies lodged if the member, being the appointor, is not shown to have shares entered against his name in the Depository Register 72 hours before the time appointed for holding the Annual General Meeting as certified by The Central Depository (Pte) Limited to the Company. 1st fold here a big THANK YOU to the Inspiring StarHubbers & Little Ones Justin Ang HEAD, PRODUCT Improving our customers' lives is what inspires us in the creation of who have made this annual our products and services. report a more vibrant and colourful one with their bright Natasha Ang JUSTIN’S DAUGHTER smiles and warm personalities. I am a competitive rock climber and avid netballer who loves free unlimited weekend data. Colin Ang Javis Lee Amanda Seow Nicholas Koh SOLUTIONS MARKETING HUMAN RESOURCE BRAND EXPERIENCE ACCOUNT DIRECTOR, MEDIA SALES I love promoting smart ICT solutions I am part of the StarHub team My inspiration comes from my As a media solutions specialist for to the market so that businesses solving the problems of today and colleagues. Their passion and our partners across the changing can constantly grow and progress inspiring to build a better tomorrow. support at work helps to motivate landscape, I am inspired by the through change. me in creating great work and power of great storytelling and a overcome any challenges. game of tennis. Avea Victoria San Miguel Annabelle Tan Kallista Chek SENIOR ENGINEER, CONVERGED SUSTAINABILITY CHAMPION APPLICATIONS & VAS PLANNING I love dancing and watching Seeing how individuals can make dance and entertainment programs It excites me to be working with a difference in our community and on StarHub TV. I aspire to be on people from different teams, and help environment inspires me to do my TV one day! StarHub launch new services that will part too! help usher in the new IoT era. Shareholders’ Feedback If you would like to give us any feedback on this year’s Annual Report, please send your written comments to our investor relations team at StarHub Ltd 67 Ubi Ave 1, #05-01 StarHub Green, S(408942) or email to ir@starhub.com StarHub Ltd Reg. No.: 199802208C 67 Ubi Avenue 1, #05-01 StarHub Green, Singapore 408942 T 6825 5000 F 6721 5000 www.starhub.com
