UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – COP Participant Name : M/s Krishak Bharati Cooperative Ltd. Country : India Sector : Cooperative Sector Annual Time Period Covered : 2017-2018 (Financial Year AprilMarch) Contact Person : Sh. S.S. Yadav, ED (HR) Contact E-mail : ssyadav@kribhco.net Date : 5th November, 2018 Other Relevant Links : www.kribhco.net UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COP 2017-18 KRIBHCO (KRISHAK BHARATI COOPERATIVE LIMITED) KRISHAK BHARATI COOPERATIVE LIMITED (KRIBHCO) – AN OVERVIEW KRIBHCO has setup a Fertilizer Complex to manufacture Urea, Ammonia & Bio-fertilizers at Hazira in the State of Gujarat, on the bank of river Tapti, 15 Kms from Surat city on Surat – Hazira State Highway. Hazira Fertiliser Complex consists of 2 x 1350 MTPD Ammonia Plants and 4 x 1100 MTPD Urea Plants each with annual installed capacity of 8.91 Lakh MT Ammonia and 14.52 Lakh MT of Urea. In an endeavour to make constant improvements, KRIBHCO implemented various schemes to enhance its capacity and improve the energy consumption. Capacities of Ammonia & Urea plants were reassessed to 2x1520 MTPD Ammonia and 4x1310 MTPD Urea with annual installed capacity of 10.03 Lakh MT Ammonia and 17.29 Lakh MT of Urea. The Hazira Fertilizer Complex was subsequently revamped in 2013 to increase its capacity by 4.65 LMTPA Urea as well as to infuse new life. After the revamp, the rated capacity has been enhanced to 2x3325 MTPD Urea (21.95 LMTPA) and 2x1890 MTPD Ammonia (12.47 LMTPA). With this, the Hazira Fertilizer Complex has become the largest Single Location Urea Plant in India. Vision: We want to be a World Class Organization that Represent the Farmer Community and Maximizes returns to them through specialization in Agricultural inputs and products and other diversified businesses that maximize stakeholders value. Mission: To act as a Catalyst to Agricultural and Rural Development by selecting, financing and managing projects that are both socially desirable and commercially profitable. Objectives:  To undertake the activities for the rural upliftment and agriculture development.  To promote economic interest of its members by undertaking manufacturing of chemical fertilizer and allied products.  To enhance the urea installed capacity and increasing its market share. KRIBHCO has made remarkable progress in the areas of production, productivity and all other parameters of performance and has made significant strides towards structured community initiatives in line with the overall CSR philosophy. KRIBHCO has an exemplary track record in the areas of Health, Safety and Environment and is consistently upgrading its performance on safety indices and delivering beyond statutory norms. Our community initiatives have contributed positively to the lives of people in the areas where we operate. KRIBHCO strives to:  Be compliant with labour laws of the country we operate in. Uphold human rights aligned with national and international regulations as applicable;  Ensure that our employees including contract employees are fairly and reasonably paid and remuneration structure is compliant with statutory obligations of the jurisdiction we operate in. Our operations will be based on zero tolerance for any form of forced, compulsory or child labour directly or through contracted labour. We recognise and respect employee rights to associate freely and to collective bargaining. We promote fair working conditions as guided by international conventions wherever applicable;  Be an equal opportunity employer, all employees will be treated with respect and dignity and judged solely on their performance irrespective of their race, religion, caste, gender, age, disability, HIV/AIDS status and any other characteristic;  Respect and preserve the culture and heritage of the local stakeholders including socially vulnerable groups which are impacted by our operations activities and work towards developing a constructive relationship with such groups and local communities, seeking broad-based support for our operation activities;  Respect the social, economic, cultural and human rights of communities stakeholders and will regularly communicate social performance in an accurate, transparent and timely manner;  Work with Government and Regulatory agencies to develop a common understanding and agreement to protect human rights in the event of any unforeseen situations. We will ensure protection of our people, equipment and assets. Our units have Grievance Redressal mechanisms that are accessible, accountable and fair, which let our stakeholders raise concerns without fear of recrimination. Human rights training are provided to all the new joinees and Security personnel. KRIBHCO, being a member of Global Compact Network maintains its active status by submitting annual report for adhering to Global Compact Principles. The brief report on various activities undertaken by KRIBHCO showing its commitment towards Global Compact Principles is as under: 1. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. An organization is nothing without human resources. Human Recourse Development is concern with the people dimension in development. Since organization is made up of people, acquiring their services, developing their skills, motivating them to high level of performance and ensuring that they continue to maintain their commitment to the organization are essential to achieving organizational objectives. It is well aware that Training and Development are very vital in organization that aims at progressing inclusive of decision making, thinking creativity and managing workforce like; help in addressing employee weakness, improvement in workers performance, consistency in duty performance, ensuring work satisfaction, increasing productivity, improved quality of services and product, reduced cost etc. On continuous basis, KRIBHCO has made special efforts for development of employees through various HRD activities such as in house, external training programs, lectures etc. These HRD activities are based on identified developmental and functional training needs of employees and to achieve organizational growth to meet global challenges in the field of Production, Services, Safety, Profit and social growth. The following activities were organized by KRIBHCO HRD Department:  HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES Human Resource Development aims at developing a variety of competencies of employees and developing a culture in the Organization to utilize these competencies and contribute to organizational growth. Human Resource Development is concerned with the people’s multidimensional development. Since organization is made up of people, acquiring their services, developing their skills, motivating them to high level of performance and ensuring that they continue to maintain their commitment to the organization, are essential for achieving organizational objectives.  Knowledge Imparting HRD is imparting and continuously monitoring performance of society trainees i.e. GETs, Society Trainees & Apprentice Trainees. Presently total 92 nos. of Trainees inclusive of 13 Nos. of GETs, 32 Nos. of Society Trainees and 47 Nos. of Apprentice are taking training at HRD, KRIBHCO Surat on continuous basis.  Summer Training Summer training was provided to 22 students from different Institutes in different discipline at Corporate Office, Noida.  Induction Training Program Induction training programs are being organized from time-to-time for the new joinees in various disciplines.  Developmental Training Program: Training is a learning experience and key of progress & development of workforce and organization. Learning is concerned with bringing about relatively permanent change as a result of experience. Looking to importance of Training and Learning KRIBHCO HRD Department organized 24 Developmental Training Programmes during the year at Plant, Surat. During the period several functional Training Programme were also organized alongwith Developmental Training Programmes. HRD Department KRIBHCO, Surat has made efforts for development of employees through soft skill based training programmes like Grow More, Design Your Destiny, Winning the People, Building your Work Culture, Change before it is too late and First Aid. Functional Training Programmes were also organized. These HRD activities are based on identified developmental training needs of employees to achieve organizational goal to meet challenges. 554 no. of employees have attended the above said programmes and taken benefit. HRD at Corporate Office has organized and conducted 10 in-house training programs for the development of 531+ and 16 outside training programs for the development of over 94+ employees.  Gender Sensitization Workshop HRD at Corporate Office, NOIDA organised a Management Development Program on “Gender Sensitisation at Work Place” for Officials/Executives. The objective of this MDP was to sensitise the participating officials regarding prevalent gender inequalities in the society, to enable them to reflect upon their own socialisation process and attempt to break that influence, to educate the participants on the status of women and the impact on development of the nation, to appreciate the need for sensitivity in their roles as good Indian Citizens and as professionals dealing with cases of brutality against women, to teach them proper codes of conduct while dealing with women as victims, criminals or informers/witnesses etc.  International Women’s Day All around the world, International Women's Day is celebrated every year. In day to day life, lot of problems are faced by women and hence educating them with the knowledge, skills and self-confidence is necessary to enable them participating fully in the development process. Women’s Day 2018 was celebrated in Corporate Office, NOIDA on 8th March 2018 on this year’s theme “PRESS FOR PROGRESS”. During the day, various activities were organized for all female employees like Motivational talk, Quiz on good relationship at workplace, stress at work, healthy diet, medical issues, women personalities etc., Talk by a medical expert, etc.  Monthly Birthday Celebration Birthday recognition is a good way to build team culture. By celebrating employees’ birthday at workplace, we can make them feel special and demonstrate that the Society cares about them. On recognizing employees’ birthdays, KRIBHCO can boost employee morale and motivation while increasing productivity. Celebrating employees’ birthdays may serve as a tool to boost employee retention, employee engagement and team-bonding. Team HRD at Corporate Office, NOIDA has taken a new initiative to celebrate the birthday of employees of KRIBHCO at end of each month for those who share their birthdays during that particular month. The activity includes a formal welcome of all participants and cake cutting ceremony alongwith birthday jingle in background.  Hindi week celebrations KRISHAK BHARATI COOPERATIVE (KRIBHCO) has sufficient staff to implement Official Language Policy. An Official Language Implementation Committee (OLIC) has been constituted in Corporate Office under the chairmanship of Hon’ble Managing Director. OLIC meetings are organized regularly. Follow-up actions are taken on the decisions of these meetings. Quarterly progress reports of Hindi received from all SMO’s/AO’s/Plant Office are reviewed during the year. To ensure Hindi activities and its progressive use, one employee in each State Marketing Office/Area Office has been designated. A two days Hindi workshop was organized on 27th 28th October, 2017 for such Hindi designated employees working in SMO’s/AO’s located in the states of north India wherein 30 employees were imparted training to work on computer in Hindi. Besides this, Unicode, Google voice like e-tools and Official Language Act /rules related information was also given. To motivate the employees for doing their official work in Hindi, a running trophy has been introduced in KRIBHCO Head Office. This trophy is awarded to a section which has highest Hindi correspondence during the year. In order to motivate the staff for doing official work in Hindi, a cash incentive schemes continued in the Society. Ten employees were awarded cash prizes under the annual cash incentive scheme at HO for doing their official work in Hindi throughout the year. Employees doing their official work in Hindi are nominated in Hindi training/ workshops. Hindi Teaching Scheme implementation is continuing. Special allowance is given to those English typist and steno cadre employees who are doing Hindi typing work along with their English typing work. A Hindi library is functioning well at corporate office where more than 550 Hindi literature books are available for the employees. Hindi Pakhwara, Hindi Week and Hindi Day were organized at Corporate Office, NOIDA from 4th to 18th September, 2017. Many competitions like Hindi dictation, Hindi essay writing, Hindi noting/drafting, Hindi grammar knowledge & Hindi general knowledge quiz etc. were organized & Winners of these competitions were awarded. Around 100 employees from different departments participated in these competitions. Hindi week & Hindi Day was celebrated in Plant/State Marketing Offices/Area Offices also. Hindi inspections of 04 sections at HO were conducted by Hindi Section during the year. On the eve of New Year, Hindi poems and songs were cited by the employees of KRIBHCO as a part of cultural programmes. KRIBHCO is always committed towards implementation of Official Language policy and create Hindi atmosphere in the organization.  Functional Training Programme 171 nos. of Employee/Trainees have taken benefits and enhanced their knowledge & skills through 9 No. of Functional Training Programmes like Advance Process Control, Induction Training for Apprentice, new Society Trainees, Induction Training for GETs and Refresher Training on Fire & Safety for HAEP which were organized during this period.  External Sponsorship Training Programme An External Training Programme was organized on the subject Group Discussion on Operation and maintenance problem of Urea Plant by FAI from 13th July to 15th July 2017 at Nangal, Punjab and three employees from Plant attended this External Training Programme. Two days External Training from 5th December to 6th December 2017 was organized on Fire Prevention and Protection by National Safety Council at Hotel Plaza, Ankleshwar (Gujarat). Two employees from Plant attended this Fire Prevention and Protection Training.  Yoga Day Celebration Yoga is an ancient physical, mental and spiritual practice having its origin in India. Yoga aims to transform both body and mind. The United Nations General Assembly declared June 21st as the International Day of Yoga. The declaration came after the call for the adoption of June 21st as International Day of Yoga by Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi during his address to UN General Assembly in 2014. Yoga Day is celebrated to enhance the awareness about yoga benefits among common public all over the world. It is celebrated to let people know that regular yoga practice leads to better mental, physical and intellectual health. It positively changes the lifestyle of the people and increases the level of well-being. In order to commemorate the occasion, KRIBHCO organized Yoga Training program for all the employees in KRIBHCO Bhawan, on 21 June 2018 in four sessions. All the employees from Corporate Office participated in the International Yoga Day with full enthusiasm.  Plant Visit KRIBHCO Fertilizer complex is largest Urea Plant in Cooperative Sector, so several Cooperative Leaders, Cooperative Society Members, Cooperative Marketing personnel, Farmers College, University level Students and Researchers come for KRIBHCO Plant visit. 3297 visitors have visited KRIBHCO Plant up to December, 2017. Two groups of RGB Delegates from MP also visited KRIBHCO Plant during April 2017. A meeting was arranged at HRD Conference hall. Delegates were addressed and were explained about KRIIBCHO’s Production performance process of manufacturing of UREA and Bio-fertilizers and its logistics arrangements for timely supply of KRIBHCO’s products up to the door step of the farmers.  Visit of Shri Mansukhbhai Mandaviya, Hon’ble Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways, Shipping, Chemicals and Fertilizers to KRIBHCO Plant, Hazira. Hon’ble Minister of State, Shri Mansukhbhai Mandaviya along with Smt. Zankhanaben Patel, MLA, Chauryasi-Surat were welcomed at KRIBHCO Plant by Operations Director and Senior Officers of KRIBHCO. A Guard of Honour was also arranged at KRIBHCO Plant on 18th June 2017. He also visited various departments like Plant Ammonia Control Room, Product Handling Plant, Rail yard and Jetty. Operations Director appraised him about plant operations and performance of KRIBHCO, KRIL & Jetty. A press conference was also held at KRIBHCO Jetty wherein large number of Print & Electronic media personnel was present. Hon’ble Minister of State, Shri Mansukhbhai Mandaviya along with Operations Director and other senior officials of KRIBHCO at VIP Guest House, KRIBHCO. Hon’ble Minister of State, Shri Mansukhbhai Mandaviya along with Smt. Jankhanaben Patel, MLA, Chauryasi-Surat, Operations Director and other senior officials of KRIBHCO at Jetty. Hon’ble Minister Shri Mansukhbhai Mandaviya, Smt. Zankhanaben, MLA is briefing media personnel at KRIBHCO Jetty in the presence of Operations Director and other senior officials of KRIBHCO. Guard of Honour is being presented to Shri Mansukhbhai Mandavia, Hon’ble MoS for Chemicals & Fertilizers on 18.06.2017 at KRIBHCO Plant  Visit of delegates from IDACA, Japan A two member delegation from the Institute for Development of Agriculture Cooperation in Asia (IDACA) headed by Shri Toru Nakashima, Manager (Training / Development), IDACA, Japan, and accompanied by Ms Hiroko Tayama, Programme Coordinator, IDACA, Japan, visited India from 12-17 February 2018. The delegates visited Krishak Bharati Co-operative Limited (KRIBHCO), where they were apprised about the activities undertaken by an agricultural cooperative in India for the benefit of farmers. The delegates were delighted to see the soil & seed testing laboratory in the KRIBHCO headquarters in NOIDA that is helping the farmers to increase the productivity.  Technical Library At HRD Department, KRIBHCO, Surat a Technical Library is established which is providing books on Technical, Engineering, Power, Chemical, Production of urea and other fields related to fertilizer industry. Approx. 5303 Library visitors/readers have taken benefit of books. An E-Library is also running which is providing online articles to readers.  Vocational Training Vocational Training is important part of Industrial Education. KRIBHCO is also providing Vocational /Industry Training facility to Under Graduate, Post Graduate and Research Students under their Social responsibility commitment.  Productivity Week Celebration This year the main theme of the Productivity Week was “Industry 4.0 Leapfrog Opportunity for India”. In order to create awareness of Industry 4.0 or the fourth industrial revolution i.e. about the current trend of automation and data exchange in manufacturing technologies, the National Productivity Week was celebrated at KRIBHCO, Plant, Surat and Corporate Office, NOIDA from 12th to 18th February, 2018. During this Productivity week, various competitions like writing, debate, slogan writing competition in different languages were conducted at Plant Surat. Winners of these competitions were awarded with prizes. Lecture from an outside expert was also organized at Corporate Office, NOIDA to increase the awareness about the theme.  Celebration of Hindi Week Hindi week was celebrated at KRIBHCO, Plant Hazira from 7th to 14th September 2017. During this week, Hindi Knowledge, Hindi Noting Drafting, Hindi Calligraphy, Hindi Extempore, Debate, declamation, Posture Making, etc. various competitions were organized for the residents of KRIBHCO Township at Hazira wherein people participated with enthusiasm. Prizes were also distributed to winners of different competitions. GM (HR) mentioned in his welcome address that Hindi is not just a language, but a foundation for Indian Society and Culture. The main feature of this year Hindi Week was that unlike previous years, many new competitions were conducted wherein employees participated with full rigour. At Corporate Office NOIDA, during the Hindi Week different competitions like Hindi Noting, Drafting, Hindi Calligraphy, General Awareness Quiz, etc. were also organized and employees of Corporate Office participated with eagerness. Prizes were also distributed to winners of different competitions.  Senior Citizen Club Ashirwad Club KRIBHCO also supports “Ashirwad” in its Township at Surat where Senior Citizens are provided facilities for meetings, prayers, reading Newspapers and religious books. Also, celebrations of Foundation Day, Annual excursion trips to nearby religious places were organized as a welfare measure for the senior citizens. AshirwadA senior citizen club in KRIBHCO Township was established on 14th July 2001. The club has completed 17 successful years, on 14th July 2017. On this occasion Satyanarayan Pooja was performed to celebrate the joyous journey of this club by the club members.  Gandhi Jayanti On the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi’s Birthday on 2nd October 2017 an exhibition-cum-sale of KHADI products was arranged at Shopping complex in KRIBHCO-Plant Township. As a part of celebration a “Prabhat Pheri” by the students of Sunflower School was also arranged and wherein Operations Director addressed the students-teachers highlighting the Gandhian Values and Ideas and advised the students to remember our Father of the nation and the sacrifice made by him for freedom movement of INDIA. Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh and Rani Laxmibai.  SAI MANDIR PUJA & MAHAPRASADAM On January 25th devotees from KRIBHCO Plant and nearby villages attended the Puja at Sai Mandir and feasted on the Mahaprasadam that was served on the occasion.  MAKAR SANKRANTI (PATANG UTSAV) Makar Sankranti is dedicated to the Sun God and like most festivals it is celebrated to convey gratitude to nature for its resources. Apart from various spiritual practices that are observed on the occasion, the festival is well known for flying kites. This year, KRIBHCO Staff Club organized Patang Utsav at KRIBHCO Plant Sports Complex, wherein everyone, young and old, participated with great zeal.  SARASWATI PUJA Basant Panchami marks the arrival of springBasant means “spring” and Panchami means “the fifth day”. On this pious day, devotees worship Goddess Saraswati who signifies knowledge, learning, arts, and culture. Like every year, this year too Saraswati Puja was celebrated at KRIBHCO Plant Township on Basant Panchami at Officers’ Club Auditorium. A large number of devotees from every nook and corner of the society took part in the puja. This festive moment is considered as one of the greatest moments of cultural heritage of India; wherein people meet and greet, express love and gratitude each other.  Ganesh Utsav Ganesh Yuva Mandal of KRIBHCO Plant Township arranged Ganesh Utsav from 25th August 2017 to 5th September 2017. On this auspicious day of Ganesh Chaturthi the idol of Lord Ganesh was enshrined and everyday Aarti of Lord Ganesh was performed. In addition to poojas and aartis, various entertainment programs & competitions were held regularly for the township children. A blood donation camp was also organized by the mandal wherein many township residents donated blood. On the concluding day of Ganesh Visarjan after the Poojas, a big procession with large number of township residents participated for immersion of Idol at River Tapti.  Navaratri Celebration The Navaratri Festival is being celebrated in the state of Gujarat with spirituality, deity and for blessings of Maa Durga, Amba & Mahakali. In KRIBHCO Plant Township every year Navaratri is celebrated with lot of zeal and enthusiasm. This year also the Navaratri was held during September 2017. This is one of the most popular religious festivals of Gujarat. The program was organized by KRIBHCO Navaratri Mandal with the support of the management. The open air ground was decorated with the colorful lighting and theme based artistic idol of goddess Amba was enshrined and daily Pooja-Aarti and Raas Garba was performed by the township residents in large numbers with traditional colorful dresses and with no age bar.  Ravan Dahan To celebrate the victory over evil, Ravan Dahan was carried out at Open Air Theatre, Plant Township in the presence of huge number of township residents. The various types of Fire crackers were burst during the celebration.  Vikram Samvat 2074 (Hindu New Year) The Hindu New Year, Vikram Samvat 2074 was celebrated on 20th October 2017. On this occasion, a get-together “Madhur Milan” was arranged at Community Hall, Plant Surat to exchange greetings. The function was inaugurated by lighting the lamp. The attraction of the celebration was the eye-catching Rangoli.  Vishwakarma Pooja To acknowledge that Lord Vishwakarma alone is the creator of universe and to offer worship and thankfulness to him the Vishwakarma Pooja was organized on 17th September 2017 at Plant, Surat at large scale. Lord Vishwakarma is described as the ultimate reality and whose name in Sanskrit means “All Accomplishing” and is believed to be “Principal Universal Architect” who gave form to the celestial architecture of all that is in universe with his own hands. On this auspicious day of Vishwakarma Pooja, the entire management, employees and workers come together to offer the Pooja to the tools and are worshipped in the name of Lord Vishwakarma.  MAY DAY (International Labour Day) May Day (International Labour Day) as well as Gujarat Establishment Day were celebrated in KRIBHCO Township on 1 May 2018. The May Day was celebrated in a cheerful atmosphere as a cultural group presented a scintillating performance a musical orchestra program & Event Management with renowned artists. The program was attended by dignitaries and township residents in large numbers. Shri N Sambasiva Rao, Managing Director, in his address, highlighted the history of the labour movement struggle undergone by the labour force and the subsequent labour reforms. He praised the KRIBHCO employees for their continuous efforts to increase the productivity and outstanding performance.  71st Independence Day Celebration It is a matter of pride for each and every Indian to salute mother India and to celebrate Independence Day every year on 15th August. Keeping the memories of freedom struggle by our national leaders, this year too KRIBHCO Plant, Surat celebrated 71st Independence Day 2017 at KRIBHCO Plant township with great honour, respect and enthusiasm. On this occasion, flag hoisting was followed by march-past by personnel of Security Department and students of Sunflower School and Kendriya Vidyalaya. Students of both the schools and kids of Bal Bhavan (run by Jagruti Mahila Club, KRIBHCO) presented patriotic song including on the theme of ‘Role of Unsung Heroes of India’s Freedom Struggle’. A large number of employees, their family members and other associates were gathered to celebrate this occasion. With a view to boost the morale of employees, prizes and certificates were distributed by Operations Director for their commendable suggestions and excellent performance for betterment of KRIBHCO Plant. Independence Day was also celebrated with great rigour at Corporate Office, NOIDA. Managing Director hoisted the national flag which was followed by patriotic songs by wards of KRIBHCO employees. Besides this, prizes were also distributed to meritorious wards of KRIBHCO employees from Plant and Corporate Office for their outstanding academic achievements.  REPUBLIC DAY CELEBRATIONS At Corporate Office, NOIDA, Shri N Sambasiva Rao, Managing Director, hoisted the national flag and addressed the employees and their families on the occasion. Employees chosen for their commendable performance were awarded with appreciation certificates and cash. The 69th Republic Day was celebrated at KRIBHCO Plant Township with full enthusiasm and national fervour. After guard of honour, flag hoisting was done at Open Air Theatre Ground, KRIBHCO Plant Township. 167 employees of the plant were presented with Exemplary Performance Award & Suggestion Award to recognise their contribution for sustained plant operation and enhancement in productivity. Moreover, 21 employees including dependent wards were presented Sports & Games Awards for their outstanding performance in various sports events at District, State & National level. The programme was concluded with Colourful Dance Performance on patriotic songs by School Children of Jagruti Bal bhavan, Sunflower School and Kendriya Vidyalaya.  Swacch Bharat Abhiyan: Green KRIBHCO, Clean KRIBHCO As we all know that Swachh Bharat Abhiyan is a national mission to make India’s street roads and infrastructure clean by 2019. Under this programme it is expected to bring about a behavioural change of the people in general and improving the cleanliness and scientific disposal/ recycling of soiled waste. As part of this mission and to make KRIBHCO Township neat and clean, “Clean KRIBHCO, Green KRIBHCO”, cleanliness drives were held in the township. With the aim of cleaning and beautifying the township, many residents came together and participated in the drives with zest. Efforts were made by the Plant Township residents for keeping it and nearby areas clean & green under Prime Minister’s ‘Swachha Bharat Abhiyan’.  BHARAT MANDIR PRAN PRATISHTHA After undertaking major renovation work of Bharat Mandir, Pran Pratishtha was celebrated on 21st February 2018. On this occasion, idols were deconsecrated in the temple which was followed by Yagya. Large number of devotees attended the ceremony and took blessings. Hon’ble Managing Director Sh. N. Sambasiva Rao offered Yagna and pooja. Employees & families and people from nearby villages participated in large number. The function was concluded with distribution of Mahaprasad to all devotees at mandir premises.  HOLI & DHULENDI CELEBRATIONS Holika Dahan was celebrated on 1st March at the Open Air Theatre Ground, Plant wherein, the residents celebrated the victory of good over evil by lighting the bonfire. On 2nd March, Dhulendi Milan Samaroh was organized, wherein residents exchanged Holi greetings with each other. The township, like every year, was yet again smeared in various colors on the occasion thereby bearing witness to the fun that people had on the occasion.  47th NATIONAL SAFETY DAY National Safety Day is celebrated on 4th March, every year to reaffirm the commitment of Industrial employees and general public to work safely. At KRIBHCO Plant, this year, National Safety Day was observed on 6th March. The theme for this year of National safety day was “Reinforce Positive Behaviour at Workplace”. To mark the occasion, various activities like Safety Slogan Competition, Safety Poster Competition, Safety Quiz, Essay writing competition, and competition for fire hydrant drill and SCBA Set were organized for the employees, workers and school children. 130 no. of employees, 121 school children and 39 contract workers participated in various activities organized on Safety Day. Different Safety Activities during the National Safety Week On the eve of National safety Day, safety reports of KRIBHCO & HAEP were presented. The year 2017 was completed with ZERO Injury in KRIBHCO & HAEP plant premises.  BI-CYCLE RACE To encourage sporting spirits amongst employees and children, KRIBHCO Staff club has organized a Bi-cycle race for the employees and their wards at Township Plant on 25th February 2018. In this event many employees and children participated and the winners were given prizes by the Staff Club.  SURAT MARATHON 2018 (Run for New India) The“Run for New India” held at Surat on 25th February 2018, wherein many employees and their wards took part in events like half marathon 21.1 KM, Run for 5 KM and free run along with runners from different countries including professionals.  KRIBHCO Woman’s Jagruti Club During the month of August and September, Woman’s Jagruti Club organized Umbrella Dance with colorful dresses and celebration for Navratri with songs, dances, bhajans, etc. In the month of October, special decorations are done with Rangoli. The poor families are distributed free grains, woolen clothes by Jagruti Club KRIBHCO Mahila Jagruti Club is conducting regular medical check-up camps for the labours and their families in nearby labour colony. An amount of Rs.50, 309/(Rupees Fifty Thousand Three Hundred and Nine only) was spent towards the cost of medicines which were distributed to the poor patients during the medical check-up camps. Additionally, other social welfare programmes like distribution of food grains, blankets, bed sheets and other woollen clothes to the poor families in nearby villages. Along with it, earthen pots were also distributed by the club to the poor families. The Bal Bhavan School (Pre-Nursery) is being run by the Mahila Jagruti Club for the children of poor labours in township.  COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES/CSR Activities To reduce the stress of the employees & their families in day-to-day life, regular Meditation, Yoga, Dance, Sports events, cultural programmes etc. are being organized periodically for the Plant Township residents. As a part of Corporate Social Responsibility, KRIBHCO Plant has carried out Rural Development Activities in nearby villages such as providing educational kits worth Rs.52,909/to primary school students of Kawas & Ichchapore Primary School. In KRIBHCO’s adopted village– Kawas, drinking water is provided to villagers free of cost and the approximate expenditure is around Rs. 60 Lacs per annum. To provide better educational facilities to the nearby villagers, KRIBHCO is running two schools up to 12th standard; one Gujarati Medium and one English medium at our Plant township, Surat. The total cost of running the schools is around Rs. 430 Lacs. KRIBHCO Karmachari Sahkari Dhiran & Purvata Society Limited, the employees’ credit society has collected warm clothes & blankets from Plant township residents and distributed it to poor and needy villagers in the tribal district of Dang area. The villagers appreciated the efforts and help provided by KRIBHCO & KKSD & PSL.  Public Outreach Program Agriculture income is the main strength of farmers. A large number of them are members of our member cooperatives; KRIBHCO with its large dedicated team of agriculture professionals continued its significant contribution in latest farm technology transfer and other rural welfare schemes for improving the profitability of farming community. State Level Cooperative Conference in Punjab KRIBHCO started transferring improved farm technology under the head Benefit to farmers programmes since 1984, indicating a real concern for farmers, their cooperative societies and environment where they reside, i.e. rural areas. In the past 34 years, KRIBHCO has actively reached more than 1.38 crore farmers benefiting them directly by raising their farm income through 95 thousand tailor-made programmes. Krishi Unnati Mela -2018 in PUSA New Delhi This makes on an average one programme/day/state. This is the magnitude of our transfer of farm technology programmes. KRIBHCO has evolved a strong promotional strategy involving about 300 agriculture graduates and post-graduates to uplift farming community through its Farmer Advisory Services. KRIBHCO has been organizing farm technology transfer programmes in more than 16 states through highly trained field force whose skills are updated regularly. Cooperative Conference in Gujarat Over a period of time, it was observed that farmers are hesitant to adopt new farm technology unless their whole system is likely to be benefited economically and socially. Farmers are also deeply attached to their fields, livestock and cooperative societies since these are their lifelines. They are also equally concerned about their family welfare including health and children education as well as improvement in rural areas where they spend most of their life time. KRIBHCO carefully considering the above observations adopted the Farming Model which has 5 components, viz., farmers, his fields, livestock, family and cooperative society, all located in rural environment of his village. Income Generation Programme in Haryana During 2017-18, KRIBHCO organized 5543 programmes for our farming community such as Farmers Meetings, Crop Shows, Field Demonstrations, Field Days, Cooperative Conferences, Group Discussions, Soil Testing Campaign, Seed Grower Conference etc. benefiting 6.04 lakh farmers and cooperatives across the country. Drinking Water Facility in UP To back up the Agriculture Technology transfer, the Society also made available 17.08 lakh technical folders on KRIBHCO products for the farmers and cooperatives. Hence, KRIBHCO is a cooperative Identity governed by seven Principles of cooperation. Sanitation Campaign in Bihar So strengthening cooperatives and rural development always remained a top priority for KRIBHCO. In this direction, 106 Cooperative Societies were adopted, 19468 cooperative managers were trained through 173 Cooperative Conferences and workshops. Leading Farmers & Cooperators from Nepal visit KKPK, NOIDA The society also organized 34 Income Generation Programmes and 62 Health Campaigns for livestock and humans, promoted 30 Drinking Water Facilities and 36 Rural Sports programmes for integrated rural development. Storage-cum-community centre scheme started on Golden Jubilee celebration of India Independence occasion, is still continuing181 such centres are completed and being used by farming community. Soil Testing Campaign in Punjab KRIBHCO Krishi Pramarsh Kendra, a high-tech centre at KRIBHCO Bhawan, NOIDA continued free consultancy to farm-related issues. The centre also propagated efficient and balanced use of fertilizer by testing 6718 soil samples collected scientifically free of cost (3347 for micronutrients and 3371 samples for macro-nutrients & irrigation water) from 15 states during 201718. Results along with recommendations were forwarded through electronic medium to farmers at their door-steps, apart from uploading on KRIBHCO website for display of results. Farmers Meeting in AP Through its Kisan Helpline, Pramarsh Kendra is also providing, latest information on weather & monsoon movement etc. for use in planning farm operations and mid-term corrections in crop cultivation. KRIBHCO continued to promote Information Communication Technology (ICT) system through KRIBHCO Kisan helpline using e-mail, phone, Computer and its website for informing farmers about latest farm technology alongside with traditional tools. Information on monthly farm operations is also made available on website. Animal Health Campaign in Odisha Sanitation Campaign in UP  Awards and Achievements:  KRIBHCO bagged the 14th National Award for Excellence in Cost Management for the year 2016 at a function held at Hotel Le Meridien, New Delhi on 18th July 2017 from the Institute of Cost Accountants of India. The award was received by Shri Rajan Chowdhry, Finance Director from Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal, Hon’ble Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs. This is the third time KRIBHCO bagged this award consecutively for the years 2014, 2015 & 2016.  CGM (F&A) Plant, Surat also got the individual Award, CMA Achievers Award for the year 2016 at a function held at Hotel Le Meridien, New Delhi on July 18,2017 from the Institute of Cost Accountants of India from the hands of Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal, Honorable Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs. The above could be possible due to the constant improvements KRIBHCO achieved in Plant in terms of increased production, reduced energy, employee productivity, Pollution Control etc.  Two Co-operators were felicitated in 38th Annual General Meeting. The annual accounts have been approved by the Society in its 38th Annual General Body Meeting held on 20th September,2018 which was presided over by Dr. Chandra Pal Singh, Chairman, KRIBHCO and attended by Directors of KRIBHCO and delegates of member cooperatives from different parts of the country at NCUI auditorium, New Delhi. “Sahakarita Shiromani” Samman was conferred on Shri Suresh Patel from Gujarat “Sahakarita Vibhushan” Samman was awarded to Shri Mahendra Kumar Nayak from Odisha  Sh. V.S. Sirohi was nominated as Chairman of Marketing Advisory Committee on 27th April 2018. The Advisory Committee plays a useful role in guiding the activities of FAI and deliberating/addressing the issues faced by the industry.  KRIBHCO was felicitated for “Swachhata Hi Seva” and awarded for Innovative Traditions on 2nd October 2017. The award was received by Sh. N. Sambasiva Rao, Managing Director and Sh. V. S. Sirohi, Marketing Director, KRIBHCO from Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Hon’ble Union Minister of State (Independent Charge), Housing & Urban Affairs, Govt. of India. KRIBHCO has been a high accomplisher in marketing of City Compost made from Urban Waste and contributing in the ‘Swachh Bharat Mission”. KRIBHCO initiated co-marketing of City Compost made from urban waste since December, 2009. In order to popularize Compost, KRIBHCO is constantly educating farmers for its application in addition to chemical fertilizers.  KRIBHCO received “The second Best Video Film Award” at FAI Awards-2017. Shri V. S. Sirohi, Marketing Director, KRIBHCO received “The second Best Video Film Award” from Shri Ananth Kumar, Hon’ble Union Minister of Chemicals & Fertilizers and Parliamentary Affairs, in the presence of Ms. Bharathi S. Sihag, Secy, Fertilizers, Sh. S.K. Pattanayak, Secy, DAC & FW and Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra, Secy, DARE and DG, ICAR.  KRIBHCO bagged the 2nd Prize under Corporate Brochure category at the PRSI National Award 2017 held at Visakhapatnam on 15 December 2017.  Sh. V.S. Sirohi, Marketing Director, KRIBHCO felicitated with most influential MARKETING LEADERS Award citation by World Marketing Congress in a function held at Hotel Taj Lands End in Mumbai on 24th November, 2016. Dr. Sanjay Muthal, ED, RGF, Management Search, conferring on Shri V.S.Sirohi, Marketing Director, KRIBHCO, the most influential Marketing Leaders listing citation  Navbharat CSR Leadership Summit & Award Programme at Mumbai on 23rd June 2017. Hon’ble C. Vidyasagar Rao, Governor of Maharashtra Innograted Programme. On this occasion KRIBHCO got a Best Performance Award in Best Practices for Performing Agriculture 2016. Shri. R P S Pundir Sr. State Marketing Manager KRIBHCO Mumbai, receiving the award. Mrs. Rajashree Birla (Chairperson Aditya Birla Centre for Community Initiatives & Rural Development), Shri. Neeraj Bajaj (CMS Mukund Ltd., Director of Bajaj Group), Shri. Y M Devaysthali (Ex CMD, L & T Finance, Holding Company) & Dr. Usha Kakare also seen in the Picture. 2. LABOUR Principle 3 : Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  Registered Unions & Associations: We recognize the employees’ right to form associations and to participate in management. In accordance with this principle, the workmen have formed their own Trade Unions which are registered and the same have been recognized for the purpose of collective bargaining. The decisions related to the workmen are taken in consultation with the said unions. Complete industrial peace and harmony has been prevailing since the setting up of the Plant and not a single manhour has been lost due to industrial unrest.  Compliance to Labour Laws: KRIBHCO does not encourage any form of forced or compulsory labour. No child labour is engaged either directly or indirectly. No discrimination is shown in employment or in extending any type of benefit/ advantage on the ground of gender, place of birth, caste or community.  Women are provided a healthy and safe working environment & equal opportunities, keeping in mind the principles of equality in gender with respect of their working, development and growth.  Protection of Women at Workplace at Plant: As per the notification published by the Central Government on “The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013”, an Internal Complaint Committee has been constituted to comply with the provisions of the Act. KRIBHCO ensures that a safe environment is being extended to all female employees. 3. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. KRIBHCO is fully conscious about its responsibility to the environment. Therefore, care of environment has always been paramount importance to KRIBHCO. The philosophy of “Reduce, Re-use & Re-cycle” has been adopted for usage of the resources within and outside our organization wherever our employees are associated. And thereby reduced its water consumption from 10.14 MGD (1986) to 7.62 MGD (2017-18 ) during the 32 years of venture; & at the same time it has increased its production capacity from 4400 to 6650 MT/day of Urea. To create awareness among employees, we have stated to conduct “Swachta Pakhwada” every year on the verge of the initiative of Swachh Bharat by our Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Various initiatives considering environment challenges have been taken on individual as well as organization stages like:  Daily biodegradable waste of canteen has been utilized in installed “Bio Gas Plant” for the generation of cleaner fuel that has reduced our consumption to a certain extent.  On departmental basis, we have reduced consumption of the non-biodegradable disposals by replacing it with permanent crockery (e.g. Glasses and plates) which has a direct impact on reduction of non-biodegradable waste harmful of the environment.  As a part of green initiative and also for the contribution in “International Solar Alliance”, KRIBHCO has established 80KWp (kilowatt peak) rooftop photovoltaic solar system for its Corporate Office in Noida.  To ensure energy reduction in our Corporate Office more than 85% of the conventional light has been replaced with LED light which accounts for more than 60% reduction in lighting energy. Environmental Management System at KRIBHCO: Environmental Protection is a practice of protecting the natural environment on individual, organizational or governmental levels for the benefit of both the natural environment & human. Environmental protection is influenced by three interwoven factors: environmental legislation, ethics & education. KRIBHCO recognizes its ethical responsibility to protect environment and is committed to regulate all its activities using best available technology to mitigate adverse environmental impact, if any that may arise out of its operations. Emission of pollutants to air from the various stacks is well below the limits specified by regulatory bodies. Six ambient air quality-monitoring stations have been set up within a radius of 10 kms for periodic monitoring of air quality in surrounding area. Wet de-dusting system at Prilling tower top has been installed and emission of the Urea dust and Ammonia in the atmosphere is well below the specified limits. To ensure clean and green environment, Society has created a green belt by planting trees of different species based on Air Pollution Tolerance Index thus helping to improve the ambient air quality within the complex. To create awareness among contract workers an Environment Protection Module video has been prepared which is shown to all the contract workers and only after that they are allowed to work in the plant premises at Surat. Environmental Management System (EMS) of society has been certified as in-line with international standard ISO 14001. Internal & External Audits are conducted periodically for checking efficacy of the system. Society is recycling the rinsing water of Anion & Cation exchangers & boiler blow down water of power plant to D.M. plant intake. Recycling of process waste condensate of ammonia plants & urea plants after treatment in deep hydrolyser used as boiler feed water make up. Tertiary treated sewage water is being reused as cooling water make up. Part of Cooling Tower blow down water is being Reused for horticulture/ farming. Society has reduced the quantity of cooling tower make up by increasing the cycle of concentration. Modifications implemented in recent past:  During revamp, an Ammonium Scrubbing system has been installed as a part Pollution Control abatement to recover ammonia from Waste Water off gases and Low Pressure vents of Urea Plants.  Steam Stripper in Urea Plant has been installed in both Phases to recover ammonia from liquid effluent of the Complex.  Society had implemented a scheme to store the excess effluent during Shut-Down or Upset Condition in Bio-Hydrolyser (~1100 m3).  Sprinkler System has been installed on the periphery of Guard Pond to improve the concentration of Dissolved Oxygen.  Society has also implemented a scheme for recovery of ammonia from effluent generated during Regeneration in Ammonia plant Condensate Polisher Unit.  Society has installed online effluent and stack Monitoring System & connected to GPCB/CPCB server. Also, CCTV Camera is installed at Balancing Pond final discharge point & is connected to GPCB/CPCB server.  Society has made an agreement with M/s. Adani Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd (AHPPL) for Reuse of Society’s treated effluent at their end for industrial purpose.  Society has installed Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring System.  Improvement in the reliability of electrical system of Ammonia Cooling Towers Shri N Sambasiva Rao, MD, inaugurated the11 KV substation of Ammonia Cooling Tower Area on 1st May 2018. To improve reliability of Ammonia Cooling Towers the surrounding of cooling tower should always remain moist. Therefore, electrical panels installed in this area have to continuously face moist and cold air. The 11 KV panels of this area have shown sign of deterioration of insulation. So as a proactive approach, a new 11 KV switchgear with state of the art design, manufactured by M/s Schneider, is purchased and installed during last ATR of Ammonia I plants. The new panels are so designed that preventive maintenance can be carried out safely even when one of the cooling towers is in operation. All engineering activities were done in-house and by constant follow ups with supplier the panels were delivered within short period of 80 days against contractual delivery period of 240 days.  Energy Saving Equipment at KRIBHCO, Surat Plant Shri N Sambasiva Rao, MD, inaugurated the Energy Saving Equipment at KRIBHCO, Surat Plant on 1st May 2018. KRIBHCO is striving hard to reduce energy consumption. Major pumps and compressors are being studied minutely to explore possibility of saving in energy consumptions. One of such large machines of urea plant is liquid Ammonia Transfer Pump (P1). These pumps are driven by 850KW, 3.3 KV motors. Speed of these pumps need to vary as per process requirement. Until now the speed of pump was varied by a hydraulic device (Torque converter). This device was found inefficient. Therefore, a detail study was conducted in-house and it was decided to remove Torque converter from the pump train and the speed of pump was proposed to be varied using frequency converter. A microprocessor based variable frequency drive, matching the capacity and characteristic of pump is purchased from Japan and commissioned in Urea plants. One P1 pump of each of the four stream is modified and total energy saving of about 550KW (equivalent to 550 flood lights/OTG) is achieved. The payback period for this new installation is about 30 months.  Celebration of World Environment Day-2018 Healthy planet is the key to our healthy existence. With this aim, United Nations dedicated the day to the cause of raising awareness among people about the severity of the issue of pollution and the damage that it has caused to our planet. This edition of World Environment Day is special, since India is hosting the event. KRIBHCO too celebrated 43 rd World Environment Day at Plant township. A tree plantation drive was organized at the township under the guidance of Executive Director, Shri MR Sharma, and other senior officials. Employees and the residents of the township participated with enthusiasm in the drive and planted tree saplings of fruits. Keeping in sync with this year’s theme, Beat Plastic Pollution, KRIBHCO has also started an initiative to reduce the use of plastic in everyday lives of its employees so that the burden of plastic pollution in the environment can be reduced. KRIBHCO has always come forward to contribute to the environmental causes. Along the similar lines, Green KRIBHCO, Clean KRIBHCO, campaign has been started, in which cleanliness drives is being organized regularly in order to create awareness and sensitivity towards cleanliness amongst the residents. 4. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Vigilance Awareness: KRIBHCO considers Vigilance as an integral part of the Management Function. Main stress of the management is on transparency in the Organization and accountability in the day to day functioning/working of the Society. There is a full-fledged Vigilance set up being headed by a Chief Vigilance Officer. KRIBHCO management has been emphasizing on the efficacy of preventive vigilance to improve systems and procedures in a way so as to reduce scope of discretion and eliminate corruption. Efforts are on towards sensitization of employees through “Group Discussion and power point presentations” on Vigilance Activities carried out in the organisation. Surprise and regular inspections are carried out by VOs on a regular basis. On the basis of findings of VOs during the inspections, remedial action is taken by the Management whenever adverse findings come to the notice. All officers are required to submit Annul Property Returns of their moveable and immoveable properties for the period from 1st January to 31st December every year, which are scrutinized by the Vigilance Department. Vigilance Awareness Week was celebrated in all the units of KRIBHCO viz. Plant, HO and Field Marketing Offices during 30th October to 4th November, 2017. The theme of this year’s Vigilance Week was “My Vision – Corruption Free India”. Vigilance Awareness Week Celebration was one step towards sensitizing the employees of the organisation to bring more transparency in the working of individual and shouldering the responsibility that each and every employee of the organisation should work as a Vigilance Officer. Besides the above, efforts are also made to sensitize the public/customers/ employees about the evil consequences of corruption and ways to prevent it. During Vigilance Awareness Week celebrations, in addition to the Pledge Ceremonies, Group Discussions, Cooperative Conferences, Workshops, Theme Lecture, Essay writing, Quiz competitions on Moral Values involving employees were organized by the Society to highlight the evil consequences of corruption and ways to prevent it. Individuals, indulging in unethical activities for personal gains at the cost of the organisation leads to wastages, losses and economic decline. There is a need to control or restrict such persons’ mis-endeavours and promote organisational interest. Our Vigilance department has adopted pro-active approach to create incorruptibility in the administration and works for systems improvement and simplification and codification of rules and procedures. The culture of taking independent initiatives and decision making at all levels is constantly strengthened. KRIBHCO encourages transparency (openness), fairness (applying same principles to all concerned) and competition amongst vendors, in the interest of the organisation. It is the endeavour of our Vigilance Team to create an ethos of Organisational Citizenship among all the employees so that there is voluntary compliance of rules and procedures. In cases where irregularities are detected ‘Zero Tolerance’ concept is adopted and Punitive Vigilance is used as a management tool to provide positive discipline in the society. Action Plan against Corruption: For achieving the vision of the society, a strategic action plan has been implemented. A. Awareness: Seminars, Workshops, Lectures and Debates, power point presentation on Vigilance; Distribution of in-house pamphlets, articles on Vigilance Awareness; Giving due protection to the whistle blower/complainant. B. Preventive Vigilance: Simplification of Rules and procedures; Plugging loopholes of systems/procedures to reduce corruption; Sensitizing employees through Group Discussion’s power point presentation, Dos & Don’ts at various offices about evil consequences of corruption; Increasing Transparency and accountability in day to day working; Effective machinery to deal promptly with complaints; Regular and surprise Inspections; Ensuring high standard of integrity amongst the employees; Exploring fresh areas of corruption resulting due to technological advancements and use of I.T. C. Punitive Vigilance: Speedy disposal of vigilance cases and disciplinary inquiries; Steps to maintain positive discipline. -----------------X---------------
