Wipro Sustainability Report 2016 2017 The 10th Year of Sustainability Reporting THIS PAGE IS LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY Contents Chairman’s Letter 2 Executive Summary 4 Sustainability Dashboard 10 About this Report 17 Report Profile 18 Materiality Determination 20 Organization Overview 29 Wipro and Sustainability 49 Sustainability Megaforces 50 Overview of Wipro’s Sustainability Journey 59 Wipro’s Sustainability Framework 61 Sustainability Governance 63 Transparency and Disclosures 66 Advocacy and Public Policy 67 Alignment with Sustainable Development Goals 71 Wipro and its Stakeholders 75 Summary of Stakeholder Engagement 76 Workplace Sustainability 80 Ecological Sustainability 99 Customer Stewardship 132 Financial Stewardship and the Investors 144 Supply Chain Sustainability 162 Partnering for Social Change 170 Assurance Statement 189 Feedback and Communication 193 Dear Fellow Stakeholders, Welcome to our tenth sustainability report, marking an important milestone in our sustainability journey. When we published our first report in 2008, the world had been plunged into turmoil triggered by the subprime crisis in the U.S. home loan market. Economists suggest that we are still to emerge completely from that ‘great recession’ as it is now called. In fact the past decade has been marked by several disruptive shifts in our society’s political, economic and social order, accompanied by a gradual and definite deterioration in our planet’s ecological stability. What implications this has for governments, business and for common citizens remains a matter of vigorous debate. But what is clear is that business must be more proactive and resilient in shaping movement towards a better society and a safer planet. One positive trend that has emerged is the increased spotlight on the role of the corporation as an agent of responsible behavior. Catalyzed by several convergent forces – a decisive shift in business leaderships’ thinking on these issues, clear evidence of linkages with business outcomes, peer pressure, legislation and brand leverage – the world is seeing significant traction in the adoption of sustainable practices by companies. I am glad this is happening and hope that the momentum continues to increase. Azim H Premji Let me now present the key highlights for the Chairman, Wipro Limited reporting year while simultaneously placing it in the context of the progress we have made in the last decade Ecological Sustainability: When we started a formal sustainability program in 2007-08, we had set for ourselves clear and ambitious goals on Energy, Water, Waste and Biodiversity. I am happy to say that we have progressed well on all the four dimensions even as we continue to set more challenging goals for the future. Staring from zero, our renewable energy footprint has steadily expanded to 100 million units today comprising more than 25% of our overall energy consumption. Our investments in green buildings have yielded savings of more than 100 million units of electricity over the past five years alone. We have also invested significantly in water conservation and efficiency within our organization. 40% of our water is recycled today. Our work in transforming three of our campuses to biodiversity Chairman’s Letter zones has been appreciated widely. I see this as children with disability and children from an example of value creation in its fullest sense disadvantaged socioeconomic backgrounds. as it encompasses the idea of social and Through our network of more than 100 partners, ecological value, not just economic wealth our programs in school education have impacted People and the Workplace: Sustainability at the over a million children directly in more than workplace must manifest in diversity and 20,000 schools. Many million more have been inclusiveness, fostering employee health, impacted by the capacity developed in our wellbeing and safety, and empowerment of partner organizations. Our work in education has employees by providing them with continuous similar goals in the U.S.A. We have a long running learning opportunities. initiative that focuses on improvements in science and math teaching, especially in schools Over the last decade, we have strengthened these that serve disadvantaged communities. practices very significantly by making them more cohesive and by aligning them with our core While I am happy with our progress in the last business objectives. The resultant outcomes decade, I think we can do much more in all areas. speak for themselves. The percentage of women We are committed to making this happen. In doing in our workforce has grown steadily to 33%. so, we will continue to raise the bar for our During this period, we started a flagship program governance and management practices. for hiring and developing persons with disability, Sustainability reports like this play a valuable role resulting in 300 people working with us in various in this regard, by serving as catalysts for selfdepartments and functions. reflection and continued improvement. We are a global organization and that is directly Why do all this? For us, the answer to this reflected by the more than 100 nationalities (in question has always been straightforward addition to India) in our workforce, representing “Because it is the right thing to do”. It deeply 21% of all employees. While our business is about resonates with our values. technology, it is our people who bring a The Global Risk Report 2018 released in Davos at differentiated edge and unique energy to it. the World Economic Forum highlights the We are confident that we are well placed to systemic risks humanity faces in a world that navigate the disruptive but exciting new seems to be becoming increasingly divisive, landscape that is emerging around new unequal and unsustainable. This is not the kind of technologies like Artificial and Machine world that augurs well for business. Intelligence, Analytics, Internet of Things and Corporations must therefore move beyond the Mobility. In 2016-17 alone, 39000 of our question ‘Why do this?” to “What more should we employees were trained on these new digital do?” That will be our driving principle for the next technologies and we filed more than 600 patents 10 years of our sustainability journey…..as will be in these areas our values of being passionate about our clients’ Creating Social Value: While our systematic success, being global and responsible, treating sustainability program is a decade old, our social everybody with respect and having unyielding initiatives go back even earlier to 2001. integrity in everything we do . Over these years, we have built strong programs in Education, Health Care and Community Ecology. Each of these has its distinct purpose, though the common approach underlying all our social initiatives is that they must be deep and meaningful, creating enduring impact for our communities. With Best Wishes Our work in school education has grown over the Azim H Premji years in both, scope and scale and covers systemic reforms, sustainability education, Executive Summary Wipro’s idea of a sustainable and responsible created – for e.g., greenhouse gas emissions, work business is broadly pivoted on the idea of the related stress and injury, increased vehicular triple bottom-line and multiple capitals. What traffic due to rapid industrialization and these essentially mean is that the elements of urbanization. As a good corporate citizen, we economic, social and environmental impacts and should assess, reduce, and mitigate these. value creation are inter-connected, and the goal of Every year, we undertake a rigorous evaluation of business is situated within this larger purpose. key externalities and priorities that are important This manifests primarily in the way we think and for our sector, our organization, and stakeholders. run our business globally. This is also reflected in We do this through a structured process of our efforts to engage and partner with key benchmarking, surveys, peer reviews and other stakeholders within and beyond the direct engagement platforms. This process feeds into business value chain. We believe that our effort our sustainability programs and initiatives. For towards creating mutual, lasting value for all instance, at Wipro, we focus on capability building stakeholders is integral to our long-term success. for our workforce to stay updated and agile in a Our core approach towards sustainability is rapidly changing business environment. Given informed by the understanding that an that our operational centers are primarily in urban organization operates in a larger socio-economic areas, we work to address current and emerging context. Every company, must therefore in its issues such as water stress and mobility. This strategic intent, seek to create not just economic report presents a comprehensive update of our but social value as well – for e.g., deliver useful focus areas, goals and performance. In this products and services, drive ethical sourcing, section, we present a summary of the same. generate jobs, provide employees an empowering environment, and such. In the operational process of doing so, negative externalities or impacts are Executive Summary 5 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 AKEHOLDERS ST Financial I O Financial Intellectual N Run the Business Business Units U Intellectual C AC PA IP TI AT LA L C A P I T A L Modernize the core Aligned with Corporate industry segments Manufactured P Governance Strategic T Manufactured Geographies Planning Human U Our Vision Service Lines P Human Change the Business Delivering deep Social & Relationship T Driving the future expertise U Social & Relationship Natural S T Natural Our core business: We are a global IT Service Philanthropic Initiatives. Thus, there is a very organization and our core focus is to help tangible linkage between the economic value businesses become more operationally efficient created by Wipro and the enormous social value and effective through the effective usage of IT created by these two organizations in India’s infrastructure, applications and services. The developmental space latter is what we create, design, develop and run We provide the full range of IT and IT enabled for our customers. services to our clients, including hardware and How we create economic value: We operate in software design, R&D, digital advisory service, over 65 countries with 602 clients across various system integration, global infrastructure services, industry sectors. Our revenues for FY 17 were INR business process services, analytics, and more. ~ 554,179 Million, while our operating profits were Our business is organized into six strategic INR 93879 Million. We paid total taxes of INR business units by customer/industry segments, 25366 Million across the countries we operate in. and six service lines by technology offerings and Out total net-worth as of March 2017 was INR expertise. We invest significantly in intellectual 522,695 Million. Our overall shareholding pattern capital through focused efforts in R&D, including has remained consistent, with 73.25% of total academic partnerships. As of March 2017, we had shares held by the promoters, and the rest by a applied and held 1,662 patents, with another 603 mix of banks, financial institutions, private patents filed for. We cultivate new and emerging companies, members of the public, and others. A technologies through select in-house investment, key feature of our investor profile is that over 30% as well as investing in cutting edge technology of our investors are aligned with the Principles of start-ups. Our approach is to build technology Responsible Investment (PRI), who incorporate capability across the talent eco-system, with a sustainability criteria in their investment focus on areas such as Big Data, AI, Open Source, decisions. The continued support of such large, Digital and Internet of Things, to name a few. institutional investors is encouraging to us in our Our Business strategy and Risk Management: sustainability journey. Another significant fact is Our business strategy comprises a clear bimodal ~40% of the company’s shares have been theme of transformation and efficiency: to help irrevocably transferred to a Trust, to fund activities our clients Drive the Future (Change Strategy) of of the Azim Premji Foundation and Azim Premji their businesses and to Modernize the Core of our Executive Summary 6 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 clients’ businesses (Run Strategy). This integrated customers is to engage with them continuously to theme also drives a culture of connectedness, understand their context, needs and risks – this creativity, resourcefulness, and a strong outward helps us provide solutions that generate focus – these are also key features of our newly maximum value. For instance, we are creating an articulated Brand. Identification and mitigation of integrated health ecosystem that is designed to major risks is an essential component of how we be patient-centric. We look for opportunities to craft out strategy and translate it into operations. design and provide sustainable solutions to In doing so, we are also informed by global customers – for e.g. our Energy and Utilities sustainability trends that would impact the vertical has cultivated solutions around the areas emerging business and socio-economic of renewables and smart grids. New technology landscape. As per the World Economic Forum’s solutions such as Virtualization also reduces 2017 Global Risk Report, the top three trends in dependence on physical servers, and leads to the world “Rising Income and Wealth Disparity’, energy savings. While we look to create the most ‘Changing Climate’ and ‘Increased Polarization of customer-centric solution, we also recognize the Societies’ are all interconnected with the net related risks arising out of pervasive technology. effect of reduced economic and social stability. At We have a structured risk identification and Wipro, we have made a careful assessment of risk mitigation program in place, to address areas and opportunities arising from climate change, such as cyber security, data privacy and business and the business implications of the same. The continuity. significant risks we see are from the possibility of Our approach to people and workplace increased disruptions to operational continuity on sustainability: In a knowledge and solution driven account of a clearly higher frequency of extreme business like ours, a high-caliber, agile and weather events, especially in our coastal cities in engaged workforce is pivotal to success. Value for India. Infrastructure damage, employee absence customers is created primarily by our talented and productivity loss are all likely collateral employees, who design, develop and implement impacts of such climate change induced events. solutions for clients. Simply put, at Wipro, it is our Our mitigation strategy comprises a business human capital that creates intellectual, social and continuity plan that involves shifting people and financial capital. Our global and diverse workforce operations to our other inland centers and wellis 160,000+ strong, spread across over 50 planned infrastructure insurance cover. countries. Aligned with our organizational values What we do with customers: Our approach to and the promise of our brand, we place strong contributing to clients’ success extends beyond emphasis on respecting dignity, diversity and delivering commercially feasible solutions. In a being sensitive to human rights and designing our world where technology is a key driver for success policies and processes to promote self-service, in any business, businesses can empower transparency and responsible conduct at the themselves to connect with customers more workplace. widely and closely. Our approach towards Executive Summary 7 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Invest in technical and R&D capability (Financial, Intellectual Capital) Career growth opportunities Skill building to address emerging Safe and healthy technology capability areas workspaces (Manufactured Capital) Enriched talent eco-system (external) Creating / Strengthening Impacts Created Human Capital Higher engagement Fostering Increased participation in workplace diversity & community engagement initiatives inclusion (Social Capital) Resource conservation activities in campuses and communities Invest in technology startups, academic partnerships (Intellectual Capital) The primary themes of our human capital strategy Our compensation, benefits, and rewards program are transformation, career growth and capability. are informed and continuously improved by global Our workplaces are therefore not meant to be best practices as well as regional context and ordinary offices, but rather empowering, safe, regulations. We have adopted an integrated spaces that energize performance, foster learning approach, in balancing fixed and performanceand growth, and promote an inclusive culture. We based pay, with due emphasis on social and view employees as key stakeholders, and have financial security, and flexible compensation numerous engagement platforms and initiatives packages. Our pay decisions are based on market to drive continuous communication, seek trends, individual performance and capability, and feedback and encourage advocacy. A principles of equity and fairness. comprehensive health & safety framework Promoting a culture of diversity and inclusion is creates an essential foundation for engagement an essential driver of business success for us. As and performance – our wellness and safety our multi-dimensional Diversity & Inclusion programs, insurance policies and year-round program enters its 10th year, we continue to drive advocacy on healthy practices promotes a initiatives around the themes of gender, proactive and preventive mindset towards getting nationality, persons with disability, and persons and staying healthy. Our capability and career from underprivileged communities. We extend our building programs seek to bolster performance efforts in promoting diversity to our partner and tap employee potential. Our approach is to employee community and supplier networks as create ample opportunities for employees to well. excel, learn, and be prepared to meet (or create) What we do with our supply chain: Wipro the next wave of transformation. Our approach considers its suppliers as vital to its business towards people development extends beyond continuity and performance. In order to build and business transformation, to social change as well. maintain a sustainable supply chain, we partner We have over 9000 employees who are voluntarily with suppliers to promote ethical and responsible engaged as volunteers, on multiple community sourcing, of green products & services. We also and environmental initiatives. Executive Summary 8 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 assess supply chain risks, and work with suppliers Project” in the Sarjapur area in Bangalore which to mitigate and eradicate them. We have a robust seeks to involve proximate communities in a people supply chain, comprising contract unique citizen-led governance model of employees engaged in IT Services and Solutions groundwater. All our campuses in India segregate, delivery, Security, and essential functional track and manage more than 30 + sub categories services such as Maintenance and Housekeeping. of waste. 92% of the total waste from our India Our products and services supply chain is operations is recycled through both, in-house centered around green procurement practices recycling units and through authorized vendor tiesuch as green certified products for IT hardware, ups. As we complete 5 years of our Campus responsible handling of electronic end-of-life, and Biodiversity program, we continue in our efforts to sustainable construction sourcing e.g. energy convert / design our campuses on biodiversity efficient air conditioning. We engage with principles. We believe that this makes for a more suppliers and contractors to strengthen labour integrated work setting, and builds a deeper and human rights compliance and fair working sense of connectedness with our surroundings. conditions. The total valuation of our environmental footprint Our environmental externalities and how we is INR 11,476 million, of which 67 % is from our manage them: We view precious environmental supply chain. The value of our environmental resources as natural capital, and recognize the externalities works out to 2 % of our revenues and need to use and conserve them responsibly. Our 7 % of our profits. ecological sustainability program comprises Outside the boundary: Our principles of ‘good multiple themes, identified through a rigorous citizenship’ and responsibility extend beyond the assessment of the environmental impacts of our boundaries of our core business, to communities business and supply chain. In 2016-17, we also and societal issues outside. We believe in the participated in a best-in-class Natural Capital power of reciprocity, and that partnering with Valuation exercise, to gauge impacts created by communities creates mutual value, in terms of our operations and our upstream suppliers on a stronger relationships, talent building and comprehensive set of factors. The results of the goodwill. Community and civil society networks assessment have been incorporated back into our are thus a key stakeholder group for our business. sustainability agenda, goals and actions. The key Our approach in this regard is two-pronged: to themes of our ecological sustainability program mitigate/minimize any negative impacts of our are Energy, Water, Waste Management, Campus operations on proximate communities, and to Biodiversity and Urban Resilience. proactively try and make a positive difference to Our lifecycle approach to energy efficiency starts communities. We work closely with communities with green building design and includes rigorous on education, ecology and specific community execution, the use of the right energy efficient issues. The common thread that runs through all technologies, Renewable energy sourcing and our social initiatives is derived from the values of behavioral change. To this end, we have set clear Spirit of Wipro: ‘Treat each person with respect, targets for reduction in carbon intensity and Be global and responsible, Unyielding Integrity in emissions, with line of sight till 2050. Our rigorous everything we do’ are universal tenets that focus on improving freshwater water efficiency underlie our approach to social change and has resulted in a total savings of around 800 community engagement. million liters of water over the last five years. In Our initiatives are contextualized to address addition, 38% of our total water requirements is relevant needs of the local communities. In India, met through recycling. Our efforts in water seek to for instance, the challenges and complexities of transcend organizational boundaries and in 2014, school education are widely known. The WATIS we initiated the “Participative Community Water (Wipro Applying Thought in Schools) program Executive Summary 9 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 partners with civil society to bring about Ombudsprocess, without fear of reprisal. The sustained, long-term improvement in school reporting process is open to all, and anyone can education. The Wipro Earthian program also report a concern to the ombudsperson. We have a engages with schools and colleges, albeit on a relatively large number of cases reported, which is different level – to build sustainability awareness, a reflection of stakeholder empowerment, thinking and action in our youth. The Wipro Cares transparency, and trust placed in the community care program engages with Ombudsprocess. Our approach to corporate communities in various parts of India, and governance extends well beyond statutory supports initiatives on primary healthcare, compliance with a four-tiered governance education for the underprivileged, children with structure, with clear roles and responsibilities to disability, and rehabilitation in disaster-hit areas. advocate, implement, review and guide ethical Several of these initiatives are in areas that are conduct. While our sustainability strategy, action beyond our operational locations; we support and evangelism is carried out across levels, them as they have significant, intrinsic value, and geographies and functions, the primary oversight contribute to long-term social well-being. of all programs is at the corporate level, with our In the U.S.A., efforts to further STEM (Science, Chairman, Board of Governors and Group Technology, Engineering, Math) education have Executive Council. been of vital interest. Through the Wipro Science We consider voluntary disclosures such as this Fellowship Program, we partner with academic sustainability report as being integral to our institutions across multiple cities to foster standards of good governance. Comprehensive excellence in science education and teaching. and well-articulated sustainability disclosures In South Africa, our Wipro Siyapha program reflect the attributes of transparency and contributes to the implementation of the country’s accountability that are central tenets of our Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, sustainability philosophy, and demonstrate the through its efforts on education, skill development external focus our brand stands for. We have been and employment generation. active participants in several disclosures and indices, such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Governance and Management: All our programs Index, the Carbon Disclosure Index, World’s Most and actions are based on a strong foundation of Ethical Companies by Ethisphere, and Vigeo ethics and values, manifested in the Spirit of Sustainability Rating. Our disclosures aligned with Wipro. Our brand identity reflects the Spirit of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and NVGs Wipro values, and conveys the promise of being (National Voluntary Guidelines) are available in passionate about client success, treating every the public domain. We believe that a culture of human being with respect, being global in our disclosure and transparency strengthens and thinking and actions, and demonstrating complements regulatory compliance. It also helps unyielding integrity in everything we do. Our values us to reach out to all our stakeholders. and principles of ethical conduct are embedded in Stakeholder inclusiveness is a key principle of our all our policies, processes and procedures, sustainability approach, and stakeholder input through our overarching Code of Business and feedback help create a more balanced Conduct and Ethics. A parallel framework for perspective while shaping goals and planning our suppliers is also in place. Stakeholders are actions. encouraged to highlight and report any wrongdoing or violation of our values and ethics via the Sustainability Dashboard In this section, we are presenting our goals and measures in condensed form, but a complete understanding of these dimensions is possible only in the detailed analysis that follows in subsequent sections. Workplace Sustainability $ Employee Engagement Employee Well-being Diversity and Inclusion Capacity Building and and Empowerment and Safety ? 33% of workforce Career Development ? Sustained use of ? 18 locations in India constitute women ? Over 60,000 technical Yammer as the certified for OHSAS ? Employees from 100+ employees trained on enterprise social 18001 nationalities in 50+ Digital skills. networking platform; ? 1,80,000 employees, countries ? Over 21,000 Over 1,09,000 + users contractors and employees acquired ? 334 employees with with 9,400+ groups service providers additional skills in disabilities ? Employee Perception attended trainings on upto 4 technology Survey (EPS) Health & Safety, Safe areas Engagement scores Transportation, increased by 12.5 % Hospitality, Security, compare to EPS 2015 Emergency Response Drills Sustainability Dashboard 11 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Ecological Sustainability Energy and Emissions ? GHG emissions reduction of 11,000 tons of CO2 eq. ? Energy savings due to server virtualization increased by 35% ? Air travel footprint reduction (distance as well as emissions) of over 19% ? Global emissions intensity decreased by more than 10% to 1.58 tons per person per annum ? Absolute GHG emissions reduction of 1.8% from India office operations ? Renewable energy 96.6 Mn. units. 26% of our total office space energy consumption Water ? Fresh water savings of 152 Mn. Litres ? 13.5% reduction in per employee water consumption 1.119 m3 per month as compared to 1.295 in 2015-16 ? 38% of water recycled in 2016-17 compared to 32% in 2015-16 ? Community Programs? Curated the Karnataka state water network (KSWN) in partnership with CII ? Three year Participative Ground Water Mapping program completed Waste ? 93.3% of total waste from IT India operations recycled or reused ? Mixed Solid Waste intensity reduction by half in 2017 from 2013 – from 3.26 Kg to 1.55 Kg per employee per annum ? Landfill intensity by half in 2017 from 2013, from 3.12 to 1.55 Kg per employee per annum Campus Biodiversity ? Butterfly Park at Electronic city campus completed in 2013. ? Second project in Pune completed which includes five thematic gardens – aesthetic and palm garden, spring garden, Ficus garden, spice and fruit garden. ? Increased native species by 59 to 240+ Sustainability Dashboard 12 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Customer Stewardship Customer Engagement ? Net Promoter Score increased by 740 basis points for 2016-17 as compared to the previous year ? Number of gross new customers 256 ? Revenue from existing customers 98% ? No substantiated instances of data privacy breaches Innovation ? Total R&D expenses for the year stood at Rs. 3338 Mn, an increase of 30% YoY ? In FY 2016-17, the company continued to strengthen its IP portfolio with 603 new patent applications filed (from 514 in the previous year) ? Made 4 investments in the FY17 year with a cumulative spend of US$ 24.5 million in startups working in technologies that are reshaping the future of enterprises Industry Recognitions ? An overall CSR rating of Gold (highest among possible three levels) by Ecovadis, an EU based sustainability performance assessment platform, used by more than 50 of our customers. ? Best in Class” rating by Verego Supply Chain Sustainability Purchased more than 12,000 Received EPEAT Purchaser Diverse supplier spends EPEAT registered electronic Award from Green Electronic contributed to 3% of total products in 2016 Council (US) central procurement tracked spend for India operations Sustainability Dashboard 13 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Social Responsibility Wipro Education ? Started Wipro Seeding Programme which supports the creation and development of new educational organizations that can contribute meaningfully to Indian school education ? Continued support to 23 organizations through programmatic grants, one-time grants, fellowships and publications ? Supported 19 new organizations in 2016-17 ? 16th Partner’s Forum on organizational sharing was held in April 2016 Wipro Science Education Fellowship Program ? Launched in Chicago, New York and Boston to improve Science and Math education in schools primarily serving disadvantaged communities in US cities ? Collaboration with UMass, Boston, Michigan State University, Mercy College and University of North Texas ? Works with 250-300 teachers across 20 school districts Wipro earthian ? Increased reach to 2000 schools, 1500 colleges and 2200 teachers in 45 districts across 21 states ? Wipro-earthian Sustainability quiz was successfully launched at the IIMA Confluence festival and the IIMB Exemius festival where 227 teams and 681 students participated ? Round table discussion on sustainability education attended by 60 regional colleges in Orissa was organized Wipro Cares ? Nearly 70,000 children of migrant laborers working in construction sites in the city benefitted from our 20 education projects in 8 states ? ‘Children with Disability’ program supports the educational and rehabilitative needs of 4,200 underprivileged children through 12 projects in 6 states ? Through 3 projects, an aggregate of over 40,000 people get access to primary health care ? Project in urban solid waste management in Bangalore provides social, nutritional and health security to nearly 2,700 workers in the informal sector of waste ? About 60,000 people benefitted from livelihoods projects as part of our disaster rehabilitation work in Cuddalore, Tamil Nadu and Utharkashi, Uttatrakand ? Projects on water include setting up or reviving rainwater harvesting systems in schools, maintenance of a lake, and a study of groundwater resources Sustainability Dashboard 14 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Recognitions 2018 WORLD’S MOST ETHICAL Confederation of Indian Industry COMPANY Sustainability Dashboard 15 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 THIS PAGE IS LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY The 10th Year of Sustainability Reporting About this Report 1.1 Report Profile 1.2 Materiality Determination 1.3 Organization Overview 1.1 Report Profile Reporting period for this sustainability report April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017 (Referred hereafter in short as '16-17) Date of most recent previous report Wipro Sustainability report for the fiscal year 2015-16, released in March 2017 Link to the previous report http://wiprosustainabilityreport.com/15-16/ Reporting cycle Annual basis In accordance criteria GRI Standards: Comprehensive Contact Point Mr. P. S. Narayan Vice President and Head, Sustainability Email: narayan.pan@wipro.com About this Report 19 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Scope and Boundary Businesses* Wipro Technologies Wipro Infotech Wipro Business Process Services Geographies Americas Europe India Japan MiddleEast Asia Pacific Scope of reporting Financial performance indicators All geographies Environmental performance indicators India (Energy data reported for overseas locations) Employee metrics All geographies Social performance metrics Primarily India Other qualitative reporting All geographies ( unless otherwise specified) * A list of all entities included in the consolidated financial statements is given in pages 95-98 of Wipro Annual Report for FY 2016-17. However, the scope of this report is restricted to Wipro Technologies, Wipro Infotech and Wipro Business Process Services. The GRI Content Index in accordance with option ‘Comprehensive as prescribed by GRI G4 Guidelines details the coverage of relevant information. The index is available at http://wiprosustainabilityreport.com/16-17/?q=griindex Approach Like our previous reports, we continue to adopt the stakeholder format of reporting. Given that stakeholder inclusion and engagement is such a crucial cornerstone of the Aa1000 and the GRI frameworks, we believe that the stakeholder format is more appropriate for focusing attention on key material aspects for each of the stakeholders. Each individual section on this report is structured as our response to concerns of the respective stakeholder identified through the materiality assessment. Additionally, for financial year 201617 we have followed the ISO26000 guidelines We have opted to conduct an independent assurance of our sustainability report as part of our company policy. DNV GL has been engaged to verify the content of this report. 1.2 Materiality Determination Sustainability reporting should aim to be a faithful reflection of the organization’s values, vision, plans, progress and challenges on the different dimensions of sustainability. Determining ‘materiality’ helps an organization to understand issues that are relevant to its stakeholders over the short, medium and long term. This understanding, in turn, makes sustainability strategy and action more in tune with stakeholder priorities, and more robust in terms of creating impact and navigating risk. The process has to be centered at the intersection of organizational relevance and stakeholder priorities. In this section, we discuss the rationale, approach and outcomes of our materiality determination exercise. About this Report 21 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Materiality Recalibration should reflect the complexities of multiple environmental, social and governance Materiality is informed by the socio-economic dimensions that are relevant to Wipro as a context in which an organization operates and company and to the IT Services sector. It is the needs of its primary and/or influencing also important to look at the probability and stakeholders. It requires us to keep ‘ears to the impact of the issues over a long period of ground’ by understanding stakeholders’ time. The societal and global context could perceptions and expectations, the business shift and what would have been peripheral in context, local and macro developments and the short term could eventually become changing thresholds of sustainability risks and central and critical. opportunities over time. 2. Individual stakeholder view: The conventional materiality matrix typically places issues based on relevance to the company and The Driving Principles relevance to stakeholders; however, given that a company will have multiple stakeholders In addition to the classic framework that maps who are often very different in the roles that issues on the basis of ‘Relevance to the they play, it makes little sense to talk about Organization’ and ‘Relevance to Stakeholders’, ‘stakeholder relevance’ as an abstract, macro our materiality framework incorporates the notion unless it is mapped to the next level of following driving principles: detail to the individual stakeholder. 1. Incorporation of multiple dimensions: 3. Intrinsic worth: In the conventional Material dimensions vary from one materiality matrix of ‘Relevance to Wipro’ and organization to another as the context of each ‘Relevance to Stakeholders’, certain critical company and the industry or geography in sustainability issues may not score high on which it is operating is not necessarily the either of the dimensions. And yet, they have same. The issues faced by a business can be an intrinsic worth that compels serious and different even within the same sector and deep engagement. Therefore, our new geography. The materiality determination framework will look at all these three factors. Our Approach The questions ‘Who are your stakeholders?’ and ‘What are their material issues?’ are important starting steps and we consider these questions as the building blocks of our sustainability initiatives and reporting. Based on GRI G4 Guidelines and AA 1000 principles of ‘Stakeholder Inclusiveness’, ‘Materiality’ and ‘Sustainability Context’, we have adopted the following approach to determine materiality for our company. Defining stakeholders Identifying issues Prioritizing issues ? Seeking stakeholder ? Seeking stakeholder feedback feedback ? Benchmarking ? Understanding sustainability ? Asessing internally context ? Figuring in intrinsic worth About this Report 22 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Stakeholder Identification Defining who an organization’s primary stakeholders are, can be relatively straightforward within the business ecosystem. But when it comes to larger social and environmental contexts, the meaning of stakeholders can assume a form that is unduly large or amorphous. Here it becomes important to understand and identify those attributes of stakeholders that makes them important to business and necessitate meaningful engagement. We began our identification by defining those attributes and then mapping our value chain to determine stakeholders who qualify the attributes. Impact Influence Interest Those who can impact or Those who can influence Those who are interested in our are impacted by the way we operate success or whose wellbeing is of our business interest to us We also looked at three additional factors while finalizing our stakeholders. Legitimacy Urgency Diverse perspectives Stakeholders with Stakeholders with a relationship Stakeholders who can further legitimate claims, either or claim of a time-sensitive organization’s understanding of contractual or ethical nature an issue These led us to identify the following eight stakeholders groups. Readers will note that, except for minor semantic differences, these are the same stakeholders that appear in our previous reports. Therefore, the materiality recalibration exercise essentially reaffirmed our earlier decision in this regard. 1. Employees 5. The Education ecosystem: Partners and Academic Institutes 2. Customers 6. Communities and Civil Society Networks 3. Investors 7. Government and Policy Networks 4. Suppliers 8. The Young Citizen and Future Generations While the first four have direct and operational/ business value chain impacts, the other four are part of the larger community and society that we operate in. Identification of Issues Material issues and their relative importance to Wipro and our stakeholders are not static and are likely to change with time. In line with this, we followed a threefold approach based on the Five Part Materiality Test proposed by AccountAbility. We try to present a 360 degree perspective on our business and ecosystem through this process and its outcomes. Relevance to Wipro Internal Assessment Test 1: Direct economic impacts Test 2: Organizational values & commitments External Benchmarking Test 3: Business peer-based norms Relevance to stakeholders Stakeholder Feedback Test 4: Stakeholder behavior and concerns Test 5: Societal norms About this Report 23 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Internal assessment A significant part of materiality determination stems from the organization’s overall mission, values, commitments and competitive strategy as well as the impact of or on its economic performance. An internal perspective on risks as identified through organizational processes like risk assessment studies and audits or self-assessments using disclosure frameworks is also considered in the process. Listed below are the sources of information. ? Financial reports (Annual reports & Form 20F) ? Sustainability reports ? Disclosures (Dow Jones Sustainability (DJSI), Carbon Disclosure Project (CEP), Vigeo etc.) ? Other risk assessment studies & audit reports External benchmarking We conducted an extensive review of literature to identify issues considered as material and identified as risks by our business peers and also to understand expectations expressed in international standards and agreements. Listed below are the sources of information. ? Annual reports, sustainability reports, Form 20F of peers ? ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility ? SASB Materiality Map ? FICCI India Risk Report Stakeholder feedback Stakeholder inclusiveness is central to the materiality determination process. It is important to consider reasonable expectations and interests of stakeholders so as to provide a balanced view of the issues that emerge. At Wipro, we engage with our stakeholders regularly to understand their concerns and develop plans to address those concerns. From the above mentioned sources, a universe of all issues or dimensions that could be material for our businesses was identified. Prioritization of material issues The sustainability context of each of the issues or dimensions identified was detailed so as to understand their materiality to our business and industry. Following this, a prioritization exercise was undertaken by looking at the intrinsic worth of each issue as well as its relative priority. The stakeholder’s feedback was also taken into account by incorporating their ratings for each of these dimension against four criteria of 1) Relevance to Wipro’s business operations; 2) Relevance to stakeholders; 3) Impact; and 4) Time horizon of impact. In 2014-15, we held a formal consultation with senior leadership, employees and external sustainability experts from industry and academia, on stakeholder priorities, concerns and expectations. We also considered inputs from customers and investors. The collective outcome of the consultation process was a revised materiality matrix. Since then, we have revisited the materiality matrix/map each year, and consider any refresh that it requires, based on latest stakeholder feedback and input. About this Report 24 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Materiality Reporting for the Year In line with GRI standard requirement to focus on ‘what matters’ and ‘where it matters’, we undertook an exercise to determine the most material issues to include in this report from multiple dimensions of risk, returns and relevance. We adopted the following steps to identify material aspects for reporting. ? Mapping the identified material issues to GRI ‘Topics’ ? Defining the boundary of each ‘Topic’ based on impacts ? Deciding the scope of reporting for other issues/dimensions From the universe of issues or dimensions that was identified as material, a total of 20 topics have been finalized for reporting. Depending on the relative importance, the other identified issues identified will be detailed in the respective sections as part of disclosure of management approach. The outcomes of the process were shared with all relevant functions for review and the consequent feedback was incorporated. About this Report 25 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Given below is the mapping of identified aspects and topics to respective sections and primary stakeholders. The topics highlighted in italics are not part of GRI standard. About this Report 26 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 The right of workers (and employers) Freedom of to organize collectively in organizations Association and of their own choice is a fundamental Workplace Sustainability Collective Bargaining provision of the UN ‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights’ Employees The quality of employees is considered to be an important source of competitive advantage to any Capacity Building and organization. Hence maintaining and Career Development improving the human capital of the company, particularly through training that expands the knowledge base of employees, is a key differentiator. Studies estimate that the ICT systems now use 1,500 terawatt-hours of power per year which is about 10% of Global Supply Chain (includes the world's total electricity generated. Business Travel and commute) Jevons paradox proposes that the Energy contribute to 77% of overall increase in efficiency which comes environmental impact. along with technological progress tends to increase (rather than decrease) the rate of consumption of that resource. Emissions are a major contributor to Current & future generations Ecological Responsibility climate change. As demand for ICT is expected to quadruple by 2020, the Global Supply Chain (includes total carbon footprint of ICT sector is Business Travel and commute) set to grow at 6% per year. Data center Emissions contribute to 77% of overall footprint is expected to triple by 2020. environmental impact. To limit the negative impacts f climate change, it is critical to limit the temperature increase to 2 degree celsius above pre industrial levels. World Economic Forum's Global Risk Report 2015 identifies water crisis as one of the top high impact and high Operations in India as they likelihood risks. The UN Water Water constitute 80% of overall footprint forecasts that 1.8 billion people will be and higher impact living in countries or regions with absolute water scarcity and two thirds of the world population under water stress conditions by 2025. About this Report 27 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Unmanaged disposal of waste and effluents can have significant impact on receiving ecosystem and this in turn can affect the quality of the water supply available to the organization and its relationship with communities Operations in India as they Current & future generations Ecological Responsibility & other water users. Reduction of Effluents and Waste constitute 80% of overall footprint waste and effluents can contribute and higher impact directly to lower costs for materials, processing and disposal at the same time reduce financial risks from the loss of raw materials, remediation costs, regulatory action as well as reputation. The vast sprawling campuses where Wipro campuses in Bangalore and we operate gives an opportunity to Campus Biodiversity Pune promote ecological balance by improving biodiversity Given the urban centric nature of our operations, ecological issues affecting urban areas cannot be overlooked by Urban Resilience Primarily India the organization. A better, safer and cleaner environment promotes wellbeing of the citizens. Given the pervasive nature of technology, data privacy has become a concern for businesses. Any lapse Customer Privacy All our customers and businesses from the organizations part in safeguarding the privacy and interests of customers can have financial, legal and reputation impacts to business Customer stewardship Customers Engagement is critical to understand Customer All our customers and businesses and meet expectations of customers Engagement All our customers and businesses and customer retention is dependent on the quality of engagements. Opportunities to learn and innovate in emerging areas of work drive the engagement levels of employees. Also Innovation All our customers and businesses innovation helps generate revenue for the business and builds relationships for the long term. About this Report 28 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Financial Economic performance is key to the Economic Economic performance: Across sustainability of any business and the performance the value chain, primarily India success of the business cascades to the stakeholders involved. Stewardship Investors Corruption can be a significant risk to business as it can have create legal and regulatory implications. There are Anti-corruption: Supply chain and instances where instances of Anti-corruption business functions, primarily India corruption by organizations affecting the economy at large. Anti-corruption as a focus area is also naturally aligned with our Spirit of Wipro values. Supplier Supply Chain Social aspects of Supply Chain: environmental The responsibility of the business India based suppliers Sustainability assessment does not ends within the boundary of Suppliers* the organization. The suppliers play critical role in the sustainability and hence issues faced by the supplier Workplace Environmental aspects of supply ecosystem should be considered by chain: Categories based on life Supplier social the organization for effective risk cycle assessment of services and assessment mitigation. Sustainability products (see natural capital accounting) Community & civil society It is critical for business to engage Social Responsibility with the social and ecological Communities in India and other challenges that face humanity in a counties where we have deep and meaningful manner with networks; The education Community and significant operations. Other long term commitment; for that is the Education countries include South Africa, only way by which real change can United States of America etcetera. happen on the ground. It is these ecosystem engagements which gives the organizations ‘license to operate’. * As described in the section ‘Our Value Chain’, our suppliers are of three categories – Human Resources, Service Providers and Materials & Equipment Providers. We are covering aspects and topics related to our primary supply chain (contractors directly engaged in customer delivery) in the section ‘People Sustainability’ and product and services supply chain related aspects in the section ‘Supply Chain Sustainability’. 1.3 Organization Overview In this section, we present an overview of Wipro’s key organizational metrics both, at a strategic and operational level. We also articulate our approach to corporate governance covering the key areas of Board Governance, Strategic Risk Management, Codes of Conduct and Policies, disclosures and ombudsprocess. All of these together provide the cornerstones of our overarching approach centered on being a responsible organization that combines financial performance with environmental stewardship and a workplace that is fair as well as empowered. Company Profile Wipro Limited (NYSE: WIT, BSE: 507685, NSE: successful. A company recognized globally for its WIPRO) is a leading global information technology, comprehensive portfolio of services, strong consulting and business process services commitment to sustainability and good corporate company. We harness the power of cognitive citizenship, we have over 160,000 dedicated computing, hyper-automation, robotics, cloud, employees serving clients across six continents. analytics and emerging technologies to help our Together, we discover ideas and connect the dots clients adapt to the digital world and make them to build a better and a bold new future. About this Report 30 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Milestones Our company is one of the world’s most trusted brands and has a long history. Here's a snapshot of our journey to date: Strategic Business Units and Service Lines Wipro’s service offerings are aligned with the analytics services, business process services, technology needs of our customers. While our research and development and hardware and focus is on being a strategic provider of IT software design to leading enterprises Services and the system integrator of choice, we worldwide. also provide IT Products as a complement to our Our IT Products segment provides a range of IT Services offerings. In the India and Middle third-party IT products, which allows us to offer East markets, we are a leading provider of system comprehensive IT system integration services. integration services where we provide a full suite These products include computing, platforms of services such as hardware solutions, software and storage, networking solutions, enterprise licenses and services. To fulfill system integration information security and software products, projects, we provide IT hardware and software including databases and operating systems. We licenses. continue to focus on being a system integrator of Our IT Services business provides a range of IT choice where we provide IT products as a and IT-enabled services which include digital complement to our IT services offerings rather strategy advisory, customer-centric design, than sell standalone IT products. technology consulting, IT consulting, custom Our IT Services business segment is organized application design, development, re-engineering into six strategic business units by customer and maintenance, systems integration, package industry. Details of our Strategic Business Units implementation, global infrastructure services, and Service Lines are given below. Banking, Financial Consumer Manufacturing & Healthcare, Life Energy, Natural Communications Services & Insurance Technology Sciences & Services Utilities 27.6% 22.8% 15.9% 13.7% 13.5% 6.5% Business Global Infrastructure Business Process Product Engineering Analytics Digital Applications Services Services Services Consulting 45.4% 28.4% 12.1% 6.9% 7.1% 30.2% About this Report 31 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Geographical Presence UK Germany United Arab France Emirates Europe India Rest of world Sweden Saudi Arabia Japan India and ME Netherlands Quatar China Finland Bahrain Australia Switzerland Oman USA Singapore Romania Kuwait Canada Malaysia Americas Brazil Portugal Egypt Taiwan Austria Hong Kong New Zealand Asia Pacific & Other Americas Europe India and ME Emerging Markets 53.6% 25.1% 9.9% 11.4% About this Report 32 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Number of clients in year ended March 2017 Customer Size Distribution for IT services 800 Number of clients in Year ended in March 2017 602 600 550 400 354 331 268 248 200 160 163 89 91 33 34 18 18 9 9 0 >$1M >$3M >$5M >$10M >$20M >$50M >$75M >$100M 2016 2017 Values, Vision, Policies Earlier this year, we announced our new brand identity and logo. The new logo illustrates Wipro’s unique strengths, as seen by clients, of i) being able to connect and integrate multiple perspective across technologies, industries, and geographies and ii) identifying and implementing innovation that is most relevant and impactful, to enable clients run and transform their businesses. The brand logo conveys simplicity, vibrancy, and clarity; the four radiating rings of dots represent the Spirit of Wipro values, employees, clients and partners, and communities. The logo and brand in its entirety is a fusion of a strong core rooted in the Spirit of Values, and a strong sense of connectedness with our stakeholders, as we partner and shape the future together, with them. About this Report 33 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 #Multicolored Demonstrates our connected world and is modernized from our brand heritage #WordMark The color of the word mark creates a sense of reliability and authority #Circles The 4 circles represent our Values, Employees, Clients & Partners and Communities #Discs The individual discs represent ideas, insights, technologies, industries, geographies #Expanding Represents a boundless Wipro #Styling Gives a sense of fluidity, resourcefulness, optimism and connectivity The new brand identity marks our journey of transformation in the digital world. Our brand refresh signals an even closer engagement with TESTIMONIAL clients, greater innovation, and a deeper impact on their business. It is contemporary, reflecting the diversity and aspirations of our employees. Abidali Z. Neemuchwala The revised brand and logo reflects and is driven by the re-articulated Spirit of Wipro, our core values. The revised brand and Spirit of Wipro values together re-affirm and shape our identity and actions as a responsible, sustainable corporate citizen. Our brand identity is a visual expression of what we do and mean, for our clients. And this is directly energized by our Values. The Values are our TESTIMONIAL core and our beacon, the bedrock of our culture. Our rearticulated values connect and resonate deeply with the new, vibrant, brand identity. Azim Premji About this Report 34 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 The Spirit of Wipro represents the core values of Wipro’s Vision Wipro which act as the guiding principles for our “To earn our clients’ trust & maximize value of culture and actions. This Spirit is rooted in current their businesses by providing solutions that reality, but it also represents what Wipro aspires integrate deep industry insights, leading to be hence making it future ready. They bind us technologies & best in class execution” together and inspire us to excel in the way we Policies think and act. Values are the foundational cornerstones of an Spirit of Wipro institution and shape its essential core i.e. ‘what it The Spirit of Wipro is the core of Wipro. These are stands for’. To translate these into operating our Values. It is about who we are. It is our frameworks is the job of policies and codes of character. It is reflected consistently in all our conduct. Some of our key policies are as below. behavior. The Spirit is deeply rooted in the ? Code of Business Conduct unchanging essence of Wipro. It also embraces what we must aspire to be. It is the indivisible ? Ecological Sustainability Policy synthesis of the four values. The Spirit is a beacon. ? Corporate Social Responsibility Policy It is what gives us direction and a clear sense of ? Health and Safety Policy purpose. It energizes us and is the touchstone for ? Supplier Code of Conduct all that we do. We recently rearticulated the Spirit of Wipro. ? Human Rights Policy Be passionate about client's success ? All the policies and codes of conduct are developed after studying industry best practices Be passionate about clients’ success. We succeed and conducting stakeholder consultations. Senior when we make our clients successful. We level executives of relevant teams approve and collaborate to sharpen our insights and amplify have the oversight. Employees are regularly this success. We execute with excellence. Always. trained on the expectations of different policies Treat each person with respect and is available in websites as well as key We treat every human being with respect. We locations in our campuses. nurture an open environment where people are encouraged to learn, share and grow. We embrace diversity of thought, of cultures, and of people. Be global and responsible We treat every human being with respect. We nurture an open environment where people are encouraged to learn, share and grow. We embrace diversity of thought, of cultures, and of people. Unyielding integrity in everything we do Integrity is our core and is the basis of everything. It is about following the law, but it’s more. It is about delivering on our commitments. It is about honesty and fairness in action. It is about being ethical beyond any doubt, in the toughest of circumstances. About this Report 35 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Key organizational metrics Key Financial Metrics 724921 800k (millions) 590393 724003 502304 434269 662716 600k 469545 396478 600033 5122440 467384 344896 554179 488541 400k 409628 51592 200k 78913 78405 87059 89414 125221 84895 142412 0 Revenue Prot After Tax Total Equity Debt Total Assets (Rs.Billion)* (Rs. Billion)* Capitalization (Rs.Billion) (Rs.Billion) (Rs. Billion) (Rs. Billion) Other Metrics 210 471 213 588 Number of shareholders 227 369 241 154 159 000 142 282 Number of Employees * 156 718 165 481 0 50k 100k 150k 200k 250k 300k (millions) 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 * Figures are only for core employees in IT business. Does not include partner employees, retainers and support service workforce. About this Report 36 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Good Governance and Management Practices Corporate Governance At Wipro, Corporate Governance is more than just adherence to the statutory and regulatory requirements. It is equally about focusing on voluntary practices that underlie the highest levels of transparency and propriety. Our Corporate Governance philosophy is put into practice at Wipro through the following four functional layers, namely, Governance by Shareholders Governance by Board of Directors Audit/Risk and Compliance Committee Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee with Governance by Sub-Committee the additional responsibility of CSR of Board of Directors Strategy Committee Administrative, Shareholders and Investors Grievance Committee (Stakeholders Relationship Committee) Codes of Conduct Governance by Compliance Management Process The Ombudsprocess Effective corporate governance requires a clear understanding of the respective roles of the Board and of senior management and their relationships with others in the corporate structure. To ensure this, the Board of Directors has adopted ‘Corporate Governance Guidelines’ which codifies the best corporate governance practices. These guidelines provide a systematic and structured framework for the Board to review and evaluate the Company’s performance in an independent manner, while at the same time providing assurance to the Directors in terms of their authority to oversee the Company’s management. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines give an overview of the responsibilities of the board, board composition, board meetings, board committees and process of management review. The guidelines can be viewed at http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdf-files/Corporate-Governance-Guidelines.pdf For more details on our corporate governance, please refer to page number 35 and 112-123 of our Annual Report FY 2016-17. About this Report 37 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Board of Directors Composition of Board: As on March 31, 2017, the Board comprised three executive directors and seven non-executive directors of which one executive director is the Chairman of our Board. All of the seven nonexecutive directors are independent directors and free from any business or other relationship that could materially influence their judgment. All the independent directors satisfy the criteria of independence as defined under the listing agreement with the Indian Stock Exchanges and the New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance standards. The Board Profile giving an overview of the background and experience of Board of Directors can viewed is provided in pages 16 to 21 of our Annual Report FY 2015-16. Board Diversity in Industry Experience 3 2 1 0 Diversity in Industry Experience Technology BFSI FMCG Telecom Academia / Consulting Healthcare About this Report 38 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Board: Tenure of Directors 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Board Tenure of Directors 0-5 years 6-10 years >10 years Board: Tenure of Directors 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Age Diversity of the Board 30-50 years Above 50 years About this Report 39 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Board Nomination and Selection: Our Corporate Conflicts of Interest: Board members are not Governance Guidelines specify the board prohibited from serving on Boards and/or nomination process as well as board membership Committees of other organizations, except for criteria. We consider different factors of expertise companies that are in competition with the and experience on economic and social aspects in businesses pursued by the Company. However, board selection. These factors such as members of the Board are required to comply with independence, alignment with company's values, applicable regulatory requirements with respect diversity and complementarity in terms of age, to limits on number of directorships in the both skills and knowledge, management experience, the country of incorporation of the country and industry background, perspectives, etc., ensures the country of residence. The Board Profile section selection of a Board which can act in the best in our Annual Report discloses other board interests of the company and its stakeholders. memberships held by our Board of Directors. Training of Board: The board undergoes Service on Boards and/or Committees of other familiarization program and other continuing organizations shall be consistent with the education programs which are aimed at Company’s conflict of interest policy. developing and enhancing the collective Wipro is a promoter group-led company with the knowledge of economic and social topics related promoters having other diverse businesses and to their duties as Directors on an ongoing basis to interests. Given the fact that the promoter group enable them to perform their duties better and to has occasions to engage in Related Party recognize and deal appropriately with issues that Transactions (RPTs), disclosures on the same are arise. made in our annual reports in the interest of Roles and Responsibilities: transparency. Such transactions are guided by ‘Policy on Related Party Disclosures’, an abridged Board Evaluation: Annual Performance version of which is made available in our website Evaluation is conducted for all Board Members as at well as the working of the Board and its http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdfCommittees and is led by the Chairman of the files/abridged-policy-for-related-partyBoard Governance, Nomination and transactions.pdf. ‘Refer to page 167 of our latest Compensation Committee with specific focus on Annual Report for 2015 16 for details of related the performance and effective functioning of the party transactions during the financial year. Our Board. The evaluation process may also include Annual Financial reports include disclosures on self/peer evaluation of each director and the shareholding pattern of promoters as well as top evaluation framework has been designed in 10 shareholders. compliance with the regulatory requirements in India. Evaluation of Directors was based on criteria such as participation and contribution in Board and Committee meetings, representation of shareholder interest and enhancing shareholder value, experience and expertise to provide feedback and guidance to top management on business strategy, governance and risk, understanding of the organization’s strategy, risk and environment, etc. The Board has received consistent ratings on its overall effectiveness and has been rated comparatively higher this year for composition of Directors and their skills, attributes and experience. About this Report 40 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Risk Management Risk Management at Wipro is an enterprise wide function that aims at assessing threats to business sustainability and mitigating those threats. The function is backed by a qualified team of specialists with deep industry experience who develop frameworks and methodologies for assessing and mitigating risks. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) works in close co-ordination with Business teams, Legal, Finance, Human Resources, Quality, office of the CIO, Delivery, Internal Audit and other Functional teams. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) enables and supports business objectives through risk-intelligent assessment and mitigation mechanisms while providing reassurance to all stake holders including Customers, Shareholders and Employees. This is done by identifying, assessing and mitigating risks within key business and functional processes through a collaborative approach. As part of this, the leveraging of technology and tools for continuous monitoring and reporting of risks is crucial. ERM Framework The risk landscape in the current business environment is changing dynamically with the dimensions of Cyber security, Information Security & Business Continuity, Data Privacy and Large Deal Execution figuring prominently in the risk charts of most organizations. To effectively mitigate these risks, we have employed a risk management framework which helps proactively identify, prioritize and mitigate risks. The framework is based on principles laid out in the four globally recognized standards. Orange Book by UK Government Treasury ? COSO; Enterprise Risk Management – Integrated. Framework by Treadway Commission ? AS/NS 4360:2004 by AUS/NZ Standards board ? ISO/FDIS 31000:2009 by ISO ? Audit Committee Governance of the Board Oversight k Tone @ The Top ew or n ic Co y/ Fr uo am tin Framework Standard ERM I Corporate pl Framework People, us Management oy m ERM Team Po Process Technology l em de ov & pr De ent ve lo Risk Management p Risk Business Units Identification Analysis Evalute Treatement Monitoring Ownership & Function Risk Categories Governance Strategic Operational Compliance Reporting About this Report 41 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Major Risk Management and Risk Mitigation Initiatives Major risks Mitigation plan Information Security & Cyber Security breaches that Effective security controls implemented to detect, could result in systemic failures, loss, disclosure of prevent and remediate threats. Program to continuously confidential information. monitor the effectiveness of the controls have been implemented. Focus is on sustaining controls and continuous improvement of efficacy of the solutions. Intellectual Property violating or misusing our clients’ Elaborate program has been rolled out in the past years intellectual property rights or for breaches of third-party to assess and mitigate the risks on account of intellectual intellectual property rights or confidential information in property, both customer and Wipro-owned. The program connection with services to our clients. assists in identification, monitoring and creating awareness across the teams. The program has also been enhanced to address risks arising out of access provided to social media & collaboration platforms. Data Privacy regulations relating to personal and health The Data Privacy program has been augmented keeping information dealt with both by and on behalf of Wipro into consideration privacy regulatory requirements, with increases the risk of non-compliance. specific emphasis to revalidate all existing frameworks, policies and processes that can be leveraged by respective support function and delivery teams, covering all applicable geographies and areas of operations. Regulatory Compliances covering various federal, state, A program on statutory compliance is in place with the local and foreign laws relating to various aspects of the objective to track all applicable regulations, obligation business operations are complex and non-compliances arising out of the same and corresponding action items can result in substantial fines, sanctions etc. that requires to be adhered to ensure compliance along with necessary workflows enabled. The program is monitored and regularly reviewed to ensure compliances. Additional programs exist to cover specific regulations relating to immigration, anti-bribery etc. Functional and Operational risks arising out of various Appropriate risk and control matrices have been designed operational processes for all critical business processes and both design and effectiveness is tested under the SOX and Internal Financial Control Programs and theme based assessments. Service Delivery risks relating to complex programs Risk Management framework has been deployed for large providing end-to-end business solutions for our clients. value deals to assess solution fitness, credit risks, financial risks, technology risks among other risk factors. Additionally contract compliance programs are in place with regular reviews, early warning systems as well as customer satisfaction surveys to assess the effectiveness of the service delivery and early detection of any risks arising from the service delivery. About this Report 42 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Major risks Mitigation plan Work place environment and Safety Strong Control measures have been put in place to ensure employee health and safety. Awareness is created about various issues and are communicated on regular basis to employees. Wipro maintains Zero Tolerance for violators of code of business conduct. Also employees are provided with an online web portal to log in concerns relating to various subjects including environment and safety in the work place. Business Continuity management risks arising out of Effective implementation of Business Continuity global operations like IT outages, Cyber, natural disasters, Management System (BCMS) framework aligned to ISO pandemic, terror and unrest, power disruptions etc. 22301 across accounts, service functions and various which will bring down the availability of People, Technology locations. The system will have a comprehensive and and Facility integrated readiness of the BCMS requirements that will help plan, coordinate and execute the strategies effectively. Geo political risk arising out of entering into contracts in a An assessment of doing business in a new country is done new country. in order to analyze the feasibility of doing business based on the country’s economic stability, corruption index, investment opportunities, ease of doing business and physical safety. Risk of protectionism policies impacting the business Appropriate measures are being taken to provide uninterrupted high quality services to the clients at all geographies. Risk Governance The Board Committee on Audit, Risk and Compliance consisting of non-executive independent directors has the responsibility of periodically reviewing the company’s policies for risk assessment and risk management and assess the steps taken to control such risks. The committee also reviews and approves the Strategic and Operating Plan of Enterprise Risk Management function of the Company. Concomitantly, the internal Audit function at Wipro also plays a key role in identifying and highlighting potential risks to Board Committee. High risks including concerns related to Ombudsprocess, sexual harassment prevention and critical security incidents are tracked and reviewed periodically. They are reported to the Audit committee of the board every quarter. Customer related issues and key employee engagement developments are also reviewed by the board. About this Report 43 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Code of Conduct Wipro managers on how well they align with the principle of unyielding integrity. Wipro has a corporation wide Code of Business Conduct (COBC) that provides the broad direction Compliance Framework as well as specific guidelines for all business Compliance processes at Wipro have the oversight transactions. The COBC is applicable to all of the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, business practices and employees, contractor and the Corporate Compliance Committee. We employees and consultants. It covers critical have a dedicated in-house Legal & Compliance aspects like customer relations, protecting team focused on compliance to identify and customer information, supplier selection, conflicts analyse the legal and regulatory changes resulting of interest, gifts, entertainment & business in creation and update of policies and processes. courtesies, communicating with the public, The team oversees compliance with local confidential information, intellectual property, business laws and regulatory compliance in each competitive/business intelligence, protecting the of the countries we operate. It is important to privacy of employee and personal information, assure the stakeholders that internal systems are business records and internal controls, fair and just. Global Immigration Management safeguarding company assets, insider trading, System (GIMS), Integrated Risk management and anti-trust and fair competition, anti-corruption, Human Resources have been identified as political involvement/lobbying, global trade; functions with “material” compliance related risks. human rights, diversity and non-discrimination, As a result, the legal and compliance team harassment-free workplace, safe and healthy reviews the process of these functions. work environment, and sustainability and Dashboards are maintained across Business corporate citizenship. Units and Support Functions and reviewed for The COBC is socialized at multiple points of an contractual compliances periodically. Suitable employee’s lifecycle it is first covered as part of external consulting firms are engaged for the induction program of new hires and Corporate, Taxation and Labour law compliance subsequently, every employee has to take an activities. online test annually to assert their familiarity with GSCCP Program the tenets of the COBC. The code can be accessed In 2014, the Global Compliance Management at Project was started with the objective of http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdfdocumenting (replace with “adopting”) a global files/code-of-business-conduct-and-ethics.pdf statutory compliance certification program The COBC is the central document on which the (GSCCP) framework and automating the Company’s ethics compliance message is framework. The project covers all functions across disseminated to all employees. Hence, it is 24 countries, including India. Under this project, constantly reviewed by the Legal & Compliance Compliance Landscaping is being done under the team to ensure it stays current with trends and broad categories of Corporate and Commercial changes in corporate ethics, benchmarking with laws; Industry specific laws; Employment, Human the best and most ethical companies in the world, Resource & Immigration laws; Environment, and keeping up with the statutory changes. Health & safety; and IT and Data. An external Wipro will take appropriate disciplinary action service provider has been engaged for this project. including termination against any employee, A compliance tracking tool has also been agent, contractor or consultant, whose actions are implemented, to track statutory compliance found to violate the terms of COBC. We have a zero across global operations and ensure compliance tolerance policy for non-compliance with the nonwith all relevant legal requirements. Audits for negotiable aspects of COBC e.g. child labor, antiselect suppliers are also planned for next year. corruption etc. 360 degree feedback process rates Anti-Corruption About this Report 44 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Our code of conduct and the supplier code of manager-level employees located in the states of conduct cover requirements of FCPA (Foreign California and Connecticut within the US are corrupt practices act) and the UK anti-bribery act. required to undergo training and certification on High risk functions assessed are procurement, TA, prevention of sexual harassment. In addition, CMF, HR, FMG, Sales and the geographies special trainings are conducted for Prevention of selected are based on the relative ranking in Sexual Harassment Committee panel members, Transparency International ranking of countries and SOPs are published for better governance we operate in. encompassing the requirements under law on Training programs on ethical compliance and the sexual harassment. Ombudsprocess are regularly conducted at There have been no significant instances of nonvarious leadership levels. At these interactive compliance in the last financial year. sessions, key applicable ethical policies are The Ombudsprocess explained, with real organizational case studies Wipro is committed to the highest standards of and relevant judicial pronouncements on ethical openness, probity and accountability. An matters. Statistical data on the complaints / important aspect of accountability and concerns received by the Ombudspersons, and transparency is a robust mechanism that allows the processes adopted to address these are partners, customers, suppliers and other shared with the participating leaders. Every new members of the public, to voice concerns in a hire is required to attend an ethical compliance responsible and effective manner. What this session titled “Spirit of Wipro Session” where key means in concrete terms is that whenever a aspects of the ethics framework are stakeholder discovers information that reveals communicated. We have an annual test and serious malpractice, impropriety, abuse or certification for all employees on the Code Of wrongdoing within the organization then the Business Conduct. Additionally, specific training stakeholder should be able to report without fear through e-learning modules is rolled out on of reprisal Anyone can report a concern to the various subjects including anti-corruption, Gifts, ombudsperson online at www.wiproombuds.com entertainment, and Business Courtesies, and is mandated for all employees in a phased manner. In Wipro, our Chief Ombuds-person works with designated Ombuds-persons in each Business Other modes of maintaining awareness of ethical Unit. The process ensures confidential and compliance among employees include focused anonymous submissions. An organization wide training sessions organized for various functionsmulti-lingual Ombudsprocess is available 24 x 7 Procurement, Operations and Administration, (phone and internet enabled) for all our Human Resources, Finance and Accounts, stakeholders. Internal Audit. At these classroom sessions, key policies relevant to the participants are discussed Complete details of the Ombuds process for and feedback is taken for addressing any changes employees is available at the following links in our to processes and policies. Mailers on Compliance website. are periodically circulated by the ombudsprocess Employees group through emails, posters at key employee http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdfaccess locations. External Trainings are organized files/wipro_ombuds_process.pdf regularly for Legal & Compliance, Finance, For non-employees Accounts, and Internal Audit teams on antihttp://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdfcorruption laws of USA and UK, best practices on files/wipro-ombudsman-process-nonimplementing anti-corruption processes in employees.pdf organizations. These sessions are conducted by In 2016-17, 1692 complaints were received via the US external counsel and consulting firms. In ombudsprocess and 1709 complaints were accordance with mandatory local law, all About this Report 45 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 closed. All cases were investigated and actions timelines. This includes all cases reported to the taken as deemed appropriate. Based on selfsystem, even if unsubstantiated. In some cases, a disclosure data, 25% of these were reported clear action has been taken (warning or anonymously. The top categories of complaints separation) and the rest have either not were people processes (34%) and workplace progressed due to lack of information or resolved concerns and harassment (22%). through counselling. A total of 116 complaints of sexual harassment The ombudsprocess statistics for 16-17 and were raised in the calendar year 2016, of which earlier years are provided below and this 102 cases were disposed and appropriate actions information is periodically communicated to the were taken in all cases within the statutory board. Break-up of Complaints received through the Ombuds Process 40 38 38 34 30 Number of Complaints 23 21 22 20 14 13 13 11 11 15 9 10 9 9 9 10 5 0 HR / People COBCE / Harassment Falsication or Harassment Others % Process % Security Policy Sexual % Destruction of Workplace % % Information % 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 About this Report 46 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Source of the Complaint 1250 1084 1000 951 Number of Complaints 750 652 500 410 311 285 250 135 102 70 33 31 36 21 25 19 6 8 0 Employee Anonymous Others Vendor Contractor Customer 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 Type of Actions Taken 80 49 57 64 60 Values 40 17 17 15 20 15 14 11 8 5 4 8 6 5 2 2 1 0 Separation % Warning Letter Counseling / Process/Policy Benets Others % % Advisory % Change % Granted % 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 About this Report 47 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Actions Taken on Sexual Harassment Complaints 50 45 40 33 33 39 30 Values 25 24 23 21 19 20 17 18 11 10 0 Separation % Warning Letter % Counseling % Others % 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 Besides the ombudsprocess, the stakeholders The concerns about unethical or unlawful also have the option of sharing their concerns behavior, and matters related to organizational with us via mail mentioned in our website. We integrity which are mandated by law to report are have location registers at all our locations which communicated to the relevant agencies as and can be used by any stakeholder group to express when such issues happen. In FY 16-17, there was their concerns. Wipro also invites experts in the no instance of ethical or unlawful activity which field of crime and investigation to conduct master required seeking external advice or reporting to classes on topics relevant to the business. external agency. The 10th Year of Sustainability Reporting Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview 2.1 Sustainability Megaforces 2.2 Overview of Wipro’s Sustainability Journey 2.3 Wipro’s Sustainability Framework 2.4 Sustainability Governance 2.5 Transparency and Disclosures 2.6 Advocacy and Public Policy 2.1 Sustainability Megaforces In this section we articulate the overarching context of the interlinkages between business, ecology and society. We examine global sustainability trends and try to position our strategic approach in this larger context. A thriving global society, now and in the future, understood through the framework of nine depends on the stable functioning of all planetary boundaries proposed by a team led by interacting components of the Earth System Johan Rockstrom at the Stockholm Resilience (ecology and society). Unfortunately, scientific Centre, it shows that at least three planetary evidence indicates that human influence has boundaries have been transgressed (rate of altered Earth System processes to a point that we biodiversity loss, human interference with the have begun transgressing planetary boundaries nitrogen and phosphorus cycle), while some are at that have kept civilization safe for the past 10,000 risk of being surpassed (land-system change, and years. Scientists claim that we have entered a new ocean acidification). geological epoch 'the Anthropocene' While the world income (GDP per capita) has characterized by manmade actions interfering increased exponentially over the past century, and changing the environment. income inequality did decrease till the 70's-80's The changes in the Earth system can be and is now showing a rebound to levels seen near Wipro and Sustainability 51 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 the beginning of the century (IMF). About a billion progress in reducing maternal mortality must people are estimated to be living in extreme double to reach the 2030 target. Progress is also poverty today. A quarter of all children under the inconsistent across demographic groups and age of five years is estimated to be stunted due to nations. For instance, women spent almost three malnutrition. By the close of 2016, 65.6 million times the number of hours that men do, on unpaid people worldwide were forcibly displaced due to domestic work and care-giving. Women also violence, conflict, persecution or human rights continue to be under-represented in parliaments abuse. The worldwide refugee population is nearly and corporates, especially at senior and middle 5 million, with 84% of them hosted by developing management levels. Another area of growing regions. . 775 million adults and 250 million concern, worldwide, is youth unemployment. children worldwide lack basic literacy skills, and While mobile cellular coverage is almost universal of this, more than 60 per cent of them are women. now, internet and fixed broadband services 2015 was the year when three landmark remain out of reach in many parts of the agreements on human development were signed: developing world. Not all trends are discouraging, the new Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a though. Manufacturing emission levels are lower new framework for global sustainable across regions, and investment in R&D continues development financing, and a new climate change to rise. For business, these results and trends agreement at the COP 21 in Paris. The objectives would mean a need to think widely in terms of of the seventeen SDG’s are to end poverty, protect defining ‘vulnerable’ groups and materiality, and the planet, and ensure prosperity for all as part of step up their efforts to partner with government a new sustainable development agenda. The COP and civil society to create change. 21 at Paris concluded with a legally binding and The involvement of business in SDG action and universal agreement on reducing greenhouse gas progress is considered an integral part of emissions to limit the global temperature increase governmental plans, and is widely referred by to 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels around 60% of countries that carried out a climate, from all world nations. Even though the Voluntary National Review. In countries like India, outcome of the summit can be considered ‘very which is considered a land of opportunity for little and too late’, the summit succeeded in sustainable development, the SDGs are expected reaching at a global consensus for a complex to create huge opportunities for sustainable problem. Also it resulted in countries committing business in the areas of food & agriculture, cities, on post-2020 climate actions they intended to energy and health. Across the world, businesses take under the new international agreement, across the world must be willing partners in the known as their Intended Nationally Determined journey towards progressby bringing technology, Contributions (INDCs). Implementation on the ingenuity, enterprise building capacities and SDGs began in 2016, and the first progress report creating markets for development of sustainable was published in 2017, accompanied by the alternatives. In this, business has to collaborate launch of the Global SDG Indicators Database, with all stakeholders across its value chain and which presents global, regional, and country-level with the community to transition to a future that data. Countries have also undertaken separate is equitable to all stakeholders and is cognizant of voluntary national reviews. interdependent issues and planetary boundaries. The UN’s Sustainable Goals Progress Report, What follows is an articulation of eight 2017, indicates that while progress has been significant sustainability mega forces or trends made on the 17 goals, the pace of progress needs and their implications for business. to be much faster to achieve the agreed on 2030 milestones. For instance, while the rate of child mortality has sharply declined, the pace of Wipro and Sustainability 52 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Global Economic System Current Scenario: The global economic system is vulnerable to multiple risks which have the potential to undermine financial and social stability of societies. The risks include asset bubbles in major economies, failure of a major financial mechanism or institution, fiscal crises, unmanageable inflation or prolonged ultra-low inflation or deflation in a major economy or region (World Risks Report, 2016). There is also a growing problem of structural unemployment in advanced economies. Even though the world has recovered from the latest financial crisis, the danger of complacency compared to other risks exists. Business Implications: The volatile nature of economic environment and the multitude of risks that can disrupt the financial order pose serious threat to long time sustainability of businesses. Businesses need to be alert and should proactively address critical areas of concerns to insulate themselves from any potential crises. They should avoid unduly large debt and related financial exposures and exercise prudence in their risk taking strategies Climate Change Current Scenario: The fifth assessment report of IPCC asserts with greater certainty that climate change is a reality. The report says that the atmosphere and ocean have warmed, the amounts of snow and ice have diminished, sea level has risen, and the concentrations of greenhouse gases have increased and human influence on the climate system is evident from the increasing greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere, positive radiative forcing, observed warming, and understanding of the climate system . Climate change can directly or indirectly lead to hunger, water scarcity, health problems, and poverty over varying time frames. It can impact employment and livelihood opportunities thereby limiting opportunities to access education, housing and energy. It can also cause large scale migration and displacement as a result of climate change related emergencies like extreme heat, floods and droughts, tropical storms and changing patterns of infection of diseases. The cost of climate change is both financial and social. The IPCC AR 5 predicts global mean losses to be in the order of 1 to 5% of GDP for 4°C of warming with even higher regional losses. Inaction can create risks of major disruption to economic and social and herein lies the implications for businesses. Discussions on climate change have moved from ascertaining the probability and estimating risks and costs to developing strategies for mitigation and adaptation. The Fifth Assessment report talks about adaptation and mitigation strategies that need to be implemented. Businesses are expected to play a greater role in implementing those Wipro and Sustainability 53 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 strategies. WRI, CDP and WWF launched ' Mind the Science, Mind the Gap' initiative to develop sector specific methodologies to help companies set science based emission reduction targets based on IPCC's recommendations i.e. what is required by companies across different sectors to limit global temperatures rise by 2 degree centigrade by 2100 from pre-industrial levels. Business Implications: Businesses will face a multitude of risks and opportunities related to climate change. The risks include (a) increased energy and other resource costs (b) increased insurance costs related to extreme and adverse climate events and (c) potential future litigation, claims and legal action. On the other hand, opportunities for businesses lie in the field of emissions trading, carbon credits, carbon offsetting or ecofriendly technologies or products like hybrid cars and renewable energy. Process improvements that can save energy and reduce GHG emissions can also enhance brand value and reputation. The opportunities are not without challenges both scientific and political. For example, renewables face the challenges of energy density, efficiency, scalability and grid integration while offsetting programs like large scale afforestation can adversely impact other resources due to land use change like water and biodiversity. Water Crises Current Scenario: Global water demand (in terms of withdrawals) is projected to increase by 55 percent by 2050. Currently agriculture accounts for 69% of the world's total freshwater withdrawal and a further 19% increase of agricultural water consumption is expected by 2050. But the rise in demand of water is mainly because of growing demands from manufacturing (400 percent), thermal electricity generation (140 percent) and domestic use (130 percent). Water and food security are inextricably linked. Multiple factors like population, shift in food consumption patterns (non-local and higher protein food) and shift towards mechanization without the application of local and traditional resources, knowledge and skills are increasing the demand for water. If this situation is not resolved, the impending water crisis can threaten food security. Urbanization supported by the increase in tertiary economic activities (services) and industrialization have also contributed to the misuse of water resources primarily driven by the shift to water being viewed as yet other resource that an external entity ( the state in most cases) is supposed to provide. This situation is likely to be exacerbated further due to Climate change driven changes in precipitation patterns. The UN Water forecasts that 1.8 billion people will be living in countries or regions with absolute water scarcity and two thirds of the world population will be living in ‘water-stressed’ areas by 2025 (UN Water, 2007). World Wipro and Sustainability 54 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Economic Forum's Global Risk Report 2016 reflects this problem and identifies water crisis as one of the top high impact and high likelihood risks. Business Implications: Water scarcity can lead to implementation of stringent policies on water allocation and regulation e.g. development of water markets that cap usage and stricter water quality standards. Subsidies may be replaced with full cost pricing which may increase water prices. Agricultural crises can increase food prices and this along with increased water prices can affect disposable income of consumers. This can impact profits of businesses and economic growth. Water is a commons which has tangible societal and cultural connects. The societal license to operate for a business may be challenged in times of scarcity and there will be pressures to implement water saving measures, new processes technologies and products to reduce the water foot print by businesses. Disruption in water supply can directly impact continuity of business operations at a local level. Consumers are likely to consider water efficient products or from companies which are seen as water responsible. Urbanization Current Scenario: Urban living is often associated with better access to employment, livelihoods, education, health care and other social services as well as greater opportunities for social and cultural participation. It is largely lead by increased mechanization in farm/rural sectors and opportunities from industries and service sectors in cities. Currently, 54% of world's population lives in urban areas, projected to reach 66% by 2050 (UN, 2014). Nearly 90% of projected increase would come from Asia and Africa. Most emerging urban areas are low on livability indices. They suffer from haphazard planning which is mostly post facto and reactive. Accessibility of basic services is often an issue for disadvantaged sections of the society, leading to urban inequality. Business Implications: Cities are the ecosystems for organizations and institutions to access rich and diverse social capital. It can be argued that they have been the centers of economic growth since the past few decades and will continue to do so in the future. Poor social infrastructure can dampen this possibility. While the state will continue to play a key role in creation of this infrastructure, they suffer from significant knowledge and governance deficits. Businesses must play an active role here by engaging with local governments and communities to look at solutions for some complex problems. Integrated multi modal transport and management of other urban civic services leveraging technology are some of the emerging possibilities. Wipro and Sustainability 55 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Biodiversity Loss Current Scenario: Biodiversity is critical for the proper functioning of ecosystems and ensures the delivery of various ecosystem services from provisioning of clean air, water and food to decomposition of wastes and supporting pollination and nutrient cycles. Biodiversity is also an important source of flora and fauna with medicinal characteristics. Around 50000 70000 plant species are currently used in or as medicines. Given the importance of biodiversity for the sustainability and survival of humankind, biodiversity loss is found at the nexus of many risks ranging from food price volatility to infectious diseases. Large tracts of biodiverse ecosystems have been converted to cropland to ensure short term food security. Scientific studies have found that cropland expansion is one of the principal causes of biodiversity loss. There is also a relationship between biodiversity loss and soil degradation which in the long term could affect food production leading to food price volatility. Loss of biodiversity can also amplify environmental issues like coastal flooding and desertification. The WWF Living Planet Report has been long emphasizing that 1.6 planet Earths are required to support the current lifestyles of humankind. This figure called the ecological foot print of mankind (WWF, 2016). Ecological footprint is the sum of biologically productive land and sea required to produce the resources which human beings consumes and to absorb associated wastes and to provide space for infrastructure. Business Implications: A study in 2008 by The Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity (TEEB) has calculated the total annual economic cost of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation to be between 3.3 7.5% of global GDP for the year. No business sector can escape the risks associated with biodiversity loss, either direct or indirect. The type and extent of exposure to the risk could be different for different industries. The risk exposure would be greater for primary industries such as agriculture, forestry and fishing and secondary industries dependent primarily on primary produce fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) for example. Inequality and Inclusion Current Scenario: According to the Millennium Development Goals Report 2014, extreme poverty has reduced by half in 2010 compared to 2010 figures a reduction of 700 million people. The fight against diseases like Malaria, Tuberculosis and HIV in poorer countries has shown good results. However, a study by the World Institute for Development Economics Research at United Nations University reports that the richest 1% of adults alone owned 40% of global assets in the year 2000. The UNDP report titled 'Humanity Divided: Confronting Inequality in Developing Countries' published in 2013 talks about how income inequality has significantly increased in many countries during the last two decades. The report says income inequality increased by 11 percent in developing countries between Wipro and Sustainability 56 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 1990 and 2010 and more than 75 percent of the population is living today in societies where income is more unequally distributed than it was in the 1990s. The latest Global Multidimensional Poverty Index indicates that nearly 1/3rd of the population across over 100 developing nations are deprived of basic well-being in terms of education, health and standard of living. This global trend of inequality if left unchecked, can undermine social and economic development. Social inequality or discrimination due to gender, nationality/ethnicity and disability further adds to this economic inequality. Diversity as a key engine of innovation Eliminating discrimination and including disadvantaged minorities in mainstream social processes is a crucial driver of more resilient and innovative communities. Empowerment of women, for example, has shown to be closely correlated with variety of social outcomes family planning, the prevention of human rights abuses like child labor, better management of community resources and educational levels of their children. Business Implications: Businesses action on inclusion has centered on livelihood generation, micro credit and low cost technologies for bridging the resource and information gaps. While this needs to continue, there is a force multiplier effect when diversity and inclusion programs are integrated across their own operations value chain. The business sector should prioritize commitment to promote diversity and inclusivity at the workplace and in its extended supply chain. Business action on inequality and inclusion should incorporate aspects like diversity criteria in the procurement, local or traditional knowledge and socio economic contexts, for examplehow to engage with the informal economy. Human Rights and Labor Relations Current Scenario: The World Report 2016 published by Human Rights Watch discusses several instances of human rights violations which happened in the previous year. An earlier report by Human Rights Watch describes companies as the most powerful and sophisticated actors on the world stage, not governments. There are instances where corporate accountability has failed and human rights were violated by companies directly or indirectly and Human Rights Watch has documented such cases of corporate complicity with human rights violations. These are not restricted to extractive industries (mining, refineries) but also include companies with poor human rights and health and safety compliances across other business sectors. . In the last couple of years, international migration levels have steadily risen, which would bring about a change in global workforce demographics and workplace practices. Migrant worker human rights and risks (pay equity, benefits, workplace conflicts and other issues) is an emerging area of focus. Business Implications: Investors, media, consumers and communities, primarily from the developed economies, have been particularly successful in bringing the spotlight back on human rights compliance for suppliers of Wipro and Sustainability 57 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 large businesses, many of who are based out of emerging and low-income countries. The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises ( OECD Guidelines ) and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights ( UN Guiding Principles ) reflect the importance of proactive business interventions on upholding human rights principles. An important challenge which businesses may face is in effecting interventions where the sphere of control and influence is limited. Businesses should take efforts to ensure that business decisions and interactions are guided by the context of issues and informed consent of affected parties. Workplace policies, processes and cultures must re-align with demographic changes, to help the workforce adapt and to prevent human rights violations. Companies must set examples on transparency by reporting publicly on human rights, and the social and environmental impacts of their work. Pervasive Digitization Current Scenario: According to International Telecommunications union (ITU), there are more than 7 billion mobile cellular subscriptions worldwide in 2015, corresponding to a penetration rate of 97%. Between the years of 2000 and 2015, global internet penetration grew sevenfold from 6.5% to 43% and 3.2 billion people are using the internet by end of 2015. This is driving creation of new business models which strives to take technology as well as other accessible and affordable. With ICT becoming ubiquitous in day to day life, several technological risks arise. The World Economic Forum's Global Risk Report 2016 talks about risks related to the growing role of information and communication technologies to individuals, businesses and governments. The major risks identified by the report are adverse consequences of technological advances, critical infrastructure failure/ breakdown, data fraud/theft and cyber-attacks. These technological risks are strongly connected to each other and also to risks such as terrorist attacks and global governance failure. Business Implications: TICT companies have greater responsibility in strengthening critical infrastructure and for putting in place systems to protect against disruptions or attacks as the risks associated utmost important to national security and business continuity. Companies are increasingly being subject to various government disclosures on data privacy and cyber security issues. As a result, there is onus upon businesses to put in place resilient infrastructure and communication protocols. Businesses are legally obliged to comply with lawful government demands. At the same they also have the responsibility to uphold universally accepted human rights principles. In this context, there is onus upon businesses to address this issue by balancing legal compliance with compliance with human rights principles. Wipro and Sustainability 58 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Financial Implications of Climate Change At Wipro, the implications of climate change are of deep interest and we have been engaged with the multiple questions on this for the past seven years. We have studied and identified risks and opportunities that have the potential to generate a visible change in our business operations, revenue or expenditure. The risks and opportunities have been identified in the context of regulatory changes like introduction of fuel / energy taxes, physical climate parameters like changes in precipitation extremes and droughts, and other climate related developments like increasing humanitarian demands. We have followed a comprehensive approach for identification of risks and opportunities and estimation of their financial implications. Our analysis outcomes are detailed in our response to Carbon Disclosure Project every year. The quantification of some key impacts is provided below. For more information, visit www.cdp.net and search for the Wipro response. Risks Financial Impact Time Horizon Fuel/energy taxes and regulations. An aggregate impact of USD 97 Million of Medium increased operational costs over the next five years (2017-18 to 2021-22) is estimated on account of increase in electricity and diesel costs. Renewable energy regulations An incremental annual cost of which will be in the Medium range of USD 0.32 Mn for non-solar or solar Renewable Energy Certificates. Due to changes in precipitation An estimated impact of $ 46.7 Mn over 5 years due Short extremes and droughts. to employee absence caused by disruption in city infrastructure and tropical diseases. Due to changes in temperature A total financial impact of $ 8.62 Mn is estimated Medium extremes over 5 years over the next five years due to (a) increased employee absence from work and (b) increased electricity costs resulting from higher cooling demand. Tropical cyclones (hurricanes and Potential revenue loss due to increased employee Short typhoons) absence from work due to disruption in the city infrastructure $13 Mn. over the five year period Reputation An estimated financial impact of around 0.1% of Long our revenues which translates to $ 44.7 Mn over a 5 year period. 2.2 Overview of Wipro’s Sustainability Journey Wipro started its formal sustainability journey in responsibility make a difference in the larger 2001 with Wipro Cares, our community care social context. For us, this starts with a set of program followed by Wipro Applying Thought in foundational values as embodied in the Spirit of Schools (WATIS) in 2002, an initiative that Wipro: ‘Intensity to Win’, ‘Act with Sensitivity’ and addresses issues of systemic reforms in school ‘Unyielding Integrity’. These values emphasize education. This pursuit of good citizenship is a respect for all stakeholders and are the ethical deliberative choice Wipro made in line with its bedrock of conducting business which is noncore values of Wipro. negotiable under any circumstance. Over the years, our programs have expanded in In engaging with the issues of sustainability, scope and scale with significant initiatives getting business must do so in a manner that is added around ecology, workplace and employee consistent with its core drivers; a spirit of engagement, customer stewardship, and innovation, financial and operational rigor, a keen suppliers. Running through these diverse focus on outcomes are hallmark attributes of the programs is a common thread of thinking that business sector and these must inform business reflects our position on sustainability. action in sustainability in equal measure. In the Business wields enormous power and influence in absence of this, the approach to sustainability is today’s world, both, economic and sociopolitical. likely to be peripheral and hollow. What this also With this power comes the concomitant implies is that there is nothing that business must Wipro and Sustainability 60 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 do that seems to be driven by the need to oblige or contribute to their well-being. We identified our comply. workforce, customers, suppliers, proximate Related to the previous point is our conviction that communities, civil society networks and future we should be deeply engaged with our partners generations as our stakeholders with whom we rather than treat it as an outsourcing exercise. share mutual relationship of interest, influence This involvement must manifest in a carefully and and impact. Our engagement with our deliberately chosen set of initiatives without stakeholders and our materiality assessment spreading oneself thin. For similar reasons, we gave us insights into issues relevant to our prefer to avoid using the term Corporate Social business as well as stakeholders and identify Responsibility as the term can be perceived to possible areas of engagement. For more have a patronizing connotation to it; Sustainability information on our stakeholder identification and is a more inclusive and appropriate term that materiality assessment, refer to section on suggests a proactive, comprehensive, and ‘Materiality Determination’. collaborative approach We have formulated eight guiding principles to During the course of our sustainability journey, we guide our approach to sustainability. The have tried to establish a formal framework for our principles add to the rigor of our sustainability sustainability program which address proactively program. The principles are listed below and is the concerns of our stakeholders as well as discussed in detail in the subsequent sections. Our Approach to Sustainability 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 PRINCIPAL PRINCIPAL PRINCIPAL PRINCIPAL PRINCIPAL PRINCIPAL PRINCIPAL PRINCIPAL Set well Vest formal Integrate into Create Define Focus ‘within Explore Leverage the defined and accountabilit mainstream organizaprogress as well as disclosures power of measurable y at all levels planning, tional measures outside the as catalysts partnership sustainability of leadership budgeting capacity at that are boundary’ for selfgoals and review multiple appropriate transprocesses levels to context – formation emphasize the long term and the qualitative equally 2.3 Wipro’s Sustainability Framework The principle of focusing ‘within as well as outside the boundary’ informs our strategic choice of looking at sustainability as a boundary-less continuum and this forms the backbone of our sustainability framework. This continuum spreads across two conceptual dimensions business responsibility and social responsibility. Business responsibility is about the organization fulfilling its essential duties and obligations, and running its business with integrity and ensuring that the ecological footprint of its operations is minimized. This translates to: Abiding by the law of the land in spirit and Basing operations on sensitivity for the letter, in all its activities. environment, with a concomitant goal of minimizing its ecological footprint. Practicing high levels of corporate governance, ensuring transparency and diligent discharge Managing social impacts of business and of fiduciary responsibilities. ensuring integrity of human and labor rights within the sphere of influence in the supply chain. Being fair, and delivering on commitments to all immediate stakeholders employees, customers, partners, vendors and investors. Wipro and Sustainability 62 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 The second dimension of social responsibility is about looking beyond the boundaries of organization and contributing towards development of the larger community. While this categorization is conceptually useful, the right approach is to look at both the dimensions as an integrated continuum which is based on the same fundamental principles. Bases on the above mentioned dimensions of social responsibility, a graphical representation of our sustainability framework is shown below. Ecological Sustainability Minimize Wipro's internal footprint on energy, water and waste Business Responsibility Workplace Sustainability Promote employee diversity, empowerment & continuous learning Customer Stewardship Provide products and solutions that enable customers to become greener Supplier Sustainability Collaborate with suppliers to help them become more sustainable Social Responsibility Education Work on Issues of deep systemic reform in India’s education ecosystem Community Care Work on Long term disaster rehabilitation & issues of health, education & environment Advocacy and Public Policy Shape policies by engaging with government, NGOs and industry networks 2.4 Sustainability Governance The sustainability governance mechanism at Wipro derives greatly from the above guiding principles. At Wipro, sustainability is every one’s job. The responsibility is spread across hierarchies, functions and businesses with multiple functions seeing themselves as key stakeholders in its success; among these, the Global Operations team, the People Function, the Investor Relations team and the Legal team play a major role in several of the programs. However, the oversight of sustainability programs rest at the corporate level with our Chairman, Board of Governors and Group Executive Council. Board Oversight responsibility of the Lead Independent Director are to be decided by the group of Independent The Board of Directors comprises 3 Executive and Directors The nomination and selection process 7 Independent Directors. In keeping with the for appointing Directors is led by the Board company’s Corporate Governance guidelines, the Governance, Nomination and Compensation Board is comprised of a majority of Independent Committee. Nomination is governed by Corporate Directors. The Board of Directors has designated Governance Guidelines and the Board Nomination one Independent Director as Lead Independent policy. Nomination criteria includes experience, Director. The Lead Independent Director is expertise, and specific diversity factors such as responsible for coordinating the activities of the Gender and Nationality, to promote diversity of other independent directors, and to perform composition and perspective. Further, importance various other duties. The general authority and Wipro and Sustainability 64 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 is given to personal characteristics such as initiatives were discussed. ‘awareness of the Company’s responsibilities to The overarching responsibility for our its customers, employees, suppliers, regulatory sustainability charter rest with our Chief bodies, and the communities in which it operates’. Sustainability Officer who reports to the Familiarization programs are conducted for newly Chairman. The CSO is also part of our Group appointed Directors, through meetings with key Executive Council, the senior most executive body officials and senior business leaders. During in the organization which comprises of a core these meetings, Directors are familiarized with group of corporate leaders. the roles and responsibilities of Directors, as well All sustainability programs of Wipro follow the as other specific aspects such as governance, regular planning and budgeting cycles of the strategy, and related matters. company and are also reviewed by the group The Board Governance, Nomination and executive council. Compensation Committee is headed by an independent director, and also acts as the CSR Organization Structure Committee an apex body that oversees Wipro's The operating structure of Wipro’s multiple sustainability policy and programs. The sustainability initiatives is based on the idea of Committee comprising of entirely independent building a Coalition or network of partners – directors has the additional responsibility of internal and external – with nodal responsibility reviewing the Company’s policies on Corporate lying with a distinct group. The initiatives are Social Responsibility, including public issues of handled by four functional groups at the corporate significance to the Company and its stakeholders. level which carry distinct responsibility and This committee and the Chairman will discuss accountability but are part of a common and sign off the goals and objectives along with sustainability charter under the Chief the budgets of CSR programs at the beginning of Sustainability Officer. The operational oversight of every year. Subsequently, the sustainability team sustainability programs as well as reporting rests leadership will allocate the budgets in line with with Head of Sustainability. This includes the the defined priorities and goals. The sustainability responsibility of formally reviewing and approving / CSR leadership team also presents a quarterly sustainability disclosures to ensure report to the Chairman and the Board CSR comprehensive reporting of material topics as Committee. well as seeking external assurance. The Committee comprises Dr. Ashok Ganguly, Mr. The sustainability organization includes four N Vaghul and Mr. William Arthur Owens. During the functional groups namely ecoeye, Wipro Cares, financial year 2016-17, the Committee met four Wipro Applying Thought in Schools and Wipro – times and in each of the meetings, update on CSR wipro eco-eye wipro cares watis wipro earthian Carries the primary Works on our Wipro Applying Wipro’s Sustainability responsibility for sustainability community Thought in Schools education program for programs at corporate level. development Responsible to drive schools and college brings Also has the oversight of our education reform together two of our key sustainability disclosures like agenda. concerns: Education and GRI Sustainability report and Sustainability. Business Responsibility Report. Wipro and Sustainability 65 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Collectively, these four groups pull together the different strands of our sustainability initiative and steers it in the defined direction. The reporting structure is illustrated below. Board Sustainability Committee Chairman Chief Sustainability Officer Chief Executive Officer VP & Head of Sustainability Functional Groups Responsibility Matrix All key organizational stakeholders have vested responsibilities related to planning, execution, evangelization, review, as well as advocacy of the sustainability agenda of the company. Given below is the responsibility matrix for our environment programs (energy, water, waste and biodiversity). Other sustainability programs have similar matrix pertinent to their operations. Planning & Review Execution Internal Evangelizing External Advocacy Board of Directors Group Executive Council Business Leadership Facilities Management Group Infrastructure Creation Group Ecoeye Sustainability Office Employee Chapters Human Resources Finance Corporate affairs, Brand & Communication Risk Office Legal and Compliance 2.5 Transparency and Disclosures As a part of our philosophy of adhering to highest ethical standards, transparency and accountability, disclosures are considered critical in the company. Disclosures help us adhere to regulatory requirements as well as in proactively informing and engaging with our various stakeholders. Due care is taken to disclose timely, consistent and accurate information through annual financial reports, sustainability reports and other public reports to shareholders and the public regarding financial performance, liabilities, control and ownership, and corporate governance issues. We have been active participants in the major frameworks that assess the Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) performance of companies, e.g., the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, the Carbon Disclosure Index, World’s Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere, Vigeo Sustainability Rating etc. Wipro has been consistently rated among the leaders, both globally and in India. Feedback attributes this to our comprehensive and well-defined framework of goals and inclusive stakeholder reach supported by a solid governance process. 2.6 Advocacy and Public Policy Given the fundamental axiom that sustainability domains. is about maximizing social and environmental Our primary identified stakeholders for public ‘good’, it requires an engagement template that policy and advocacy are emphasizes informed advocacy of the underlying ? Relevant government ministries and issues amongst all stakeholders. Each departments, both at the center and the states stakeholder – Business, Government, Academia, where we operate in; Our interactions have and Civil Society – brings a dynamic and energy to been largely with the Ministry of Environment the table that is unique and complementary. We and Forests, Ministry of New and Renewable think that industry’s role must go beyond its own Energy, and Ministry of Corporate Affairs boundaries and should be one that seeks to vigorously promote advocacy of sustainability ? Industry networks and associations play a challenges. In doing so, the conscious emphasis crucial role as catalysts for awareness, must be on the difficult and the long term in advocacy and action on the multiple preference to the easy and the short term. dimensions of sustainability; by providing a common platform for industry representatives Our areas of focus on policy and advocacy have to share and exchange ideas and practices, centered on Water, Energy and Climate Change, eindustry association can help foster a virtuous Waste, Education and Diversity. We work through cycle of feedback led improvement. Industry different industry platforms as well as with networks also lend strength and credibility in research partners who carry expertise in these Wipro and Sustainability 68 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 the dialogue process with government on ? Research and Advocacy NGOs: Issues like important matters of policy and directives. The Energy, Climate Change, Water, Biodiversity, industry networks that we have been an Community Education, Health etc. require integral part of are: strong civil society involvement as the third ? The CII-Godrej Green Business Center pillar along with government policy and (GBC) business engagement. NGOs and academic institutions, by combining the right blend of ? The CII-ITC Center for Sustainable field work and academic rigor can generate Development valuable insights that can inform the work of ? CII National Environment Committee practitioners, policy makers and industry ? The TERI-CBS (Council for Business professionals. Illustrative examples of such Sustainability) forum organizations that we work with are : Carbon Disclosure Project in the area of Climate ? The CII led Indian Business for Change, BIOME and ACWADAM in the area of Biodiversity Initiative (CIIIBBI) Water, ATREE and IUCN ( India chapter) in the ? The Leaders for Nature (LFN) framework areas of Biodiversity , and our network of of the India, Chapter of the International nearly 30 education partners across the Union of Conservation Networks (IUCN) country. ? U.N. Global Compact (UNGC) Advocacy Engagements Water, Energy, Biodiversity and Waste Mangement Energy: With CSTEP for undertaking research on “Design and Development of smart micro-grid technologies for large scale decentralized solar power applications in indian villages – The zero energy village concept Water continued to be a major area of collaborative focus for us in 2016-17. The two major advocacy platforms that we have been deeply involved in are summarized below Advancing the agenda of the Karnataka State Water Network (KSWN) along with the CII Karnataka chapter. The KSWN brings together stakeholders from government, academia, civil society and business to address the most pressing issues in water in Bangalore and surrounding areas. Five areawise clusters and one horizontal cluster on lakes were formed with specific action plans drawn up for each The Responsible Water program seeks to address the pressing issue of ground water in the Sarjapur area in Bangalore. It does this through a combination of scientific hydrogeology and the involvement several citizen groups as part of a unique decentralized governance framework. Biodiversity: Our participation in advocacy on biodiversity issues was through two national levels forums – the CII-India Business for Biodiversity Initiative (IBBI) and the Leaders for Nature program from the India chapter of IUCN. Waste Management: As part of the CII Steering Committee Meeting on the Voluntary Rating System for E-waste Recyclers, we are bringing in our experiences with the e-waste recycling. Wipro and Sustainability 69 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Biodiversity Our participation in advocacy on biodiversity issues was through two national levels forums – the CII-India Business for Biodiversity Initiative (IBBI) and the Leaders for Nature program from the India chapter of IUCN. Horizontal areas in Sustainability and CSR We continued to strengthen our participation in advocacy on the cause of corporate sustainability as a whole As Co-Chair of the CII-GBC Greenco forum (Bangalore chapter), the goal is to drive the adoption of the ‘Greenco’ framework by the IT sector. The Greenco framework encourages companies to establish a multidimensional framework of ecological sustainability that spans the areas of Energy, Water, Waste, Biodiversity and Product Stewardship. School Education ? We have supported 19 new organisations, out of which 14 organisations with 26 fellows were supported through seeding fellowships and 5 organisations through grants. ? With our grant support, ATREE plans to set-up a central education team and establish an institution-level environment education programme and coordinate activities across sites. ? Our 16th Partner’s Forum on organizational sharing was held in April 2016. The 3-day forum was a well-attended affair with close to 100 participants from various organizations. ? Through our partnership with Punarchith, over 20 administrators have received training and continuous support, including teaching-learning support to a few private schools in the Chamrajanagar district, Karnataka. Wipro and Sustainability 70 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Sustainability Education ? Wipro earthian, flagship program in sustainability education for schools and colleges, tries to catalyze advocacy on sustainability learning among young students across the country. ? Through our partnerships with CEE and CPREEC and state govts we have reached 2478 teachers from 2124 schools. 51 workshops were conducted for schools across 27 states. 170+ colleges participated in our program. ? We helped our winning schools set up Sustainability learning cornerswith 11 Wipro earthian ‘Sustainability Learning corners’ set up in 11 schools across India with a diverse collection of Audio, video and print mediums on the theme of sustainability ? Wipro earthian’s Sustainability quizzes have gained traction and have become a fixture in various college festivals in institutes like IITB, IIML, IIMB and BITS Goa with a total participation from 360 teams and 720 students. ? We have introduced a Sustainability Fellowship program at Indian Institute of Management Bangalore (IIMB), and 2 students have been awarded funds through this fellowship during 2016-17. Diversity During 2016-17, Wipro has participated in various eminent forums by bodies like SHRM (Society for Human Resource Management), NASSCOM, Catalyst, NHRDN (National HRD Network) etc. We continued our engagement with external stakeholders where we hold advisory board / core committee positions. ? Wipro is part of the core CII committee for employment of people with disabilities and also part of the NASSCOM working group on gender inclusion. ? Catalyst is a leading nonprofit organization which works on expanding opportunities for women and business. Wipro’s CEO is on the Catalyst Board of Directors and is also the chair of Catalyst India Advisory Board. This year Catalyst and Wipro co-hosted a Round table on ‘Strategies to Retain Mid-Career Women’. Speaking engagements in public forums play an important role in building sustainability awareness and advocacy. We actively participated as speakers in several events all through the year, some examples of which are: the GRI Conference on Disability Reporting, the CII Annual Greenco Summit, Xavier University Bhubaneswar’s Annual Sustainability Summit, CII-Karnataka’s Annual Conference on Water and Sustainability workshops at IIM Bangalore, IIM Lucknow and MDI Gurgaon. 2.7 Alignment with Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) was the scale of challenge, it is not possible to achieve adopted with the objective of stimulating action the goals without meaningful partnership over the next 15 years in areas which are of critical between different stakeholders. Businesses as importance for humanity and the planet. These drivers of economic growth and employment and goals focuses on achieving sustainable a source of finance, technology and innovation is a development in its three dimensions – economic, key stakeholder and it has great potential to social and environmental – in a balanced and contribute towards the implementation of the integrated manner. These goals call for action by SDGs. They can use SDGs as a framework to all countries, poor, rich and middle-income to explore new opportunities and pursue promote prosperity while protecting the planet responsibilities, thereby assisting in the and covers a wide range of issues like poverty implementation of the goals at national level. eradication, economic growth education, health, At Wipro, we are actively working on multiple social protection, climate change, environmental aspects of development which are aligned with protection. the different themes of SDGs. Our initiatives and Given the ambitious nature of the targets for 2030, their alignment with the SDGS are explained magnitude of efforts required to achieve them and alongside. Wipro and Sustainability 72 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Our Programs Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Well-being and safety is a critical component of doing business at Wipro and it is embedded in our core values of acting with integrity and sensitivity. We work towards enhancing well-being of our employees through workplace safety and security initiatives with special focus physical and emotional health. Well-being and safety is a critical component of doing business at Wipro and it is embedded in our core values of acting with integrity and sensitivity. We work towards enhancing well-being of our employees through workplace safety and security initiatives with special focus physical and emotional health. For more information, refer to ‘Employee Well-being and Safety’ Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Education is one of the themes identified by Wipro to help in societal change and development. Currently, there are multiple distinct tracks running on school education, each with its own overarching goals but with shared synergies wherever relevant. Wipro Applying Thought in Schools works towards systemic reform of education in the country. The Wipro Cares program in school education focuses on supporting access to and ensuring continuity of school education for underprivileged children as well as children with disability, especially those from disadvantaged backgrounds. Wipro School Education Fellowship (SEF) was started with the purpose of strengthening Science and Math teaching in schools through teacher capacity building. For more information, refer to ‘Partnering for Social Change’ Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls At Wipro, diversity and inclusion principles are embedded in our organizational values, culture, policies and processes. We have a structured program ‘Women of Wipro’ to develop and nurture the women talent in the organization. For more information, refer to ‘Diversity and Inclusion’ Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all Wipro’s water stewardship program has water efficiency, responsible sourcing and water security as its stated objectives. Our engagement with water include a broad range of programs, both, within Wipro and outside like recycling waste water, use of water efficient fixtures, rain water harvesting and Participative Ground Water Management. For more information, refer to ‘Water Stewardship’ Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Wipro contributes to the cause of affordable and sustainable energy by investing in renewable energy resources, adopting energy efficient practices as well clean energy technologies and infrastructure. For more information, refer to ‘Energy Efficiency and GHG Mitigation’ Wipro and Sustainability 73 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Our Programs Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Wipro is a global information technology, consulting and outsourcing company with 170,000+ workforce and revenues of $7.7 Billion. The company contributes to the economic growth and development for all by creating jobs while upholding highest labor standards across operations and the value chain. Refer to ‘Workplace Sustainability’ and ‘Financial Stewardship’ Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Inclusive and sustainable industrial development and technological progress furthers the cause of income generation. Wipro continues to work on technological innovations which can drive sustainability by way of digitalization and dematerialization, system integration and optimization and offers a range of sustainability inspired solutions to our customers. For more information, refer to ‘Innovation’ and ‘Sustainability Inspired Solutions’ Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Wipro through its community programs is working closely with industry, government and communities on different challenges posed to urban living. We have identified mobility, waste and water management as the themes of engagement. For more information, refer to ‘Urban Resilience’ Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Wipro sustainability program aims to reduce its ecological footprint and a number of initiatives have been developed to improve resource and energy efficiency across its value chain. The focus is on energy efficiency, responsible water use, and pollution and waste management. For more information, refer to ‘Ecological Sustainability’ Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Understanding the implications of climate change to the planet and business in specific, Wipro has set ambitious scientifically valid and traceable goals to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 people emissions intensity figures. In 2015-16, we undertook a target setting exercise to propose targets for the period 2015-16 to 2019-20. We used the science based target setting framework from WRI (World Resource Institute) that tries to align itself with the 2 degree imperative i.e. global emissions by 2050 to be 20% of 1990 levels so as to stay within the threshold of 2 degree rise in average surface temperature. We have adopted targets for 2025 and 2030 also and these will be revisited at the next target review exercise in 2020. For more information, refer to ‘Energy Efficiency and GHG Mitigation’ Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss Wipro currently runs a significant initiative around campus biodiversity in two of our campuses in India. It is our objective to convert five of our existing campuses to biodiversity zones and design all our new campuses based on biodiversity principles. For more information, refer to ‘Campus Biodiversity’ TH THE 10 YEAR OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING Wipro and its Stakeholders 3.1 Workplace Sustainability 3.2 Ecological Sustainability 3.3 Customer Stewardship 3.4 Financial Stewardship and the Investors 3.5 Supply Chain Sustainability 3.6 Partnering for Social Change Wipro and its Stakeholders 76 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Organizations do not exist in silos; it can be even said that every organization is the sum total of interactions with different stakeholders so as to create value for all parties involved either directly or indirectly. In such a system of interdependencies, engagement with stakeholders is central; however over the past few decades, stakeholder engagement has become more than just interactions happening over the normal course of business. Engaging with stakeholders has a greater purpose of understanding risks and opportunities associated with the social, environmental and economic climate that a business is embedded in. Summary of Stakeholder Engagement Customers Employees Rationale for Building relationships with customers is core to People are at the core of a knowledge-based engagement (Key understanding their business needs and organization like ours. Partnering with drivers / Benefits of emerging trends. Close engagement helps Wipro employees to understand their expectations and to communicate unique and differentiated value feedback enable us to strengthen our people / Risks of not to customers. processes and thereby strengthen our talent engaging) pool enabling better retention outcomes. Strategic objective Partnerships with customers to meet their ? To solicit feedback and employee perception of engagement present and emerging business information to enhance and improve people processes technology requirements. and improve employee satisfaction. ? To empower employees and provide them with voice in key people decisions Key material issues ? Quality and timeliness of delivery Empowerment, Continuous Learning , Quality of ? Impact on customer’s business goals Work, Work-Life balance, Compensation & Benefits, Workplace facilities, Health & Safety , ? Does Wipro meet the expected norms on Counseling and Advice, Diversity in the environment, labor and human rights and workplace, Career planning, Appraisal and corporate responsibility? Feedback, Integrity and transparency at workplace, the company's larger vision on sustainability and social issues Steps taken to ? Deeper engagement with customer across ? Enhanced communication and collaboration address stakeholder levels forums to voice feedback concerns ? Develop better review, communication and ? Continuous review and improvements to feedback processes existing processes ? Detailed analysis of employee satisfaction scores and survey feedback to close gaps Modes of Strategic and operational reviews, Customer Open houses, Performance reviews, 360 degree engagement Meets, Formal customer feedback and surveys feedback, All hands meet, Focus groups, Leadership webcasts, Blogs and discussion groups, Perception Surveys Frequency Ongoing and continuous; Surveys are annual and Ranges from daily (blogs) to annual ( 360 degree project-based feedback) Primary internal The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Strategy The Human Resources group, Environment custodian Officer, Chief Business Operations Officer, the Health and Safety group ( joint responsibility for Chief Quality Officer, Sales & Marketing functions health and safety) & their teams Wipro and its Stakeholders 77 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Suppliers Investors Rationale for Supplier engagement helps reduce risks from Engaging with our investors helps gain diverse engagement (Key quality and disruption of services. perspectives on business strategy and drivers / Benefits of performance. It also helps us proactively / Risks of not communicate our performance and future plans engaging) which in turn can help strengthen our brand and Strategic objective Partnerships with suppliers to meet diverse To communicate our strategy and performance of engagement business operations requirements as well as our views on economic environment; To seek feedback on our performance Key material issues ? Ease of doing business with Wipro across the ? Corporate governance Order to Payment life cycle ? Financial performance ? Ability to meet corporate responsibility ? Labor & Human rights requirements – with regards to ethical ? Attrition business conduct, social practices and ? Compliance Steps taken to ? Communication Strengthen our governance systems and address stakeholder ? Capacity building processes concerns ? Collaboration with suppliers Modes of Regular operational reviews, Supplier meets, Annual General Meeting, Annual Report, Investor engagement Vendor survey meets, Analyst conferences, Roadshows, Frequency Will vary from monthly to annual Ranges from Quarterly to Annual ; Analyst meets and roadshows may be periodic depending on Primary internal Central Procurement Office, Wividus Shared Chief Strategy Officer custodian Services, Facility Management Group Wipro and its Stakeholders 78 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 The Education ecosystem: Communities Partners and and Civil Academic Society Institutes Networks Rationale for Education is one of the strategic long term The imperative for business to engage deeply engagement (Key community engagement programs identified as with communities and society stems from the drivers / Benefits of force multipliers for effecting social change and fundamental axiom that for business to flourish, / Risks of not sustainable development. It is one of Wipro's the fabric of society must be strong. engaging) main planks of societal engagement. Strategic objective Developing a good understanding and capacity To engage on systemic issues that are force of engagement building of civil society organizations working in multipliers for social change and sustainable school education is the core objective of our development. education program. Key material issues ? Quality of education in schools ? Education for disadvantaged children e.g. ? Teacher capacity development children of migrant laborers, children with ? Understanding of good education hearing disability etc. ? Availability of resource organizations and ? Primary healthcare for rural communities people in specific areas in school education ? Environment issues that affect disadvantaged communities e.g. Water, solid waste ? Long term rehabilitation for disaster ffected area Steps taken to ? Facilitating mutual learning among partner Designing programs to address the specific address stakeholder organizations through annual partners’ needs of the communities with whom we are concerns forum associated. ? Cross-leveraging the learning from diverse partner experiences through our engagement with partners ? Enabling established partner organizations to play resource organization role to Modes of Periodic visits, conference calls, email, reviews, Periodic meetings with partners, open meets engagement reports of workshops or events, annual forums with community, Partner newsletters Frequency 34 times a year for each partner/project Varies from monthly to quarterly Primary internal Wipro's CSR group , WATIS the school Wipro's CSR group, Wipro Cares, Location custodian education team leadership Wipro and its Stakeholders 79 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 The Young Government Citizen and Policy and Future Networks Generations Rationale for Corporations must engage with government as The young citizen has enormous potential as a engagement (Key part of the larger charter of bringing about change agent and in creating lasting positive drivers / Benefits of systemic changes in society through legislation, impact to the environment and society. Trying to / Risks of not policies and directives. safeguard the interests of future generations is a engaging) fundamental act of responsibility leading to Strategic objective To participate meaningfully and to influence To ensure a safe and sustainable planet for of engagement policy directions for larger social good future generations. Key material issues ? India's policies on climate change, energy ? Ecological sustainability of our planet at a efficiency, water, e-waste, biodiversity and ICT local, national and global level for social change ? Issues of inclusiveness and fairness ? Legislation policies on workplace inclusion, ? Meaningful work and livelihoods labor and human rights ? The role of corporate social responsibility ? Taxation legislation in the countries we operate in Steps taken to Active involvement in both, policy formulation Design and execution of several projects that address stakeholder and in a more general process of debate and addresses societal and environmental problems concerns dialog on various challenges of development and beyond the scope of business sustainability Modes of Planned meetings, workshops, taskforces and Indirect inference from our school and college engagement steering committees of industry network bodies interventions as well as with Wipro's employees Frequency Varies from monthly to annual Primary internal Corporate Affairs group, Senior Leadership, Human Resources Group, Wipro's Sustainability custodian Wipro Sustainability team Group, Wipro-earthian team 3.1 Workplace Sustainability People are at the core of a knowledge-based organization like ours. We firmly believe that we cannot build a great business without nurturing talent from within. We are committed to partnering with employees and strengthening our talent pool by providing them with growth and career enhancement opportunities. Today we have a large and diverse workforce (160,000+ employees in 50+ countries as on 31st March 2017) and we continuously design and implement processes and programs to foster people development, leadership development and skill enhancements among our global team. Organisation Context technology landscape. The high demand for automation and digitization has reduced The dynamic business landscape shapes our technology cycles and skills are becoming talent management approach and is geared to commoditized more rapidly than before. deliver transformation, change and growth. The ? The IT services marketplace is also a highly strategy is built on the foundation of our values competitive one, with an ever-increasing focus and informed by globally recognized principles of on talent and innovation. Meeting rapidly business responsibility. evolving customer requirements requires a Some key trends that are shaping our people high level of competence, expertise and strategy are:learning agility. Co-innovation, collaborative ? Complex marketplace, characterized by rapid working and crowd sourcing are capabilities transformation of business models and which are fast becoming the norm. Wipro and its Stakeholders 81 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 ? Difference between talent that is sought and Organizational People Strategy talent that is available. Our talent management approach is influenced by ? Changes in workforce patterns and legal the dynamic industry landscape and is geared to regulations: Our employees are located deliver transformation and growth in the current globally, at Wipro offices and across client and emerging business context. Our people locations. A significant portion of our Strategy focusses on building a culture that management focus is invested in engaging with nurtures talent, drives strong performance & our employees; thus creating the need to build supports customer centricity. The strategy has the managerial and leadership capabilities in the following core themes: context of an increasingly virtual work People Strategy Core Themes: environment. In the recent past, changes to immigration laws & regulations and risks to Culture transformation: The objective here is to offshore business models have also made an create a culture that drives performance, enables impact on our people strategy, particularly in a Digital mind set and enhances overall employee our approach to attract local talent. experience. Our efforts here are geared towards both on improving the demographic diversity as We strongly believe that in order to prepare for well as building an inclusive culture through our this dynamic business environment, we need to various Diversity & Inclusion programs. We continue building a best-in-class organizational continue to transform & simplify processes across culture to attract, build and retain talent across all our functions to enhance employee experience levels, globally. and well-being. Understanding the Stakeholder – Global Careers: The focus here is to build talent from Workforce within and also build a scalable talent supply A majority (79%) of our employees are based in chain model. Careers within Wipro continue to be India while more than 30,000 employees work in nurtured and strengthened with our forward other countries. A significant portion of our looking performance management process, talent employees based overseas (outside India) are mobility programs, leadership talent reviews and locals (42.3%). Our overall employee base strong onboarding and assimilation programs for comprises of 100+ nationalities. new hires to jumpstart their careers right from the beginning. We are driving localization initiatives in our key geographies such as the United States, United Building Capability: In the face of rapidly Kingdom, Continental Europe, Canada, Latin changing client expectations and automation, it America, Africa, Asia-Pacific and the Middle East. has become imperative to invest in programs that We believe that commitment to these geographies equips the organization with futuristic skills and is important in growing our business. We expect competencies. Anticipating and defining future an increase in the percentage of our global needs and developing these competencies in the workforce comprised of local employees and employees is vital to organizational sustainability. consultants and diversity is a key strategic priority We will continue to invest in our fresher skill as part of our globalization efforts. building programs, architect, domain, delivery transformation, sales cadre and leadership skills. Our gender ratio has increased to 33% from 32%. Our programs are aimed at upskilling, crossAs on March 2017, 434 employees had voluntarily skilling, and reskilling along with building Design declared their disabilities through our online selfThinking capability to drive ideation and declaration form. The average age of our innovation. workforce is 30+ years and a significant portion (60%) is under the age of 30. Wipro and its Stakeholders 82 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 People Strategy Enablers: integrated approach and provides a range of Our people strategy themes are enabled by a set options for better financial and social security of processes and programs spanning the including efficient tax-management options, complete employee lifecycle as follow insurance & medical packages, assistance in managing financial and personal issues. Our Talent Acquisition: Wipro follows a wellprograms are reviewed to ensure relevance to established approach to hiring and onboarding. today’s evolving workforce and in line with the Our talent sourcing strategies include employee latest industry offerings, based on the region’s referrals, direct applications through the career local regulations / laws and norms. section of our website, channel partners, job fairs, campus placements, and internal job postings. We We continue to drive a high-performance culture also partner with various universities to build through our variable pay programs. Our teams in accordance with client expectations. We management compensation is now more closely are an equal opportunity employer and drive aligned with organizational objectives and meritocracy at all stages of the hiring and oncommitments and rewards higher performance going deployment process, including roledisproportionately. mapping and remuneration. In FY’17 we have seen Employee Engagement & Empowerment: We immense progress in localization in our key believe that employees become empowered only markets. We have been significantly investing in when they are aware of the policies and processes US in terms of increased hiring & setting up of that impact them and when they can truly delivery centers. We are driving increased participate in the consultation process. With this localization and expect to have a majority of our in view, we have institutionalized various channels US workforce as local employees soon that create awareness, foster dialogue, and Wipro was awarded a runners up in “Excellence in provide opportunities for employees to give Talent Sourcing and Staffing” at SHRM India HR feedback. Over the years, our focus on awards 2016. participative engagement has increased and our programs have been more closely aligned to cater Employee Well Being & Safety: Through our to our diverse and multi-generational workforce. programs, we believe in influencing all aspects of an employee’s life – including physical, mental Digitization and Talent Analytics: With all the and emotional well-being. Protection of technological advances happening in our employees from injury or occupational disease is immediate environment, we continue to keep pace a major continuing objective. We continue to in embracing the digital trend and find ways to enhance safety & security at the workplace by use digitization and talent analytics to drive prescribing policies & procedures, creating business outcomes and bring about employee awareness and imparting trainings. We have delight. institutionalized key policies like Prevention of The above core Strategy themes and enablers are Sexual Harassment policy and a robust grievance built on the foundation of our values and driven by redressal system ( Ombuds). globally recognized principles of business Comprehensive Benefits & Rewards: We responsibility & commitment to Human Rights. continually strive to provide our employees with Details of the same are explained below in the competitive and innovative compensation subsequent section. packages. Our benefits program takes an Wipro and its Stakeholders 83 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 People Strategy–Core Themes People Strategy–Enablers Talent Ac quisition Increased Localization Culture Transfo rmation Building Capability Create a culture that Build talent capabilities in drives performance and line with the future enhances overallemployee requirements experience Employee We ll Being & Safety Physical, M ental, Emotional– Well Being Careers Bene ts & Rewards Talent form Within: Comprehensive Bene ts– Geography A ligned Build a scal able talent supply chain model Employee Engagement & Em powerment Engagement & F eedback Platforms People Strategy– Core Themes & Enablers builton a foundation of. . . Code of Busi ness Spirit of Wipro Hum an Rights Digitizati on & Talent Analytics Conduct & Ethics Values Policy Increase t he effectiveness of HR processes & drive employ ee delight Understanding Material Aspects While our values are at the core of our actions, we processes like talent attraction, engagement, and believe that it is only through focused and retention. We conducted our annual Employee continuous engagement with our stakeholders Perception Survey (EPS) to gather employee that we can build a truly inclusive and empowered feedback in 2016. The feedback from the survey enterprise. These inputs are gathered as part of acted as an input to the materiality determination our materiality determination effort, as well as process. Additionally, our customers, investors from feedback received from social audits and and peer organizations also influence our people assessments. Aspects that stand out as most value chain and provide perspectives on material critical and vital to the organization as well as issues & risks. Finally, the geo-political situations, stakeholders, are identified as the top areas of particularly in markets where we have high materiality, for action and reporting. dependencies also form a vital input to our people Our analysis of employees’ perception, strategy. expectation and feedback forms a primary input The key platforms of engagement and issues in designing our talent management processes. identified for aspects pertaining to human capital, Our approach to soliciting and acting on this are summarized in the table alongside: feedback determines our performance in Wipro and its Stakeholders 84 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Influencing Current and Emerging Material Aspects Stakeholder Areas of Focus and Impact & Topics Identified Employees ? Simplification of people processes to enhance workplace experience ? Skill building to address emerging technology capability areas ? Career growth opportunities ? Capability building of managers ? Comprehensive compensation & benefits ? Well-being and safety Customers ? Helping customers solve their business problems and create competitive differentiation for them in the market. ? Enhanced focus on operational efficiencies in the immediate term ? Talent ? Driving expertise and reskilling towards technologies of the future engagement ? Diversity & Inclusion ? Capability ? Need for collaboration, co-creation and learning agility building and ? Employee well-being and safety Career ? Heightened focus on social aspects of supply chain development ? Increased focus on compliance with Global standards ? Employee wellbeing and safety Investors ? Alignment with sustainability frameworks like Dow Jones ? Diversity and Sustainability Index Inclusion Peer ? Talent attraction & retention strategy organizations ? Talent Pool availability Others ? Macro-economic and financial systems, government, civil society, regulatory bodies ? High dependency on US and European markets ? Emergence of multiple low cost English-speaking destinations ? Risks to offshore business models ? Changes in immigration laws / regulations Wipro and it’s Stakeholders 85 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Key Performance Highlights subsidiaries and group companies. It applies to all employees, members of the board of Directors as Commitment to Human Rights/Non well as to contractors, sub-contractors, retainers Discrimination or any other such basis. As suppliers serve as an Our Approach & Commitment extension of the Company, and their conduct and We believe that economic value cannot be behavior while carrying on business for / behalf of sustained unless it is created on a foundation of Wipro can impact Wipro’s reputation, are expected ethics and responsibility. Creating a safe and to be in compliance with the COBC. All suppliers empowered workplace with a culture that drives are also mandated to sign & confirm their equal opportunity, non-discrimination, acceptance to our Supplier Code of Conduct meritocracy and one in which employees feel available publicly (SCOC) ‘listened to’ are therefore our core priorities. We Our values and code of conduct are socialized at imbibe these principles in all our processes like multiple times in the employee life-cycle through hiring, compensation, access to training, touchpoints like induction and onboarding, promotions, etc. and do not engage in or support classroom sessions, all hands meets, awareness discrimination based on ethnicity, nationality, mailers/posters and through our mandatory race, caste, religion, age, disability, gender and online COBC certification which all employees sexual or political orientation. undertake every year. All employees are entrusted Our people practices are shaped by the Spirit of and empowered to highlight concerns and Wipro values, Code of Business Conduct (COBC), grievances via the Ombudsprocess and as well as principles of the U.N. Global Compact, Prevention of Sexual Harassment Committee. The U.N. Universal Declaration of Human Rights, OECD policy also assures all stakeholders that a Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the concern raised in the spirit of the policy will not be International Labor Organization’s declaration on under risk of retaliation/retribution, even if Fundamental Principles & Rights at Work (1998). unsubstantiated upon investigation. While these provide the guidelines and direction We respect the right of employees to free for responsible business conduct at a global level, association without fear of reprisal, our policies are shaped and customized by local discrimination, intimidation or harassment. A regulations and law of land. Our COBC imbibes small proportion of our employees (~2%) are our commitment for human rights and zero represented through local employee tolerance for discrimination at all stages of the representative groups, Works Councils and /or employee lifecycle (Protect-Respect-Remedy of Trade Unions in Australia, Austria, Brazil, Czech UN principles). Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Policies & Principles: Netherlands, Poland, Romania and Sweden. In The Wipro Human Rights policy is published in some of these countries, Collective Bargaining company website and is intended to express agreements are required by law. The HR function Wipro’s active commitment to do business with meets these groups periodically to inform and ethical values and embrace practices that consult on any change that can impact work supports environment, human rights, and labor environment. We pro-actively engage with Works laws globally. Councils and Unions when it comes to client employee transfers under the EU Directive of Our commitment to uphold and promote human Transfer. of Undertaking and respective local rights and interests of our global workforce is legislation such as TUPE, Art. 613a German Civil long-standing and integrated in our Code of Code, Art 338 Czech Labour Code etc. Engagement Business Conduct & Ethics (COBC) available starts in early stage and provides first-hand publicly on our company website. The COBC information to client employee representatives on provides the ethical guidelines and expectations terms and conditions as well as collective for conducting business on behalf of Wipro Ltd, its employment matters. Wipro and its Stakeholders 86 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Commitment to Human Rights/Non Discrimination Creating a safe, Inclusive and em powered with a culture that drives equal opportunity, non –discrimination, meritocracy and one in which employees feel ‘listened to’ our are our core priorities. Equal Opportunity & N on Harassment Fee Workplace Freedom of Association Safe & Healthy Workplace Discrimination Prohibits Child Labour & Anti Corruption & Fair Robust Grievance mechanism Extended People Supply Chain Forced Labour Practices Procedures Systems Policies Execution Governance Policies – Code of Busi ness Conduct & Ethics (COBCE),Human Rights, Ombuds, Prevention of Sexual Harassmen t,Spirit of Wipro Values, Supplier Code of Conduct, Diversity & Inclusion,Reasonable Accommodation,Health & Safety Focus AreasHuman Rights Due Diligence, the number of members of the PSHC team to ensure Assessment & Governance presence across all locations and Geos which in turn would lead to increasing number of education and We have established committees as described below awareness sessions regarding PSH among which regularly does a due diligence to identify employees as well as faster resolution of cases issues, formulate strategies & implement actions, highlighted. The team conducts proactive quarterly track progress to address material issues pertaining internal audits on closed cases that were reported to compliance/ violation of human rights. These team and actions taken. adopt a systematic approach to identify issues & vulnerable people, develop appropriate mitigation A deeper assessment of such PSHC cases has actions and a monitoring process. Besides these brought to the fore that more trainings on committee we have well established people unconscious bias & workplace gender sensitivity & processes and audits which helps us to identify inclusion would need to be organized globally across potential human rights issues. Our progress on locations. aspects of human rights is owned by the business Health & Safety Safety committees are formed at and functional leadership team, and is under the major locations and consist of cross functional review our Group Executive Council, Chief members from senior management, stakeholder, Sustainability Officer, the Audit Committee and the service providers and employees. These meet Board of Directors. quarterly & participate in risk assessments, safety Ombudsprocess We have a robust ombuds process inspections, incident investigations and hygiene which allows employee, contractors, vendors, to raise audits. Please find more details on this in the a grievance or complaint without any fear of reprisal. Employee Well Being and safety section. The team does a trend analysis basis the complaints Diversity & Inclusion Based on a structured review received by them to identify the root causes and process with D & I councilwe continuously accordingly highlight the same to top management. strengthen our D& I systems & processes. Our Recommendations are also shared with Audit, Risk & collaboration with research partners and industry Compliance Board which result in process platforms like Catalyst, CII, NASSCOM, Diversity and improvements thereby building a stronger Equal Opportunity Centre (DEOC) bring to the fore governance mechanism focus areas for due diligence on D & I linked issues. Sexual Harassment Our Prevention of Sexual For e.g in the gender diversity area, we have Harassment (PSH) committee ensures that all undertaken a project on Vital Signs which looks at grievances (globally) are resolved expeditiously and the entire People Supply Chain through the lens of in an unbiased manner through defined procedures. Gender, examining closely how we recruit, train, The team also focuses on inducting and increasing deploy and promote women. This data when tracked Wipro and its Stakeholders 87 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 and published to business units and functions helps client sites, and a customized Partner Employee us uncover bottlenecks that may have crept into the Engagement team (PEET) in our Global system. Infrastructure Service is responsible for building an In 2016-17-Wipro has proactively conducted a Wipro engaged and motivated contract employee Disability Inclusion Audit to align itself with the RPD workforce. Act -2016 passed by Indian Government. In The PEET team consists of human resource collaboration with Diversity and Equal Opportunity professionals and undertake responsibilities like Centre (DEOC), detailed due diligence process was induction and orientation, performance conducted on all the existing processes and Systems management, engagement, retention, rewards and As part of the same we have conducted audit on recognition, training and career development etc. for various functions like recruitment, procurement, contract employees deployed on IT delivery projects. Internal IT systems, Emergency Preparedness etc. The PEET team drives various initiatives like clientBased on our audit findings, we have reviewed our site visits to meet contractor employees to operations/processes/ policies from an inclusion understand needs and concerns, driving programs to perspective. build capacity, facilitating conversion of contract Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to employees into retainers or full time employees etc. men: Our gender inclusion & diversity principles are Quarterly / Half yearly / annual audits are conducted embedded in our organizational culture & values, by PRO (Partner Relation Office) on the empanelled Code of Business Conduct (COBC). We imbibe these partner to ensure that they comply with the statutory principles in all our policies and processes like and labour compliance. The PRO (Partner Relation hiring, compensation, access to training, promotions, Office) is responsible for vendor selection and etc. and do not engage in or support discrimination management; it ensures compliance of partner based on ethnicity, nationality, race, caste, religion, agencies to legal and statutory employment norms. age, disability, gender and sexual or political Reviews and statutory audit checks were conducted orientation. Our philosophy focusses on hiring or by PRO in 2016-17 to ensure continuity of the deployment of talent based on experience/role and process and procedures that are laid down. our commitment on rewarding meritocracy In FY 16-17, the PEET team led various initiatives like Through internal audits and special projects such as client-site visits to meet contractor employees to the Vital Signs project, we regularly track and understand needs and concerns, initiated programs monitor key indicators impacting gender diversity to build capability through training programs. representation /unconscious bias at all employee Focused initiatives like Meet Matters are structured lifecycle stages. We track gender equity signs e.g partner connect sessions at regional level which like hiring, attrition, career levels, engagement level, serve as a common forum for partner employees to project deployment time-frame, promotions, have face to face meeting with their employer, compensation/gender pay ratios .We see that for discuss & resolve their issues/concerns. Through junior levels the gender pay ratio is close to 1 , for Meet Matters , we ensure that we protect our rights middle and senior levels pay gap is around 5-10 of our Partner employees through effective %.This reflects the trend of higher proportion of communication and Awareness. Audits are males from junior to senior levels. The differences in conducted by PRO (Partner Relation Office) to ensure our assessment, is also reflective of a larger social that the statutory and labour/ human rights trend of women leaving the workforce at different requirement are complied. This covers more than points of their career. 50% of the total contracting workforce employed by the organization. The pay ratios given above are for India based employees, representing 79% of total workforce. A further extended people supply chain, consists of temporary workers who are in soft service functions Supply Chain Partner Engagement Our focus on such as Housekeeping, Security etc. We protect the responsible people practices extends across our interest of such workers by ensuring that the people value chain, and covers contract employees contracting agency is in compliance with the and retainers. Many of them are deployed at our Supplier code of conduct and there is no violation of Wipro and its Stakeholders 88 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Human Rights for e.g ensuring salaries of all workers multiple levels – organizational, unit/team and are in compliance with relevant Minimum Wages individual. Key organizational changes legislations. We ensure that the temporary contract andannouncements are cascaded through emails, workers work under the similar working conditions online posts, posters, kiosks, on-floor sessions and as employees and employee benefits such as through business and HR teams. The leadership recreation and refreshments are also made available team engages with employees throughout the year to them through online chat sessions, Leader blogs, EPS (Employee Perception Survey) – Employee organizational level ‘Wipro Meets’, business unit level perception survey is rolled out annually to capture ‘All Hands Meets’, round table discussions and employee feedback and satisfaction towards the functional review meets and offsites. Another organization and various policies and processes. The important enablement to engagement is through findings from the survey are analyzed and shared business managers and HR teams who meet with each business unit and accordingly action plans employees through one-to-one meetings & team are prepared to address and work upon the areas of discussions. Additionally, customized engagement improvement/if any. This proactive mechanism of frameworks are used by business units to address due diligence helps capture not only the employee needs specific to employees in that unit or to that morale but also to ensure potential grievances may business/domain. be addressed at an early stage. Our online enterprise-wide social platformYammer EPS survey 2016 saw both an increase of has allowed employees across the globe to network participation and engagement from the previous and collaborate, thus removing the physical biennial survey in 2015. Our employee engagement boundaries of a geographically widespread scores went up by 12.5 percentage points and workforce and increasing the feeling of employee participation scores went up by 3 connectedness in a global organization. It has also percentage points. Our inhouse built EPS analytics allowed employees to provide real-time feedback tool provides analysis of the results at various levels through online polls & directly connect with senior e.g geography, business unit, gender, career levels, leaders or functional teams. Additionally, employees age, nationality, tenure and enables us to formulate have been able to network, form special interest action plans. Survey results and identified action groups, seek role opportunities and work on areas are communicated throughout the collaborative projects without location or team organization through mailers and cascade sessions constraints. Over 109,000+ Wiproite (As on close of by business leaders and HR. Each business unit FY 16-17) use this platform, with over 9400 public includes action plans specific to their units in and private groups. The adoption of these forums by addition to the organization-wise action plans. employees (as indicated by participation levels/usage) indicates how well ingrained they are EPS Pulse 2016 results have been studied Action into the organizational culture areas for the upcoming year have been finalized which includes key initiatives at an organization wide Our operations in Geographies Today we have level around Manager Effectiveness, Careers & 30,000+ employees overseas hence our Enterprise Capability, Diversity & Inclusion, Process Risk Management team continues to closely monitor Simplification any human rights impact issues in countries where we are growing. Whenever Wipro is venturing into Feedback through other Engagement Platforms new geographies, there is a detailed due diligence Wipro holds employee feedback in very high regard process that is carried out with respect to any and solicits this through formal surveys, informal human rights issues in that geography/check overall forums like one to one meetings, All Hands Meetings, alignment with Wipro's values/processes. There is a focus group discussions, roundtables and team security council which has to give the sign off after meetings. We actively scan for any specific issues & assessing the safety conditions of the country. risks relating to human rights and labour practices through the following engagement platforms Our employee engagement programs are driven at Wipro and its Stakeholders 89 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Employee Well-being and Safety country for short-term project deputation, to suit immediate financial / settling-in needs. Our Approach & Commitment Standard benefits like leave plans, insurance, A safe workplace is a fundamental human right retirals (contribution to / provision of retirement and we are committed to providing this to all our plans / superannuation schemes in accordance employees, partners and visitors to Wipro with local laws & industry practices) and other facilities. Through our programs, we believe in emoluments are provided to our full-time and influencing all aspects of an employee’s life – fixed-term employees, based on the country of including physical, mental and emotional welloperation and law of land. being. Parental Leave: Our return to work rate for male Every year, through the mandatory certification of employees availing parental leave has typically our Code of Business Conduct, we reinforce our been close to 100% , hence we closely track and commitment towards a healthy, safe and monitor return to work ratio for women employees harassment-free workplace and evangelize which is around 90%. We continue to scale our individual responsibilities of each employee. flexibility initiatives for women employees through Policies & Principles various leave options, onsite day care centres and We have institutionalized key policies like health wellness benefits. and safety policy, prevention of sexual The compensation & benefits programs available harassment policy and a robust grievance in each geography are outlined in detailed policy redressal system ( Ombuds) documents and are available to all employees on Wipro’s compensation and benefits program takes the company intranet. In order to familiarize the an integrated approach and provides a range of human resources teams on the compensation options for better financial and social security philosophy and benefits across geographies and including tax-managing options, insurance & empower them to answer employee queries, an inmedical packages, assistance in managing house Compensation and Benefits (C & B) financial and personal issues, retirals, etc. Our certification program is held every year in multiple programs are reviewed intermittently to ensure batches. Additionally, organizational / businessrelevance to today’s changing workforce and unit level sessions are also held to create mirrors the latest industry offerings, based on the awareness amongst employees through avenues region’s local regulations / laws and norms. like HR-facilitated workshops, chat sessions, Allowances and benefits are further customized webinars, teleconferencing and mailers. for employees who travel outside their home Employee Well Being & Safety Providing a work environm ent that encourages employees to lead a healthy lifestyle and proactively work towards improving it. Financial We ll Being – Physical We ll Being (Fit to life, Emotional We ll Being ( MiTR – Occupational We ll Being – Comprehensive Benets & Spirit of W ipro Run) Counselling) Workplace Safety Rewards Procedures Systems Policies Execution Governance Highlights –Bene t policies, Location Safety Committees, Women Safety, Cafeteria Hygiene, trainings on Health & Safety converging Occupational Health, Trans portation,Hospitality, Emergency Response and Security domains Wipro and its Stakeholders 90 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Focus Areas training and induction. Cab pickup and drop Protection of employees from injury or facility with security escort is available for women occupational disease is a major continuing employees travelling in night hours. Women of objective. There are 27 Occupational Health Wipro committees are formed to discuss concerns Centre (OHC) and 7 ergonomic centres that are and suggestions on women’s safety. In FY 17, functioning across Pan India Wipro locations. 1900+ women employees have undergone the Security Awareness and Self Defence sessions Ergonomic related illnesses and upper respiratory conducted across locations. infections are material for our workforce. Women’s Health: Breast cancer awareness and We have institutionalized health and safety tests were conducted across locations,; 800+ processes including trainings for service women employee’s participated during the event providers, risk assessments, ergonomic session for employees, vaccination campus, health Cafeteria Hygiene: Our 24 in-house cafeterias/ awareness sessions and regular cafeteria food kitchens comply with the FSSAI requirements. In inspections. There is special focus on aspects comparison with last two years audit reports, on such as women’s safety, assistance to persons an average 80 % of FSSAI requirements are with disability, emergency response, and implemented at our cafeterias & kitchens. preventive health & safety measures. Thirteen base kitchens were assessed during last year across PAN India and 25 internal audits are Key highlights: organized across pan India locations to check the Workplace safety We consider indoor air quality effectiveness on the implementation of FSSAI as a significant risk on employee’s health aspect requirements. The results of the food safety/ as employees work in air conditioned offices. The cafeteria meetings are showcased in risks are assessed with adequate controls and management reviews as part of Health and Safety environmental parameters are monitored in performance cognizance to ASHRA standards. Where ever Over 157 ,000 participants (employees, indicators deviate from permissible levels, root contractors and service providers) attended cause analysis is done and corrective measures trainings on Health & Safety covering undertaken to avoid injuries / illnesses. This Occupational Health, Transportation, Hospitality, ensures a safe workplace for the employees and Emergency Response and Security domains. align with the health and safety objective of employee wellbeing. Our Employee counselling and Support forum (Mitr) in India and Employee Assistance Programs Hazard Communication Employee connect in the geographies provide counselling support on programs conducted to bring awareness among issues pertaining to personal or professional life. employees on reporting of hazards, unsafe conditions and unsafe acts to help in reduction of Governance: Injury rate. Taking cognizance that employee well-being and Emergency Response Programs were held safety is an aspect which impacts at various focal across locations in India on emergency response, points, the overall responsibility for health & mock evacuation drills, hazard recognition, driver safety is assumed by the HR, EHS, Audit, Risk and safety training, first aid training, fire-fighting Compliance team. training etc. Vehicle based Quick Reaction Teams Around 79% of our workforce works in locations deployed in major locations continues to provide across India and majority of them work from services to ensure safe commute and help during Wipro facilities. Taking this into account, we have emergencies. established a core EHS team with city-wise EHS Women’s Safety Security teams are trained on coordinators who drive compliance to standard gender sensitization as a part of their on job procedures defined at a corporate level. The EHS Wipro and its Stakeholders 91 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Team along with stakeholder and service Identification and Risk Assessment. The risk providers organize awareness programs on health assessment is evaluated every year and also as and safety, thereby impacting performance on and when the accidents / incidents / near misses health and safety aspects. are noticed. Employees, stakeholders and Service Major locations exceeding 2000 employees have providers are part of this risk assessment. safety committees which meet quarterly and Our internal audit team conducts checks on the participate in risk assessments, safety effective implementation of ISO 14001 / OHSAS inspections, incident investigations and hygiene 18001 standard requirements every 6 months by audits. Remaining locations report work place involving cross functional teams. 18 locations in hazards in the HSE portal and get discussed in India are certified or ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. city-wise committee meetings. Employees also Apart from the Internal Audits, the corporate record their observations on under various internal audit team also conducted the audit at categories like Major/ Minor/ First-Aid / Nearselected locations to check the effectiveness on misses etc. through our intranet portal. Decisions the closure of the gaps identified in internal taken during these meetings are communicated audits and the report is submitted to the senior along with corrective actions and target dates in management as part of the Management Reviews. order to minimize risks. These committees bring In addition to this, we also participate in client together stakeholders at various levels to promote audits and provide information and data related to positive occupational health & safety culture. The health & safety. safety committee meetings represent 100% participation from the representative employees. 8918.5 10k 254 8284 Number of Incidents/Lost Days 7.5k 7104 5k 2.5k 254 483 697 503 257 530 549 760.5 227 514 363 577 197 426 417 526 0 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Incidences of Industrial Injury (excl. personal transport) Incidences of Industrial Injury (incl. personal transport) Cases of Occupational Diseases Ergonomic Industrial Injury Lost Days (excl. personal transport) Industrial Injury Lost Days (incl. personal transport) Wipro and its Stakeholders 92 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 0.457 0.5 0.427 0.4 Number of Incidents/Lost Days 0.33 0.327 0.317 0.308 0.298 0.391 0.2832 0.3 0.229 0.224 0.206 0.2 0.167 0.144 0.129 0.106 0.1 0 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 IIR (excl personal transport) IIR (incl personal transport) Last day rate Occupational disease rate Health & Wellness Awards 2016-17 Wipro won “Employer with best Employee Health and Wellness ? Initiative” award at SHRM India HR Awards 2016 Wipro Ranked No 1 in CGP ( Chestnut Global Partners) Health and ? Wellness Ranking 2016 Wipro won the “Platinum Arogya World Healthy Workplace” FY2016 ? award in the Health & Wellness category Wipro and its Stakeholders 93 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Diversity and Inclusion Policies & Principles Our Approach & Commitment Wipro is committed to being an equal opportunity Nurturing inclusivity is an intrinsic part of Wipro’s employer and diversity and inclusion principles culture, it has remained a key focus area for the are embedded in our organizational values, organization and is a strategic enabler to ensure a culture, policies and processes. Our commitment holistic business growth. At Wipro, our client towards non-discrimination and meritocracy is portfolio is diverse in composition, in terms of explicit in our COBC and Global Diversity and locations, culture, industries and technologies Inclusion Policy. they deploy. In order to address the increasing Our commitment to D & I is also extended to our complexities of such a diverse clientele, it is Suppliers through the Supplier Code of Conduct imperative to cultivate a workforce, which can and we encourage engagement with qualified generate a rich mosaic of ideas that enhance suppliers owned by persons of disabilities, women innovation resulting in higher revenues & greater or minority communities. customer satisfaction Wipro is an equal opportunity employer and merit There is a visible, deep organization-led strategic in qualification, performance & capability form commitment to experience inclusivity as a ‘way of the sole criteria for selection, remuneration and life” and nurture a sense of belonging within promotions for new applicants and existing teams. This is further strengthened, with the CEO employees alike. We believe that number-based as the Executive Sponsor of the Diversity & targets / percentages to increase diverse Inclusion (D &I) Council. This makes D & I a workforce can impact meritocracy and deviate mainstream business driver and a must-have from our holistic approach of ensuring meaningful trait, rather than a stand-alone / aspirational employment across different functions and levels. initiative. As signatories to UNGC and U.N. We have therefore consciously refrained from Women’s Empowerment Principles, we express integrating such targets into the goals and our commitment to becoming a responsible objectives of leaders and relevant teams. business leader and role model. Inclusion at the Core Gender Persons with Disab ilities • Provide Exposure, Flexibility & Empowerment • Create a conductive work environment that • Improve Gender Diversity Mix all levels gives a level playing eld • Enhance Accessibility of internal Applications & Infrastructure Inclusion Underprivileged Nationality • Bridge Employability Gap • Attract & Nurture Local Talent • Equip this talent pool with right skills • Managing Cross Cultural teams growing organcally and inorganically Wipro and its Stakeholders 94 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Focus Areas Our Diversity & Inclusion Program was formally launched in 2008 to give shape and direction to our commitment. An overview of key initiatives across our various inclusivity pillars are shared below. For detailed description of initiatives, please refer Sustainability Report 15-16 Inclusivity Pillar Objective/ Description of key initiatives Key Highlights Gender Our efforts here are all inclusive –and focus on ? 33% Women workforce providing an enabling work environment. For ? The fourth batch of the Mentoring example: WoW or the Women of Wipro program has program recently concluded in FY17 various initiatives following the research led insights ? International Women’s Hackathon for from a life stage based approach for women (e.g women technologist hosted where 800 some of the key initiatives here are WoW Career women technologists participated Mentoring, Women in Technology, WoW Speaker Series, Day Care Centres) ? Higher engagement levels for women as measured by our Employee Perception Survey (EPS) Persons with Disabilities The CREATE (Career, Recruitment, Engagement, ? As on March 31, 2017 there were 334 Accessibility, Training & Enablement) framework employees who had voluntarily declared was adopted to promote those with different their disabilities through our online Self abilities across areas. Our self-identification form Identification Form. Number may vary allows employees to request for reasonable since a number of employees with accommodation while being assured of Wipro’s disabilities do not prefer to declare their commitment to non-discrimination disability ? 39 candidates hired during the year ? Digital accessibility is one of the key issues that was taken up on a war footing manner in FY 16-17. Over 130 Internal applications were made accessible based on standards; Procurement policies and procedures were modified to ensure that all procurements are accessible Nationality/ Culture Today we have a strong ‘local national’ footprint in ? 100+ nationalities from 50+ countries, Sensitivity our international geographiesvia both organic & 42%+ of employees outside India are inorganic growth. Our initiatives in this area have locals strengthened our efforts towards nurturing a culture inclusive workforce through various sensitization interventions Under Privileged There has been a committed focus on collaborating ? Rural BPO centre has 170 employees with colleges/universities in small cities to drive ? 30 US School districts impacted USA opportunities for jobs and thereby increase Wipro Science Fellowship recruitment. This has included collaborating with ? 100,000+ Books donated through First NGOs/Foundations which impart skills trainings to Book ( US) graduates from underprivileged societies. They work towards improving the competency, professional ? 120,000+ underprivileged people skills and employability of youth and prepare them benefited education, healthcare and for various roleswhich makes them job ready for ecology Wipro or other organizations in the industry ? 2500+ children with disability benefited educational support Wipro and its Stakeholders 95 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Across all our focus areas, one key aspect has been to address biases right from the time of hiring. In 201617, our interview certification online module was updated to include the following addressing various aspects of inclusion/bias ? How to carry out a gender-sensitive interview? ? How to conduct an interview for a disabled/ differently abled candidate? ? What are the acceptable and non-acceptable questions you can ask/cannot ask in an interview Governance Diversity & Inclusion is an independent function in the organization led by a Senior Leader. We understand that the success of transformational initiatives depends on how much the larger organization believes in the strategy and the strength of the initiative and its success in trickling down to the lowest levels in the organization. With this in mind, our D & I charter and agenda is supported cross-functional project teams and senior leaders assume leadership of individual diversity pillars. Focus areas/goals are reviewed on a quarterly basis by the D & I Council which is chaired by the CEO.The D & I council is composed of Senior Leaders/Executives with representation from gender, geographies and ethnicity. D & I Awards 2016-17 ? Wipro won Innovative Policies & Practices for Persons with Disabilities Award 2017 by Zero Project, Vienna. ? Wipro won “Excellence in Diversity & Inclusion” award at SHRM India HR Awards 2016 ? Wipro was awarded a runners Up in “Diversity & Inclusion” in the Corporate HR Best Practices category at NHRD HR showcase 2016 event Wipro and its Stakeholders 96 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Capability Building and Career evaluating one’s performance against defined Development goals & objectives. We continue to drive a highperformance culture. In FY17, we institutionalized Our Approach & Commitment the practice of quarterly employee appraisal. This In the face of changing client expectations and the enables employees to excel based on regular advent of rapidly changing technologies, it has feedback. Learning modules were launched to become imperative to have a platform that equips enable managers and employees alike to embrace the organization with futuristic skills and the new process of Performance management. We competencies. Anticipating and defining future also piloted the Agile Performance Management needs and developing these competencies in the system for those in Agile roles. employees is vital to organizational sustainability. As part of the performance evaluation process, a Wipro offers multiple learning & development 360-degree feedback is provided on leadership opportunities to employees at various stages of competencies for middle and senior management their career. These are aimed at upskilling, crossroles. Appropriate development plans and skilling, and reskilling through a number of interventions are then charted out based on training programs in technical, domain, soft skills, discussion between manager and employee. The and leadership aspects. While dedicated teams Talent Review and Planning exercise is conducted identify learning needs at an organizational level, at the beginning of the FY and is used to identify employees partake in identifying their individual short-term, medium-term and long-term learning needs through appraisals, feedback successors for critical, senior and executive surveys, and career tools. management roles. Policies & Principles One of our other initiatives in this category is Capability building and career development Talent Marketplace, which enables internal role initiatives at Wipro encompass building fulfilment of senior roles. The objective of the awareness on career paths, identifying initiative is to connect talent to opportunities developmental areas for current & aspired role within the organization so as to retain the senior through a rigorous performance management skilled talent pool. In FY 17 internal redeployment process, mentorship, and building capability as a % of total fulfilment was at 66% for through training & assessments. senior/strategic roles Our infrastructure supports both traditional and Capability Building: ‘new-gen’ ways of learning. While dedicated The focus in FY 17 has been on growing new facilities like learning centers, training labs are businesses with existing customers, becoming used for instructor led classroom sessions, strategic partner for our customers, building enterprise solutions like 24 x7 access to estrong digital skills and core technical Learning modules, Webex, Video Based learnings, competencies simulation based learning, etc. are being widely Delivery Transformation: To increase the breadth adopted, providing convenient and flexible and depth of engagement with existing customers learning environment. and take Delivery to next higher level, we trained Focus Areas 2000+ delivery leaders from strategic accounts Enabling Careers: through two programs called “WinMore Account Our performance management system is Mining for Growth” & ADROIT – for Behavioral designed to achieve holistic employee Transformation . These programs are designed for development through performance differentiation, delivery leaders to enable them to do delivery-led transparency, and effective evaluation. There is a sales and next-generation delivery structured process of formally and objectively Wipro and its Stakeholders 97 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Sales Transformation next career band In this digital enabled business environment, Through our crowd sourcing platform (“TopGear”), customers no longer look for technology services we have created 70+ customized cloud based but emphasize on business outcomes. Customers development environments that enable our are looking for a strategic partner to co-create a workforce to develop Proof of Concepts, Use vision and execution strategy. Keeping this in Cases, and Assignments in high-demand mind, a new training program OneVoice was technologies. 32,000+ employees have enrolled developed for sales transformation which trains themselves through this platform. Employees our sales /customer facing people with more have so far contributed to over 20000 consultative selling and selling digital solutions. assignments and case studies and over 100 IP 2,000+ participants have been covered through Development/Solution projects. Many of our large the One Voice Program. We are also creating a accounts have started using this platform to continuum between our delivery and sales teams introduce new-age skills to their teams to fulfil through a program called PRISM, which grooms their upcoming client demands and create a delivery people to become effective sales people. fungible future ready team Digital Training: In line with the growing demand Social Learning for Digital Services, we continue to augment our For a number of our capability building programs, workforce with digital skills. Against our annual Yammer has been used extensively for social plan of training over 33,000 people in FY’17, we learning. For example, groups have been created trained over 39,000 employees. Overall, now we focusing on specific technologies/roles in the have reached over 60,000 technical employees organization, where employees can come together trained on Digital skills to effectively learn from each other. After Building core technical competencies classroom training, the faculty use this platform Trend.nxt Competency framework – in which to engage with the participants for continued employees are encouraged to build depth and learning. The discussions are analyzed to derive width of knowledge in technical skills – has feedback which enables L&D to improve training helped us to build strong skills across employees, programs. To generate interest, we launched a in FY’17 over 21,000 employees acquired competition across the various groups in Yammer additional skills in upto 4 technology areas. One of on how they could use the social media platform the key new features of Trend.Nxt is “Competency effectively for learning. The groups were measured Credit points” which can be earned by employees on the number of discussion threads and through a variety of channels. Every employee responses, as well as the quality of the posts. covered by the Trend.Nxt framework needs to There was enthusiastic participation and many of accumulate the minimum threshold of credit the groups demonstrated creative and innovative points to become eligible for progression to the ways of using social media for learning. Capability Building and Career Development Career enhancement of employees through internal role movements, skill –based trainings & learning programs and encourage a culture of coaching and development Performance Role Based Technical, Behavioral & Mentoring / Coaching Internal Talent Building Management Assessments Leadership Trainings Procedures Systems Policies Execution Governance Highlights – Quarterly Appraisal Process, Ya mmer used for social learning, FY16-17-key focus on digital training & newer technologies Wipro and its Stakeholders 98 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Governance learning, online courses, webinar participation, A structured governance mechanism has been mentoring and experiential learning and hence established to review the progress on learning not used. initiatives derived from talent strategy. The One key metric is Utilization which can get variances on plan versus actual learning impacted by how quickly we can reskill/upskill our accomplishments are discussed and appropriate talent in line with the customer /market dynamics support or direction is provided to make and deploy them on billable projects. In FY 16-17, corrections our gross utilization was at 71.5 %. In order to The L&D teams work with various BUs and SLs to ensure we have optimum utilization of our talent, develop an annual learning plan which addresses there are initiatives such as Train to Bill, wherein the competency development needs of its employees whose projects are nearing end or are employees. The learning plan is further elaborated between projects to be deployed to new projects, for each role in terms of technical, domain, are imparted just in time training to suit the needs process and behavioral skills, as required. of the new project. The L& D team works with the business teams to identify the gap in the skills of Key Metrics the employee. Just In Time training is provided to Average training days per employee, we recognize address skill gaps so that the employee can then that the metric is becoming increasingly less be deployed in new project opportunities. This relevant as in a knowledge based organization, a initiative aligns training to the business demand significant part of the learning takes place outside and helps in rapidly fulfilling customer classrooms through on-job trainings, peer requirements. Learning and Development Awards 2016-17 ? Wipro won the prestigious ATD (Association for Talent Development) BEST* Award for 2016. This is the 10th time that we are winning this award. The BEST Awards recognizes the learning and development initiatives of our organization. 3.2 Ecological Sustainability Wipro recognizes the environmental challenges that face humanity today are as critical as are economic imperatives and hence ecological sustainability is an essential part of our approach to responsible corporate citizenship. Understanding Life Cycle Impacts To understand the unsustainable dependency of Wipro on vulnerable natural resources, natural capital valuation exercise was conducted. This exercise helped us get an overall integrated environmental impact assessment of our operations and upstream suppliers. Details of the Natural Capital Valuation is covered under the sub section “Lifecycle impacts” In addition this, we continue to explore additional and specific quantitative and qualitative metrics to evaluate water (see sub section “Responsible Water Framework”) and waste management in our campuses. We also aim to baseline and set specific goals to reduce our footprint associated with key Scope 3 categories (like emissions from Business Travel and Commute), Ozone depleting refrigerants, indoor air quality and noise pollution. The outcomes of these assessments contribute our program design and stakeholder engagement. Wipro and its Stakeholders 100 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Natural Capital Impacts Natural capital can be defined as the world’s stocks of natural resources which make human life possible. Businesses rely on this natural capital to produce goods and deliver services. The overall objective of the project, (done in association with Trucost) is to quantity and value the natural capital impacts of Wipro’s IT Services operations and supply chain for the 2016-17 financial year. The valuation looks at our global operational footprint (from energy related emissions, water consumption, air/water pollution, waste generation and management, land use change) and upstream value chain impacts from business travel, employee commute and the embedded natural capital in all goods and services we procure. Operational data, business data and employee commute valuation is derived from on actual data, extrapolated for a few global locations and environmental categories. The natural capital embedded in goods and services is primarily based on valuation methodology that is based on Trucost’s econometric Input-Output model which takes into account spend across different sub-categories of procurement. In the 2016-17 financial year, the natural capital valuation of the environmental impacts relating to Wipro’s operations and supply chain was equal to INR 11,476 million (2% of Wipro’s revenue and 7 % of Wipro’s profit in the same period). The largest contributions came from GHG emissions (46%), water consumption (25%) and air pollution (19%). In terms of GHG emissions, although Scope 3 emissions increased in some areas, this was offset by a marked decrease in Scope 1 & 2 emissions, leading to a decline of nearly 10% year on year. Water consumption meanwhile showed a substantial increase year on year (26%) with most of this attributable to supply chain water consumption. The overall natural capital valuation remained flat from the 2015 -16 financial year and up 14% since 2013-14. Wipro and its Stakeholders 101 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Summary of Natural Capital valuation Impact Contribution by Percentage 100 75 50 25 0 GHG Emissions Water Waste Water Pollution Air Pollution Land Use Change Operations Business travel Employee commute Purchased goods and services (Scope 3) Fuel and energy related activities (Scope 3) Impact Contribution by Percentage Category GHG Emissions Water Waste Water Pollution Air Pollution Land Use Change Operations 32.8 35.13 36.72 48.35 7.97 12.61 Business travel 20.29 7.58 Employee commute 20.21 27.61 Purchased goods and 9.31 44.33 16.53 6.88 55.15 services (Scope 3) Fuel and energy related 17.38 20.53 46.74 51.64 49.93 32.22 activities (Scope 3) Wipro and its Stakeholders 102 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Understanding Material Aspects for Stakeholders The feedback from our stakeholders help us identify material aspects of the environmental impacts of our business. Given below is an articulation of stakeholder concerns and the corresponding material aspects and sections in the report. Stakeholders Emerging Concerns Material aspects Sections Water scarcity in the vicinity of our operations is a major concern for our employees. A large section of our employees Responsible stay close to offices Water Water Program Demand management is required for water sustainability and this requires user (employee) centric behavioral interventions Reducing footprint at point of generation Pollution and Employees and segregation at source requires user Waste Waste Management (employee) centric behavioral interventions In-campus biodiversity programs are a platform for employee engagement in Biodiversity Campus Biodiversity conservation and citizen science areas Investor led sustainability frameworks like Various environment Carbon Disclosure Project and the Dow aspects including Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) cover Energy, Greenhouse Gas environmental aspects in comprehensive emissions, Water All the sections detail. Investors are looking at strong, Abstraction, Water and Investors proactive environmental programs from Air Pollution, Solid companies as part of the latter’s risk Waste Management and mitigation strategy Biodiversity Customers extend the boundaries of their Various environment own responsibility through their supply aspects but chain sustainability programs which predominantly Energy All the sections requires companies to improve their social and GHG Emissions Customers and environmental footprint. Trucost study on natural capital valuation Various environment points to the fact that externalities account aspects, but for nearly 50% of the total environmental predominantly Energy impact for Wipro. This is across emissions, and GHG Emissions, All the sections water abstraction and pollution, air Water Abstraction, pollution, land use and waste. Supply chain Water and Air Supply Chain engagement hence is a core element of Pollution, Solid Waste operational environmental programs. Management Energy Conservation Building Code Energy Efficiency & (ECBC), renewable energy procurement Energy GHG Mitigation and generation are increasingly being covered in regulations. Civil Society Campus Government Biodiversity conservation and Biodiversity Future Biodiversisty ecosystem services are primary interest Generations areas with civil society organizations. Wipro and its Stakeholders 103 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Program Areas Wipro’s ecological sustainability program directly addresses four of the eight mega forces. It is an integral part within many of our key programs, internal and external and across stakeholders. Our programs focus on the following aspects: Energy Water efficiency Pollution Campus Urban efficiency and and responsible and waste Biodiversity resilience GHG mitigation sourcing management Wipro’s ecological sustainability program Our journey in ecological sustainability reinforces some foundational principles: ? Both the environmental impacts and outcomes of measures we implement are multiple and interrelated ? The need to assess programs through rigorous goal setting, qualitative measures and quantitative metrics Acknowledge issues, explore alternatives and prioritize responses specific to the context of each issue We continually assess operational risks to the environment and apply the precautionary principle in our approach to get insights and plan our environmental programs. What follows is a brief description of our policies, systems and programs we follow as part of our ecological sustainability charter. Scope of Reporting The environmental reporting covers all our operations globally. ? India: 55 locations (includes 3 operational data centers) representing 79% of our workforce. The majority of operations are based out of 23 owned locations. ? Overseas: 163 locations, which includes 7 customer data centers. A majority of the office locations overseas are leased. In most cases, we pay an all-inclusive rent for the usage of facilities (rental, utilities and maintenance are combined). We have managed to get electricity data for a representative set of the locations from the property management. They represent 53% of locations by seat capacity. For other locations where 'metered' data is not available, we have applied an average consumption figure of 112 KWh/seat/month. These locations account for around 2.1% of our overall Scope 2 emissions, hence is not materially significant (See our CDP 2017 report for more details). We report only energy consumption from purchased electricity for overseas offices as the energy consumption under other heads like heating and cooling is negligible. Aspect India* Overseas Energy Based on actual consumption data Based on actual consumption for 53% of our overseas locations and remaining estimated based on regional intensity figures Water Based on actual consumption data Estimated based on regional intensity figures Waste Based on actual consumption data Estimated based on regional intensity figures Commute Based on actual consumption data Estimated based on regional intensity figures *The energy, water and waste reporting for India accounts for 80% of our impact from all operations. Wipro and its Stakeholders 104 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Environmental Management Systems Our programs and management systems are pivoted and derived from the Ecological Sustainability Commitment, available at http://www.wipro.com/documents/Ecological_Sustainability_Policy.pdf. We have been following the guidelines of the ISO 14001 framework for more than a decade now as one of the cornerstones of our Environmental Management System (EMS). 18 of our campus sites in India and 2 in Australia are certified to ISO 14001:2004 standard. EMS Certication: by Employee Occupancy Client Ofces Offices: 9 % Leased Ofces Offices: 10 % Due for Certication Certification: 5 % Certied Locations Certified Locations : 76 % Compliance Wipro complies with all applicable environmental regulations and in the reporting period, there were no instances of environmental fines imposed or negative consequences due to our operations. Wipro and its Stakeholders 105 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Energy Efficiency and GHG Mitigation Approach Our approach to energy efficiency and GHG mitigation is centered on the following approach. Baselining energy and Setting ambitious, scientifically Developing robust emissions parameters valid and traceable goals mitigation programs A robust mechanism of measuring and reporting performance metrics is a primary requirement to set scientifically valid, traceable and accountable goals. We have standardized the process for accounting of Scope 1 and 2 emissions and have also completed the valuation of externalities (all Scope 3 heads). Our current emissions target for Scope 1 and 2 is based on SBTi (Science Based Target Initiative) from WRI (World Resources Institute), which runs from 2015-16 to 2019-20; we have suggested targets for 2025 and 2030 also but these will be subject to revision when the next five year target setting exercise is done in 2020. While we have studied and incorporated the WRI framework to the extent that is relevant, our methodology has also been driven by empirical considerations that are more pertinent to the IT industry sector and to India. Our goals comprise five sub-targets, two on GHG and three on energy: 1. 2. 3. 4. Absolute Scope 1 Energy Intensity in GHG Emission Renewable and2 GHG terms of EPI Intensity (Scope Energy (RE)emissions – (Energy 1 and Scope 2) Doubling Absolute Performance on Floor Area renewable emissions Index) (FAR) basis energy reduction of Cumulative Cumulative procurement of 35,000 tonnes reduction of 11% reduction of 65 Million units in EPI over 5 years 33% in GHG in 2015 to a intensity from target of 135 140 Kg / Sq. Mt Million units in (kpsm) to 94 2019-20 kpsm of CO –eq For Energy Efficiency, in line with industry standards, we are shifting from ‘Per Employee’ based metrics to Floor Area (FAR) based metrics. The accepted standard is EPI or Energy Performance Indicator which is equivalent to Energy Per Unit of Floor Area for a defined number of working hours per day. We have deliberately not set a Carbon Neutral goal or an offset program for reducing Scope emissions due to the externalities involved in most alternatives like embedded carbon and water footprint, land use change and broader ecological and social sustainability issues involved in such programs. For example, mass afforestation of a single species over a large area may help achieve a carbon reduction goal but have a high negative impact on water sustainability, biodiversity and livelihoods. Our focus is on pushing the envelope on operational emission reduction programs across our value chain. Wipro and its Stakeholders 106 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 The full trajectory of Wipro targets till 2050 is given below. Carbon intensity ( Kg CO2 per Sqm ) Absolute emissions ( Scope 1 and 2, Mt CO2 ) 250000 210873 140 200000 175000 94 140172 150000 62 67495 100000 27 39769 14 50000 0 2015 2020 2030 2040 2050 2015 2020 2030 2040 2050 Wipro and its Stakeholders 107 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Highlights of Energy and GHG Emissions Related Performance Energy Consumption: The total energy consumption, electricity and back-up diesel generated, for office spaces across all global operations in IT is 315 Million Units (India contributes to 289 Million units). Data centers in India and overseas (USA and Germany) contribute to another 85 Million units. 96.6 million units of RE was procured through PPAs (Power Purchase agreements) with private producers, out of which 76.5 is accounted for zero carbon emissions (green attribute traceable). Fuel (MwH Equivalent) 600 k 400 k 200 k 0 Fu el Bio R ga Fu el en s ( ew m3 ab ) le Tota N Ch on ar -R coa en l ( ew Kg l Fu el -N ab ) le on L-R PG en (K Fu D el ies N el ew g) ab le P Gr ur id ch (C as o (L n) f Re or om ed po El n e El w ec ab le si ec te tr ) – ic P Re ur Pu ity ( rc Gr ha id ne ch w as ab ed le E se ) d Re – le Pu ct rc ric ha ity ne w ab S le ola se d Re – rH Ge e ne ate ne w ab ra r te d le – ol Ge arS n e PV rate d 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 Fuel (MwH Equivalent) Source type 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Biogas (m3) Fuel Renewable 45 48 73 Charcoal (Kg) Fuel Non-Renewable 235 211 404 LPG (Kg) Fuel Non-Renewable 7555 7796 7179 Diesel (L) for Elec Fuel Non-Renewable 40766 43754 16271 Purchased Electricity (Grid) Grid (Composite) – Purchased 305591 294050 307691 Purchased Electricity Renewable – Purchased 65681 75980 76466 Solar Heater Renewable – Generated 1332 1332 1332 Solar PV Renewable – Generated 281 135 135 Total 421487 423306 409551 The total non-renewable fuel consumption in 2016-17 year is 203.8 Mn Mjoules and from renewable sources (Biogas) is 0.24 Mn Mjoules. We do not have any direct consumption or sales of heating, cooling or steam energy. The total energy consumption within the organisation is 1596 Mn Mjoules. Wipro and its Stakeholders 108 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Energy Intensity: EPI for office spaces, measured in terms of energy per unit area, is 195 units per sq. meter per annum, an increase of 3% compared to the previous year. While absolute India offices energy consumption has decreased by 4% due to energy efficiency, operating area shows a sharper reduction of 6.3% as of March 2017 due to consolidation of operations. We expect the EPI metric to show an improvement in 2018 when we look at full year energy data for consolidated operations. Emissions Intensity 2 16 CO2 eq. Tons Per Employee Per Annum 1.5 12 CO2 eq. Kg Per square feet 1 8 0.5 4 0 0 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Emissions Intensity India Emissions Intensity Global Emissions per square feet India 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 Target 195 192 188 184 181 174 Actual 195 189 195 Wipro and its Stakeholders 109 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Absolute Emissions: The absolute India’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2016-17 has decreased by 4.4% from 2,52,155 to 2,41,122 tonnes (a reduction of over 11000 tonnes). Global Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2016-17 has decreased by 3.4%. This is primarily due to higher share of renewable energy procurement. The dashboard below provides a summary of our Global and India GHG emissions for office spaces – from Scope 1 (emission from direct energy consumption, like fuel) and Scope 2 (emissions from purchased electricity). The figures are net emissions for all years, after considering zero emissions for renewable energy procured. GHG Scope 1 and 2 (Tons of CO2 eq.) 300k 250k 200k 150k 100k 50k 0 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 Global India 2014-15 2016-17 2017-18 Global 269,117.00 263,733.00 254,764.00 India 254,072.00 263,733.00 241,122.00 Wipro and its Stakeholders 110 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Emissions Intensity: Our India office space emissions intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2) is at 128 Kg Co2 eq. per Sq. Mt. per annum, an increase of 4.7% from last year, largely due to a decrease of 6.3% in operating area due to consolidation of operations throughout the year. However the global people based emissions intensity for office spaces is down by more than 8% to 1.34 tons per person per annum. Absolute GHG emissions reduction of 1.8% for India office operations was contributed by shift from DG electricity to grid in Chennai, energy efficiency measures and RE procurement. 2 16 CO2 eq. Tons Per Employee Per Annum CO2 eq. Kg Per square feet 1.5 12 1 8 0.5 4 0 0 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Emissions Intensity India Emissions Intensity Global Emissions per square feet India 2014-15 (incl RE) 2015-16 (incl RE) 2016-17 (incl RE) Emission Intensity-India 1.71 1.53 1.4 Emission Intensity Global 1.67 1.46 1.34 Emission per square feet India 11.54 10.72 11.08 Wipro and its Stakeholders 111 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Emissions Profile 400k 300k 200k 100k 0 Em is Fu Re st mut Tr W go si on el fr ic s e av as od s s iger el te Pu rc /s er Di an Lo m ha se vi ce re ct t gi Co si RE d E le s Tr ne En Pu ctr ic an ploy ss rcha ity sp ee er se (O or Bu gy ff se t d N t) Em + Pu et Sc Fu rc op e el ha 2 se Up st re am 2014-2015 2015-2016 2016-2017 Year (MT CO2e) 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Fuel 34,613.00 35,511.00 15,043.00 Refrigerant 6,726.00 8,845.00 11,134.00 Direct Transport Logistics Employee Commute 102,704.00 102,155.00 107,980.00 Business Travel 141,790.21 176,593.00 137,242.00 Waste 579.00 953.00 753.00 Upstream Fuel + Energy Emissions 90,987.00 99,479.00 103,504.00 Purchased goods / services 65,000.00 38,416.00 55,588.00 Purchased Electricity 281,636.00 273,912.00 291,288.00 RE Purchase (Offset) (53,858.00) (62,304.00) (62,702.00) Net Scope 2 227,778.00 211,986.00 228,586.00 Wipro and its Stakeholders 112 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Global Scope 1 and 2(split by activity) OfficeSpace Ofce Space : 50874 50874 (20.0%) (20.0%) Data Centers Centers: 203890 203890 (80.0%) (80.0%) Absolute GHG Emissions: Scope 1 and 2, Split by Geo and Office / Data Centers Emissions Split by office space and data centers India and Rest of World (RoW) 200k 150k GHG (Tons of CO 2 equiv.) 100k 50k 0 India RoW India RoW Emissions 14-15/Incl. RE Emissions 15-16/Incl. RE Emissions 16-17/Incl. RE 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 India 187,129.00 182,952.00 177,242.00 Office Space RoW 15,045.00 11,578.00 13,642.00 India 22,005.00 19,988.00 10,397.00 Data Center RoW 36,239.00 38,403.00 40,477.00 Wipro and its Stakeholders 113 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Scope 3 Emissions A break-up of our Scope 3 categories (other indirect sources) reporting is provided below. Out of the 14 categories of scope 3 reporting as per the new GHG corporate value chain standard, we are presently reporting on six applicable categories. Scope 3 Emissions Category Applicability Metric Tonnes CO 2e Current Reporting, Coverage within IT business Upstream scope 3 emissions Purchased goods and services Yes 55,588 Based on purchase ledger for 2015-16 and Capital Goods application of econometric input-output model for different categories and business activities Fueland energy-related Yes 103,504 Well To Tank (WTT) and Transmission and activities (not included in Distribution (T&D) losses globally scope 1 or scope 2) Upstream transportation and Yes Not Reported, as not material distribution Waste generated in operations Yes 753 For India operations, which represents nearly 85% of footprint Employee commuting Yes 107,980 For India operations, which represents nearly 85% of footprint Business travel Yes 137,242 Includes air, bus, train, local conveyance and hotel stays Upstream leased assets Yes This is reported under Scope 1 & 2 (Leased office space) Downstream scope 3 No No product business, leased assets, emissions franchisees or equity investments with environmental impact 300000 279,701 245,073 245,975 A comparison of Scope 3 Tons of CO 2 eq. emissions for a 3 year 200000 period is provided alongside. This includes emissions from three 100000 primary activities which are integral to our business operations – Business Travel, Employee commute 0 and Waste. 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Scope 3 Global Wipro and its Stakeholders 114 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Energy Efficiency and GHG Mitigation programs Our GHG mitigation strategy consists of two key elements. ? Energy Efficiency ? Renewable Energy both (a) strategic procurement and (b) onsite generation Of these, strategic RE procurement will contribute the maximum to GHG emission reductions. The visual below depicts a graphic representation of this strategy. Global Scope 1 and 2 (split by activity) Efficiency:: 5.0 EnergyEfciency Energy 5.0 % % Renewable Energy Renewable Generation:: 15.0 Energy-Generation 15.0 % % Renewable Energy Purchase : 80.0 % Energy Efficiency Over the preceding five year period, we have implemented a variety of energy efficiency measures. ? Green Buildings: We were one of the early adopters of Green Building Design with 18 of our current buildings certified to the international LEED standard (Silver, Gold, and Platinum). ? Server virtualization: Since 2007, we have been working on a server rationalization and virtualization program, through which we have decommissioned old physical servers and replaced the processing capacity with virtualization technology on fewer numbers of servers. As of March 2017, we have 2,920 virtual servers (2,088 in 2015-16) running on 312 physical servers which contributes to an energy savings of approximately 12.5 million units annually. The savings showed an increase of 35% over the previous year. This is based on sever rating of 0.75 KW operating for 24 hours and 5 days in a week. This, we believe, is a conservative estimate considering that many servers run for 7 days a week and the power rating ranges from 0.75 Kw to 1 Kw (we have considered the lower power rating for the savings estimate calculation). ? Operational Efficiency Measures: Over the years, significant focus has been given to reduce the energy consumption of our locations by bringing in various operational efficiency measures in our operation. These measures include 1. Better operation controls for priority areas of operations like chillers, water systems and installation of timer controls to avoid unnecessary usage 2. Retrofit of older equipment with more energy efficient equipment 3. Consolidation of operations Wipro and its Stakeholders 115 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 accompanied by a transition from leased to owned facilities with the resulting increase in overall utilization of office space 4. Higher quality maintenance operations. These initiatives have helped save 26 Mn KwH units in the reporting year. ? Others: There is a significant reduction in Scope 1 India emissions (by 40%) due to shift from DG to Grid electricity at our Chennai facility, post commissioning of an electricity grid substation by the state government. Data center India emissions have also reduced by 48% compared to last year, as one of the units of a data center is not operational. Renewable Energy ? Strategic procurement: For the reporting period 201617, RE contributed to approximately 25% of our total India energy consumption. We procured 96 Mn. units of Renewable energy through the PPAs (Power Purchase agreements) with private producers, against our target of 95 Mn units for the reporting year. Out of this, the zero carbon RE accounting is considered for 76.5 Mn units, as for this the green attributes have either been retired or are traceable to Wipro. This has been done by including non-tradability of Renewable Energy Certificate (REC) for contracted power through contracts and including verification of generation in the regulators national REC registry. This has helped mitigate 62.7 tons of CO2 equiv. ? In-situ renewable energy use: The pilot rooftop Solar PV installations at 3 of our campuses followed by extensive use of solar water heaters in our guest blocks and cafeterias have resulted in equivalent savings of 1.3 Mn units of grid electricity. Business Travel The IT services outsourcing model require frequent travel to customer locations, mainly overseas, across the delivery life cycle and contributes to around 1/4th of our overall emissions footprint. This includes travel by air, bus, train, local conveyance and hotel stays. Policies on usage of different modes of travel based on distance, time taken, need and business unit budget-based travel approval with increasing focus on processes which enable remote working and collaboration are some of the cost and process optimization measures implemented over past few years. We have seen an air travel footprint reduction (distance as well as emissions) reduction of over 19% compare to 2015-16. In association with a partner, we have conducted a detailed airline and business unit level of emissions intensities for the last two years. We plan to incorporate some of the recommendations in the booking process of travel agents and employees. Wipro and its Stakeholders 116 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Employee Commute Employees have various choices for commuting are driven primarily by distance, flexibility, work timings, costs, city infrastructure and connectivity in the case of group or public transport. In addition to company arranged transport (41%), employees utilize public transport (~45%), with owned cars and two wheelers accounting for the balance. Over the past few years, we have taken steps to facilitate a shift towards improved access to public transport for employees (buses, commuter trains), carpooling, apart from encouraging cycling to work through an active cycling community in the organization. A mobile app based car-pooling initiative launched across four of our large locations in July 2016, in association with partners, has 14000 users and has resulted in reduction of 146 tons of CO2 equiv. in the reporting period. IT led soft infrastructure enablers like anytime direct connectivity access to office intranet applications, secure personal device connectivity through the BYOD initiative (Bring Your Own Devices) are steps in enabling more flexible work place options. Wipro and its Stakeholders 117 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Water Stewardship At Wipro, we view water from the three inter-related lens of Conservation, Responsibility and Security; our articulated goals are therefore predicated on these three dimensions. Water efficiency Responsible sourcing Water security Continuously improve water To ensure responsible sourcing Recognizing water availability efficiency (fresh water use and water management in as a business risk, to proximate communities, proactively assess and plan for per employee) of our especially in locations that are the water security of the operations. prone to water scarcity. organization in a manner that is congruent with the first two objectives. Goals 1 2 3 Improve water efficiency Reduce absolute water Responsible stewardship: To (fresh water use per consumption in existing ensure responsible water employee) by 5% year on campuses by 20% between management in proximate year FY16 and Fy21 communities, especially in locations that are prone to water scarcity The following sections describe our implementation approach and the initiatives in this context. Water Efficiency We launched a program in 2013 with the aim of minimizing absolute freshwater consumption by 20% by FY2018-19 through an integrated approach as articulated below: ? Implementing standard metering infrastructure and procedures across campuses. ? Demand side optimization (improving efficiency through flow restrictors across campuses and arresting leakages). ? Improving recycling levels through ultra-filtration with eventual use for non-contact applications other than landscaping and sanitation. ? Integrating rain water harvesting into the consumption side of the campus water cycle. ? Improving water governance by building user awareness and involvement of water plumbers. New Initiatives We are working towards making our facilities more and more water –sustainable. This has been achieved with the use of water efficient fixtures, waste water treatment technologies, rain water harvesting and smart metering for monitoring. Wipro and its Stakeholders 118 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Aerators: We have installed Aerators in all our wash basins across the campuses during the last fiscal year 2015-16. Aerators provide a constant flow rate of 0.5 GPM through variable pressure optimizing water use to great extent. Water less urinals: We have retrofitted existing urinal system with water less urinal system by installing key valves in some of the locations. This system doesn’t require water for flushing. This in turn has reduced water consumption and energy related to pumping of the system. Smart water metering: We have installed smart water meters in our campuses to ensure continuous monitoring of water consumption data in real time. These smart meters have enabled us to identify wasteage areas so that immediate action can be taken. Waste water reuse: Entire waste water generated in the campus is treated at our sewage treatment plants. Recycled water is used for landscaping and flushing. We have installed Ultrafiltration and Reverse osmosis in three of our major locations and reusing the treated water for cooling systems, this has reduced our fresh water consumption by 40%. The water quality is monitored on a regular basis ensuring standards and safety of the employees. Nanofiltration: Conventional water softeners is being replaced by membrane softeners (Nanofiltration) which gives good quality softened water. Nanofiltration removes nearly all viruses, most of the natural organic matter and a range of salts. Nanofiltration removes divalent ions, which make water hard, so it is used to soften hard water. Rain water Harvesting: Rainwater harvesting and integration into freshwater use is a significant improvement area for water sustainability across our campuses. We plan to integrate rain water use into primary freshwater use cycle across identified large campuses over the next two year period. Presently rain water constitutes 2% of the total fresh water. Employee Participation: We are encouraging employee to participate and share their view on the sensitive issues like water and waste. We celebrate world water day along with the employees. Responsible Sourcing Ground water, municipal water supplies and private purchase contribute to nearly 99% of the total fresh water consumption. The water supplied by the municipal bodies and the industrial association are sourced by them in turn from river or lake systems. Water that is purchased from private sources can be traced to have been extracted from local aquifers. We take care not to withdraw water from water bodies that are recognized to be particularly sensitive due to their relative size, function, or status as a support source for endangered species. None of our operations are significantly impacted by our withdrawal or are covered under any nationally or internationally designated water conservation areas. At three of our locations (Bengaluru, Chennai and NCR) we are predominantly dependent on private sourcing of water supply through tankers, which in turn draw from local aquifers. During summer periods, our sourcing could be impacted due to shortages or community concerns. We also have quality issues (high TDS), which results in treatment costs. <<Link to PGWM/KSWN>> 34 of our 59 locations in India are leased and located in prime city areas. For these locations, waste water is discharged to CSTP’s (Common Sewage Treatment plants) and to the municipal sewerage systems. We take care not to discharge waste water into any subsurface waters, surface waters or sewers that lead directly to rivers, oceans, lakes, wetlands, and ground water. The treated water from our sewage treatment plants are tested and are in conformance with the parameters specified by the respective local pollution control boards. Wipro and its Stakeholders 119 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Performance The per employee water consumption for the reporting year is 1.119 m3 per month as compared to 1.295 in 2015-16, an improvement of around 13.5% and absolute reduction of around 152 million litres of freshwater. Water Withdrawal by Source (Kiloliters) 2 000k 1 500k 1 000k 500k 0 Ground Water Municipal Water Supply Private Purchase RainWater Utilized Total 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Ground Water 253,262 266,973 303,567 230,327 Muncipal Water Supply 729,873 695,039 76,943 603,145 Private Purchase 883,832 824,754 755,022 857,435 Rain Water Utilized 10,206 10,098 32,917 11,081 Total 1,877,173 1,796,864 1,168,449 1,701,988 Wipro and its Stakeholders 120 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Water Consumed Vs Water Recycled (Kiloliters) We recycle 1050.7 million litres of water in 27 of our major locations (884.3 million litres in 2015-16) using Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs), which represents 38% (32% in 2015-16) of the total water consumed. The amount of recycled water as a percentage of freshwater extracted is around 61.7%. This improvement in efficiency is due to the ultra-filtration and RO projects for STP treated water we have undertaken across our large locations. 2 000k 1 500k 1 000k 500k 0 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Fresh water Recycled water Fresh Water Recycled Water 2014-15 178,496 959,620 2015-16 1,854,898 884,245 2016-17 1,701,988 1,050,643 Way Forward One of our focus areas will be to monitor, measure, manage and reduce water wastages. Re-evaluation of the water flow equation for every location, with broad inclusion of diverse treatment procedures will be deployed. We will use the logic of comparison between the total water that flows in and that flows out of the campus and account for the gaps observed. We will continue to expand the uses of treated water by further increasing the scale of UFRO treatment for usage in non-contact purposes. Wipro and its Stakeholders 121 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Pollution and Waste Management Pollution of the air and water poses one of the most serious threats to community health and welfare and industry – which is one of the principal sources of pollution – holds special responsibility for effective mitigation and abatement. Approach Our approach to waste and pollution management extends beyond the organizational boundaries to what happens downstream all the way to the landfill. Our waste management strategies are centered around either i) recycling the waste for further use or ii) arranging for safe disposal. To operationalize our strategy, we follow the following processes. ? Segregation of waste into organic, inorganic-waste, hazardous, packaging, bio medical and other categories. ? Recycling segregated waste either in-house or through outsourced vendor arrangements. ? 90% of the total waste from our IT India operations is recycled -through both, in-house recycling units and through authorized vendor tie-ups. ? A majority of the balance mixed solid waste is also handled through authorized vendors however its trail is not entirely known to us or verifiable and therefore, we have adopted a conservative approach of classifying it as untreated waste. ? ?Segregation is to be done at source (point of generation) with the intent of ensuring recyclability of segregated waste. Further segregation of Municipal Solid Waste within the campus may not be attempted as the segregated waste will be soiled and is not (or cannot be) segregated. This may ultimately disposed in landfills – as the vendors will see no value recoverable from waste. ? ?Enable better segregation in work areas by removing individual single bins and ensuring segregated waste is put in separate bins. ? ?Location Hospitality team will work with Cafeteria and tuck-shop vendors to ensure use of reusable cutlery and to report all waste, total generated in the campus and its disposal. Mandating suppliers/vendors to take back waste generated inside the campus without a view on its traceability (handling and final destination) does not absolve us of our responsibility. ? ?Vendor awareness on waste to be centered on product design, packaging etc. ? Comprehensive and independent waste assessment audits audit across our locations for electronic waste and solid waste streams. ? The comprehensive external waste assessment we conducted across our locations for electronic waste and solid waste streams pointed to areas of improvement in governance and traceability of waste streams across the recycler ecosystem. We would work with our partners and vendors in driving better practices and behaviors keeping in mind both human and ecological impacts of any changes. Wipro and its Stakeholders 122 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Goals Waste Management The below goals have been set on the basis of an extensive independent audit done during 2012-13. While our earlier goal centered on only the aggregate level of recycling, the recalibrated goals seek to be more granular and are set at a category level. This will require close working of operations teams with partners who have differentiated capabilities across the different waste streams and jointly explore areas of improvement. 1 2 3 4 Reduce Mixed Solid Waste Reduce landfill intensity to 100% of paper, cardboard, 100% of organic waste to (MSW) intensity to half by half by 2017 as compared hazardous and e-waste, be handled inhouse at 2017 as compared to to 2013-14 mixed metals/scrap and owned locations by end of 2013-14 plastics to be recycled/ 2017 handled as per approved methods by 2017 Air pollution Air pollution is closely linked to energy reduction goals, especially from Scope 1 sources (Generated power through DG sets). Performance against Goals Waste Management ? The series of figures below provide detailed statistics on the multiple categories of waste generation, recycling and disposal pertaining to our operations. Other waste includes broken furniture, tiles, and worn/torn carpets – which is largely recycled. ? MSW intensity decreased from 3.26 Kg to 1.55 Kg per employee per annum ? Landfill intensity halved from 3.12 to 1.55 Kg per employee per annum. ? 100% recycling of inorganic waste. Waste segregation at source is implemented as a standard practice at all locations and extensive communication with active involvement of employees and our partners has been key to achieving the goal. ? Presently, 80% of organic waste is handled incampus. 20% is sent as animal feed to farms ? Modified Operational Control Procedures (OCP) and e-waste recycler requirements being rolled out in FY2017 Q1 ? The total quantum of waste collected was 7484 tonnes in 2016-17, against 6368 tons in 2015-16. This increase of 17% is primarily due to increase in Construction and Demolition (C&D) debris from extensive renovation/retrofit work at some of our campuses 88.8% of the total waste from our IT India operations is recycled -through both, in-house recycling units and through authorized vendor tie-ups. A small proportion is incinerated and the rest is sent to approved landfills. Details of different categories of solid waste disposal (All figures in metric, unless mentioned specifically) is provided in the pie chart. This does not include C&D waste, all of which is sent to approved landfills. Waste Disposal Others Waste Tons % % Recycled Incineration Landfill Methods (Animal food) E waste 322.2858 4.31% Recycle 100% 322.29 Wipro and its Stakeholders Sanitary and bio medical 5.747245 0.08% Incineration 100% 5.75 waste Hazardous waste 4.15194 0.06% Incineration 100% 4.15 Battery & used oil waste 182.5432 2.44% Recycled 100% 182.54 Inorganic waste 117.7757 1.57% Recycle 100% 117.78 Inorganic tissue waste 279.3943 3.73% Incineration 100% 279.39 Organic waste 2295.535 30.67% Recycle & Other 80% + 20% 1836.43 279.39 459.11 Packaging waste 323.1933 4.32% Recycle 100% 323.19 123 Plastic waste 68.40034 0.91% Recycle 100% 68.4 Mixed metals 152.3518 2.04% Recycle 100% 152.35 Mixed solid waste 198.0466 2.65% Recycle landfill 60% + 40% 118.83 79.22 Mixed scraps 159.9612 2.14% Recycle 80% + 20% 127.97 31.99 Others 213.3559 2.85% Recycle 60% +40% 128.01 85.34 Total 4322.74 3378 289 197 459 %age>> 78.14 6.69 4.55 10.62 Construction Debris 3161.767 42.24% Landfill 100% 3161.77 Total 7484.51 3377.79 289.29 3358.32 459.11 %age>> 45.13 3.87 44.87 6.13 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Wipro and its Stakeholders 124 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Waste handling methods (Quantity in tons) Incineration: 459 Incineration (10.6)% 459 (10.6)% Landll Landfill: 194 (4.5)% 194 (4.5)% Other animalfood Other animal food: 289 (6.7)% 289 (6.7)% Recycled: 3378 (78.2)% 3378 (78.2)% THIS SPACE IS LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY Wipro and its Stakeholders 125 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Waste Disposed in Tons Handling methods Disposed Provided by Organizational Category 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Directly contractor Defaults Garden Waste 630 645 754 RECYCLED 100% Food Scraps 905 1152 1243 RECYCLED 100% Dimensional Wood/ RECYCLED 100% 83 32 150 Lumber STP Sludge 1309 3666 530 RECYCLED 100% Organic Waste (Total) 2928 5496 2681 Magazines 5 0 2 RECYCLED 100% Newspaper 9 8 11 RECYCLED 100% Office Stationary 2 1 2 RECYCLED 100% Paper 160 108 117 RECYCLED 100% Tissue Paper 184 236 308 INCENERATION 3% LANDFILLED 97% Inorganic Waste (Total) 361 353 439 Cardboard 124 113 196 RECYCLED 100% Styrofoam 1 2 2 INCENERATION 3% LANDFILLED 97% Thermacol 6 4 9 INCENERATION 3% LANDFILLED 97% Packaging Waste (Total) 131 120 207 Bio Medical Waste 401 kgs 228 kgs 368.90 kgs INCENERATION 50% LANDFILLED 50% Electronic Items 320 22 16 RECYCLED 100% Tube lights & CFL's 11 10 9 RECYCLED 100% Used Oil 54 29 36 RECYCLED 100% Batteries 52 75 165 RECYCLED 100% Oil soaked cotton waste 432 5 1 INCENERATION 100% DG Filters 2 10 3 INCENERATION 100% Ink Cartridges 4 4 0.5 RECYCLED 100% Hazardous, Biomedical 429 184 214 E-waste (Total) Mixed Metals 124 50 168 RECYCLED 100% Mixed Mis. Solid Waste RECYCLED 60% LANDFILLED 40% 308 296 218 Mixed Plastics 36 51 176 RECYCLED 100% Other Scrap 87 154 235 RECYCLED 60% LANDFILLED 40% Other Waste (Total) 588 551 797 Total Waste 4436 6704 4338 Major renovations across the campuses contributed to the increase in construction debris which constitute a major part of other scrap. Wipro and its Stakeholders 126 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Electronic Waste During FY 16-17, the total end of life E-waste collected and recycled through authorized vendors was 322 tons. We have started working on the recommendation of e-waste audits conducted earlier for better management of electronic waste. Based on the recommendations, e-waste recycler guidelines and operating procedures have been revised as per the new e-waste guidelines from the government. These now include comprehensive records verification for better material traceability. In accordance with the new E-waste rules of 2016, we are also considering refurbishing as one of the options for end of life disposal. Oil spills There were no incidents of significant spills of oil or chemicals during inbound transportation in the reporting period. Air Emissions We ensure adequate maintenance of our DG sets present in 47 of our locations, this helps in minimizing the emissions of air pollutants like oxides of Nitrogen (NOx), oxides of Sulphur (Sox) and particulate matter. A scheduled PPM (Planned Preventive Maintenance) is in place for carrying the maintenance of the DG sets to check the efficiency of the DG sets. Monthly stack monitoring is also carried out to check NOx, SOx and SPM levels to ensure the emissions are within the regulatory norms. The weighted average of stack emissions of more than 100 DG’s at 20 of our large and owned locations is as follows. This is for three air pollutants for the full year. The quantum of the three pollutants in the reporting year is 98.3 tons (NOx), 9.6 tons (Sox) and 18.8 tons (SPM). Weighted average of air pollutants from DG stack (mg/Nm3) 300 200 100 0 NOx SOx SPM 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 NOx SOx SPM 2014-15 296 28.2 55.8 2015-16 226.4 24.3 45.2 2016-18 291 28.4 55.7 Wipro and its Stakeholders 127 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Indoor Air pollutants Indoor air quality is seen to have a correlation with health of employees and can be a cause of some respiratory ailments. We regularly monitor presence of Indoor air pollutants like VOC (Volatile organic compounds), POP (Persistent organic pollutants) and other hazardous air pollutants. The data across few campuses in March 2016 shows negligible detection of such pollutants. In the next year, we plan to set up comprehensive mechanisms to monitor and audit indoor air quality and report aggregate values of the same across campuses. Controlled emissions of ozone depleting substances (ODS) The quantity of refrigerants (R134-A, R404-A, R-407-A, R-407-B, R-407-C, R-410-A and R-22) in 2016-17 was 6.96 metric tons (up from 5.4 tons last year) for all owned (India) locations. Out of that, R-22, a ODS substance under Montreal Protocol amounts to 2.6 tons. Based on the GWP (global warming potentials) as per GHG protocol for these substances, this is equivalent to 11,134 tons of CO2 equiv. or 2.39 tons of CFC11 ODS/refrigetant. Wipro and its Stakeholders 128 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Campus Biodiversity IT Services is predominantly an urban-centric sector and the impacts on biodiversity are rarely direct and not of the same order or scale as in biodiversity zones in the hinterland e.g. the Western Ghats reserve. Therefore, our approach since inception more than five years back has been to turn our focus inward on our own campuses, many of which have reasonably large non-built up spaces. Our goals are twofold: (i) to convert five of our existing campuses to biodiversity zones and (ii) to design all our new campuses on biodiversity principles. In our approach towards campus biodiversity, our program takes an integrated approach towards the contribution in reducing energy and carbon intensity, improving water retention and ambient air quality. Existing campus retrofits: We have initiated two programs in the last three years to convert existing campuses to biodiversity zones – (i) our Electronic City campus in Bangalore and (ii) our campus in Pune. We also conducted a flora and fauna assessment for our new campus in Hyderabad, in association with CII and WWF. Electronic City campus biodiversity project: The first stage of our campus biodiversity project the butterfly park – was completed in March 2013. The park is witness to hundreds of migratory butterflies who stop over in the park for nearly a month in their 400 Km pre monsoon annual migration from western to the Eastern Ghats in India. The second phase of the project, a ~3 acre Wetland park, was also completed in 2016. Pune campus biodiversity project: We also have a second project in Pune which includes five thematic gardens – aesthetic and palm garden, spring garden, Ficus garden, spice and fruit garden – through plantations of native spaces specific to the local geography. This would be a unique project in a corporate campus with a dense year-round flowering of more than 240 species of native plants serving multiple ecological purposes. These are long term multi-year projects and similar programs will commence at two of our other campuses. In all these programs we work closely with expert partners in biodiversity, conservation, ecological design and communications. A work environment which integrates biodiverse and natural design principles has multiple intangible benefits for employees and visitors – builds a larger sense of connectedness and emphasizes values of sensitivity and our place in the world around us. We regularly conduct photography, walks and plantation activities for employees and their children. Urban farming: One such initiative is the “Nurture Your Patch” program, an urban farming project at one of our campuses. Selected employee teams undergo a session on urban farming from an experienced landscape architect. They were provided with gardening equipment, seeds, compost, water points and other know how. The teams are free to grow any variety of shrubs or small plants. Teams tend to their patches every day and some of the teams have already harvested produce. In addition, our operations team in two locations harvests produce regularly and donates to orphanages and special schools in proximate areas. Urban biodiversity assessment framework: In association with ecobasics, we are also developing an ecosystem assessment framework for urban built campuses – which will address all the ecosystem services. This will take in observed floral and faunal species data along with other environmental data and provide a template for baselining and action planning. Wipro and its Stakeholders 129 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Urban Resilience The growth of Indian cities has been widely studied and analyzed. Driven by industry led growth and the structural shifts in village based economy of agriculture and animal husbandry, we are seeing a significant shift in population towards urban centers. According to a study by McKinsey and Co, there will be 69 metropolitan cities by 2025, each with a population of one million or more, which collectively will be home to 78 percent of India’s urban population. Gandhi had written then that India is to be found in its 7 million villages and not cities. It may not be too presumptuous to say now that the future of India lies in how well it manages it cities. Cities are seen as magnetic hubs of modern social development that attract enterprise through access to skills and markets, engender social diversity through cosmopolitanism and trigger technology led innovation and improvisations. However unprecedented growth, lack of foresight, political will and rent seeking across the spectrum have exposed the weak foundations of many urban cities. Water, solid waste, mobility, maintenance of commons like lakes/water bodies, ground water, parks and playground, public health, inequality (slums comprise a fifth of the total population in Indian cities) get inadequate attention from policy makers and public executive bodies. A resilient city would seek to engage on important urban aspects with all its key stakeholders. Wipro through its community programs is working closely with industry, government and communities in creating platforms that enable working on some fundamental and sticky issues. Themes of Engagement Water ? Participative ground water project: To develop understanding of ground water and how it can inform community led management. ? KSWN – Karnataka state water network: In association with CII, a platform to bring together different stakeholders to work on urban water issues. Since its inception in 2014, it has facilitated interventions and exchange of ideas between five water sustainability zones/areas in the city. Mobility ? Working with urban public transport body in Bangalore for better adoption of public transport by employees. ? Enabling employee groups on cycling and carpooling. Waste ? Access to social security and benefits for city’s informal waste pickers ? Facilitated sessions on waste segregation and composting for employees and their families ? Working on an e-waste program for the Electronics City Industrial Township Authority (ELCITA) cluster. Wipro and its Stakeholders 130 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Participative Ground Water Management (PGWM) Ground water is a primary source of water in Bengaluru, especially for peripheral areas of the city which are not connected to the city municipal supply (BWSSB). In the last three years, the program has attempted to explore the issues of ground water in a 35 sq. km area around our corporate head-quarters in Bengaluru – an area that is completely dependent on ground water for its needs and which is largely unregulated. This is representative of many rapidly developing urban and peri-urban cities in India; in Bengaluru itself around 40% of its water needs is met by ground water. Our approach was to use a science based approach to understand the hydrogeology of the area and engage communities through various platforms (citizen science, advocacy, facilitation of interventions). The program involved extensive borewell monitoring, VES (Vertical Electrical Sounding) studies and detailed studies in selected clusters. The idea was to evolve a decentralized model of ground water management. The program has established the feasibility of shallow aquifer as a source of water as well as recharge and its linkages with how we treat surface water systems like rivers, lakes, wetlands and wells as part of a connected hydrogeological system. In the next phase of the program, we intend to expand to other areas of the city and also continue the work on communication and advocacy. Urban Waste Management and Welfare of Waste Pickers Bangalore with a population of 95 lakh and spread over 800 sq. kilometers produces between 4000-6000 tons of waste per day. The responsibility for the proper handling, collection, transportation and disposal of waste in the city lies with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The predominant method of disposal is dumping in open landfills, which has tremendously detrimental impacts on the quality of air, water and soil. The BBMP has a sanctioned staff of 12,000 for waste management in the city, but only 7000 are on the rolls. The citizen to staff ratio is a paltry 401:1. (The Times of India May 2012). The present formal system of waste collection is thoroughly inadequate with many areas left uncovered, resulting in garbage piling up on street corners. The informal economy workers have long compensated for inadequate waste management systems in the city by collecting discarded materials that have zero value and convert it into a tradable goods through their labor in extraction, collection, sorting, grading and transporting. These informal economy waste workers (numbering 1500020000) are also among the most vulnerable populations in the city. According to one CHF survey a significant number of waste pickers are women who belong to socially marginalized populations, including backward castes (conducted by Global Communities (formerly CHF International) and MSSS (Mythri Sarva Seva Samithi)in 2010). The survey found a significant number of young (18 to 40 years), illiterate and economically & socially disadvantaged people engaged in waste picking in the city. In addition to traditional waste pickers, a significant proportion of the migrant population in the city is working with waste. The waste pickers’ access to water, sanitation and housing facilities in the city still remains inadequate with the situation being worse among migrant waste pickers living in temporary accommodation and lacking basic identity cards, no services to collect waste etc. The working conditions of waste pickers are also deplorable. Safety gear is not a priority for formal economy waste workers and in the informal economy; it is not even a possibility. Armed only with old shoes and clothes picked out from waste heaps and a stick to sort through trash, the working conditions of informal waste pickers leaves a lot to be desired. Wipro and its Stakeholders 131 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 The Hasirudala project aims to organize waste workers, i.e. waste-pickers in Bangalore to enhance and upgrade their skills for innovation in waste management services leading to their increase in income by 1040%, their formal inclusion in the waste management market approved by Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagar Pallike (BBMP) and increased access to social, nutrition and environmental security measures provided by state and other institutions. Hasiru Dala’s significant achievement in its first year of inception has been to be able to integrate informal waste workers in operating 27 Dry Waste Cleaning Centers (DWCC). The city administration directly signed a memorandum of understanding with the waste pickers to operate dry waste collection centers known as Kartavya because of organization’s consistent advocacy with the municipal body. The given space has the potential to be transformed into a cooperative fair trade scrap store and a place where public citizens, officers of the BBMP and waste pickers can interact and share ideas. The following are some of the outcomes of this project during FY 2016-17. ? Skill upgradation of around 100 waste pickers on terrace gardening, composting, zero waste wedding and event waste management. ? Health Care services through medical checkup camps covered around 450 waste pickers ? Trained 100 women waste pickers on mushroom cultivation, with an objective of handling nutrition issue. ? Access to education for 800 children of waste pickers and informal waste workers through scholarships for schooling. 3.3 Customer Stewardship Information and communication technologies now play a central role in driving efficiency and productivity improvements through dematerialization and automation for most businesses. This trend is being further strengthened with the continuing influence and adoption of new disruptive technologies like Big Data, Analytics, Internet of Things and Mobility. The trend of disintermediation is changing the way customer and business interactions takes place. Disintermediation gives consumers direct access to information that otherwise would require a mediator. As a result, new business models are being created and e-commerce is gaining wide acceptance. Unique opportunities for product innovation made possible by IT is resulting in democratization of ICT making technology more accessible and affordable to customers. All these trends contribute to IT becoming ubiquitous in everyday life addressing different needs of end users. However, technology is not without its associated risks and challenges. The pervasive nature of technology also raises concerns related to data mismanagement, increase in surveillance, loss of privacy, and possible abuse. WEF Global Risks Report 2017 lists large-scale cyber-attacks and major data fraud/theft among the top 10 in terms of likelihood. Customer stewardship hinges on meeting customer expectations by being responsive to the emerging trends and offering portfolio of products and services which integrate resource efficiency, dematerialization, organizational transparency, connectedness and collaboration. Engaging with customers is critical to meet customer expectations and it is the foundation on which stewardship rests. Wipro has in the past year focused on increasing service presence in our key markets by setting up local delivery centers engaging the local community – in hiring and in sustainability initiatives. We have taken Wipro and its Stakeholders 133 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 our bimodal theme from last year forward, with a focus on helping our clients Drive the Future (Change Strategy) of their businesses and to Modernize the Core of our clients’ businesses (Run Strategy). Highlights of our customer centric growth over the last year are below: ? On the digital front, Wipro Digital, while only three years old, continues to impress industry analysts and clients, and in Q4 FY 17 it constituted 22.1 percent of our revenues. ? We have consolidated and scaled up our Consulting arm at Wipro. ? Wipro has invested in products, platforms, frameworks and solutions centered around Wipro HOLMES Artificial Intelligence PlatformTM (HOLMES). In the last fiscal, the number of patents we held (and applied for) increased by over 50 percent. ? Over the last two years we have invested over USD 1 billion dollars in acquisitions, making sounds investments in innovative business models like BPaaS (Business Process as a Service) ? Wipro Ventures, has made four new startup investments in fiscal 2017 to bring our clients new technologies that are reshaping the future of enterprises, especially in Cybersecurity, Customer Care Automation, Business Process Automation and Big Data Lifecycle Management. Investments in new technologies are also being nurtured within Wipro through the Horizon program, to incubate thinking in Artificial Intelligence (AI), Cybersecurity, Digital, Industry 4.0, Internet of Things (IoT), and Software Defined Everything (SDx). Customer Engagement According to a research conducted by Harvard Business School, a 5% increase in customer retention can result in a profit increase of up to 75%, depending on the industry. The key to retaining customers is building strong relationships with them which is a sustained, ongoing and long-term process. But such efforts are justified by the lifetime value (LTV) of the retained customer. Customer retention is eventually more cost effective as it requires comparatively less service, at the same time providing more business. It is also revenue enhancing as a satisfied customer may contribute to new customer acquisition through positive referrals. Understanding Material Aspects for Customers The Annual risk assessment exercise conducted by Enterprise Risk Management Function has identified Cyber security, Data Privacy, Information Security & related Business Continuity and Service Delivery as major areas of risk management. For more details, refer to Organization Profile or Financial Stewardship sections of this report. Our internal materiality assessment and stakeholder feedback have identified customer privacy, data security, customer satisfaction, innovation and open source as material issues to our business. This is further reinforced by feedback from our customers which clearly indicates Customer Privacy, Data Security, Customer Satisfaction, Innovation and Open Source as the most material issues to their business. Identified Material Aspects Our report-map on these dimensions is shown below. GRI Aspects / Topics Section Customer Satisfaction > Customer Engagement Customer Privacy > Data Privacy & IT Security Innovation > Next Gen Technologies Open Source > Next Gen Technologies Wipro and its Stakeholders 134 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Strategic Approach and Policy The Wipro Strategy is based on our vision of delivering maximum value to our customer businesses based on a solid relationship of trust, collaboration and competence. This we ensure by providing solutions that integrate deep industry insights, leading technologies and best in class delivery processes. ‘Delivering on commitments’ and ‘Making customers successful’ as stated in ‘Spirit of Wipro’ is the bedrock principle of our approach towards customer stewardship. Our new brand strategy, logo and Spirit of Wipro values, unveiled in 2017, represents a higher level of engagement that helps clients leverage Wipro’s expertise to address their business requirements and drive future opportunities in this digital era. Approach to Customer Centricity Our unique Customer Centricity framework is used in all key accounts to drive appropriate actions that continually help customer satisfaction. The key objectives of our framework are detailed below. Customer Value Dissatisfaction Assure Experience Creation Reduction Hygiene Enhancement Value creation to Actions on stated Actions to ensure standards Actions related to customer, over and above areas of are maintained and avoid engagement and contracted dissatisfaction future dissatisfaction relationships Voice of Customer (VOC) We implement this framework through two channels. Customer surveys Customer connect Wipro and its Stakeholders 135 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Voice of Customer The Voice of the Customer is heard at various levels i.e., at project level, program level, account level and through direct feedback, informal meetings, governance meetings and senior management interaction with the client. The processes include Program CSAT, program CSAT, Quarterly pulse surveys and the Annual CSAT conducted through third party surveys. These are conducted formally and at appropriate intervals to capture customer feedback on Wipro. The Strategic Marketing Group conducts surveys on brand perception where they also understand customer’s expectations of Wipro and Wipro’s position relative to its competitors. Regular visits by senior leaders to customers are another key source of information. We also conduct webinars with our alliance partners to capture the customer voice. Customer Satisfaction Surveys (CSAT) Conducted annually for all customers Survey Administered by across all strata to capture voice of Annual Third-Party (NPS and Average customer and align to customer Survey score for other key questions) business requirements Short Pulse survey for Survey Administered by Q1, Q2 and Q3 for focused Pulse Survey Third-Party (Average Score) accounts (Quaterly) Survey Administered by Project CSAT, Programme Wipro Tool (Average mile stone feedback Project Feedback Score and % of 6+ projects) Tool Administered Ticket level feedback End User CSAT survey (Feedback typically on scale of 1 to 5) Annual CSAT survey is Quarterly Pulse Survey is Project CSATs are End user CSAT feedback administered annually to administered once in a obtained to enhance is administered to get feedback on various quarter for the Q1, Q2 and customers experience customer respondents facets of engagement Q3 of the financial year to while dealing with Wipro. who are end users. These including core delivery, get feedback Customer feedback is feedbacks are analyzed presales, people predominately from obtained on Projects and by respective program engagement and Wipro’s Senior and Middle Programs at different value addition to customers points of time during from CXO, Senior and execution on different aspects like Delivery, Wipro and its Stakeholders 136 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 The Customer Connect Process Wipro communicates and connects with its customers through a matrix framework. Every key account has a dedicated Client Partner to own and manage the relationship. The Client Partner profiles the account and proposes/ offers solutions that are strategically relevant to customers. An execution process document and system maintenance technical document for each engagement ensures that all customer needs are documented and agreed between the two parties. Business Unit heads interact and engage with customers via monthly governance meetings, quarterly business review meetings, and client-visits every quarter. Service Line heads visit and attend all the important meetings. In addition, the CEO visits key accounts regularly. Executive sponsors are assigned for all mega accounts to maintain and build the relationship. ‘Customer Centricity’ is also a key leadership quality on which Wipro leaders receive 360-degree feedback, every year. Quantitative and qualitative feedback from peers, managers and direct reports is analyzed and shared with employees. The feedback is also integrated with the performance appraisal process to ensure that right actions are put in place to improve customer satisfaction. The Customer Satisfaction (C-SAT) Action Planning frame work CSAT is an important business objective and it is linked to employee performance linked payouts on a quarterly basis. We follow the following framework to seek, understand and analyze customer feedback. The customer feedback obtained through the surveys is analyzed and improvement opportunities are identified. Once actions are identified, the value creation actions (CVI) and Dissatisfaction Reduction Actions are communicated to the customer. Frequent updates on progress, through quarterly business reviews and other appropriate forums are provided to build customer confidence in the process, and ensure that the actions taken truly have a positive impact on customer satisfaction. Senior leaders review feedback reports at regular intervals in different forums such as Quality Improvement Councils and Management Review Meetings. Governance of Customer Relationship Management The Customer Advocacy Group (CAG) in Wipro is part of the Quality organization and drives customer satisfaction improvement initiatives for the organization. This group is responsible for enabling and tracking the early warning system and for addressing alerts before they can potentially become serious customer issues. The team is also responsible for driving effective closures of customer escalations. Performance Highlights ? Revenue generated from existing customers / retained accounts is a good indicator of customer satisfaction and retention. The revenue from existing customers saw a small dip from 98.1% to 98%. ? Net promoter Score (NPS) measures customers’ engagement with Wipro and is measured on a 10-point scale. The respondents based on their ratings are categorized as ‘promoters’, ‘detractors’ or ‘passives’. This measure is widely used across industries. Our Net Promoter Score shows a continuous improvement trend as it has increased by 740 basis points for 2016-17 as compared to the previous year. ? Number of new customers acquired by Wipro in 2016-17 increased from 194 to 256; further, the number of active customers increased from 1223 to 1323. Wipro and its Stakeholders 137 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Sustainability Expectations from Customers Apart from technology driven value creation, our global customers also expect transparency and compliance on different sustainability aspects within our operations and in our extended value chain. Responses to most customer proposals and contract renewals require an extensive disclosure of our sustainability programs and performance. In many cases, customers require acceptance and alignment with their supplier code of conduct that contain several sustainability related principles. Third party supply chain CSR raters like Ecovadis and Verego regularly assess and profile our sustainability performance in their platform which is used by more than 30 Wipro customers. In the recent assessment by Ecovadis, we have achieved an overall CSR rating of Gold (highest among possible three levels). Verego has rated us “Best in Class” across all the 5 areas (Leadership, Ethics, People, Community and Environment). We also have been benchmarked against over 4000 other companies that responded to CDP’s 2017 supply chain information request sent on behalf of 89 CDP supply chain members with over US$2 trillion spend and received a disclosure score of 100. Data Privacy and IT security The Global Risk Report 2017 of the World Economic Forum includes (a) breakdown of critical information infrastructure and networks and (b) massive incidents of data fraud/theft among the top risks faced by the world. With cloud services such as SaaS, PaaS and IaaS becoming increasingly important to the way businesses operate, the resilience of critical information infrastructure becomes critical. It is crucial to ensure access to systems and data at all times. Any service disruptions or suboptimal system performance can lead to businesses incurring higher costs and suffering reputational damage. It can even become business continuity issue, especially for organizations whose business models are technology centric. Such systemic failures can negatively impact industrial production, public services and communications. The breakdown of IT infrastructure could be triggered by technical failures, weather events, natural disasters or terrorist attacks. The Risk report identifies large scale state-sponsored, state-affiliated, criminal or terrorist cyberattacks as a significant risk which can cause an infrastructure breakdown and/or loss of trust in the Internet. The magnitude of data to be handled by today’s organization is gigantic. This abundance of data opens the door to many opportunities in all spheres of lifeeconomic, social, and political. But with ‘big data’ which can create ‘big impacts’ comes big responsibilities. The globalized nature of the internet as well as the intensive virtual interactions and extensive data storage makes this a significant risk to corporate organizations. Any leakage or misuse or unauthorized access of information could expose companies to legal and reputational risks. Insufficient protection of database and network, unclear management of personal information and vague database access rules are the main reasons behind any data breach. The nature of the IT services industry does not require Wipro to store any customer proprietary data in its systems and networks. In rare circumstances where, as part of project requirement, it is needed to view Customer data, it is accessed remotely with the data being stored and hosted in customer’s systems. This avoids the risk of customer information vulnerability in Wipro's systems. Policy on Protection of Data Privacy 'Protecting Customer Information' is a key section of Code of Business Conduct of Wipro and communicates our stand on the protection of personal information of our employees, customers and relevant stakeholders. Wipro mandates compliance to this code through periodical certification and company -wide awareness and testing of the code every year. In addition to the section in Code of Conduct, Wipro has also defined Privacy policy and this policy is published in the website (URL: Wipro and its Stakeholders 138 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 http://www.wipro.com/privacy-policy/ ). This policy communicates Wipro’s approach to protection of personal information collected electronically. There is an internal Data Protection and Privacy policy defined under Information Security Management System (ISMS) with the objective – ‘to define collection, protection and usage of personal data & company confidential information as per applicable laws and regulations’. We have also established and implemented Security Incident Management policy that covers procedures for reporting and handling policy violations & data breaches. Our policies are in compliance with globally accepted data protection principles. Wipro’s ISMS is published on an intranet portal ISMS which provides applicable IT security and privacy policies for different target segments (Employees, Third Party Contractors, Leadership team System Administrators and Sales teams and contains all relevant details on policies, standards, procedures and guidelines related to information security. Policy in Action through the Information Security Management System To ensure effective implementation of privacy policy within Wipro, a comprehensive and mature framework of systems and processes have been evolved. Applicable statutory regulations are identified and documented with supporting compliance procedures and policies to manage the entire process of legal and regulatory compliances. For example, generally accepted Data Protection (DP) principles pertaining to fair and lawful purpose, adequacy, accuracy, retention of data, safeguards for processing and data transfers are mapped to the processes and practices of Wipro's Information Security Management System (ISMS). Privacy risk assessments are undertaken with the objective of identifying potential areas of risks relating to privacy of employee data collected, processed and stored within Wipro’s internal Information Systems within various geographies. The mitigation measures in-line with ISMS practices are implemented to address the risks. Compliance verifications are performed through regular internal and external audits. (ISO27001:2013 for Information Security and other Business Continuity framework principles). Changes to applicable privacy laws, regulations, and policies space across various geographies are monitored and assessed for their impact on the enterprise from Information Security/ Business Continuity perspective. Necessary inputs are sought from the Legal team to assess the impact for any legal risks involved while undertaking key enterprise level initiatives. Automated monitoring tools and detective controls have been implemented for detecting leakages of confidential data from Wipro. The data breach notification procedure template, which is deployed specifically for each customer account/program/project, is also provided. A security incident notification form is also designed for notifying the data breach incidents and published on the intranet portal accessible for all employees. Data privacy specific training programs are designed and imparted to employees of customer accounts on all applicable privacy regulations. In addition, innovative methods are employed to spread Information security and privacy awareness amongst all Wipro users such as e-mailers, blogs, and theme based awareness campaigns. Wipro's technology infrastructure in various locations of operation ensures adequate resilience in the basic IT infrastructure, which helps critical business operations run during disaster situations. Technology disaster recovery planning includes physical infrastructure, computing infrastructure and communication infrastructure. Wipro’s corporate (i.e. non-customer data) data assets residing in our enterprise information systems and applications are backed up on a regular basis and the backup integrity tests are periodically performed as per Wipro Information Security Policy. Wipro and its Stakeholders 139 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Governance The Security Organization in Wipro is established with clear roles and responsibilities for implementing information security and business continuity in the organization. The General Counsel of Wipro is the authority to review the effectiveness and progress of information security and business continuity programs. Information Risk Management & Policy Compliance Group (IRMC) headed by the designated CISO (Chief Information Security Officer), a group that holds the overall responsibility of governing the Information Security risk and compliance practices within Wipro. Further, on the Risk Management initiatives, IRMC works closely with Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) team headed by Chief Risk Officer (CRO), which holds the responsibility for data privacy and reports to General Counsel as well as Wipro Board of Directors. It is generally understood and accepted internally that Information security and privacy is a joint responsibility of multiple stakeholders from various departments/functions such as Information Risk Management, Legal, Human Resources, Enterprise Risk Management office, senior leadership, Global Delivery Organization and the internal Information Systems teams. Performance on Data Privacy and Information Security Wipro is certified under the ISO 27001:2013 standard which provides assurance in the areas of information security, physical security and business continuity. Wipro has a well-documented Business Continuity Management System in line with BS25999 standard. This is a program through which preparedness for handling emergencies is addressed at business unit, location and cross functional levels. We report any breaches of privacy policy through our public reports (Annual Financial Report) and in our filings with the SEC. There were no incidents in the reporting year for which Wipro had to pay penalties or revenue losses. There was 1 substantiated complaint concerning customer privacy and loss of customer data. We have extended, and continue to extend, full co-operation to the investigating / law enforcement authorities on the same. There were a total of 4 identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data, during the year. There were no complaints received from outside parties and substantiated by the organization, or from regulatory bodies. Innovation Human experience in interacting with machines is rapidly evolving. Breakthroughs in Man-Machine Interfaces (MMI) using acoustics, gestures, biometrics, body movement and virtual reality coupled with context-aware applications are introducing higher levels of user engagement. Such interactions are dynamic, flexible, personalized, responsive, real-time and data driven. Growing project complexities, competitive pressures, operational challenges and the need to maintain and grow margins is driving companies to adopt technologies that will help them run business as usual, improve operational efficiencies and provide competitive differentiation. Essentially, this will prepare organizations to fundamentally change the way they do business. Next generation digital technologies like Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, Big Data Analytics and emerging collaborative development methodologies like Open Source are driving this change. These emerging technological innovations can drive sustainability by way of digitalization and dematerialization, system integration and optimization. For example: Digitalization and dematerialization System integration Optimization of processes, activities, and Analytics enable can reduce or eliminate the need for improves functions improves efficiency through better and smarter an emissions-intensive product or efficiency across simulation, automation, redesign or decision-making process organization control Wipro and its Stakeholders 140 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Strategic Approach to Innovation Wipro has a two-pronged approach to innovation – external and internal. Externally, we work jointly with our customers and with various academic institutes, research organizations both from a recruitment perspective as well as from a partnership perspective. For joint innovation with customers, Wipro has primarily four models: Enterprise Innovation Targeted Consortium Innovation Program Lab as a Service Initiative Approach Each model has specific use situations depending on the amount of investment and the nature of the innovation problems that are addressed. We also assess maturity levels of participating stakeholders while proposing these different engagement models. Wipro understands the necessity of having a strong Open Innovation Network and invests into building, supporting and participating in various such networks and forums. The bulk of the company's Open Innovation activity is aligned to the focus themes driven by the CTO Office and the strategic areas as identified by the respective individual business units. On the Internal Innovation side, a number of initiatives have been started that are designed on concepts of Open Innovation to inculcate a culture of innovation in people. They span the lifecycle of Idea Management from Ideation to Development. Some of them are Directed Idea Campaigns sponsored by business units (BU) which may want to crowdsource ideas around a defined Use Case or Problem Statement. Ideas coming in as part of these are further taken up by the Sponsoring Business Units or the Idea Author is given a chance to develop it wherein CTO Office supports in the form of infrastructure and mentoring. Technology training and enablement initiatives like CodeStorm enable people to learn and become proficient in new and emerging technology and languages by participating in Coding Contests and Hackathons. Technology Themes for Innovation Wipro Ventures As part of a start-up engagement model, we have invested in building a world class ecosystem through a US$ 100 million corporate venture capital fund, Wipro Ventures, aimed at investing in cutting edge startups in areas such as Digital, Internet of Things (IoT), Big data, Open source, Cybersecurity and Artificial Intelligence (AI). In 2017, Wipro Ventures has made four new startup investments. Through the momentum that was built in 2015-16, Wipro Ventures now has 9 such investments with a cumulative spend of $ 24.5 million in startups working in technologies that are reshaping the future of enterprises. Together with our investee companies, we now have 10 joint commercial engagements in Security, Customer Care Automation, Business Process Automation and Big Data Lifecycle Management. Wipro and its Stakeholders 141 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Governance Wipro follows a federated model for innovation with innovation being driven through multiple structures. The CSO (Chief Strategy Officer) and his group invests in long term solution building and aids the investment efforts of the Business Units /Service Lines by supporting some selected seeding initiatives that are designed to create new business services for Wipro. The CTO (Chief Technology Officer) and his group drive innovation through investing in a set of technology themes that can be applied to create services in different industry verticals. The CTO Office also anchors innovation crowdsourcing and open execution processes within and outside the organization through internal innovation programs and by driving an external program that connects with the ecosystem of startups, academia and research institutions. Business units (BU's) and Service Lines (SLs) also drive innovation within their respective industry or technology domain develop solutions and service products within their remits. The internal process transformation group invests in tools and frameworks that help improve costs and productivity of our delivery processes for both infrastructure and application management services. Intellectual Property and Patents in Wipro Our considerable R&D efforts have helped build our Intellectual Property (IP) portfolio substantially. Total R&D expenses for the year stood at Rs. 3338 Mn. In FY 2016-17, the company continued to strengthen its IP portfolio with 603 new patent applications filed. Wipro and its Stakeholders 142 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Sustainability Inspired Solutions Wipro, over the past few years, has built a portfolio of leading IT enabled sustainability solutions for our customers. The strengths of our positioning come from decades of working with partners and customers to understand stakeholder needs – and placing it in the context of a larger common purpose of providing ‘sustainability’ inspired solutions. Cloud & Virtualization Services Wipro offers a cloud services portfolio which includes cloud infrastructure, business applications and processes. These services are designed to optimize, scale, manage and outsource customer’s IT resources thus helping them achieve efficiency and control costs and bring down upfront investments. One of the key virtualization solutions of Wipro is VirtuaDesk™ which is a Desktop as a Service offering for the virtual workplace, enabled through desktop virtualization technology. Taking advantage of cloud architecture principles and technologies, VirtuaDesk offers a high performing and cost-efficient solution for delivering virtual desktops and applications with key benefits of rapid virtualization deployment, increased business agility and improved risk management. Industry Focus A summary of industry focused solutions that Wipro offers is below: Manufacturing Shop-floor and end-product connectivity for improved quality, productivity and supply chain optimization Automotive Vehicle telematics to provide fleet management and operational efficiency Healthcare & Medical Devices Non-invasive wearable sensors, for real-time health monitoring and patient-centric healthcare. Mining Real-time monitoring of mine equipment, management of assets, worker health and safety Utilities, Oil & Gas Reliable, integrated energy and asset management to improve energy efficiency Retail Supply chain optimization, along with real-time situational awareness to improve customer experience and returns management The sections below illustrate with examples, the way in which ICT solutions are being applied to resource intensive sectors like Energy, Utilities & Natural Resources and Construction sectors. Engineering and Construction Wipro provides clients in the Engineering & Construction business with solutions to track, manage and preempt occupational injury, reduce workplace incidents and meet regulatory compliance. Wipro advises clients in Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE)-related solution implementation and maintenance to make it easier for them to reduce workplace incidents. As a result, Wipro has earned a mention as a leader in ‘Verdantix Green Quadrant for Sustainable Technology Service Providers’. Through our partnerships with leading product vendors (SAP, iHS, Enablon, Hara and ProcessMAP) we help our clients reduce their carbon footprint/ hazardous emissions and the ability to meet regulatory compliance. Energy, Utilities & Natural Resources (ENU) Wipro’s ENU vertical has been recognized by analysts as a major player in the Utilities sector. We provide consulting, engineering, technology and business processes services expertise to the Utilities industry across Generation and Renewables, Transmission and Distribution, Retail, Smart Grid, Energy Trading and Risk Management and Health, Safety, Security and Environment. Wipro and its Stakeholders 143 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 lWipro is a strategic partner for many of the world’s major oil and gas companies and is recognized as a leader in IDC’s Market space: Worldwide Oil and Gas Professional Services 2016 Vendor Assessment and was rated in the Winners circle in the HfS Blueprint Report: Energy Operation 2016. Strategic acquisitions. Wipro helped Thames Water install 40,000 smart meters in London area in 6 months by building a secure and sustainable path for affordable water supply via a Fixed Network Integration solution. Thames Water Utilities Ltd is the largest water and wastewater company in the UK. It has 15 million customers and supplies around 2.6 billion liters of tap water across London and the Thames Valley. This project, named Fixed Network Integration (FNI) helped Thames Water achieve key objectives such as the following among other benefits: ? Detecting water leakage on network as well as customer pipes and water fittings ? Online access to accounts that could help improve water usage, leading to savings in water, energy and money ? Daily water consumption of users was reduced by about 12% 3.4 Financial Stewardship and the Investors The history of financial disclosures through annual and financial reports can be largely attributed to the voluntary disclosures of business performance from a few companies in the U.S. and U.K. to their providers of financial capital in the 19th century. Over the subsequent decades, accounting and reporting methods were refined and institutionalized. In the last couple of decades, progressive calls for transparency and accountability have led stock exchanges to enforce a number of requirements for corporate disclosures. The King Report on Corporate Governance (1994, 2002, and 2009) is widely regarded as the first integrated reporting framework on corporate governance and performance, covering both finance and non-financial disclosures. Compliance with the Kings framework is required by companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Similarly, in India, the National Voluntary Guidelines released by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs have been adopted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India for listed companies to publish a Business Responsibility Report (BRR) as part of their annual financial report. The International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), a global coalition of regulators, investors, companies, standard bodies, the accounting profession and NGOs, is facilitating adoption of integrated reporting framework <IR> as the new corporate reporting norm. One of the core elements of the framework is accountability and stewardship of the stocks and flows of the six forms of capital: financial, manufactured, intellectual, human, social and natural. The first two forms of capital are covered in almost all annual reports while the others are covered to varying degrees by some organizations depending on their context and understanding of impacts to significant stakeholders. Wipro and its Stakeholders 145 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 In 2017, Wipro signed the commitment to move towards using the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in our annual financial reporting. TCFD is spearheaded by The Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB), which is an international consortium of business and environmental NGOs. By signing this, Wipro commits to implement the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures in our Annual Reports. The increasing recognition that social and environmental risks can affect a company’s operational strength and continuity has prompted active engagement from investors, regulators and government. Investors are increasingly incorporating ESG criteria (Environmental, Social and Governance) into their investment decision frameworks. Over the last decade, this has manifested in at least four different ways as shown in the chart below. Stock Exchange ESG Assessments by Investors DJSI, MSCI, FTSE4 Good, BSE Listing CDP, Vigeo, Oekom requirement, Greenex and Carbonex Subcription to Principles Custom assessments and studies Responsible Investing Lifecycle impacts, Natural Capital (PRI) and <IR> Accounting & Social risk assessments In this section, we primarily focus on our engagement with the investor community and how accountability and good business conduct are integral implements of financial stewardship. Wipro and its Stakeholders 146 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Understanding the Stakeholder Investors Investors in Wipro are key stakeholders and must get fair returns for investing in our company. Our endeavor is to report the true and fair financial results in a timely manner and communicate the business outlook, risks and opportunities. With reliable financial results and consistent messaging of economic environment, investors are empowered to take investment decision best suited to their risk profile. Profile of Wipro Shareholders 300k 250k 200k 150k 100k 50k 0 No. of shareholders ADR holders Total shareholders 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Particulars 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 No. of shareholders 210,471 213,588 227,368 241,153 ADR holders 10,146 9,725 16,120* 1** Total shareholders 220,617 223,313 227,369 241,154 * approximately 16,120 record holders of ADRs for 2015-16. ** approximately 16,245 record holders of ADRs evidencing 48,837,504 equivalent ADSs equity shares for 2016-17 Wipro and its Stakeholders 147 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Overall Wipro Shareholding Pattern Promoters and Promoter Group Mutual Funds/UTI Banks, Financial Institution, Insurance companies, Central and State Govt. Banks, Financial Institution, Insurance companies, Central and State Govt. FIIs/ Foreign bodies/Foreign Portfolio Corps Private Corporate Bodies Indian Public NRI/OCB/Foreign Nationals Trusts Shares held by custodians, against which Depository Receipts have been issued Shares held by custodians, against which Depository Receipts have been issued Others* (Clearing members and Directors and relatives) Non promoter non public shareholding trust Category of Shareholders % of Total Shares PROMOTER HOLDINGS Promoters and Promoter Group 73.25 PUBLIC SHAREHOLDING Mutual Funds/UTI 2.52 Banks, Financial Institution, Insurance companies, Central and State Govt. 0.62 FIIs/ Foreign bodies/Foreign Portfolio Corps 10.19 Private Corporate Bodies 1.37 Indian Public 4.95 NRI/OCB/Foreign Nationals 1.14 Trusts 0.12 Shares held by custodians, against which Depository Receipts have been issued 2.01 Others* (Clearing members and Directors and relatives) 0.09 NON PROMOTER NON PUBLIC SHAREHOLDING Trusts 0.68 Total 100 * Others include shareholding of Clearing Members and Non-Executive Directors, Executive directors & Relatives. For more information, refer to the notes given page no. 104 of Annual Report for FY 2016-17. Our investors are increasingly getting aligned with ‘The Principles of Responsible Investment’ (PRI). PRI was developed by an international group of institutional investors under the umbrella of Principles for Responsible Investment Initiative (PRII), reflect the increasing relevance of environmental, social and corporate governance issues to investment practices. UNEP Finance Initiative and UN Global compact are partnering with PRII in this initiative. The table overleaf represents alignment of Wipro's investors to PRI. The data presented below essentially means that the total number of PRI signatories in the world are 1,204 and 30% of all investors in Wipro are PRI signatories. Wipro and its Stakeholders 148 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Total Signatories to PRI 2000 1500 1000 500 0 Total Signatories to PRI Investors in Wipro 50 40 30 20 10 0 Investors in Wipro * 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Total Signatories to PRI 1,304 1,395 1,553 1,204 Investors in Wipro * > 40% 35% 35% >30% * % of PRI signatories to Domestic Financial Institution, FII and FPI investors only. Wipro and its Stakeholders 149 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Engagement with Investors Investors in Wipro are key stakeholders and must get fair returns for investing in our company. Our endeavor is to report the true and fair financial results in a timely manner and communicate the business outlook, risks and opportunities. With reliable financial results and consistent messaging of economic environment, investors are empowered to take investment decision best suited to their risk profile. We have multiple channels of communications to keep the investors informed about various development and events. Communication through proactive disclosures in our financial statement has been the bedrock of investor engagement at Wipro. Our senior management leaders along with our dedicated Investor Relations team participate in various forums like investor conferences and investor road shows, in addition to hosting investors who visit us. Our quarterly results, regulatory filings, transcripts of our earnings call and media presentations are available at http://www.wipro.com/investors/ Engagement Approach The Figure below reflects the breadth of our engagement with Investors. INFORM ? Website ? Press Release ? Quality Earnings Release ? Investor Presentationn ? Annual Report ? Financial Information BREADTH OF LISTEN ENGAGEMENT DIALOGUE ? Annual General Meeting ? Invetors Road Shows ? EGM ? Meeting with Individual ? Board Of Independent Directors Investor/Analysts ? Press Reports ? Investor Conference ? Feedback on Annual Report ? Analyst Meet-India and US Wipro and its Stakeholders 150 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Details of Engagement The following table details the different types of engagement exercise undertaken by the company in 2016-17. 175 150 125 Number of Engagement 100 75 50 25 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY Investor Meetings Conferences attended Road shows conducted AGM Held Particulars Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY Investor Meetings 28 37 29 50 144 Conferences attended 2 3 1 2 8 Road shows conducted 1 1 2 3 7 AGM Held 1 1 1 1 4 Wipro and its Stakeholders 151 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Our goal is to have zero pending complaints or queries at the end of a period. The table below presents the number of complaints/ queries received and the number of queries responded to. 400 Number of Queries/Complaints 300 200 100 0 Non receipt of Non Receipt of Correction / Non Receipt of SEBI/ Stock Others Annual report Dividend Revalidation of Securities Exchange Warrant Dividend complaints Warrants Received Replied Pending Description Nature Received Replied Pending Non receipt of Annual report Complaint 334 334 0 Non Receipt of Dividend Warrant Complaint 267 267 0 Correction / Revalidation of Dividend Warrants Request 211 211 0 Non Receipt of Securities Complaint 7 7 0 SEBI/ Stock Exchange complaints Complaint 11 11 0 Others Request 0 0 0 Total 830 830 0 Wipro and its Stakeholders 152 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Identified Material Aspects Our engagement with investors help us understand issues material to them. A report map of material issues and their coverage in this report is given below. Material Issues Sections Cyber Security Data Privacy Customer Stewardship’ section <Page #> Information Security & Business Continuity Intellectual Property Service Delivery Economic performance This section under ‘Financial Performance’ <Page #> Accounting for externalities Workplace Environment and Culture Workplace Sustainability <Page #> Regulatory Compliance Organization Profile <Page #> Corporate Behavior and Governance Anti-corruption This section under ‘Ethical Business Conduct’ <Page #> Anti-competitive Behavior Economic Performance We are one of the leading providers of IT services globally. We develop and integrate innovative solutions that enable our clients to leverage IT to achieve their business objectives at competitive costs. We use our quality processes and global talent pool to deliver “time to development” advantages, cost savings and productivity improvements. Our IT Services business provides a range of IT and IT-enabled services which include digital strategy advisory, customer centric design, technology consulting, IT consulting, custom application design, development, re-engineering and maintenance, systems integration, package implementation, global infrastructure services, analytics services, business process services, research and development and hardware and software design to leading enterprises worldwide. Our vision is “To earn our Clients’ trust and maximize value of their businesses by providing solutions that integrate deep industry insights, leading technologies and best in class execution”. The markets we serve are undergoing rapid changes due to the pace of developments in technology, innovation in business models and changes in the sourcing strategies of clients. Pressures on cost-competitiveness and an uncertain economic environment are causing clients to develop newer business models. On the technology front, digital business has changed the nature of demand for IT services. Development of advanced technologies such as cloud based offerings, big data analytics, mobile applications and the emergence of social media are shifting the point of decision-making on IT sourcing within clients’ organization from the traditional Chief Information Officer to newer stakeholders such as Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Digital Officer, Chief Risk Officer etc. These trends on newer business models, emerging technologies and sourcing patterns provide us with significant growth opportunities. Our IT Products segment provides a range of third-party IT products, which allows us to offer comprehensive IT system integration services. These products include computing, Platforms and Storage, Networking Solutions, Enterprise Information Security, and software products, including databases and Wipro and its Stakeholders 153 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 operating systems. We have a diverse range of clients, primarily in the India and Middle East markets from small and medium enterprises (“SMEs”) to large enterprises in all major industries. Business Strategy The vision for our business is “To earn our clients’ trust and maximize value of their businesses by providing solutions that integrate deep industry insights, leading technologies and best in class execution”. In doing business we seek to emphasize our core values of being passionate about our client’s success, treating each person with respect, being global and responsible, and maintaining unyielding integrity in everything we do. Our ambition for 2020 has set the direction of our strategy. Technology has become increasingly central and core to enterprises across industry segments. In addition, consumerization of IT has led to blurring of boundaries between business needs and technology enablement. This has led Wipro to place a strong focus on efficiency in the “Run” side of our clients operations while also driving transformation on the ”Change” side of our clients’ businesses. The “Run” Strategy is about “Modernizing the Core” of our clients’ process and technology landscape, i.e., helping clients achieve significant efficiencies in their core operations through various levers across our core market segments. The ”Change” Strategy is about “Driving the Future” and is focused on helping our clients drive Digital transformation enabled by digital capabilities and assets delivered by Wipro and its partner ecosystem. Refer to pages 26 29 of Wipro Annual Report for FY 2016-17 for detailed Business Strategy. Assessment of Financial and Economic risks Our annual financial report and the Form 20-F filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange commission for the reporting year lists a number of external factors or risks that may impact our business. These externalities are assessed regularly and inform business strategy. We present here a summary of the key external risks identified and our approach towards them. The engagement is informed by three primary factors (i) the different timescales in which they play out, (ii) the relative influence business has and (iii) meeting the concurrent and diverse needs of its various stakeholders. ? Currency fluctuations: A significant portion of our revenues are in foreign currencies, from our wide international customer base ; these currencies include U.S. Dollar, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar and the Australian Dollar while a large portion of our costs are in Indian Rupees. The exchange rate between the Rupee and foreign currencies has fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to fluctuate in the future. As our financial statements are presented in Rupees, such fluctuations could have a material impact on our reported results. We also undertake hedging strategies to mitigate exposure of exchange rate risk relating to foreign currency borrowing, including entering into cross-currency interest rate swaps. ? Restrictive mobility legislations: Some countries and organizations have expressed concerns about a perceived connection between offshore outsourcing and the loss of jobs domestically. With high domestic unemployment levels in many countries and increasing political and media attention on the outsourcing of services internationally by domestic corporations, there have been concerted efforts in many countries to enact new legislations to restrict offshore outsourcing or impose restrictions on companies that outsource. ? Global economic crisis: We derive approximately 55% of our IT Services revenue from the Americas (including the United States) and 24% of our IT Services revenue from Europe. If the economy in the Americas or Europe continues to be volatile or conditions in the global financial market deteriorate, pricing for our services may become less attractive and our clients located in these geographies may reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly. Reduction in spending on IT services may Wipro and its Stakeholders 154 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Our clients are concentrated in certain key industries. Any significant decrease in the growth of any one of these industries, or widespread changes in any such industry, may reduce or alter the demand for our services and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. For instance, the drop in global crude oil price has significantly impacted the companies operating in the energy industry, impacting revenue and profitability of our Energy, Natural Resources and Utilities industry vertical. ? Disruptions in telecommunications: The offshore development center model necessitates maintaining a resilient and active voice and data communication infrastructure between our offices in India, our clients’ offices, and our software development and support facilities overseas. Redundancy and business continuity measures are critical in the event of a telecom disruption. ? Taxation Risks: Our profits for the period earned from providing services at client premises outside India are subject to tax in the countries where we perform the work. Most of our taxes paid in countries other than India can be applied as a credit against our Indian tax liability to the extent that the same income is subject to taxation in India. Currently, we benefit from certain tax incentives under Indian tax laws. These tax incentives include a tax holiday from payment of Indian corporate income taxes for our businesses operating from specially designated Special Economic Zones (“SEZs”). Any change to these incentives and other exemptions we receive due to government policies can impact our financial performance. ? Wage Pressure: Our wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the U.S. and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, and this has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage increases in India may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively affect our profit margins. We may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to retain talent. Unless we are able to continue to increase the efficiency and productivity of our employees over the long term, wage increases may reduce our profit margins. Further emerging low cost locations, like Eastern Europe, China or Southeast Asia could also negatively affect our profits. ? IP Rights: Our intellectual property rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and design laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We require employees, independent contractors and, whenever possible, vendors to enter into confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These confidentiality agreements generally provide that any confidential or proprietary information being developed by us or on our behalf be kept confidential. These agreements also provide that any confidential or proprietary information disclosed to third parties in the course of our business be kept confidential by such third parties. However, our clients usually own the intellectual property in the software we develop for them. Wipro and its Stakeholders 155 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Financial Performance Wipro's economic value add and distribution among its constituents is broadly consistent in FY 16-17 when compared with the previous year. 600k 400k Rs. In Mn. 200k 0 Re st be en en o… o… o… ve co … … … nu Op d nm m pr pr pr e an go ov ov ov er W go ve id id id at ag ve rn er er er in es r s s s g to to to to to ploy Pa s en Pa Pa Pa ts ym ym ym ee ym Pa Em en en en en t ym ts ts ts 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Particulars Rs. In Mn. % Rs. In Mn. % Rs. In Mn. % Rs. In Mn. % Revenue 434,269 100 469,545 100 512,440 100 554,484 100 Operating cost 141,706 32.6 152,921 32.6 173,752 33.9 196,301 35.4 Employee Wages and benefits 206,568 47.6 224,838 47.9 245,534 47.9 268,081 48.3 Payments to government India, including DDT 21,767 5 25,087 5.3 23,306 4.5 22,574 4.1 Others 2,293 0.5 5,913 1.3 5,536 1.1 5,412 1 Payments to providers of Capital Interest 868 0.2 768 0.2 1,410 0.3 1,916 0.3 Dividend 19,920 4.6 29,455 6.3 14,734 2.9 32,249 5.8 Economic Value retained 41,147 9.5 30,563 6.5 48,168 9.4 27,951 5 Wipro and its Stakeholders 156 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 The India IT sector has been a leading generator of direct and indirect employment as illustrated in the India IT sector overview. Also it has been a generator of foreign exchange for the country. In light of such contributions to the economy, fiscal incentives have been provided by the Government to the sector. Wipro has benefitted from such incentives extended to the IT sector as illustrated in the table below. We have not received any other direct or indirect financial assistance beyond the scope of the state policy. 125k 100k 75k 50k 25k 0 Benet from Income tax exemption Percentage of tax benet to Prot PBT (in INR. Mn) Before Tax (PBT) % 2014 2015 2016 2017 Particulars 2014* 2015* 2016* 2017* Benefit from Income tax exemption (in INR. Mn) 13,987 14,471 13,171 14,177 Percentage of tax benefit to Profit Before Tax (PBT) 14% 13% 11% 13% PBT 101,143 112,241 114,719 110,356 Wipro and its Stakeholders 157 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Ethical Business Conduct A Fundamental Expectation from Investors Investors expect ethical conduct from businesses. They are concerned about loss of management time and resources dealing with such issues, legal liability and damage to reputation due to unethical practices like bribery, corruption, anti-competition and anti-trust. Even though large businesses have formal systems to ensure compliance and avoid unethical businesses, they are exposed to such risks from their supply chains. Corruption and bribery are significant risks to businesses, and they are more pervasive in the supply chain. This makes business functions dealing with suppliers and business partners vulnerable to such risks. Policy Our corporation wide Code of Business Conduct (COBC) provides the broad direction for all business transactions. The COBC is Wipro’s central and comprehensive compliance policy document that provides the framework and a common language for ethical conduct for all employees as well as all our stakeholders. The COBC applies to all employees and members of the Board of Directors of the Company, as also to all individuals who serve the Company on contract, subcontract, retainer, consultant or any other such basis. Suppliers, service providers, external professionals, agents, channel partners (dealers, distributors and others) serve as an extension of the Company and their conduct and behavior while carrying out business dealings with Wipro or on behalf of Wipro can have an impact on Wipro and its reputation. Other than COBC, we also have other policies like the abridged Policy on Related Party Transactions, Wipro Supplier Code of Conduct, Code of Independent Directors and Code of Ethics for Principal Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers, which contextualize the communication for relevant stakeholders. Approach From an anti-bribery compliance perspective, Wipro has the following processes internally to ensure an ethical culture across our businesses. ? A payment due diligence process where payments made by and on behalf of Wipro are reviewed to ensure adherence to anti-corruption and anti-bribery ? A Standard Operating Procedure to enable employees understand and comply with the requirements for specific purposes like business courtesies, gifts, entertaining, charitable contribution, sponsorship, etc. Employees are advised to avoid transactions which might give the appearance of offering or accepting an improper payment, bribe or kickback. ? Due diligence mechanisms, internal controls and assessments on its third parties such as channel partners, dealers, collection agents, lead finders/hunters etcetera which includes a specific undertaking from identified vendors, service providers, consultants to affirm compliance to our Code of Business Conduct and more specifically to our anti-bribery policies ? An Ombudsprocess for receiving and redressing employees’ complaints, through which employees are encouraged to report any fraudulent financial or other information to the stakeholders, any conduct that results in violation of the Company’s COBC(on an anonymous basis, if employees so desire). For more information, refer to Organization Profile <Link> As part of COBC training, Wipro conducts entry-level training to all its employees across levels worldwide on corporate policies pertaining to Business Relationship, Gifts and Entertainment, Business Courtesies and Conflict of Interest. Compliance with Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act, the Indian Prevention of Corruption Act, are included as part of leadership training programs and of focused training Wipro and its Stakeholders 158 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 programs. In addition to annual test and certification of Code of Business Conduct, a certification process is enabled for employees travelling to High Risk Countries and employees working in certain functions. Also, communication of COBC and their significance to Wipro are being done through emails, posters etc. Compliance Wipro has a continuing good track of ethical conduct and we comply with relevant legislations. There has been no significant instances related to bribery, corruption, anti-competitive or anti-trust practices in the reporting period across our business divisions. Natural Capital Valuation Natural capital can be defined as the world’s stocks of natural resources which make human life possible. Businesses rely on this natural capital to produce goods and deliver services. They depend on natural nonrenewable resources (for example, fossil fuels and minerals) as well as natural renewable ecosystem goods and services (for example, freshwater and pollination). Businesses also rely on natural capital for its ability to absorb by-products of production such as pollution and water. Business extraction and production activities can damage natural capital with long term economic and social consequences. These economic and social consequences manifest themselves as physical, regulatory and reputational risks for companies. One of the most useful ways for companies to account for these risks is to quantify and value the environmental impacts generated across their value chains in monetary terms. Traditional ‘single parameter’ environmental metrics such as cubic meters of water or hectares of land provide an indication of the scale of dependency on ecosystem goods and services or environmental impacts. However, they often fail to identify optimization opportunities for business. Natural capital valuation, on the other hand, provides a deeper insight because it also factors critical environmental parameters such as regional water scarcity and the ecosystem services provided by land. There are several global and country led projects underway which aim to develop environmental accounts and integrate them with traditional national accounts (GDP) including India. UNPRI, in 2010, estimated the environmental costs due to activities of top 3000 companies at US$ 6 Trillion per year. The Natural Capital Coalition (NCC), for example, is developing a Natural Capital Protocol to provide a standardized approach to natural capital accounting and valuation for businesses. Wipro, in association with Trucost, completed its first natural capital valuation exercise for the financial year 2013-14. The valuation looks at our global operational footprint energy related emissions, water consumption, air/water pollution, waste generation and, land use change, business travel, employee commute – as well as the embedded natural capital in all goods and services that we procure from our supply chain. The natural capital embedded in goods and services is primarily based on valuation methodology that is based on Trucost's econometric Input-Output model which incorporates spending across different sub-categories of procurement. Monetization of impacts is based on emerging models and a selection of global and local factors hence certain assumptions and accounting rules are inherent to the Wipro and its Stakeholders 159 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Value Chain Split (in INR million) 7k 6k 5k 4k 3k 2k 1k 0 GHGs Air pollution Water Water pollution Land use change Waste consumption 2015-16 Valuation (INR million) 2015-16 % Contribution (%) 2016-17 Valuation (INR million) 2016-17 % Contribution (%) Environmental 2016-17: % Indicator Valuation ( INR million) Contribution GHGs 5,250 46% Air pollution 2,201 19% Water Consumption 2,824 25% Water pollution 697 6% Land use change 264 2% Waste 240 2% Total 11,476 100% Wipro and its Stakeholders 160 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Environmental Indicator Valuation (in INR million) 2015-16: Valuation (INR million) Supply chain: Purchased goods and services Operational Supply chain: Fuel and energy related activities Supply chain: Employee commuting Supply chain: Business travel 2016-17: Valuation (INR million) Supply chain: Purchased goods and services Operational Supply chain: Fuel and energy related activities Supply chain: Employee commuting Supply chain: Business travel 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 % Change % Change Valuation Valuation Valuation since since Value Chain (INR million) (INR million) (INR million) 2015-16 2014-15 Operational 3,226 3,815 3,580 -18% -12% Supply chain: Purchased 2,159 1,428 792 51% 48% goods and services Supply chain: Fueland 3,443 3,320 3,196 4% 19% energy-related activities Supply chain: Business 1,285 1,595 1,249 -24% 31% travel Supply chain: Employee 1,363 1,319 1,258 3% 24% commuting Total 11,476 11,476 10,075 0% 17% Wipro and its Stakeholders 161 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 The valuation for 2016-17 was completed in August 2017. The trends from previous years have not been significantly different. In terms of GHG emissions, although Scope 3 emissions increased in some areas, this was offset by a marked decrease in Scope 1 & 2 emissions, leading to a decline of nearly 10% year on year. Water consumption meanwhile showed a substantial increase year on year (26%) with most of this attributable to supply chain water consumption. The total environmental costs relating to Wipro’s operations and supply chain was equal to `11,476 million for 201617. The largest contributions came from GHG emissions (46%), air pollution (19%) and water consumption (25%). The overall natural capital valuation has remained flat from the 2015-16 financial year and up 14% since 2013 14.The operational value chain stage (including business travel and employee commuting) accounted for INR 5,874 million in the 2016-17 financial year. This is a 13% decrease from the previous year. From a geography perspective, India accounts for 83% of the overall environmental cost. The above figures are net of our positive valuation that are attributable to our environmental initiatives. For Wipro, this study provides useful indicators to understand impacts and assess the value of our environmental programs. For external stakeholders like customers and analysts, these data points provide a completely transparent full life-cycle understanding of our environmental footprint. 3.5 Supply Chain Sustainability The impacts or externalities of businesses are frequently influenced by their supply chain processes. Managing the environmental and social impacts of supply chain are interlinked to economic outputs over the long term – they can help businesses avoid disruptions, meet evolving customer and business partner requirements, foster innovation and protect the company’s reputation and brand value. It can also help further the business imperatives of efficiency, cost effectiveness and resilience in the supply chain. However, the fundamental and compelling reason for sustainability engagement in our value chain stems from our belief that it is the right thing to do in the larger interests of both, the suppliers as well as of society. The context, scale and complexity of modern supply chains pose challenges for business to identify, influence and control these impacts. Our supply chain management program is influenced by our understanding of the multiple drivers as well as the challenges associated with it. Understanding the Stakeholder Supply Chain The supplier ecosystem of Wipro can be broadly categorized into two broad heads. One category can be called as our ‘primary supply chain’ which comprises of our contract employees involved in core delivery of IT Services and Solutions. Such employees typically have gone through a minimum graduate degree qualification and are experienced in specialized technology and consulting skills aided by an intensive inhouse capability building program. We considered them as part of our supply chain as they not engaged Wipro and its Stakeholders 163 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 directly employed by Wipro. Our workforce currently includes more than 20,000 contract employees. The second component of our supply chain is ‘product or services supply chain’ or ‘secondary supply chain’ which comprises of suppliers who provide products, business support services and utility management services for our operations. The list of categories of procurement which form the ‘secondary supply chain’ is given below. Percentage Total Spend, Business Support Services Insurance and Finance and Legal Services, 6.2, 6% Percentage Total Spend, Business Support Services Non Technical Contracting and other HR Percentage Total Spend, IT Services, 7.1, 7% Percentage Total Spend, Business Services-Telecom, 14.6, 15% Support Services Recruitment and Training, 4.5, 4% Percentage Total Spend, IT IT Percentage Total Spend, Business Software, 12.7, 13% Support Services Services Marketing, 4.1, 4% Percentage Total Spend, Business Support Services Technical Contracting, 1.9, 2% Percentage Total Spend, IT IT Percentage Total Spend, Civil New Hardware, 10.6, 10% Infra & Civil Services, 13.8, 14% Percentage Total Spend, Percentage Total Spend, Facitlties Management Percentage Total Spend, Facitlties Management Direct Transportation and Logistics Facitlties Management Facilities Materials, 0.7, 1% Serivces , 5.8, 6% Management (Including Maintainance and Repairs), 17.9, 18% Facility management requires a diverse set of support services ranging from hospitality, housekeeping, catering, equipment maintenance among others and for this we have moved to a an IFMA arrangement (Integrated Facility Management Services). A significant number of contract manpower is employed as part of these facilities. Wipro actively encourages diversity in the supply chain and sourcing from the local economy. Wipro is an Equal Opportunity employer and strongly advocates the same through its supply chain by encouraging supplier diversity. Qualified enterprises owned by person with disability or women are identified and engaged with. The spend from these suppliers constitute 3% total supplier spend (as declared by supplier and not verified). Local sourcing reduces costs, provides local employment benefits and reduced environmental footprint in sourcing. 45 % of suppliers spend is from suppliers based in India. Wipro and its Stakeholders 164 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Supplier Segmentation Wipro has a formal process to identify suppliers who are strategic to its sustained business performance. The suppliers are classified into two categories: Strategic suppliers and Tactical suppliers. The Global Procurement Group finalizes the supplier categorization based on annual performance evaluation. Strategic Suppliers are suppliers which are essential for the success of strategic business outcomes for Wipro. Sustainability or other serious issues with such suppliers may seriously dent Wipro’s ability to meet its’ objectives. Tactical Suppliers account for only a small part of the overall spend of Wipro. Understanding Material Aspects Supply Chain Risk Assessment In determining material issues of a stakeholder, a structured risk assessment exercise is very useful. Wipro's approach to identifying sustainability risks in the supply chain includes cross functional analysis of the risks pertaining to different organizational functions. The Enterprise Risk Management function owns the supplier economic risk assessment process and their focus is on ensuring continuous and noninterrupted supply of services/goods. Vendor Risk Assessment comprises a formal evaluation of a vendor company’s financial health which is determined by many factors including operational efficiency, susceptibility to corruption etc. The Group Sustainability Function partners with Central Procurement Organization, Facilities Management Group and other relevant stakeholders in identifying environmental and social risks in Wipro's supply chain through independent studies conducted periodically. Wipro commissioned Fronesys and Trucost in 2012 to conduct a preliminary risk assessment study of environmental and social risks in its supply chain. These studies provided valuable insights for the initial risk mapping exercise and prioritizing areas of supplier engagement. Trucost quantifies the natural capital impacts of Wipro’s operations and its supply chain using primary activity data and accepted valuation methodologies. Fronesys undertook hot social spot assessments for Wipro and identified high risk suppliers for engagement in terms of social risk for Wipro. The Ombuds process is also available for suppliers through a 24X7 hotline and on the internet. The concerns raised through the Ombudsprocess are another source of identification of risks in the supply chain. Impacts identified in Supplier categories for whom the supply chain the impacts are significant Economic ? Probability of Default ? Bankruptcy ? All supplier categories ? Corruption risks High Carbon Footprint ? Transit & Ground Passenger Transportation ? Petroleum and Coal Products Environmental* ? Manufacturing and Telecommunications High Water Footprint ? Utilities ? Telecommunications ? Transit and Ground Passenger Transportation High Waste Footprint ? Telecommunications ? Computer & Electronic Product Manufacturing ? Administrative & Support Services ? Human Rights & Labor practices (Forms ? Office Services (Security, casual labor, food of bonded labor, Statutory Benefits Denial, suppliers) Working Hours, Discrimination, Work ? Facility Services Social ? Travel Place Harassment, Child Labor) ? Consumables ? Corruption ? Energy *Based on Trucost’s ‘Natural Capital Valuation’ which studied Stakeholder Feedback Wipro and its Stakeholders 165 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Feedback from our various stakeholders indicated the following issues as relevant to our supply chain. Influencing Stakeholder Emerging Concerns Customers ? Global customers requesting information and assessing our supply chain ? Business impact due to operations impact Employees ? Demand for comfortable and safe working environment Investors ? Investors requesting information on our supply chain program Business ? Competency gaps in the IT Services people supply chain ? Financial prudence Society & Community ? Externalities due to operations ? Employment ? Local sourcing ? Diversity Identified Material Aspects The understanding of risks in supply chain and our stakeholders’ concerns informed the outcomes of our materiality determination exercise. Based on the identified risks, we have identified the following aspects as material from a sustainability perspective. GRI Aspects / Topics Section Supplier environmental assessment Supplier assessment for labor practices Supplier human rights assessment Supplier Engagement Program Supplier assessment for impacts on society (Corruption, Anti-competition) Procurement Practices (We refer to our high proportion of contract staff both, people involved in core delivery as well as skilled or unskilled support staff who work in campus operations as ‘people supply chain’. In this section, we will primarily address the secondary supply chain as the ‘people supply chain’ aspect has been covered in detail in ‘Workplace Sustainability’ section of our report.) Wipro and its Stakeholders 166 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Strategic Approach Based on our understanding of risks in our supply chain, our supply-chain approach is based on the principles of ethics and integrity, ecological sustainability and workplace responsibility. ? Ethics Wipro expects its suppliers to adhere to similar standards of ethics and integrity as its own standards ? Ecological Sustainability We expect suppliers to supply products and services that exceed environmental standards and to establish a program of ecological sustainability in their own operations ? Workplace Responsibility Wipro expects its suppliers to adhere to principles of human rights, employee welfare, health and safety, minimum wages and fair working hours. We encourage sourcing from the local economy and supplier diversity The Procurement Organization The responsibility of managing procurement related activities of Wipro rests with the Global Procurement Group. The goal of the Procurement Group is to provide high quality products and services on a timely basis, consistent with organizational objectives and policies and at the same time by adhering to the highest ethical standards. The responsibility is divided among multiple buyer groups who handle different procurement categories. The Procurement Group works along with Enterprise Risk Management, Internal Audit and Legal teams to ensure compliance and to proactively address risks in the supply chain. Supplier Engagement Program At Wipro, we believe that a supply chain program should consider the socio-economic realities in the geographies where we operate. The supply chain sustainability charter should go beyond legal compliance and take into consideration emergent debates and issues. Fundamentally, our supply chain program is driven more by responsible engagement and commitment as informed by our values, rather than a compliance mindset. Policy and Guiding Principles Our Code of Business Conduct which provides the ethical guidelines and expectations for conducting business on behalf of Wipro also directs Wipro’s relationship with its suppliers and is applicable to all suppliers, agents, service providers, channel partners, dealers, distributors and vendors (“Suppliers”). In addition to the COBC, the Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC) of Wipro further strengthens and augments the COBC with respect to environmental and social aspects of business practices, expected of our supply chain. The SCOC covers key risks in the supply chain like forced or compulsory labor, prohibition on child labor, equal employment opportunity and non-discrimination/ no harassment, minimum wages, environment, health and safety, and compliance with anti-bribery laws. The code is aligned with the requirements of the FCPA (Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) and the UK anti-bribery act. The document also gives an overview of the process followed by Wipro so that it provides a ready reference template for its suppliers. The SCOC is communicated to all suppliers and it is mandatory for suppliers to accept and sign it. Wipro also has a procurement policy which acts as an internal decision-making guide related to procurement. This policy details the procurement principles that the Global Procurement Group is expected to adhere to as well as other aspects of procurement like supplier selection, supplier diversity etcetera. Our supply chain governance program is informed by four guiding principles ? Understanding of the socio-economic context: We are mindful of the fact that while one may have ambitious policies, commitments and codes of conduct in place, it must take into account the complex socio-economic realities in which it has to be operationalized. For example, in developing economies, Wipro and its Stakeholders 167 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 supplier staff may not be aware of the nuances of human and labor rights. In certain cases, the practice may be due to livelihood issues – for example, excessive working hours in some cases may be the norm to secure additional income. Children in family owned or sole proprietorship could sometimes be employed (or “helping”) in the business. Enforcement of unilateral actions in such cases, does not change the practice on the ground but only diverts attention from the problem at hand. ? Ability to monitor, influence and control: The ‘secondary supply chain’ in many categories of procurement extends across multiple branches/levels/tiers. Due to the factors mentioned in the first principle, it would be naïve of us to claim compliance across all the tiers. In many cases, our visibility is limited to the first one or two tiers. For supply chain entities not critical or strategic to us – where suppliers are not a core part of our business or where spend does not contribute to either a reasonable proportion of the suppliers’ revenue or the available market supply. Our ability to influence supplier practices is that much more limited. Industry bodies and large government procurement programs have a larger role in influencing change. ? Regulatory Compliance: Given the spread of supply chain across different geographies as well as sectors, the compliance landscape can be quite complex. The impact of supply chain on different stakeholders is dependent on the nature of business and operational context. As a result, the compliance requirements of one supplier category can vary from another. However, it is often found compliance is not reflective of the ground reality. At Wipro, we try to uphold all the regulations and wherever there is a conflict, our best efforts are to minimize any dissonance ? Integrating best practices in supply chain engagement: Managing supply chain externalities is of key interest to business due to the deepening of complexities in the supply chain and the resultant risks. Customers and investors are looking at compliance levels and ethics of organizations as a key differentiator in their decision process. Industry forums like Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, Sedex, Ecovadis etcetera are working towards indirectly driving continuous change in ethical and responsible business practices in global supply chains. Industry ratings such as Dow Jones Sustainability Index and CDP are increasingly giving importance to the supply chain performance of organizations. There are many emerging standards and frameworks dedicated to this cause. We intend to adopt and integrate best practices from all these sources to drive sustainability in our supply chain. Wipro and its Stakeholders 168 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Supplier Engagement Approach Wipro has a multi-pronged approach towards supplier engagement which is represented below. UNDERSTAND INFORM Understanding the context Communicate intent and and current compliance of requirements to our our suppliers and suppliers developing policies and processes ENGAGE Engage with the suppliers to improve their capabilities in managing their sustainability performance ASSESS COLLABORATE Audits and assessments Educate our suppliers on of suppliers environmental, social and governance best practices to be incorporated in their business A significant feature of our engagement is how we try and align our community or CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) programs with supplier engagement wherever it is possible. This can address some of the fundamental issues at hand – for example our bridge program in education for children of migrant laborers is an emerging area of engagement for our new infrastructure projects in in Bengaluru. Some specific requirements like eliminating “conflict minerals” in ICT equipment is difficult to monitor given the complexities in the supply chain. In this context, our program is largely about seeking disclosures from some of our key suppliers. Programs and Processes Our supplier engagement program integrates a process of continuous evaluation, capacity building and risk management. We expect these steps to encourage responsible behavior from our partners. Environment and social aspects are important factors in our supplier engagement and Wipro supplier code of conduct (SCOC) must be mandatorily singed by all suppliers at the time of onboarding. We have identified material issues across main procurement categories – through desk-based study as well as a few internal and external audits with a focus on human rights, labor practices and regulatory compliance. A dedicated vendor helpdesk handles supplier queries on payment issues, policy clarifications and provides the initial contact for grievance redressal. Helpdesk received a total of 26931 tickets with respect to vendor queries in the reporting year – with a two day SLA resolution percentage of 97.99%, which reflects the reach and effectiveness of our initiative. The feedback from our vendors received through this initiative helped us improve our processes and initiate new steps like automation of sharing payment advices, periodical validation of vendor credentials in our database as well as self service payment status intranet link for internal stakeholders to update partners/vendors. Wipro and its Stakeholders 169 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Ombudsprocess: Our organization wide multi-lingual Ombuds process is available 24x7 (phone and internet enabled) for our Suppliers and Contractors. Wipro’s Ombudsprocess allows and encourages any affected stakeholder including suppliers and contractors to report breaches of the COBCE and any other matter of integrity to the concerned Ombudsman. While a good proportion of Ombudsprocess cases are anonymous, based on self-disclosure, we know that there were 36 complaints reported by suppliers during the year (previous FY 33). Supplier Diversity: Wipro is an Equal Opportunity employer and strongly advocates the same through its supply chain by encouraging supplier diversity. Qualified enterprises owned by person with disability or women are identified and engaged with. The spend from these suppliers constitute 3% total supplier spend ( as declared by supplier and not verified). Local Procurement: Wipro encourages sourcing from the local economy. Local sourcing reduces costs, provides local employment benefits and reduced environmental footprint in sourcing. 45 % of suppliers spend is from suppliers based in India. Highlights of the year ? Purchased more than 12,000 EPEAT registered electronic products in 2016 ? Received EPEAT Purchaser Award from Green Electronic Council (US) The Path Ahead Our Supply Chain Engagement is a journey where sustainability increasingly becomes central. Our focus for the next couple of years will be the following: ? Supply Chain Audits/Assessments covering compliance and sustainability risk aspects: We have signed up an independent social compliance audit program which covers all people related and people intensive sourcing from the year 2017-18. In the first year, we plan to cover all 215 suppliers based on this sourcing grouping. On an ongoing quarterly basis, we will conduct social compliance audits for a selected sample. ? Supplier Diversity Program for Facilities Management category: To engage diverse suppliers for sourcing specific sub-categories of products/services. ? Green Procurement program for ICT Hardware and Electronic End of Life: To engage on key aspects with 10 strategic suppliers based on our Green Procurement Guidelines. For desktops, laptops and display equipment our guidelines are in accordance with the EPEAT (Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool) standard from Green Electronics Council. ? Managed Print Services: This outcome-based model helps bring operational efficiency through better controls, analytics, reduced resource consumption (paper, toner) and planned asset refresh. ? E-Waste management: All empaneled vendors are independently verified as per Wipro e-waste management guidelines. We continue to focus on requirements of regulatory compliance, asset recovery and traceability of material. 3.6 Partnering for Social Change At Wipro, we think it is critical for business to engage with the multiple social and ecological challenges that face us. Such engagement must be deep, meaningful and formed on the bedrock of long term commitment; for that is the only way by which real change can happen on the ground. This is also reflective of the fact that such an approach serves both, enlightened business interest and social good. Understanding the Stakeholder In the social space, our stakeholders are multiple and can be differentiated on the basis of domains and the overarching objectives of engagement. For example, in ‘Education’, some of the work that we do has direct impact on students from disadvantaged communities while our other programs are targeted at partners and teachers in the education ecosystem. Our primary stakeholders are as follows: ? Communities An important stakeholder for us is disadvantaged sections of communities, living in the proximity to our operations. Our operations and facilities are situated in both urban and rural areas. Our domains of engagement with the community are in the fields of Education, Primary Health Care, Disability and Disaster Rehabilitation. Within these domains, we choose to focus on those areas that have direct impact on the community. The geographies of community engagement span India, the U.S.A, South Africa, Latin America, Australia and select countries of Europe and South – Asia. Wipro and its Stakeholders 171 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 ? NGO & Community Organizations Non-governmental organizations and civil society networks are important implementation partners for our different community initiatives. We engage with them from at different stages of the Planning-Implementation-Review cycle. ? Employees Employees play a significant role in our community initiatives by way of monetary contribution and voluntary participation. Our social transformation initiatives are now nearly fifteen years old. We decided to focus on Education and Communities when we started then. How did we choose these domains over others? Education is probably the most important catalyst of social development as it can bring about change that is truly sustainable and durable over the long term; our focus on our communities stems from the fundamental responsibility and tenet of corporate citizenship that every business should engage deeply with its proximate communities. Over the years, partnering with our stakeholders has given insights into their concerns and requirements. This has also helped us to engage in critical social issues with sensitivity, rigor and responsibility. Understanding Stakeholder Priorities Rural Urban communities communities Healthcare, livelihood, Mobility, waste, primary education, pollution,education, water and sanitation, health environment Future Engagement generations partners Environmental Capacity building, sustainability education institution development Policy and Strategy Our approach to social responsibility and sustainability rests on three important pillars. ? The Strategic: We choose domains and issues to engage with that are force multipliers for social change and sustainable development. Social responsibility is as much about being a sustainable organization as it is about external initiatives. Therefore, some of our areas of engagement lie at the convergence of business goals and social purpose. ? The Systemic: Within the chosen domains, we choose to engage on systemic issues that require deep, meaningful and challenging work. Given the nature of social change, this implies commitment over the long term, typically for several decades because real, genuine change takes long to happen ? The Deliberative: Our emphasis on depth and on long term commitment implies a deliberative approach that precludes spreading ourselves thin or engaging in ‘cheque book philanthropy’. By implication, this also means that we are wary of expanding and growing our social programs as ends in themselves. Wipro and its Stakeholders 172 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Domains of Engagement Wipro’s social initiatives center on the following dimensions. COMMUNITY CARE EDUCATION ECOLOGY* Engaging with the community Engaging in deep and Addressing serious on issues of primary concern meaningful systemic work in challenges in energy, water, to them the area of school and college solid waste and biodiversity education ? Primary Healthcare ? School Education in India ? Energy & Carbon ? Education for WATIS ? Water Underprivileged ? School Education Outside ? Waste ? Children with Disability of India USSEF ? Biodiversity ? Environment ? Sustainability Education ? Disaster Rehabilitation earthian ? Engineering Education Mission 10X ? Skill centric Technology Education WASE, WiSTA *Refer to section on ‘Urban Resilience’ and Advocacy and Public Policy for more information on our engagements in Ecology domain. Social Programs Expenditure The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Expenditure CSR spend as disclosed in Director’s Report of Annual Report 2016-17 is Rs. 1598 Mn. Of this, Rs. 1,863 Mn. is spent on programs related to the above mentioned domains. Refer to 93 94 of our Annual Report FY 2016-17 for more information on CSR spend. Governance The review of our social programs is done at multiple levels. Every three to four years, the program strategy is reviewed with the Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), and revised as needed. Every year, an annual review and goal setting exercise is done with the CSO and presented to the Chairman and Group Executive Council (GEC). Every quarter, the progress is reviewed by the Chairman as well as to the Board Committee on CSR. Our work with organizations is usually in the nature of programmatic support. They typically span a period of three years and may be extended further, if needed. We work closely with our partners and review the progress and participate in important decisions along with them during the lifecycle of the project. However, our fundamental philosophy is to leave it to our partners to design and run their programs as they deem appropriate since they know best. Wipro and its Stakeholders 173 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Community Care Wipro has a presence in more than 50 countries around the world; of our workforce of more than 160,000 employees, 11% of which comprise nationalities other than Indian. We think it is crucial to engage with proximate communities wherever we have significant presence. This is a reaffirmation of our belief that at its core, social responsibility and sustainability must transcend and should not be restricted to India for a global company like ours. In the context of rural communities, seeing the larger integrated picture is important when executing programs in individual domains. Issues of healthcare, education, access to energy, water and sanitation and livelihoods are often closely inter-linked. If executed well, the outcomes in individual domains can impact the larger canvas of community development. For example, the work that we do for long term rehabilitation after natural disasters helps strengthen the resilience of the affected communities in different ways e.g. strengthening of livelihoods, improved access to education. PRIMARY HEALTHCARE Primary Healthcare programs in wipro cares 3 Nagaland for the remote, inaccessible villages where availability of primary health care services has been weak or non-existent. Nagaland, Northeast India and Gadchiroli in Maharashtra, India New partnership in Mumbai, wipro cares 3 2 Maharashtra to address the issue of malnutrition in low income neighborhoods EDUCATION Inclusive Education – Programs for wipro cares 1 4 disabled children in disadvantaged 13 projects across 7 locations 10 Education for underprivileged children wipro cares 1 4 Across 12 locations in India 8 10 Sustainability Education wipro earthian 4 11 27 states 2 Union Territories, India Develop capacity in civil society watis 4 10 organizations to work on issues of education reform in a systemic manner 113 programs with 51 organisations Encourage new/young start-ups watis 4 10 working in School Education 26 Fellows in 14 organisations // Wipro and its Stakeholders 174 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 // Wipro Science Education Fellowship watis 4 10 Program (SEF) Chicago, in the New Jersey area, New York and in Boston Wipro Siyapha initiatives span the watis 1 4 areas of education, skill development 8 10 DISASTER REHABILITATION Cuddlore and Uttarkashi, India wipro cares 1 2 URBAN RESILIENCE Urban Waste Management and Welfare wipro cares 10 11 of Waste Pickers Organize waste workers, i.e. waste-pickers to enhance Participative Ground Water wipro eco-eye 6 11 Management (PGWM) A three year a EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING During 2016-17,nearly 40,000 Wipro wipro cares 17 employees engaged with Wipro Cares either through volunteering or by way of Working through partners and communities is at the core of all our programs 17 WATIS Wipro Applying Thought in Schools Wipro and its Stakeholders 175 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Community Engagement through Wipro Cares Wipro’s initiatives for underprivileged communities are channeled through Wipro Cares, a not-for-profit trust that engages on the issues of Education for the Underprivileged, Primary Health Care and Community Ecology. In addition, the trust also works on long-term rehabilitation of affected communities after natural disasters. The Wipro Cares funding model is based on voluntary employee contributions that are matched by Wipro. This model is a great example of where employees play a key role in terms of both, volunteering and monetary contribution. During 2016-17, nearly 40,000 Wipro employees engaged with Wipro Cares either through volunteering or by way of monetary contributions or both. More than 9,000 employees from more than 40 chapters collectively spent more than 26,500 hours in voluntary engagement on a wide range of community and environmental initiatives. Inputs and Program Outcomes Wipro Cares partners with not-for-profit organizations for implementation of projects in our chosen domains. Our engagement with organizations by way of inputs include: ? financial support to focus on their key objectives ? regular engagement through meetings, field visits and planning and review at important stages In the narrative below, we outline some of the key outputs and outcomes for 2016-17 at a domain level. Primary Healthcare Access to primary health care is a key determinant of an individual’s future trajectory in life, including the ability to engage in productive livelihoods and responsible citizenship. Wipro Cares works with partners who oversee the delivery of good quality primary health care services to underserved communities in Nagaland and Maharashtra. In 2016-17, we started working in the slums of Mumbai to address the issues of malnourishment among pregnant and lactating mothers as well as children between the age groups of 0-5 years. The North-East is relatively underserved in terms of development and therefore, it was realized as imperative to start engaging in the region. Our work in Nagaland is in remote, inaccessible villages where availability of primary health care services has been weak or non-existent till now. Similarly, we work in the remote tribal district of Gadchiroli in Maharashtra. In both instances, the primary goals are to build the capacity of the local community in managing their health needs, to augment government infrastructure and to train health workers to address the unique needs of the communities. Output Outcome ? Established new partnership in Mumbai, ? Around 150 women and children in Maharashtra to address the issue of Mumbai benefitting from the services to malnutrition in low income neighborhoods prevent and cure malnutrition. and continued support to existing partner ?Around forty thousand people across 59 in Nagaland and Gadchiroli, Maharashtra. villages provided with access to affordable ? Underprivileged families in slums of primary health care services. Mumbai having increased access to guidance, awareness and treatment to address the challenges and issue of malnutrition among pregnant and lactating mothers and children between 05 years of age. Wipro and its Stakeholders 176 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Education for underprivileged children Wipro Cares complements Wipro’s other initiatives in education by supporting in a more direct way, access to educational opportunities for underprivileged children from marginalized communities. Our work focuses not only on getting children enrolled in schools but also enabling retention and better learning outcomes through remedial education. Through our partnerships, we also aim to provide counselling services for children and parents, to support nutrition and healthcare needs of the children, to develop vocational skills among adolescents and to facilitate holistic development of all children. Output Outcome ? Established five new partnerships and ? More than 68500 children belonging to continued support to existing partners, underprivileged communities in cities thereby reaching out to eight states across across India now have access to formal or the country through twenty-one projects non-formal education targeting communities like migrant labour, urban slum children, orphan/institutionalized children Children with disability Started in 2014, this important initiative focuses on early childhood care followed by education for children with disability. This has scaled in size and scope significantly. Education for children with disability is never about just schooling. It is linked to a whole host of other enabling factors like availability of nutrition, community support, specially trained teachers, assistive devices, access to healthcare etc. Our approach tries to integrate these dimensions to the extent possible. Our work in this space covers multiple categories of disability and focuses on early intervention and inclusive education. Output Outcome ? Established partnership in new ? Early mainstreaming promoted through geographies through one new partnership early intervention and inclusive education in the National Capital region and ?Increased awareness of disability among continued support to existing partners, underprivileged communities thereby reaching out to six states through ?Enhanced ability of families to manage the twelve projects needs of children with disability ?Educational and rehabilitative needs of 2500 underprivileged children with disabilities from socio-economically underprivileged backgrounds met. Wipro and its Stakeholders 177 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Community Ecology Effective management of urban solid waste continues to be a pressing challenge for our cities. While the use of right technology, good governance and the active participation of civil society are important determinants of success, the work of the informal sector is often unrecognized. In this regard, Wipro Cares continues to strengthen a project, initiated in 2014-15, which focuses on providing social, nutritional and health security to workers in the informal sector in Bangalore’s solid waste management domain. In addition, the program also provides a comprehensive skills upgradation program for such workers Output Outcome ? Continuation of project and partnership ? 2700 waste pickers benefitted with access working towards welfare of waste pickers to social and health security measures. ? Skill up-gradation of informal waste pickers to engage in organic waste management, organic terrace gardening etc. Disaster rehabilitation In the event of natural disasters, disadvantaged communities get affected the most as the already fragile basis of their livelihoods gets further weakened. Starting with the Gujarat earthquake in 2001, Wipro Cares has responded to several natural calamities in which Wipro’s employees have risen to the occasion and played a sterling role both in terms of volunteering efforts and funding. We deliberatively focus on the more difficult challenge of long term rehabilitation of the affected communities in preference to immediate or near-term relief. In 2016-17, we started working for economic rehabilitation of women fish-workers in Cuddalore who were affected by the Tamil Nadu floods of December 2015. Output Outcome ? Established new partnership to work ? Protecting livelihoods and sustenance of towards economic rehabilitation of flood income of 1000 women fish-workers affected women fish workers in Cuddalore, through Micro-enterprises and Tamil Nadu and continued support of participation in formal markets through partner organization in Uttarkashi. production and sale of value added ? Farmers’ cooperative set up in Uttarkashi products. to facilitate market linkages in 22 villages. ?Promotion of organic agriculture and allied activities and strengthened local livelihoods ?Economic rehabilitation of communities in 22 villages affected by 2013 Uttarkashi floods Wipro and its Stakeholders 178 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Wipro Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS) Context The challenges in school education in India could be broadly classified as issues of access and quality, with equity being a cross-cutting concern. There have been significant strides made in the matter of access. While there are still pockets in many parts of the country where schools are not easily accessible, the majority of the population today has access to public schools. However, inadequate staffing and other resources in the schools remains an areas of concern. A large number of children continue to stay out of school, dropping out after enrollment. Rote learning is still a predominant feature of our education system. While on the one hand, classrooms and lessons disconnected from the child’s life and context alienate the child from learning with understanding, on the other hand, the focus on attaining higher grades pushes out holistic development of the child as an educational aim. Affluent parents invest significant amount of personal resources to provide education for their children. Inadequate resources and capacities in public schools (and low fee paying private schools), where a large majority of the children study, add to a growing inequity in the educational system. These and our other concerns in School Education are articulated in a document titled “Our Concerns on School Education” available in our website. The multitude and complexity of these issues manifests in the slow and gradual pace of progress in education as an effective instrument of human development and social change. We think this is the natural order of how it should be and trying to change it becomes invariably counter-productive. There have been many efforts at the Centre and in the States in the areas of policy, legislation and curricular and examination reforms. Civil society organizations have been working consistently on the ground to improve access and quality. All these efforts have led to many changes and improvement in education. The National Curricular Framework 2005 recognizes holistic development of the child, learning with understanding and connecting the learning to the lives and contexts of the children as some of the key tenets of education. The Right to Education Act 2009 made elementary education a right of all children up to the age of 14. However, effective implementation of these policies and reforms requires systemic capacities across all levels in the education system. Overview of Our Work Wipro Applying Thought in Schools was setup in 2001 to work towards addressing these issues in education. These issues are complex and systemic and require deliberative, sustained, long-term efforts. We believe that civil society organizations have an important role to play in bringing about such an educational transformation. Our core focus, therefore, has been to develop capacity in civil society organizations to work on issues of education reform in a systemic manner. Till 2015, Wipro Applying Thought in Schools had cumulatively supported 51 organizations which had implemented 113 educational projects and initiatives. Drawing on the lessons from this period, we decided to significantly increase the number of organizations that we support in the coming years. As part of our strategy, we initiated a Seeding Program for Educational CSOs in 2016. The program focuses on new and young start-ups in school education through a structured program of fellowships for the founders. We supported 26 Fellows from 14 organizations working across an interesting spectrum of educational ideas in 2016-17 under this new initiative. Our hope is that such early stage support will eventually help build a bulwark of strong educational organizations across the country which are deeply committed to change in school education. In addition, we also supported five new organizations under the regular grants program in the same period with the differentiating strategy being that these organizations have deep experience in other community development domains and this is the first time they are entering into the school education space as it is closely inter-linked with the other issues. Wipro and its Stakeholders 179 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 In FY 2017-18, we plan to cumulatively support about 25 new organizations through both, the grants and seeding programs. Approach We work in partnership with civil society organizations in the following ways: ? Providing financial support to organizations so that they gain experience and practical understanding in school education and they are able to build greater capacities to work across different contexts and geographies in the country. ? Supporting organizational learning and development by facilitating a reflective learning network of educational organizations, and by nurturing early stage organizations with the support of established ones. Our support to organizations typically spans a period of three years which may be extended further, based on the need and potential. We involve closely in the work by staying in touch with our partners and the field, through visits, review meetings and calls, and by participating in key decisions. At the end of the support period, a comprehensive review is carried out along with the partner where the need and potential is assessed and a decision is taken about further support. Program Outcomes and Impact The issues and challenges in education are deep-rooted and complex, sustained work is required at all levels of the education system to address these issues. We have chosen capacity building of civil society organizations who do such sustained and systemic work as our lever of change. Such an approach does not produce immediate visible results. The impact of our work in education is in many ways, indirect, non-linear and manifests only in the longer-term and often in unforeseeable ways. This is important because it represents strengthening of institutional capacity for reforms in education. The outcome we aim for through our program is the growth in the capacity of our partner organizations. Many of our partners have grown significantly in their impact in education at the state and national levels. They enhanced their capabilities and effectiveness in areas and domains they have been working in and developed new capabilities over the years. Another important outcome has been our partner network itself. Our Annual Partners' Forum has emerged as a unique annual gathering of educational community, where practitioners get together to engage in reflective discussions and exchanges. New possibilities emerge, key educational issues are discussed and learnings and experiences from different contexts cross-leveraged in these gatherings. Understanding Impact IOOI (Input, Output, Outcome and Impact) is a framework often used for Impact Assessment in social interventions. Since the intended long-term impact of our work is educational change at the systemic level and our strategy operates in a non-linear fashion, impact in education is not something that can be easily assessed. Instead, we focus on outcomes at the level of capability building and growth of our partners. The outcomes as we report them are based on our interactions with our partner organizations, field visits, review meetings and reports from partner organizations. They have not been verified through independent assessments. In this section, we look at the following: ? Inputs, Outputs & Outcome for this year at a program level captures the overall financial outlay for the program (Input) and the key Output and Outcomes. ? Organization-wise Outputs and Outcomes using a couple of representative examples. Wipro and its Stakeholders 180 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Input, Output & Outcome at Program level (2016-17) The financial outlay for our work in 2016-17 was INR 65.52 million. The below table lays out some of the key outputs and outcomes this year at a program level. Output Outcome ? Focused outreach strategy for accelerated ? Organizational capacities are also getting expansion of organization grants developed through stronger leadership developed. and improved systems and processes ? Developed a framework on ecosystem ?Vikramshila’s pilot project on social science support for early-stage and shifting education in Tripura has received positive organizations from other domains to responses from teachers as well as state education as capacity building has education functionaries emerged as critical need ? Cumulatively, 25 organizations continue to ? 19 new organizations were supported receive support since inception of our new during ’16-17 ; of these 14 organizations strategy. (26 fellows) were supported through ?Continued support for 23 organizations seeding fellowships and 5 through through programmatic grants, one-time organization support grants grants, fellowships and publications ? EZ Vidya organized a sharing workshop with partners on CCE/Authentic Assessment to seek feedback on their work and to create an opportunity to share and discuss others’ work in this area ? Orientation workshops were held for both cohorts of Seeding Fellows ? 16th Partner’s Forum on organizational sharing was held in April 2016. The 3-day forum was a well-attended affair with close to 100 participants from various organizations. Teacher Training Workshops conducted by our partner organization Simple Education Foundation in Jammu & Kashmir Wipro and its Stakeholders 181 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Input, Output and Outcomes (Organization-wise) – Some examples Our inputs to organizations are common across board and include: ? financial support to focus on their key objectives ? regular engagement through meetings, field visits and planning and review at important stages Below are some examples of organizations whom we have supported for two years or more. Punarchith A collective that focuses on evolving alternative perspectives and activities related to education, environment, democracy, and society. They seek pathways and perspectives that would lead to ideas and learning for an equitable and just society. Their flagship program is the ‘Integrated Learning’ course, which consists of a six-month course for rural youth and focuses on enabling rural youth to gain knowledge and skills in the arenas of sustainable agriculture, engaged citizenship and self-development. The ILP course has developed pedagogies that integrate knowledge systems and act as formats which facilitate learning for life or enable life-skills. The organization is based in Chamarajanagar district, Karnataka and has been working there since 2011. Output Outcome ? Four batches of students/youth learners Punarchith is gaining experience and evolving as an organization have undergone the Integrated Learning ever since its inception. Some of the outcomes achieved over the Program (ILP) across two sitesNagavalli years has been: and Hanur. ? The ILP team has also provided teaching-learning support to ? Resource materials based on an integrated teachers in a few private schools in their vicinity. Over 20 and approach have been developed. This administrators have received training and continuous support so includes components on far. agriculture/ecology; social issues; ? We hope that the teaching-learning materials and new citizenship; general skills: computers, pedagogies for engaging with youth that have been developed can accounts and Kannada. be shared with other institutes and education departments. ? New module on millets was introduced for ? The impact of the course has been significant among some of the the last batch in addition to existing learners. The parents and the learners note not only a change in modules keeping in mind the drought their lives in terms of their abilities to engage with rural work but situation and the needs that arise due to also in their abilities to be responsible and active persons in their it. families and communities ? An alumni network has been initiated as a ? The alumni network are currently in the process of forming a way to sustain learners’ interests and as production co-operative and they have already started engaging provide a support structure to their work. in value-added production of their agricultural produce and some ? A handbook on teaching social issues is of their products are being sold through the network to also being completed and this will be in individuals and to organic food/grocery outlets in Mysuru and Kannada Bengaluru. ? A pool of teachers or resource persons has ? Though having arisen from the needs of the ILP, resources such as been built and they form an excellent a handbook of social issues written in Kannada, an English to source for alternative teaching-learning Kannada lexicon for key social science words etc. has been pedagogies. initiated. We hope that these would be useful for a larger community as well. Wipro and its Stakeholders 182 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Gubbachi Learning Community Gubbachi Learning Community (GLC) focuses on creating opportunities for educational access for children of migrant workers. What They Do: GLC works to meaningfully address the learning gaps of Out-of-School children, get their literacy learning up to speed and give the child a joyful, learning experience; and most importantly, an opportunity to ‘learn to learn in the literate world’. Thus, giving them the self-confidence to study anywhere, in the closest Government school. Through this process and interactions, GLC also has seen the family build a vision of education for their child. More details available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=chWX8InoaXs for more. Output Outcome Early Child Care and Education ? Designed and Implemented pre-school ? Older siblings (6-12 years) free of sibling care of 66 pre-schoolers, preliteracy/pre-numeracy programme in successfully engage in the Bridge Learning Program or in schools. Kannada, for first generational pre? Mainstreamed 16 children (6+ years): study in Grade 1 in schoolers (2-5 yrs.) focusing on the government schools across KRN. dynamic, multi-lingual need of the child. ? 50 children (2-5 years) continue in Gubbachi pre-school or ? Tracked relocated children for continuity. ‘Anganwadi’ programs. Bridge Learning Centre ? Designed and Implemented, Accelerated Mainstreamed 83 children (7-13 years). Learning Program (ALP): Multi Grade Multi ? Children confidently attend schools, even post relocation (only 25 Level (MGML) Literacy and Numeracy in host school). learning trajectory in Kannada to respond ? 9 non-Kannada speakers, confident in government school to dynamic, multi-lingual, need of 7-12 (Kannada medium). children. ? Children develop learning skills for independent learning. ? Tracking children for continuity ? 1 child (13+ yrs.) started studies towards Grade X NIOS Board in ? Designing individual child assessment. English, after 15mth in foundational track. ? Designed and Implemented a Foundational ? No loss of time: child immediately enrolled. Course in English and Mathematics for 13+ years, non-Kannada children using ? 3 relocated, highly migrant families proactively seek TCs; ‘translanguaging’ pedagogy. sent 7 children back to village schools / hostels. ? Survey and identification of OoSC in Kodathi Teachers build perspectives on learning, child and understand ? Parent meetings: build vision of education. principles behind pedagogy. ? Designed and Implemented teacher capacity building program. Wipro and its Stakeholders 183 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Output Outcome Host School Improvement ? Holistic School Program and teachers 1st-3rd grades: 45 children actively learning in the ‘Nalli-kalli’ ? given – 1st 3rd grade. program. ? Introduced English Foundational Program 6th –7th grade students engage confidently with English texts ? 6th –7th grade. independently up to Grade 5 level; and comprehend prescribed ? Social Science teacher facilitated Grade 6 texts (with teacher guidance). & 7th 90+ Students actively engage in reading and in play and ? ? Field Trips to Kaikondrahalli Lake, structured sports. Bannerghatta National Park, Wildlife SOS. 50% increase in parents’ attendance. ? ? Book Library setup and indented. Attendance is regular; relocation, but fewer drop-outs. ? ? Provided sports equipment and conducted Summer Camp – retention and 40% increased enrolment in ? Sports Day GHPS, Kodathi. ? Student Exchange Program with Prakriya School and Inventure Academy ? Parents’ Meeting: Quarterly parents’ meetings were organised along with school staff. ? Initiated consensus building among Critical Stakeholders ? Summer Camp for School Children – arts and crafts, Spoken English, life-skills, health and hygiene, civic awareness, Sports, field trips. Community Empowerment Stakeholder Engagement ? Initiated partnerships for Community 176 bridge children (and families) + 90 school children ? based interventions. vaccinated/treated in timely manner. ? Dental Camp: Complete dental Better dental health and no complaints of dental related aches. ? check-up by Karnataka Marwadi Absence due to ill health less frequent. ? Youth Foundation: cavity filling and extraction for both School and bridge children. ? PHC Health Camps in school and community. ? Akshay Patra midday meal provided for summer camp children during summer. ? New water line drawn for school utilisation. ? Education Department: relationship built. ? Panchayath: relationship and lobbying. Wipro and its Stakeholders 184 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Community Initiatives in South Africa – Wipro Siyapha “Siyapha” translates to “We Give” in the Nguni language in South Africa. In line with Wipro’s principle of ‘good citizenship’, Wipro in South Africa has instituted a set of policies, practices and initiatives that contribute towards some of the social goals of South Africa. These initiatives are in line with the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) Act of South Africa, which aims to distribute wealth across a broad a spectrum of previously disadvantaged members of South African society. The Act is centered on five elements ownership, management control, skills development, enterprise and supplier development, and socio-economic development. Companies are expected to have a social strategy that addresses all these areas. The BBBEE Act aims to enhance the economic participation and representation of previously disadvantaged South African communities in the economy. Wipro, South Africa strives to contribute towards these goals through appropriate policies and business practices. For example we have a strong focus on localization of the workforce in South Africa. We also have a procurement policy in place that ensures maximum local procurement possible in line with the BBBEE Act and other related regulatory requirements. Wipro Siyapha brings together multiple initiatives under the pillars of skill development, enterprise development and socio-economic development. Skill Development through Internship programs Wipro is extending its global expertise in IT services to South African nationals through its WEESA (Wipro Employability Enhancement for South Africa) program. Interns are selected following an intensive process consisting of aptitude tests and personal interviews. Upon selection, interns undergo a six months training exercise which includes a rigorous 3-month technical and soft skills training at Wipro’s Centre of Excellence in Johannesburg and a 3-month on-the-job training at client sites. Interns who do well in the program are offered employment in Wipro South Africa. Wipro Overseas Internship Program also offers a few of these interns the opportunity for a further two -month training in India. We also offer a one month graduate training program in Wipro’s Bangalore, India facility for the associates of one of our banking clients in South Africa. Enterprise and Socio-Economic Development In line with Wipro’s long commitment to education as an area of social change, our Enterprise Development (ED) and Socio-economic Development (SED) initiatives in South Africa also have a strong focus on education. Under the ED & SED pillars, Wipro has supported the setting up of computer learning incubators and libraries in schools and community centres in rural areas. We have also supported after-school centers in urban disadvantaged areas. We are currently in the process of devising a long-term strategy to contribute to improvement in education in South Africa which will be similar in many ways to our school education programs in India. In addition to this, employee contribution through volunteering and donation drives are organized regularly to encourage a culture of giving and participation by employees. Key Updates for 2016-17: We completed the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) preverification for 2016-17 financial period under new codes, anticipating a Level 3 rating. We are in conversations with potential implementation partners for the teacher development initiative. 21 interns successfully completed their theoretical and on-the job training programs. We partnered with the Industrial Development Corporation to provide information technology infrastructure and improve computer literacy amongst educators, learners and community members. Wipro and its Stakeholders 185 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 We assisted an employee to register a cleaning company and provided a grant to cover basic business skills for a year. We completed two staff donation drives (educational toys and stationery ) and volunteer initiatives (mentoring) The operational plan for 2017-18 is aligned with our long term strategy of capacity building in schools, with a focus on primary education. A framework for evaluating organizations in education and the decisionmaking process is being developed. Wipro – earthian Wipro-earthian is Wipro’s Sustainability Education Initiative which seeks to support and drive sustainability thinking and action through the learning process in schools and colleges across India. This initiative covers two inter-linked programs – the Wipro earthian Awards program and the Continuous Engagement Program (CEP) program. The Awards program aims at expanding outreach to schools across the country, especially in remote, rural areas. The participatory nature of the program encourages as many students as possible to engage with issues of sustainability in depth over a period of four months. It provides school students with exposure to multiple perspectives on biodiversity and water, and encourage college students with critical thinking on urban sustainability issues related to Water, Mobility and Waste. On the other hand, the CEP is intended to promote integrated sustainability education in schools and colleges and to co-create educational practices within institutions that eventually leads to an enhanced sustainability footprint in the learning process. Our cumulative outreach has been more than 10,000 educational institutes via social media and other digital channels. Geographically, our reach is in 27 states and 2 Union Territories. We continue to offer the program in five languages (Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam and English) for schools and our total submissions for FY 2016-17 was more than 1300 from Schools and Colleges.. Nine college and twelve school teams were selected as winners for 2016 by an independent jury and felicitated by Mr. Azim Premji at the annual Wipro-earthian awards. Program Outputs and Outcomes Output Outcome Awards Program ? Partnered with CEE and CPREEC and state govts for ? 9 colleges and 12 schools selected as winners. mass school outreach and teacher orientation ? More than 1200 submissions from schools all over workshops across India. India. Entries received after rigorous, year on year ? Program translation to 5 regional languages activities with schools, through partners. ? 51 workshops conducted for schools across 27 states ? Participation from 170 + colleges across India through our partners. ? ? 2478 teachers from 2124 schools attended the workshops. Wipro and its Stakeholders 186 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Output Outcome Continuous Engagement Program (CEP) SCHOOLS ? The field experiential workshops helped teachers and 2 Field experiential workshops organized for winning students understand human-nature and other schools interconnections across water, biodiversity, agriculture, climate change etc. better. ? 3 day Sahyadri Biocultural camp with participation from 4 schools, represented by 5 teachers and 12 ? Positive feedback from schools on sustainability students learning corners indicate that it serves an effective long term repository on sustainability issues, that most of ? 3 day Yelagiri experiential workshop with participation these schools would otherwise have limited or no from 3 schools, represented by 3 teachers and 9 access to. students Sustainability Learning Corners set up for winning schools ? 11 Wipro earthian ‘Sustainability Learning corners’ set up in 11 schools across India with a diverse collection of Audio, video and print mediums on the theme of sustainability COLLEGES Sustainability Internships ? Over the years, College sustainability Internships have exposed students from various backgrounds to ? 7 students from 3 winning colleges completed interesting paradigms, schools of thought, innovations internships with our partners organizationsTRUCOST, and specializations in the sustainability arena. The BIOME, CSTEP, WRI feedback from both our partners and students have Wipro earthian Sustainability Quiz indicated that the experience has been unique and ? Completed 4 Wipro earthian sustainability quizzes at valuable. IITB, IIML, IIMB and BITS Goa with a total participation ? The Wipro earthian sustainability quizzes have gained from 360 teams and 720 students tremendous momentum and have become a standard Collaboration with Xavier University Bhubaneshwar feature in many top college festivals. It has not only ? Wipro sponsored best paper award at the Xavier served as good mass learning tool for sustainability University Bhubaneshwar 2016 sustainability issues, but also drive Wipro’s brand position as a leadership summit in August thought leader in sustainability for higher education audiences. ? STAR workshop facilitated at NLU Bhubaneshwar with participation from 10 regional institutes ? Individual initiatives with IIM Ahmedabad and CEPT. Through our support, both institutes are in the process ? 4 students completed a 1 month Sustainability of developing discipline specific compendiums of case Discovery program with our NGO partners studies and other pedagogic tools to be used in the ? Western Region Symposium classroom. ? The first Western region sustainability symposium for educators participation from 35 faculty from multidisciplines. This was hosted in collaboration with IIM Ahmedabad, CEPT University, CTARA (IIT Mumbai) and NID Ahmedabad IIMB Sustainability Fellowship ? Wipro has funded a Sustainability Fellowship for up to 2 students at Indian Institute of Management Bangalore (IIMB) Wipro and its Stakeholders 187 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Wipro Science Education Fellowship Program in the U.S.A. The Wipro Science Education Fellowship is a program sponsored by Wipro which began in 2012 when Wipro committed $5.1 million over seven-years, to train three cohorts of 180 school teachers, fostering leadership and teaching excellence in science education. The program is administered through UMass Boston’s Center of Science and Mathematics in Context (COSMIC). In partnership with COSMIC, the Wipro SEF program is being implemented by UMass Boston in Boston, Mercy College in New York and Montclair State University in New Jersey. The spend on these programs for FY 2016-17 was $2 million. Wipro runs another significant STEM Teacher Fellowship program for teachers in the Chicago Public School System, in collaboration with Michigan State University. In early 2017, Wipro partnered with University of North Texas at Dallas (UNT Dallas) for multi-year program which will involve more than 70 school teachers, with the aim of nurturing excellence in science, starting with the public school systems of the Greater Dallas/ Fort Worth (DFW) area. These programs are a part of Wipro’s deep and long standing commitment to contributing to improving quality and equity in education in U.S.A. As a recognition of Wipro’s efforts towards science education, WIPRO Ltd was honored by the University Of Massachusetts Boston Celebration Of Philanthropy. Wipro’s name was engraved on the Founder’s Circle Wall at the campus. The 10th Year of Sustainability Reporting Assurance Statement Assurance Statement 190 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Independent Assurance Statement Scope and Approach DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited (‘DNV GL’) was commissioned by Wipro Limited (‘Wipro’ or ‘the Company’) to undertake an independent assurance of the Company’s Sustainability Report 2016-17 (‘the Report’) in its printed and web format. The intended user of this assurance statement is the management of the Company. Our assurance engagement was planned and carried out during September 2017 – March 2018. Wipro has prepared the sustainability disclosures in the Report based on the Global Reporting Initiative (‘GRI’) Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016 (‘GRI Standards’) covering economic, environmental and social performance for the activities undertaken by the Company over the reporting period 1st April 2016 to 31st March 2017. We performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1 , which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) Revised* and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We planned and performed our work to obtain the evidences we considered necessary to provide a basis for our assurance opinion. We are providing a moderate level of assurance based on VeriSustain. In doing so, we evaluated the qualitative and quantitative disclosures presented in the Report using the reliability principle, together with the Company’s data protocols for how the data is measured, recorded and aggregated. The reporting boundaries of sustainability performance and material topics are as set out in the Report in the section “About the Report”. We understand that the reported data on economic performance, including CSR expenditures incurred by the Company, are based on disclosures and data from Wipro’s Annual Report 2016-17, which is subjected to a separate independent statutory audit process, and is not included in our scope of work. Responsibilities of the Management of Wipro and of the Assurance Providers The Management team of the Company has the sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report and is responsible for all information disclosed in the Report as well as the processes for collecting, analysing and reporting the information presented in the printed and web-based versions of Report, including the references to website and Annual Report and the maintenance and integrity of the website. In performing this assurance work, our responsibility is to the management of Wipro; this statement is intended to represent our DNV GL’s independent opinion and is intended to inform the outcome of assurance to the Wipro’s stakeholders. DNV GL provides a range of other services to Wipro, none of which constitute a conflict of interest with this assurance work. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith and free from any misstatement. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available on request from www.dnvgl.com. * Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Assurance Statement 191 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 Basis of our Opinion A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed work at the Corporate Office and selected sites of Wipro Limited. We adopted a risk based approach, i.e. we concentrated our verification efforts on the issues of high material relevance to Company and its key stakeholders. We undertook the following activities: ? Review of the current sustainability issues that could affect the Company and are of interest to identified stakeholders; ? Review of Wipro’s approach to stakeholder engagement and recent outputs although we have no direct engagement with stakeholders; ? Review of information provided to us by Wipro on its reporting and management processes relating to the Principles; ? Interviews with selected leadership team and senior managers responsible for management of sustainability issues, and review of selected evidence to support the issues discussed. We were free to choose interviewees and interviewed those with overall responsibility for the programmes to deliver the Company’s sustainability targets for medium and long term vision, mission and milestones; ? Site visits were conducted at Wipro’s Corporate Office at Bengaluru, and Sarita Vihar in Delhi, Manikonda Special Economic Zone (SEZ) in Hyderabad, Kolkata, and Hinjewadi in Pune to review the processes and systems for preparing site level sustainability data and implementation of sustainability strategy. ? Review of supporting evidence for key claims and data in the Report. Our verification processes were prioritised according to materiality and we based our prioritisation on the materiality of issues at a consolidated corporate level; ? Review of the processes for gathering and consolidating the specified performance data and, for a sample, verification of data consolidation; and ? An independent assessment of Wipro’s reporting against the GRI Standards. During the assurance process, we did not come across limitations to the scope of the agreed assurance engagement. No external stakeholders were interviewed as part of this assurance engagement. Opinion On the basis of the verification undertaken, nothing came to our attention to suggest that the Report does not meet the requirements of the GRI Standards: Core option of reporting covering GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016, GRI 103: Management Approach 2016, and disclosures related to the following topicspecific standards for the material topics: ? GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 – 201-1, 201-2, 201-3, 201-4; ? GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 – 204-1; ? GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 – 205-1, 205-2, 205-3; ? GRI 302: Energy 2016 – 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5; ? GRI 303: Water 2016 – 303-1, 303-2, 303-3; ? GRI 305: Emissions 2016 – 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-4, 305-5, 305-6, 305-7; ? GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 – 306-1, 306-2, 306-3; ? GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 – 307-1; ? GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 – 308-1, 308-2; Chapter Title 192 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 ? GRI 401: Employment 2016 – 401-1, 401-2, 401-3; ? GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 – 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4; ? GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 – 404-2, 404-3; ? GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 – 405-1, 405-2; ? GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 – 406-1; ? GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining – 407-1; ? GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 – 413-1, 413-2; ? GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 – 414-1; ? GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 – 418-1; ? GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 – 419-1. * 404-1 have been identified by Wipro as being not relavant to the company, and IT sector based on its assessment. Observations Without affecting our assurance opinion, we also provide the following observations. We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following principles on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’: Stakeholder Inclusiveness The participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to Sustainability. The Report articulates Wipro’s formal and informal processes of stakeholder engagement with key stakeholders to identify and respond to significant sustainability concerns of employees, customers, investors, suppliers, community and civil society, and ‘current and future generations’ as described in the section “Materiality Map”. Key concerns are monitored and responded to through appropriate business strategies. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Materiality The process of determining the issues that is most relevant to an organization and its stakeholders. The identified material Aspects identified by Wipro have been recalibrated based on the dynamic ecosystem and evolving sustainability context including the Sustainable Development Goals. The Report brings out the process of materiality determination and its key steps and outputs in a coherent manner, covering the diverse nature of the Company’s business and its geo-locations. This process has also taken into consideration each stakeholder concern’s relevance to Wipro and its key stakeholders, the time horizon of impacts and the magnitude of impacts for prioritising identified topics and issues. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Responsiveness The extent to which an organization responds to stakeholder issues. The Report has fairly disclosed Wipro’s responses related to identified key sustainability topics and challenges through its strategies and management approach, while considering the overall sustainability context of the Information Technology sector. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Reliability The accuracy and comparability of information presented in the report, as well as the quality of underlying data management systems. Assurance Statement 193 Wipro Sustainability Report 2016-17 The majority of data and information verified at the Corporate Office and sampled operational sites visited by us were found to be accurate. Some of the data inaccuracies identified during the verification process were found to be attributable to transcription, interpretation and aggregation errors and the errors were communicated and subsequently corrections made in the reported data and information. In our opinion, level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Completeness How much of all the information that has been identified as material to the organisation and its stakeholders is reported. The Report has fairly disclosed the economic, environmental and social disclosures against the GRI Standards: Core option of reporting including the management approach, monitoring systems and sustainability performances indicators. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’ Neutrality The extent to which report provides a balanced account of an organization’s performance, delivered in neutral tone. The disclosures related to sustainability issues and performances are fairly reported in a neutral tone, in terms of content and presentation. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of Neutrality is ‘Good’ Opportunities for Improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities for improvement reported to the management of the Company and are not considered for drawing our conclusions on the Report; however, they are generally consistent with the management’s objectives: It would be worthwhile to identify and document stakeholder concerns across geo-locations of operations and respond with appropriate strategies and management approach within the Report to further strengthen the responsiveness. Wipro may further assess its risks related to social aspects and implement social management systems to further strengthen its social governance processes. Wipro may further strengthen its existing management systems at unit levels to better manage its key sustainability challenges related, Social, Environment and Occupational Health and Safety across all geolocations of operation. For and on behalf of DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited Bengaluru, India, 23rd March 2018 Kiran Radhakrishnan Nandkumar Vadakepatth Lead Verifier Assurance Reviewer Head – Regional Sustainability Operations – Region India and Middle East DNV GL Business Assurance DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited, India. India Private Limited, India. DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited is part of DNV GL – Business Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. www.dnvgl.com FEEDBACK AND COMMUNICATION We welcome our readers' feedback, points of view and suggestions on Wipro's Sustainability Report 2013-14 in particular and on our sustainability program in general and look forward to hearing from you. It is your honest feedback that will enable us to strengthen and improve our sustainability program. You may write to us at any of the Name Contact Details Wipro Sustainability Team sustain.report@wipro.com Mr.P.S.Narayan Wipro Limited Doddakanelli, Sarjapuyr Road, Vice President & Head Sustatinability Bangalore 560 035, India Tel: +91 080 25056766 Email: narayan.pan@wipro.com Mr. Abhishek K. Jain Wipro Limited East Brunswick, Tower 2, Senior Manager Investor Relations New Jersey, USA Tel: +1 978 826 4700 Email: abhishekkumar.jain@wipro.com Mr.Santhosh Karagada Wipro Limited East Brunswick, Tower 2, Vice President & Head HR Americas & Europe New Jersey, USA Tel: +1 818 620 6506 Email: santosh.karagada@wipro.com Mr.Aravind Vishwanathan Wipro Limited Doddakanelli, Sarjapuyr Road, Head of Corporate Treasury and Investor Relations Bangalore 560 035, India Tel: +91 080 39916143 Email: aravind.vishwanathan@wipro.com Wipro Limited Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road Bengaluru 560035 India (T) +91 (80) 2844 0011 (F) +91 (80) 2844 0256 (W) wipro.com
