2017 ANNUAL REPORT Summary 1. INTRODUCTION 03 Message from the CEO 04 2017 Highlights 06 2. INSIDE THE COMPANY 08 Who we are 09 How the Power Sector works 10 How and where we operate 12 Sector context 17 3. OUR MANAGEMENT 18 Corporate governance 19 Sustainability governance 23 Ethical conduct 24 Compliance 26 Risk management 28 New sustainability platform 31 4. SHARED VALUE 33 Our people 36 Our relationships 48 Strengthening Innovation 61 Environmental responsability 67 Operational performance 80 Financial performance 91 5. OUR REPORT 100 Guidelines and scope definition 101 GRI index 103 Assurance statement 130 Corporate information and credits 133 1. INTRODUCTION EMPLOYEES AT HEADQUARTERS | CAMPINAS | SP INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO GRI 102-14 IN 2017, WE EMBARKED ON YET ANOTHER Aside from changes in the economy and the Power important cycle for the CPFL Energia Group, which was Sector, we are undergoing an important transition at marked by various events and transformations. the Company, following the conclusion of the transfer of the CPFL Group’s controlling stake to China’s State After three years of crisis, Brazil’s economic and Grid. The world’s largest power company, our new business environment showed signs of improvement controlling shareholder has profound knowledge with inflation slowing, interest rates declining and of the Power Sector, develops and adopts cuttingvarious sectors of the economy staging a recovery. Even edge technologies and has a corporate DNA marked so, challenges remain with regards to the country’s by a long-term strategic vision. These traits, coupled fiscal situation and high unemployment rate. with our teams’ efforts and dedication, facilitated the integration of the two cultures, which kept our teams In the Power Sector, the year was guided by a engaged and focused on managing the operations constructive agenda. In addition to consolidation and the investments made over the year. and expansion moves, innumerous discussions have been held on the proposal to reform the regulatory In 2017, we continued our pursuit of excellence in framework (Public Consultation 33), which, besides offering services and new solutions to our customers. correcting imbalances in our industry, modernizes We were one of the industry’s companies that most regulations in aspects to which society is sensitive, invested in Brazil, with around R$2.6 billion allocated including incentives for adopting new technologies, to the Group’s various businesses: we made the new business models, incorporating distributed Company’s largest investment ever in the Distribution microgeneration, smart grids, expanding renewable asset base, delivered the Morro Agudo Substation, energies and other topics. started up the Wind Power Generation Complex 2017 Annual Report 5 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO GRI 102-14 Pedra Cheirosa (Ceará state) and built 42 kilometers education, public administration and community and consumption models. Reaping the rewards of of transmission lines for Sabesp in the São Lourenço development. We executed projects that directly the care we dedicated to our people, we obtained Production System, which assures an extra source of benefitted over 100,000 people, in 96 municipalities. excellent results in the survey of organizational climate water for the entire São Paulo metropolitan area. conducted by Great Place to Work, which attests to our Despite all these challenges and transformations, employees’ motivation and sense of pride. At the same time, we concluded the integration we focused intently on the operating performance of RGE Sul in the state of Rio Grande do Sul and of our businesses, on managing our assets and Critical to the management and processes of our launched ENVO, a company dedicated to solar power investments and on the Group’s financial discipline. We business, we improved our Sustainability Platform for distributed generation systems, and the CPFL Inova delivered EBITDA growth of 17.9%, to R$4.9 billion, and the 2018-2022 cycle, which was born already integrated project which, through partnerships with startups net income of R$1.2 billion, which represents growth with the principles of the Global Compact and the and scaleups, will help us develop new solutions for of 41.4% on the prior year. We also succeeded in Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) of the United our businesses and customers. reducing our debt cost and leverage ratio. This scenario Nations. All of this so that we can strengthen our longwarranted an upgrade in our credit rating to “AAA (bra)” term vision and our asset and business portfolio, both No less important were our efforts to promote a by rating agency Fitch. connected to the new economy. culture of Safety, which to us is a nonnegotiable issue. We launched the campaign “Chega de Choque” to raise We also dedicated special attention to our These are some of the initiatives and achievements aware among the public on the risks of improperly employees during this period. We launched a process that give us a great sense of pride. I believe that we are coexisting with the power grid to help prevent accidents. to reformulate our Corporate University, with the goal now better prepared to continue building our future of developing our more than 12,000 professionals and playing a lead role in the development of Brazil’s Another highlight was the consolidation of so that they can follow an even more prosperous Power Sector. CPFL Institute as our social investment platform, with career at CPFL and play a lead role in this new era, initiatives structured on five fronts: culture, sports, marked by technological revolution and new business Andre Dorf 2017 Annual Report 6 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT 2017 HIGHLIGHTS Gross operating revenue EBITDA Distribution of R$ 17.3 billion R$ 40.1 billion R$ 4.9 billion in value added 40.1 +30.1% 4.9 % 30.8 + 17.9 7% 8% 4.1 15% 2016 2017 70% 2016 2017 In 2017, we have reached net income of Taxes, charges Employees and contributions R$ 1.2 billion, Remuneration Remuneration rep res en t i n g a n i n c rea s e of R$ 44.5 invested in Research & 4 1 . 4 % ( R $ 3 6 4 mi l l i o n ) of external capital of own capital million Development compared to 2016 2017 Annual Report 7 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT 2017 HIGHLIGHTS 8.7 thousand GWh of energy generated in 2017 3,283 ofcapacity, installed generation 95% from 9.4 million MW renewable sources customers 6% 533.1 GWh 26% 2,291.2 GWh 52% 4,499.7 GWh R$ 54.0 million invested in the Energy 8% Efficiency Program 12,862 661.0 GWh employees 8% 703.6 GWh 0% 0.8 GWh HPP REDUCTION (Hydro) Solar SHP 11.4% SAIDI 3.9% SAIFI Thermo Wind Biomass considering all our distribution companies R$ 21.6 million invested in social welfare via the CPFL Institute 2017 Annual Report 8 INSIDE 2. THE COMPANY CPFL ENERGIA HEADQUARTERS | CAMPINAS | SP INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT WHO WE ARE GRI 102-1 | 102-2 | 102-6 | 102-7 CPFL ENERGIA is a company that offers complete concession area. We also operate in the free market, GRI 102-16 energy solutions, operating throughout the Sector in through companies that offer energy solutions all areas including Generation, Transmission, Distribution, Commercialization and Services. over the country. Vision We are the third largest private energy generator Energy is essential to people’s well-being and society’s Our story began in 1912, and in the proceeding in the country, with a portfolio including both clean development. We believe that producing and using 105 years we have both grown and undertaken and renewable sources, such as large and small energy sustainably is vital to humankind’s future. many transformations. Today, we are the largest hydroelectric power plants, wind farms, biomass private Company in the Brazilian Power Sector, with thermal and solar power plants. At the end of 2017, our controlling shareholder being the State Grid our installed capacity of generation was 3.3 GW. Corporation of China – SGCC, the world’s largest Mission power company. In the Commercialization segment, we have 14% market share in the sale of energy to end To provide sustainable and competitive energy We are market leaders in the Distribution sector consumers, and we are market leaders in energy solutions with excellence, while operating in close with a 14% market share, and we provide energy to commercialization, from incentivized sources. integration with the community. 9.4 million customers across 679 municipalities in our Principles Value Creation Sustainability Commitment Trust and Respect Safety and Quality of Life Surpassing Expectations Austerity Entrepreneurship 2017 Annual Report 10 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT HOW THE POWER SECTOR WORKS THE POWER SECTOR’S VALUE CHAIN CAN BE ANALYZED ACROSS FIVE PILLARS OF PERFORMANCE: Generation: generators are energy producers that utilize various sources, including hydroelectric power (both large and small hydroelectric plants), Commercialization: companies that wind farms, solar, biomass and other Distribution: the distribution of energy deal energy within the scope of the Free renewable energy sources. In addition, from the Transmission system to the Contracting Environment – ACL (more energy is also generated from nonend consumer. In addition to customer information in the box below), as well renewable sources such as fossil fuels, relationship and grid management, as negotiating energy through bilateral coal, natural gas and others. Distributors have a fundamental role in purchase contracts (in partnership with planning the expansion of the system generators and other trading companies) and through market growth management the sale of contracts to free consumers within within their concession. the ACL itself, to other trading companies or Transmission: the transportation of even in regulated auctions to distributors. energy produced by the Generators to the consumption centers. Services: companies that aim to improve customer experience throughout the Power Sector through solutions including infrastructure projects, energy efficiency, distributed photovoltaic generation and more. 2017 Annual Report 11 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT HOW THE POWER SECTOR WORKS OPERATION OF THE POWER SECTOR CONTRACTING ENVIRONMENTS Generates energy Provides energy to ﬁnal and sells it in the consumers under The energy markets in Brazil can be divided into regulated (auctions) Transports generated regulated conditions and Acquires energy in two contracting environments: the regulated and free markets energy and is remunerated is remunerated for the one of the Contracting market (captive) and the free market. At first, the for providing the service management of its assets Environments Distributor has a key role, acquiring energy in auctions to serve their markets, which is passed on to captive consumers through regulated tariffs. In the free market, energy quantities, price, terms and supply conditions are negotiated. GENERATION TRANSMISSION DISTRIBUTION CONSUMER Generators, trading companies and free consumers participate in this process, as long as they are enrolled with the Electrical Energy Trading Chamber – CCEE. Provides energy solutions for different Buys and sells energy Power Sector segments in the free market Learn how the Power Sector works, on the next image: $ SERVICES COMMERCIALIZATION $ 2017 Annual Report 12 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT HOW AND WHERE WE OPERATE GRI 102-2 | 102-4 | 102-6 | 102-7 WE OPERATE IN ALL sections of the energy supply GENERATION chain – Generation, Transmission, Distribution, Commercialization and Services. Below we’ll explain how we operate throughout the cycle. 1 HPP Luis Eduardo 2 HPP Serra da Mesa 3 HPP Foz do Chapecó 4 HPP Campos Magalhães Novos GENERATION 5 HPP Barra Grande 6 Ceran Complex: HPPs 7 CHGs¹: 4 (SP) 8 TPPs Termoparaíba and Monte Claro, Castro Alves and 2 (MG) Termonordeste (EPASA) We are the third largest private energy generator and 14 de Julho SHPs: 3 (SP) in Brazil, and market leader in the generation of energy from renewable sources. We produce energy in four regions of the country, through two 9 39 SHPs: 17 (SP), 10 45 Wind Farms: 11 8 Biomass: 5 (SP), 12 1 Solar companies: 9 (MG), 6 (SC), 4 (RS), 29 (RN), 12 (CE), 4 (RS) 1 (RN), 1 (MG) and 1 (PR) Power Plant (SP) CPFL Geração: operates with a focus on 2 (MT) and 1 (PR) power generation from Hydroelectric Power Plants – HPPs, Central Hydraulic Generator – CHGs, as well as the operation of two Thermoelectric Power NORTHEAST MIDWEST SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST Plants – TPPs; CPFL Renováveis: generates energy from MG 7 renewable sources, such as wind (wind farms), sun 7 11 9 10 SP TO 9 11 (photovoltaic plants), sugarcane (biomass plants) PR CE MT 1 9 11 12 8 and Small Hydroelectric Power Plants2 (SHPs). The 10 RN 11 9 DF 3 4 SC 9 Company works across 58 municipalities in eight PB 2 9 6 5 8 RS GO 10 Brazilian states. 1 Central Hydraulic Generators (CHGs) are plants that have the potential to generate 1 The CHGs are not part of CPFL Geração, but belong to the conventional generation segment (see Corporate Structure on page 22). up to 5 MW of energy; 2 Small Hydroelectric Power Plants (SHPs) have a power capacity of between 3 and 30 megawatts (MW), and less than 13 km² of reservoir area. 2017 Annual Report 13 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT HOW AND WHERE WE OPERATE GRI 102-2 | 102-4 | 102-6 | 102-7 TRANSMISSION Transmission is one of the Group’s more recent areas of business, focusing on niche projects, near large consumer centers or our renewable generation plants. We launched our Transmission operations in 2015 at the Piracicaba Substation, in the countryside of São Paulo, creating the CPFL Transmissão Piracicaba. In the same year, we won the auction to build the Morro Agudo Substation, in São Paulo, inaugurated in 2017 and managed by CPFL Transmissão Morro Agudo. Through the two projects, we have already invested more than R$ 300 million in Transmission over the last three years. TRANSMISSION LINE TOWER | CAMPINAS | SP 2017 Annual Report 14 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT HOW AND WHERE WE OPERATE GRI 102-2 | 102-4 | 102-6 | 102-7 DISTRIBUTION DISTRIBUTION We are a leader in this segment, holding about 14% of the market share, operating across 679 municipalities, covering more than 22 million people1. We operate in the South and Southeast of Brazil, through five companies: CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, CPFL Santa Cruz, RGE and RGE Sul. MERGER OF FIVE SÃO PAULO DISTRIBUTION COMPANIES GRI 102-10 | 102-48 On January 1st, 2018, the Distribution companies CPFL Sul Paulista, CPFL Leste Paulista, CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Mococa and CPFL Santa Cruz became one: CPFL Santa Cruz. Distribution Operating areas The merger of the five companies was implemented in 2017, which reduced the number of Distribution companies in the Group from nine to five, strengthening service quality and providing administrative and operational cost optimization. These synergy gains bring benefits to over 445 thousand consumer units, covering approximately 1,126,7612 million people in 45 cities in the states of São Paulo, Minas Gerais and Paraná. 1 Source: IBGE data published in the Official Gazette of the Union, on August 30, 2017. 2 Source: IBGE data published in the Official Gazette of the Union, on August 30, 2017. 2017 Annual Report 15 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT HOW AND WHERE WE OPERATE GRI 102-2 | 102-4 | 102-6 | 102-7 PROGRAMA FRONTEIRA (“FRONTIER PROGRAM”) In order to promote a fast and efficient integration of RGE Sul (which became part of our Group in 2016), we created the Frontier Program, which structured the incorporation process step by step. A total of 19 areas participated in the Program, 18 of which have already completed their schedules. They are: Infrastructure, Information Technology, Energy Planning, Commercial, Operation, Accounting, Treasury, Investor Relations, Corporate Communication, Environment, Sustainability, Controllership, Fiscal Tax, Regulatory, Quality, Supplies, Engineering, Legal and Human Resources. COMMERCIALIZATION By the end of 2017, the Program was 99% complete. From December, we consider that RGE Sul is already We operate through CPFL Brasil, which conducts the integrated in the CPFL Energia Group Management Model. purchase and sale of energy contracts in the Free Contracting Environment, adding value through a diversified portfolio, in which customers with a contracted demand greater than or equal to 500 kW can negotiate price, term, flexibility and amount of energy contracted. CPFL Brasil also has the Energy Management service, which aims to support customers in the migration from Captive Market to Free Market and in the monitoring during the contract period. 2017 Annual Report 16 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT HOW AND WHERE WE OPERATE GRI 102-2 | 102-4 | 102-6 | 102-7 SERVICES SERVICES Through our Services companies (listed below), we provide operational intelligence and customized solutions to our customers: CPFL Serviços: provides power infrastructure services, support for the implementation of substations, transmission lines and distribution grids, including design, construction and maintenance, as well as manufacturing and recovery of equipment; CPFL Eficiência: develops and implements energy optimization solutions to increase Nect Serviços: provides infrastructure, GO TO MARKET STRATEGY productivity and efficiency, as well as the human resources and financial services for In order to provide increasingly integrated solutions distributed generation solution, especially companies in the CPFL Group; and focused on customers and their needs, we have photovoltaic, for customers from several sectors; redesigned our commercial strategy aimed CPFL Total: a financial products company that at unifying the sales force of CPFL Brasil, CPFL CPFL Atende: offers contact center and acts in the management of customers and partners Serviços and CPFL Eficiência to offer a complete customer relationship services; that use the energy bill as a means of payment. portfolio of products and services, ranging from efficiency projects to commercial representation and consulting. Due to this initiative, we are prepared for the market liberalization focusing on consumer’s empowerment. 2017 Annual Report 17 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT SECTOR CONTEXT FOLLOWING A PERIOD of economic challenges in To accelerate the future of the Brazilian Power Brazil, 2017 saw the beginning of the recovery process, Sector, the key players have been working through positively impacted by the growth of industrial productrade associations and with the Ministry of Mines tion. Driven by a 1% increase in electricity consumption and Energy – MME, the Brazilian Electricity Regulatory compared to the previous year (data from the Brazilian Agency – ANEEL and other governmental and regulatory Energy Research Company – EPE), the Power Sector agents, to make improvements in the Sector’s model, continued to improve its operations, while preparing in order to build a safer, more modern and balanced for significant changes in the medium and long-term. energy system. Looking at the Power Sector in developed Due to this backdrop, companies in the Sector countries, market trends are clear: there is a focus have been reviewing their operations and business on clean and renewable energy generation, smart models. With the aim of increasing efficiency and grids, energy storage, electric mobility, distributed preparing for future challenges and opportunities, generation, digitalization, innovation in technology companies in the Sector have been seeking market and processes, as well as customer empowerment due consolidation and dedicating individual attention to to better energy supplier alternatives, with companies non-regulated business oriented to customers. offering tangible benefits (cost reduction, better service/information) to compete. INSTALLATION OF SOLAR PANELS | CAMPINAS |SP 2017 Annual Report 18 3. OUR MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES AT HEADQUARTERS | CAMPINAS | SP INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CHANGE IN SHAREHOLDER CONTROL GRI 102-10 | 102-48 WE CONDUCT our business based on the In 2017, we received awards for best corporate In January 2017, the State Grid Corporation of principles of transparency, equity, accountability governance practices. These included the China (SGCC) – the second largest company and corporate responsibility. We are a century-old “Corporate Governance Survey”, from Empresas in the world according to Fortune magazine company with a solid governance model, always Mais (part of the O Estado de São Paulo newspaper (ranking of the world’s 500 largest – 2017 edition), in line with best market practices. group), and “As Melhores da Dinheiro”, an award and number 1 in the Power Sector – acquired by IstoÉ Dinheiro magazine. During the period, the controlling shareholder position in the Our shares are listed on the São Paulo Stock we were also featured in the Brazil Reputation company. Based in Beijing, State Grid serves 88% Exchange – B3, and are part of the following Dividend Report, published by Exame magazine, of China’s population (or 1.1 billion people) and indexes: Bovespa Index – IBOVESPA, Brazilian Index ranking 13th out of 25 of the best-evaluated has operations in countries such as Philippines, of 100 shares with greatest liquidity – IBRX, Special national companies. Portugal, Australia, Hong Kong, Italy, Georgia, Tag Along Stock Index – ITAG, Special Corporate Greece and Brazil, where it has been operating Governance Stock Index – IGC, Electric Energy since 2010 and is currently present in 12 states. Index – IEE and Novo Mercado. On the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), we are Level III ADR, a The Chinese state-owned company is also a special segment for companies that comply with global leader in distribution technology and in corporate governance best practices. long-distance energy transmission – important expertise for a country with continental dimensions such as Brazil. The change in shareholding control, therefore, opens the potential for technological and experience exchange between the two companies, which will certainly benefit all stakeholders of the CPFL Energia Group. 2017 Annual Report 20 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE STRUCTURE GRI 102-45 Free Float Our corporate structure is based 94.75% 5.25% around our central holding company, CPFL Energia, which owns shares in other companies and is directly and indirectly controlled by State Grid Brazil Power Participações S.A. (SGBP), which Commercialization 100% 100% 100% Jaguari is indirectly controlled by the State Geração 59.93% Paulista Lajeado Grid Corporation of China (SGCC). On 100% Distribution 100% 5.94% Investco November 30, 2017, SGBP performed a 99.95% 100% 100% CPFL Centrais Geradoras Generation Public Tender Offer, and as a result, now, it 100% 3 100% 100% Serra da Mesa HPP owns 94.75% of the holding1 company’s 51.54% 2 100% 65% capital stock (or 964,521,902 common 100% 25.01% shares), as shown in the following graph: 48.72% 100% 53.34% 100% Services 51% 100% 100% RENEWABLE 100% Authi 51.60% 100% CPFL GD 1 Shareholding position on December 31, 2017; 2 A 51.54% share of the power and energy availability of the Serra da Mesa HPP, related to the Energy Supply Agreement between CPFL Geracao and Furnas; 3 RGE Sul is controlled by CPFL Energia (76.3893%) and by CPFL Brasil (23.4561%). 2017 Annual Report 21 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE GRI 102-18 In February 2017, six new board members The BD has the support of three Advisory (five State Grid representatives and a new Committees directly subordinated to it, as well as To ensure that the interests of our stakeholders independent member) were elected. Now, the BD two Commissions established for the 2017 fiscal are fully represented in key corporate decisions, has two Independent Directors, as described below: year, as listed below: our governance structure is aligned with best international practices. This structure includes the • Management Processes, Risks and Sustainability following bodies: Committee; Composition of the Board of Directors Board of Directors GRI 102-22 (on December 31, 2017) • Human Resources Management Committee; Our highest corporate governance body is the Yuhai Hu Chairman Board of Directors (BD), responsible for the strategic • Related Parties Committee; business direction and for the decisions that have Daobiao Chen Vice Chairman the greatest impact on our stakeholders. The BD Yang Qu Advisor • Corporate Budget and Finance Commission; and acts in accordance with the Bylaws and Corporate Governance Guidelines – both public documents – Yumeng Zhao Advisor • Strategy Commission. following a pre-defined schedule of regular meetings and, when necessary, extraordinary meetings. Andre Dorf Advisor Find out more about the composition of the Independent Advisory Committees at https://bit.ly/2qw2Uj9. Antonio Kandir Member Marcelo Amaral Independent Moraes Member 2017 Annual Report 22 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Fiscal Council Board of Executive Officers composition (on December 31, 2017) Independent body of the Management and external auditors, whose main duties are to supervise Andre Dorf Chief Executive Officer Management’s activities, analyze and comment on Yumeng Zhao Deputy Chief Executive Officer the financial statements and report its conclusions to our shareholders. Chief Financial and Gustavo Estrella Our Fiscal Council is permanent and, at the end of Investor Relations Officer 2017, was composed of three members, who met on Luís Henrique Ferreira Pinto Chief Regulated a monthly basis and adopted a minimum calendar Operations Officer of activities, which included periodic meetings with the internal and external auditors and our Board of Chief Market Karin Regina Luchesi Executive Officers. Operations Officer Find out more about the composition of the Fiscal Chief Legal and Council at goo.gl/K8rQsS. Gustavo Pinto Gachineiro1 Institutional Relations Officer Board of Executive Officers Wagner Luiz Schneider de Freitas Chief Business Management Officer The Board of Executive Officers is responsible for Andre Dorf (interim) Chief Planning and executing the strategy and managing our business. Business Management Officer Currently, it is composed of one Chief Executive Officer, one Deputy Chief Executive Officer and six Vice Chief Executive Officers, as described below: 1 Gustavo Pinto Gachineiro was elected in December 2017 and took office in January 2018. 2017 Annual Report 23 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE GRI 102-19 | 102-20 | 102-29 WE ARE CONSIDERED by the international The process of delegation and assigning Sustainability Committee: oversees the community as one of the most sustainable responsibilities, as well as our sustainabile Sustainability Platform, evaluating and advising on companies in the Power Sector in the world. Our governance, involve the following bodies: the inclusion of social and environmental criteria shares are listed on the following indexes: B3’s and guidelines in decision-making processes, Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE), for 13 years; the Board of Directors: approves the proposing the preparation of new projects and Dow Jones Sustainability Emerging Markets Index Sustainability Policy and oversees economic, monitoring trends and critical issues. (DJSI) of the New York Stock Exchange (USA), for social, regulatory and environmental aspects and 6 years; the Morgan Stanley Capital International corporate governance guidelines. Sustainability Board: proposes strategies Global Sustainability Index, for 2 years; and, in 2017, and ensures the implementation of the we entered the FTSE4Good Emerging Index, the Management Processes, Risks and Sustainability Platform in our business, delivering corporate sustainability index for emerging markets Sustainability Committee: monitors the results in the short and long-term. of the London Stock Exchange (England). Sustainability Platform and other initiatives related to sustainability, addressing the matters to the These achievements are the result of our Board of Directors, when necessary. strategy to constantly incorporate the values of sustainable development into our business goals. Board of Executive Officers: manages and Therefore, our sustainability governance structure guides sustainability matters, defining and ensuring is managed by our Board of Directors (BD), which compliance with principles and legal standards. is responsible for deliberating on the Company’s social, environmental and economic issues and Vice Presidency of Legal and Institutional guiding the actions of the Executive Officers, Relations: analyzes and advises on sustainability who are fully responsible for each subject. The BD matters at the Board of Executive Officers or Board monitors these issues through our Sustainability of Directors level, as well as defining and ensuring Platform (page 31). compliance with the legal principles and standards. 2017 Annual Report 24 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT ETHICAL CONDUCT GRI 102-16 | 102-17 PRO-ETHICS SEAL In December 2017, we received the Pro-Ethics Seal from the Ministry of Transparency and the ALL OF OUR ethical values are included in the Code of Ethical Conduct – available in Comptroller General of the Union, which recognizes Portuguese and English1 – which brings together CPFL Energia’s main conduct guidelines companies that have excelled in preventing and and which guides the actions and decisions of all employees, regardless of the hierarchical combating acts of corruption and fraud. level, and of all our suppliers. A total of 375 companies from various sectors registered for the award, 198 of which submitted a To ensure that our ethical values are put into practice, we implemented the Ethics duly completed evaluation form and only 23 were Management and Development System – SGDE. Reformulated in 2016, it aims to increase approved and recognized with the Seal. monitoring tools, as well as to bring more equality and transparency to the process of evaluating inquiries, suggestions and grievances. Winning this award indicates that we have evolved into a theme that we consider essential, and that the reformulation of our Ethics Management and Development System – SGDE led to effective improvements in the Company’s ethical issues. 1 Get to know at https://bit.ly/2IRBZG9 2017 Annual Report 25 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT ETHICAL CONDUCT GRI 102-16 | 102-17 After the reformulation, the SGDE is made up 1 CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT of seven components that work to strengthen our Brings together our main ethical conduct guidelines in a document with simple structure and language, easy and accessible to all stakeholders. ethical culture. They are: ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT COMMITTEE 2 A body composed of members from several areas of the Company, with the purpose of discussing issues related to the topic, as well as to analyze the suggestions and complaints received through our different channels. Currently, the Committee has ﬁve members: three Vice Presidents of CPFL Energia and two independent external members. ETHICS MANAGEMENT AND 3 INTERNAL RULES OF THE ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT COMMITTEE Document that establishes the operational dynamics of the Ethics and Business Conduct Committee, including processes, deadlines, resolutions, reporting to other Company bodies, among other items. EXTERNAL ETHICS CHANNEL 4 DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM – SGDE Communication channel accessible to internal and external stakeholders 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. It guarantees privacy and conﬁdentiality of information, and allows the monitoring of the reports (inquiries, suggestions and complaints) via protocol. All forms of contact can be found by clicking on the following link: goo.gl/oP763w. 5 REPORTS PROCESSING COMMISSION (CPD) The commission was established to support the Ethics and Business Conduct Committee in the process of investigation complaints from employees and other stakeholders. 6 TRAINING We constantly train our employees to disseminate ethical principles, guide and prepare them for all situations that involve ethical issues. 7 DISSEMINATION We carry out communication campaigns and other outreach initiatives, in order to increase awareness ethical guidelines among our employees and other stakeholders. EMPLOYEES AT HEADQUARTERS | CAMPINAS | SP 2017 Annual Report 26 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT COMPLIANCE IN ADDITION to the Ethics Management and Awareness activities are carried out through In 2017, our ethics and compliance-focused Development System – SGDE, our compliance events, lectures and campaigns, with the participation awareness activities had the participation of 100% structure is designed to ensure that the Company is of management, employees and suppliers. The results of our employees (including all management) in line with internal and external laws, standards and are measured by assessing the attendance at events, and all our suppliers through the standard antiregulations, as well as to detect any irregularities. content satisfaction, number of views and engagement corruption clause included in all contracts signed on Multi, our News Portal. by our Company, and the Supplier’s Newsletter, This structure is focused on Internal Audit and which is periodically distributed and also contains Corporate Risks management which, in addition to Among the main awareness activities are: information on the subject. issues related to compliance, it also advises the Board of Directors and the Board of Executive Officers. Integrity Week: an annual event for all employees, with the use of internal and external channels to discuss AWARENESS AND TRAINING GRI 205-2 ethics, as well as a lecture by a recognized and qualified personality on the subject; In order to reinforce adherence to our Integrity Program and to ethical culture, we have developed a Pills of Integrity: texts and videos on the subject, strategic anti-corruption awareness and training plan periodically sent to all employees via e-mail marketing; with our main stakeholders – including management, employees and suppliers. Anti-Corruption Booklet: a simple and educational document, distributed to all our employees, with content about the concept of “corruption”, according to the laws and regulations that govern our business. 2017 Annual Report 27 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT COMPLIANCE In addition to these activities, we offer face-toTotal employees trained in ethics and anti-corruption1 by region face training, directed at teams that work with greater 2015 2016 2017 exposure to risk, such as supplies and relationships with public agencies, and online training, which is applicable % of trained % of trained % of trained employees in employees in employees in No. of trained No. of trained No. of trained and mandatory for all employees. The number of employees relation to total employees relation to total employees relation to total employees by employees by employees by people trained in both modalities is calculated monthly region region region and reported to our leaders. Southeast 3,954 51% 6,861 81% 6,777 77% During the reporting period, more than 8,000 South 781 46% 1,568 90% 1,591 40% employees were trained online. The following Total 4,735 50% 8,429 83% 8,368 65% table gives more details on ethics and anti1 Includes only online training. corruption training. Total employees trained in ethics and anti-corruption1 by position INTEGRITY PROGRAM 2015 2016 2017 In order to meet the requirements of Law 12,846/13, % of trained % of trained % of trained employees in employees in employees in No. of trained No. of trained No. of trained known as the “Anti-Corruption Law”, we have employees relation to total employees relation to total employees relation to total employees by employees by employees by developed an Integrity Program that periodically position position position assesses corruption risks in all companies of the Group – including our most strategic suppliers. From these Leadership2 485 78% 614 91% 553 70% assessments, we have implemented new prevention Other 4,250 48% 7,815 82% 7,815 65% measures and therefore, the Program has been employees constantly improved. Total 4,735 50% 8,429 83% 8,368 65% 1 Includes only online training. 2 The Leadership category includes Directors, Managers, Coordinators, Supervisors and other leadership positions. 2017 Annual Report 28 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT GRI 102-15 | 102-29 | 102-30 | 201-2 THE MANAGEMENT OF THE RISKS to which we are model that assigns clear roles to our leaders. Basically, our exposed is essential for the sustainability of our business. risk management framework is as follows: To accomplish this task, we use a risk management Shareholders Meeting Management Processes, Board of Risks and Fiscal Council Directors Sustainability Committee Board of Executive Ofﬁcers Internal Audit and Corporate Risk Management Corporate Risk Compliance Internal Audit Management 2017 Annual Report 29 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT GRI 102-15 | 102-29 | 102-30 | 201-2 This management is regulated by the Corporate Board of Executive Officers: must conduct methodologies that involve the identification, Risk Management Policy, which describes the risk business within the defined risk limits and take the measurement, monitoring and reporting of the risks. management model, as well as the duties of each necessary measures to prevent exposure to them. In body. the event of exceeding these limits, the body shall Business areas: primarily responsible for managing report to the BD, also presenting mitigation actions. the risks involved in their processes, conducting Board of Directors – BD: deliberates on the risk them within the defined exposure limits, as well as limit methodologies recommended by the Board of Internal Audit and Corporate Risk implementing mitigation plans. Executive Officers, in addition to knowing exposures Management: is responsible for coordinating the and mitigation plans presented in case these limits risk management process, developing and updating are exceeded. Fiscal Council: ensures that Management is able to identify the risks related to the preparation and disclosure of the financial statements, among other attributions. Management Processes, Risks and Sustainability Committee: is a technical body, taking notice of the risk monitoring models and exposure to them, supporting the BD in the performance of its statutory risk management. TELECOM OPERATION CENTER | CAMPINAS | SP 2017 Annual Report 30 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT GRI 102-15 | 102-29 | 102-30 | 201-2 Guided by our Corporate Risk Map, the Corporate price, from other sources (such as thermal), in order and to define the response – accept (reduce and/or Risks area monitors seven categories: financial, market to honor their contracts, which can generate an share) or avoid them. To do this, the methodology (migration of customers from the captive market, additional cost for the entire system. used includes stages such as identification, evaluation Generation Scaling Factor – GSF and variations on and measurement, monitoring and mitigation, the spot price – PLD), operational, legal, reputation, Market risk of trading companies: large allowing the assessment of exposure to known environment and regulatory. Within these categories, variations in energy prices, due to an increasingly risks, the identification of new risks and support in social and environmental risks are also considered: uncertain hydrological scenario, may affect the the definition of the necessary controls to maintain people, health and safety, labor and the environment. planning of trading companies. operational processes at adequate levels. Due to the importance of market risks, other teams Credit risk: our customers may find difficult to are focused on managing the topics below: meet their financial commitments. In this case, we may not receive the amounts for the energy sold Subcontracting / overcontracting risk: the within the established time limits and this may impact Distribution companies may suffer losses if the our liquidity, cash flow, etc. energy contracted with the generators is not enough or is above the expected demand. In this case, the Other risks: we also monitor risks such as interest Distribution companies must purchase/sell energy, rate, exchange rate, among others, which may also which can lead to financial impacts. impact our operational and financial performance. Hydrological risk (GSF): the Brazilian electric In addition, in order to manage operational power matrix consists mainly of hydroelectric plants. risks, the Business Excellence area advises business If the hydrological system is negatively affected, these managers on the identification of internal controls to plants are obliged to purchase energy at a higher mitigate operational risks involved in the processes LUIS EDUARDO MAGALHÃES HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT | TO 2017 Annual Report 31 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT MATERIAL TOPICS NEW SUSTAINABILITY Safe and Efﬁcient Operations Corporate Development, Growth & Innovation Reputation and Responsibility PLATFORM EMPLOYEES AND PARTNERS Safety Culture Supplier management Human capital development Labor contingency Employees efﬁciency Attraction and retention of talents Third parties ODS ODS ODS Suppliers TO EVOLVE THE SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT of our business, we Low carbon economy STAKEHOLDERS designed a new platform in 2017, which will run from 2018 to 2022. Service efﬁciency Strengthening STRATEGIC and GHG emissions Information Technology relationships RELATIONSHIPS New opportunities Shareholders and new business models The new Sustainability Platform enhances the line of reasoning of Regulatory agents ODS ODS ODS Customers the previous version and is more in line with our strategic planning, as well as our value proposition, aligned with our operational and financial Impact prevention Sustainable solutions Community goals and the Sustainable Development Goals proposed by the United COMMUNITIES and mitigation Development Population Nations (UN). Civil society NGOs ODS ODS ODS The 2018-2022 Sustainability Platform is illustrated in a matrix that positions on one axis our main stakeholders and, on the other axis, the most important (or “material”) topics for our business. At the intersection SUSTAINABLE VALUE LEVERS of these two axes, sustainable value levers are generated, which in turn Within each lever, there are protection, optimization and value creation indicators, are broken down into indicators and targets, which are tangible ways which allow us to measure the performance of our company: to protect, optimize or create shared value with our stakeholders. The We are able to create value through investments in new business, processes, training, relationships, chart below shows the mechanism of this process: CREATING asset management and other improvements that will enable value generation in the future; We are able to optimize value by avoiding costs and obtaining additional revenues through OPTIMIZING more efﬁcient and intelligent processes; and We are able to protect value by improving the processes related to our business, which reduces PROTECTING exposure to possible risks. 2017 Annual Report 32 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT NEW SUSTAINABILITY PLATFORM In order to manage value levers, we established opportunities for sustainable business and processes. Officers and the Management Processes, Risks and targets that are monitored by about 60 indicators, All indicators managed by the Platform Sustainability Committee, and are reported to our used to evaluate our performance on a monthly basis. are monitored by the Sustainability Board, the Board of Directors. This is aimed at managing risks and seeking new Sustainability Committee, the Board of Executive SDG INTEGRATION WITH THE POWER SECTOR As a member of the Global Compact Network in Brazil, we were responsible for the creation and implementation of a study on the integration of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) in the Brazilian Power Sector, which is aimed at mapping the most important SDGs for the Generation, Transmission and Distribution segments, both from impact and THE 17 SUSTAINABLE opportunities standpoints. DEVELOPMENT The survey was conducted between April and June 2017, with 20 companies in the Sector, and found out that 65% of them GOALS started integrating SDG into their business strategy. “Affordable and Clean Energy”, “Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure”, “Responsible Consumption and Production”, and “Climate Action” – SDGs No. 7, 9, 12 and 13, respectively – appear as the most relevant goals to the Sector. The full integration of SDG into the companies’ business strategy is still a challenge and requires paradigm shifts in public and private management. At the same time, we believe it represents a great opportunity for companies to be part of global problem solving, to explore new markets and to create new products and services. Following the Survey’s proposal, our new 2018-2022 Sustainability Platform is now in line with the SDG and, to better identify them, we indicated every time our actions are aligned with the world’s sustainability goals throughout this report, as follows: 2017 Annual Report 33 4. SHARED VALUE TANQUINHO SOLAR POWER PLANT | CAMPINAS | SP INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT SHARED VALUE CREATION OUR DECISIONS ARE made based on the shared value creation guideline. We believe that the best way to achieve greater results is to also create value for society. Improving the experience of our customers, preserving natural resources, contributing to the development of communities and being the best place to work are goals that our leadership pursue as much as they do financial results. Next, you can learn more about our management model and our results. SECONDARY NETWORK DISTRIBUTION | CAMPINAS | SP 2017 Annual Report 35 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT HOW WE CREATE VALUE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS MISSION • Power Generation from renewable sources (95%) • Use of natural resources, such as water, To provide sustainable and competitive energy solutions with excellence, • 631 tons of waste generated sun, wind, materials and fossil fuels while operating in close integration with the community. (88% for reuse, recovery or recycling) NATURAL • Total emission of 1.2 million of tCO2e CAPITAL AMBITION To consolidate our leadership in the Power Industry by creating value sustainably, surpassing industry benchmarks and becoming an international reference of • 75.5 hours of training per employee • 12,862 employees excellence in the operation of assets and provision of innovative services. • 8,368 employees trained in anti-corruption and ethics • 2,579 supplying partner companies • 77% adherence to the Corporate Climate Research GPTW HUMAN CAPITAL • 35 thousand health and safety inspections OPERATION IN ALL STAGES OF THE ELECTRICAL POWER CYCLE • R$ 21.6 million invested in social initiatives • Direct benefit to 100 thousand people through social initiatives • R$ 54.0 million invested in Energy Efficiency Programs • Savings of 36 GWh with energy efficiency initiatives • R$ 314.3 million in investments aimed at improving • Improvements in the relationship channels SOCIAL AND customer service GENERATION TRANSMISSION DISTRIBUTION CONSUMER RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL • 111 generation projects (3.3 GW) • 8.7 TWh of energy generated • 330.2 thousand km of Distribution lines • 66.1 TWh of energy distributed INFRASTRUCTURE • 25 CPFL Services operational bases • 9.4 million consumer units in 679 cities CAPITAL $ SERVICES COMMERCIALIZATION $ • R$ 44.5 million invested in R&D • 520 people benefited by the Professional Re-qualification Program • R$ 2.7 million invested in professional Requalification Programs • ENVO creation (solar distributed generation) KNOWLEDGE AND • Creation of CPFL Inova with 12 startups selected COMPETENCES CAPITAL • Development of new projects and business models 2018-2022 SUSTAINABILITY PLATFORM • R$ 2.5 billion issued via shares and debentures • Net operating revenue: R$ 26.7 billion $$$ SOLID RISK MANAGEMENT MODEL (R$ 200 million via green bonds) • EBITDA: R$ 4.9 billion FINANCIAL • R$ 0.9 billion raised with loans • Net income: R$ 1.2 billion CAPITAL • R$ 19.6 billion in gross financial Debt SOLID CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MODEL • Distribution of R$ 17.3 billion in added value 2017 Annual Report 36 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEES ARE the energy that drives our business. We are very proud of our team, because besides being highly qualified and dedicated, it is diverse. In our Group, we have the privilege of working with very experienced professionals, who have been with us for several years and have deep knowledge of the Power Sector. We also have a new generation of professionals, who understand the latest technologies and maintain a more disruptive way of thinking and behaving. This combination helps us to maintain our leading role in the Power Sector. The matching of these profiles represents a great challenge as we have to constantly find new ways to communicate and connect with these employees. It also represents an enormous opportunity to “go beyond”, to “make a difference” and to find new ways to better assist and honor our stakeholders. CPFL ENERGIA GROUP’S EMPLOYEES 2017 Annual Report 37 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR PEOPLE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Starting in 2018, our Corporate University will The results of their performances are presented to GRI 103-2 | 103-3 include a menu with training options, aligned with our employees in a feedback meeting, when the Individual strategic planning and with our vision for the future. Development Plan (IDP) is discussed and defined – This will help to demonstrate the main attributes which is an outline of plans for the future. required for our employees to reach their goals, so that Due to the transformations that the Power Sector we can achieve the Company’s business objectives. has undergone – and will continue to go through – CPFL EMPLOYEE as a result of technological developments that have For staff development, we also have a 180º system COMPETENCIES: impacted (or will impact) all stages of the electric for evaluating our competencies (for employees • Ensures Results and Builds for the Future; power cycle, we have been focused on the training and and managers) and a 360º system (for directors and • Ensures Excellence, Simplicity and Speed; development of our employees, in order to prepare executives). The 360º system includes self-evaluation, • Aims for Growth; them for this new sectoral environment. evaluation from immediate superiors, evaluation • Acts as Owner; of peers or other internal areas and evaluation • Transforms to Grow; In 2017, we started the revision of the management of subordinates. • Learns and Evolves; pillars of our employees, which aims to: develop new • Considers the Interest of All Parties organizational skills, establish mechanisms to attract The results of this evaluation process are compiled Involved; and and retain talent and prepare new future leaders. under the Nine-Box methodology, which inputs all this • Trains People, Inspires and Engages information into a performance matrix, which helps to (only for our managers). Regarding the development of new skills, we guide the development of our employees. began to reform our corporate education programme in the reporting period. 2017 Annual Report 38 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR PEOPLE In 2017, we provided an average of 75.52 training hours per employee and gave performance feedback to 70% of our staff. More information below: GRI 404-1 | 404-3 Average hours of training per employee by gender in 2017 2015 2016 2017 Men 88.64 88.70 74.30 Women 86.22 63.03 80.24 Total 88.08 82.80 75.52 Average hours of training per employee by position in 2017 Corporate 99.37 Management 21.68 Operations 78.07 RGE SUL EMPLOYEES | SÃO LEOPOLDO | RS 2017 Annual Report 39 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR PEOPLE Employees who received performance reviews by position1 2015 2016 2017 Position Number of employees who % of employees who received Number of employees who % of employees who Number of employees % of employees who evaluation in relation to total received evaluation in who received received evaluation in received evaluation received evaluation positions relation to total positions evaluation relation to total positions Management 180 29% 180 27% 170 22% Other employees 6,006 68% 6,682 70% 8,858 73% Total 6,186 65% 6,862 67% 9,028 70% 1 Employees on leave, apprentices, retirees due to disability and executives did not receive performance evaluation, but are included in the total number of employees (12,862 in 2017). Percentage of employees who received a performance review by gender1 2015 2016 2017 Gender Number of employees who % of employees who received Number of employees who % of employees who Number of employees % of employees who evaluation in relation to total received evaluation in who received received evaluation in received evaluation received evaluation gender relation to total gender evaluation relation to total gender Men 5,042 69% 5,670 71% 7,171 69% Women 1,144 54% 1,192 53% 1,857 75% Total 6,186 65% 6,862 67% 9,028 70% 1 Employees on leave, apprentices, retirees due to disability and executives did not receive performance evaluation, but are included in the total number of employees (12,862 in 2017). 2017 Annual Report 40 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR PEOPLE Succession of executives and managers Our aim is to stimulate a leadership team that has Voando Alto (“Flying High”): aimed at our more autonomy and empowerment. This involves a managers, focusing on behavioral training, deepening In order for our managers and executives (Director, culture change: from the culture of managers being the knowledge of leaders on issues such as identity, team Vice President, President) to evolve in their careers, we “process leaders” to the “people leaders”; we want empowerment, link building, successor development, implemented a succession process with an annual cycle, managers who encourage collaboration and who strategic planning, innovation and business excellence. carried out after performance review results. Through collaborate, working as a team. this methodology, we are able to identify potential Both programs are based on research of our successors, generating a succession map that indicates All of this work is fully aligned with the results of the employees, from individual and group interviews, the level of security of each position and contributes to latest climate research and changing market conditions, mapping skills and development needs, market trends employee management. such as greater flexibility, less bureaucracy and more and alignment with the Company’s strategic guidelines. speed. Find below the programs’ descriptions: With the “Talent Pool”, we are able to assess the criticality level of professionals and leadership positions, Decola Líder (“Leaders Take Off”): focus on the as well as define retention actions, always in line with our development of our first level of management, including strategic planning. Leading Technicians, Leading Engineers, Supervisors and Coordinators of the entire Company. It offers training on For those who are already managers in our Human Resources tools, the role of the leader, as well as organization, we have created two programs, with behavioral training given by an external consultancy on the objective of raise the awareness of professionals self-knowledge, leadership and feedback, delegation responsible for people management, as well as the and time management, change management, importance of continuous development, focused on communication and strategic business vision. achieving sustainable results. 2017 Annual Report 41 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR PEOPLE ESCOLA DE ELETRICISTAS (“SCHOOL FOR ELECTRICIANS”) GRI EU14 Since 2012, we have maintained the School for Electricians, a program that seeks to invest in the training of people, and, at the same time, streamline our recruiting process for electricians – meeting the shortage of these professionals in the labor market – while benefiting the communities that live in our concession areas. The project is run in partnership with recognized training centers and shortens the time necessary for the admission of employees. The traditional hiring process takes, on average, 120 days (30 days for selection and hiring, and another 90 days for the practical and theoretical training). Through the School for Electricians, we reduced this time to approximately 20 days, since students are prepared even before the vacancies open, eliminating the time used for selection and training. In 2017, the Project was developed in partnership with SENAI schools in Americana – SP, Araraquara – SP, Bauru – SP, Cubatão – SP, Ribeirão Preto – SP, Indaiatuba – SP, Ipaussu – SP, São Leopoldo – RS and Piloto Erechim – RS. Including the regions in which we have Distribution companies, we trained 15 classes, having 223 people ready for the job market, with no cost. Of the total number of trainees, we hired 134 electricians. Those who have not yet been hired by our Company are available for future opportunities in other companies in the Sector, directly and positively impacting the quality of life and income of several families while increasing the level of professional competence of the communities in which they live. SECONDARY NETWORK DISTRIBUTION 2017 Annual Report 42 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR PEOPLE QUALITY OF LIFE, HEALTH AND SAFETY Programa Nutrir (“Nurturing Program”): GRI 403-2 | 401-2 | 103-2 | 103-3 professional follow-up by nutritionists, with individual and group consultations, personalized goals and orientations, in addition to support from psychologists. One of our ongoing goals is to provide a safe working Incentives: gyms, running groups, among other environment and better quality of life. We encourage health promotion initiatives and quality of life. our employees to attend gyms, running groups, among other initiatives. We also invest in programs In addition, we offer all our employees the and actions, including: following benefits: Quadro de saúde (“Health Panel”): evaluation • Life insurance; and monitoring of employee health. • Healthcare plan; • Deficiency and disability assistance; Programa Fale Comigo (“Talk to Me • Parental leave; and Program”): free and specialized advice in times of • Retirement plan. difficulties, everyday situation concerns or personal and family planning. Services offered are: legal, social Safety is our main objective. We act preventively work, speech therapy, financial services and nutrition. in the anticipation, recognition, evaluation and control of risks when implementing procedures, tools and technologies in the improvement of our operations. FUTSAL TEAM PLAYER AT CPFL ENERGIA | CAMPINAS | SP 2017 Annual Report 43 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR PEOPLE As a way of recording and controlling Security Inspections: we carried out more information related to Occupational Health and than 35,000 inspections, 13,000 of which related Safety, we developed the Primeiro as Pessoas to work safety and focus on behavior and working (“People First”) System – SPAP, to promote conditions, and more than 22,000 behavioral better management and process governance, with inspections involving our own and contracted more standardization, control and enforcement of teams; actions established. Diálogos Diários de Segurança (“Daily Safety In addition to the SPAP, we have other Dialogs”) – DDS: we developed daily discussions continuous initiatives, in order to disseminate the on accident prevention and safety with employees safety culture and act with a focus on accident working in operational areas; prevention, among them including: Diálogos Semanais de Segurança (“Weekly Internal Week for Accident Prevention – Safety Dialogs”) – DSS: we promoted weekly SIPAT: a week dedicated to safety with the theme discussions on accident prevention and safety with CPFL SANTA CRUZ | JAGUARIÚNA EMPLOYEES | SP “Our greatest Value is your Safety”, including the employees working in administrative areas; and 109 Internal Accident Prevention Committees – CIPAs and more than 18,000 of our own and Internal communications: we made more contracted employees; than 500 Safety disclosures of information on the theme throughout 2017. 2017 Annual Report 44 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR PEOPLE Number of injuries, accidents and fatalities by region1 2 Lost Days1 by region In 2017, we recorded 89 accidents. The negative 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 impact on the lost days was due to the occurrence Southeast Region Southeast of two fatal accidents. Despite these sad events, the 7,144 6,666 7,611 Region majority of the accidents registered in the period were Lost day accidents 43 50 63 of minor gravity. More information below: South Region 6,508 377 6,805 Fatalities 1 1 1 Total 13,652 7,043 14,416 Subtotal 44 51 64 1 The calculation of lost days is performed considering “calendar days” South Region and begins to be counted on the day following the accident. Injuries, accidents and fatalities Lost day accidents 13 22 24 by gender in 2017 Lost days by gender in 2017 Fatalities3 1 0 1 Subtotal 14 22 25 0.2% 5.6% Total 58 73 89 1 The standards system applied to the recording and reporting of accident statistics is the NBR 14280; 94.4% All injuries are registered as accidents; 99.8% 2 3 The two fatalities in 2017 occurred with men. Men Women Men Women 2017 Annual Report 45 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR PEOPLE TEAM PROFILE AND TURNOVER GRI 102-7 | 102-8 | 401-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 By the end of 2017, we had 12,8621 people on our team. Below, we present more information about our employee profile: PROFILE OF OUR PEOPLE BY GENDER2 BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT BY REGION AND GENDER 19% 31% Men Women TOTAL Total CPFL employees: Full time2 10,324 2,407 12,731 12,862 1 Part Time TOTAL 2 59 10,383 72 2,479 131 12,8623 69% 81% 2 Employees who work up to 179.99 hours per month, are considered part-time. Above 180 hours, are considered full-time. Men Women 3 The total considers the companies 100% controlled Southeast South by CPFL Energia. 1 The total considers the companies 100% 2 Does not consider employees working part-time. controlled by CPFL Energia. 2017 Annual Report 46 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR PEOPLE In 2017, our turnover rate was 17%, while our hiring rate was 18%. Hiring by age and gender Turnover by age and gender 2016 2017 2016 2017 Employees Hiring Employees Hiring Employees Turnover Employees Turnover By age group By age group hired rate hired rate dismissed rate dismissed rate Up to 30 Up to 30 1,201 36% 1,134 28% 639 19% 916 23% years old years old Between 30 and Between 30 and 861 15% 1,073 14% 582 10% 980 13% 50 years old 50 years old Over 50 years Over 50 years 46 4% 60 5% 149 12% 324 26% old old Total 2,108 21% 2,267 18% Total 1,370 13% 2,220 17% By gender By gender Men 1,512 19% 1,801 17% Men 928 12% 1,632 16% Women 596 26% 466 19% Women 442 20% 588 24% Total 2,108 21% 2,267 18% Total 1,370 13% 2,220 17% 2017 Annual Report 47 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR PEOPLE Organizational Climate Survey Over last year, we conducted an organizational climate survey with our employees. The consultation followed the ‘Great Place to Work’ methodology, and evaluated aspects, dimensions such as employee perspective, cultural practices and transformation in the work environment through management. The survey had an attendance of 77% and showed employees feel proud of our Company. The results also demonstrate that our employees have a high degree of engagement, mainly due to the work environment, growth opportunities and professional development, as well as work satisfaction. The survey also showed the points to be improved such as greater integration between different areas and people management. These topics will be worked out in 2018, through collaboratively constructed action plans. RGE SUL INTEGRATED OPERATING CENTER | SÃO LEOPOLDO | RS 2017 Annual Report 48 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR RELATIONSHIPS STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIP is one of the main CUSTOMER ORIENTATION pillars of our value creation process and contributes Our clients are the focus of our work. Being a directly to the positive reputation of our brand and company, our current strategy seeks guidance from our business. them on the constant evolution of their consumption In addition to maintaining ethical conduct and experience. We work to improve our service and respecting human rights which we consider to create solutions that are aligned with customer be the most basic of our premises in relation to our expectations, such as more energy efficiency, speed, stakeholders we seek to continually improve the autonomy and comfort. policies that guide our relations, not only to mitigate In 2017, we were delighted to receive the risks, but most of all, contribute effectively to improve ‘Companies that Most Respect the Customer’ people’s quality of life. award, a recognition for companies that demonstrate, in practice, respect for their consumers in the view of their clients. The award is granted from a study conducted by the Consumidor Moderno magazine, CUSTOMER SERVICE under the technical coordination of Ponte Estratégia company, in partnership with MindMiners and the Centro de Inteligência Padrão. 2017 Annual Report 49 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR RELATIONSHIPS Transforming Customer Service Project Call Center Improvements: we evolved the service system platform and improved customer accessibility; In 2016, we launched the ‘Transforming Customer Service Project’, based on a series of innovations to Redesign of the mobile app and webpage: bring more speed, convenience and satisfaction to in September 2017, we released a new version of our VALIDATION OF DOCUMENTS our Distributors’ customers. The Project started with app, which was renamed to cpflenergia. Among the THROUGH CUSTOMER SELFIE a research with these customers and, as a result, improvements made, we have increased the number of In 2017, we have implemented another established three points of development, which were: available services from 12 to 30 such as the availability improvement in the change of ownership process to better understand customer needs; anticipate of a copy of the bill, reporting power outages and related to new connection for residential customers: their expectations; and maintain clear and assertive consumption history and also created a more friendly the validation of documents by e-mail. Previously, communication. website that offers the four most used services by our in order to carry out the change of ownership of a customers right on the homepage (responsible for residence, the client had to go to one of our service As a result we improved our customer service 70% of contacts with our channels); and agencies in person or wait for the electrician to go to functions in 2017. Check below: the place to do the validation of documents; now, Ombudsman: we have achieved ISO 9001 the customer just needs to send all the documents Implementation of new IVR: to streamline certification, an international standard that ensures by email, including a selfie holding an ID document. customer demands in our Interactive Voice Response the quality management of products and / or services. – IVR, we reformulated the sequence of options The certification was the result of a project started in This new feature came into effect after the (prioritizing the most frequent services) and included July 2016, which included the redesign of processes, recognition and approval of ANEEL, and has offered new features, such as sending a copy of the bill via improvements in the quality of service, reduction of more convenience to our customers, who can carry SMS (in addition to the mail option). Also, we extended response time and creation of indicators for measuring out this process without leaving home. the reconnection request function via the IVR, which results. All of this had one goal: improving customer became available 24 hours a day; satisfaction with our services. 2017 Annual Report 50 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR RELATIONSHIPS ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM GRI 103-2 103-3 To encourage more intelligent and efficient consumption by our customers, we have the Energy Efficiency Program. With it, we seek opportunities and offer solutions to reduce energy consumption in homes and businesses, including industries, hospitals, public agencies and others. Among the actions of the Program, we highlight the replacement of obsolete equipment and the education initiatives, aimed at combating waste and promoting the safe use of energy. In 2017, the Company invested more than R$ 54 million, which represented a reduction of 35,568.60 MWh per year, enough to supply a municipality with more than 210 thousand people for a month. Of this total, R$ 33 million was spent on projects for low-income customers, and we worked together to regularize more than 2,860 consumer units. We also invested R$ 7.7 million in education programmes in 225 schools, which impacted 75 thousand students and 5,031 teachers, through playful and interactive initiatives on energy efficiency practices. These initiatives directly contribute to improving the habits and behaviors of current and future customers. Learn more about the program by watching the video on the link: https://goo.gl/kYWQ94. PRAÇA DAS ÁGUAS (“ WATER SQUARE”) | SOROCABA | SP 2017 Annual Report 51 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR RELATIONSHIPS Customer satisfaction In order to measure and monitor customer perception of our services, we participated in satisfaction surveys, with emphasis on the ABRADEE Survey which compares the level of customer WHITE TARIFF satisfaction of the largest distributors in the Sector On January 1st, 2018, our customers were able to join the ‘White Tariff’, a new consumption option in which the energy and ANEEL satisfaction survey. value varies according to the day and time of use. If the customer uses more energy in periods of low demand (such as In 2017, two of our Distributors were recognized morning, early afternoon and dawn), they will have the option of reducing the amount paid for energy consumed. by the Abradee Award. CPFL Santa Cruz SP received Since 2016, we have been preparing for this change, keeping the focus on maintaining the quality of service for customers the award for best Distributor in Brazil, in the category who opt for the new tariff. To achieve this, we have invested in some important updates, such as: up to 500 thousand consumers, and RGE RS was awarded as the best Distributor in the South region. • Approval of the new meters with INMETRO; This was the first time that CPFL Santa Cruz received • Replacement of current meters with new ones; this recognition, while RGE was awarded for the eighth time, which places it as the biggest winner in • Training of meter readers, electricians, customer service center staff and the entire call center; its category. • Adjustment in billing process of energy bills; and In the same period, the Aneel Consumer • Guidance and care for all consumers. Satisfaction Index (IASC) Award was given to RGE Sul, in the category “South above 400 thousand The White Tariff option has been offered gradually and can adhere to the new tariff model new and/or monthly customers consumer units”, and CPFL Santa Cruz, in the category with consumption exceeding 500 kWh. Within our operation, we estimate that around 100 thousand customers will “South and Southeast”, above 30 thousand up to 400 be able to make the change. In 2019, the White Tariff will be available for units with an average consumption of over thousand consumer units.” The IASC Seal is the largest 250 kWh/month and, in 2020, for all low voltage customers (regardless of their consumption level). and most important recognition in Brazil’s Power Sector and reflects the perception of clients regarding the quality of service provided. 2017 Annual Report 52 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR RELATIONSHIPS Population safety GRI EU24 | EU25 | 103-2 | 103-3 The safety of the population is a significant issue In order to increase and deepen the impact on for us. We understand that it is our responsibility to the population, the Chega de Choque Campaign provide, through our distributors, energy with quality, was present in 623 municipalities within our while disseminating a culture of safety among our concession areas, where it carried out blitzes with the customers in order to avoid accidents along the grid. population and presented videos that addressed the care that should be taken. You can see a campaign Every year, we make announcements in several video at https://chegadechoque.com.br/ media outlets about the risks of interfering in electricity grid, alerting the communities that live in In addition to the Chega de Choque Campaign, our concession areas. In 2017, the Chega de Choque we conducted the External Campaign for Prevention (“No More Shocks”) campaign was an important of Electrical Accidents CEPAE, presenting lectures Ao construir initiative, that sought new ways to raise awareness about these risks. in more than 450 schools, institutions, buildings and power plants, named: “Prevention of Electrical Risk”. ou pintar, fique longe da rede elétrica ou Among the initiatives of the Campaign, we fique perto de morrer. highlight the creation of a website in which people have the opportunity to share their stories about accidents with the electricity grid and thus alert w w w.chegadechoque.com.br everyone about the dangers of informally carrying out activities such as tree pruning, house roof repairs and/or flying kites near the electricity grid. “When building or painting, stay away from the power grid or stay close to dying.” 2017 Annual Report 53 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR RELATIONSHIPS Due to the challenging moment, in 2017 Brazil CLOSENESS TO SUPPLIERS During the period covered by the report, we recorded an increase in the number of unemployed GRI 102-9 | 102-15 | 103-2 | 103-3 started to contract products and services through people and, consequently, informal workers. Many the SAP Ariba system, a solution created to connect people who lost their jobs ventured autonomously buyers and suppliers of products and services in the construction industry, doing so-called “filler through a quick and simple virtual platform. With jobs”, which led them to have reckless contact with Our relationship with suppliers is an important Ariba, we now have access to the world’s largest the electricity grid. In addition to informality, in asset for our performance and has a direct business-trading network, in which more than the reporting period we also recorded an increase impact on results. It is part of our strategy to 2 million companies conduct business transactions. in attempts to steal electrical equipment (such as foster the improvement of business management cables), an activity that, in addition to being illegal, and technical-operational development in our In 2017, we worked with 2,5791 companies. is very dangerous. supply chain. Of this total, we consider 106 as strategic partners because together they represent more than Even with the efforts we made to raise 80% of our transactions with suppliers and 67 awareness of the risks, the economic environment as critical, since, besides being strategic, they contributed to the fact that, unfortunately, there present high operational criticality and/or may were 61 accidents among the population, of which offer reputational risks. 26 involved fatalities. These numbers sadden us, and we will continue to invest all the resources we have available to offer people awareness and safety. 1 The number considers only companies that were contracted centrally, that is, with contractual amounts above R$ 20,000. In November 2017, with the acquisition of RGE Sul, we increased our supplier base by 424 companies, which are already managed in an integrated manner by the CPFL Group. 2017 Annual Report 54 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR RELATIONSHIPS Strengthening risk management the companies themselves. In the case of suppliers generation. Among the initiatives we have developed that are already active, we carry out visits to verify is the Rede de Valor (“Value Network”), a program In order to provide products and/or services to whether the commitments entered into are fully that encourages our suppliers to share their best our Group, the applicant company must meet a complied with. practices related to corporate sustainability. series of prerequisites that guarantee a partnership and transparency. We also evaluate the adherence of the labor and In addition, every two years, we hold the CPFL social security documents of outsourced employees Mais Valor Award, which recognizes suppliers that Among the commitments we demand are issues that are part of our operations, through the Thirdstood out the most in the period. The last Award was related to labor relations (working hours, decent pay, Party Documentation Management Cell, an area held in 2016 and the next will be in 2018. freedom of association, etc.), safety at work, social dedicated exclusively to the evaluation of suppliers of responsibility (non-direct or indirect involvement the critical scope. In 2017, the Cell evaluated 8,268 You can learn more about supplier with child labor or forced labor), the fight against third parties from 312 different contracts, signed with relationships in our Suppliers Portal on the following discrimination, and commitment to ethics and respect 126 suppliers. link https://goo.gl/5Uv7Mm. for the environment. All required commitments can be found in our Code of Ethical Conduct, access to Encouraging good practices which is extended to all our suppliers. In accordance with our proposal to foster our In addition to the requirements expressed in suppliers’ management improvement, we encourage the contract, we work with a formal environmental suppliers to adopt good socio-environmental and social risk identification process. For companies practices, to be more sustainable in the management under approval (beginners), monitoring is carried of their operations. This aims to create an environment out through a self-evaluation report completed by conducive to ethical business and shared value 1 Critical scope includes exclusive suppliers (that is, they are the only ones that offer us a particular product or service) or offer operational or imaging risk. 2017 Annual Report 55 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR RELATIONSHIPS COMMUNICATION WITH EMPLOYEES Field and Services MultiApp: a new Meeting with the President: we promote communication channel that we created in 2017, periodic meetings between employees and our For the creation and maintenance of a team which is totally mobile, directed exclusively to our President, Andre Dorf. The meetings are held in our committed not only to the Mission, Vision and operational teams, consisting of exclusive content in units and represent a unique opportunity to exchange Principles of our Company, but also to our strategic video, audio and/or short text notes; information about the main achievements of the planning and results, we seek to establish a simple, period, strategic data and clarification of doubts. direct communication line capable of engaging CPFL Informa (“CPFL News”): a vehicle that our people. brings content of interest to all employees (or a large part of them) that serve as support for our Through the use of different channels, we internal campaigns; show our internal employees how important it is to us, and how their posture and attitude towards the Executive Channel: addressed to our leaders, challenges of everyday life influence directly not only strategic in character and brings information of great in our business but also in the whole organizational relevance to this audience; climate. In addition, we use internal communication to show the opportunities for personal and professional Vai e Vem (“Come and Go”): keeps our people evolution that our company offers. informed about hiring, promotions and movements of our leaders; and Among the main tools we use to share these messages are: 2017 Annual Report 56 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR RELATIONSHIPS COMMUNICATION WITH THE PRESS magazine, which seeks to recognize the quality of the our relationship proposal to go beyond the direct and relationship that companies maintain with journalists indirect benefits generated by our businesses and find We have a close relationship with the press, based and the market. ways to contribute to people’s lives. on the principles of transparency and ethics. To keep in constant contact with the media, we promote CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY In order to direct our work to the communities that meetings between journalists and our spokespeople, GRI 102-15 | 413-1 | 413-2 permeate our operations (or that are impacted in some organize visits to the editorial offices of some way by our actions), we have our Sustainability Platform communication agencies, as well as to conduct The activity we carry out in our core business is essential (which can be seen on page 31 of this report) and our workshops on the Power Sector to train journalists. In and indispensable for society. It is impossible to think Social Investment Policy, a public document, that can addition, we seek to respond in a structured manner of a safer and more comfortable life without access to be accessed here goo.gl/aY7UN7, which presents how to requests for interviews, as well as maintain a press electrical power, which helps us to keep chilled food, take we propose to collaborate for the development of this service 24 hours a day. In addition, we keep all of our a hot shower, provide air-conditioned environments, target audience. published news updated in an exclusive space on our and many other things. In addition, without electricity, website, where journalists can find a vast amount of industry and commerce would not be able to develop material about our company. and collaborate for the country’s economic and social growth. In 2017, we received (for the 3rd time) the “Companies that Best Communicate with the Press” Although our rendered service is indispensable award, organized by the Negócios da Comunicação to society and represents our driving force, it is part of 2017 Annual Report 57 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR RELATIONSHIPS Instituto CPFL about the Institute by watching the video on the Cine CPFL (“CPFL Movie theater”): a room with highlink https://goo.gl/2hofde. tech equipment that displays a permanent and free Conceived in 2003, the Instituto CPFL has been program, as well as international shows. In 2017, there undergoing a strengthening process since 2015 and Next, you can learn about our main culture, arts and were 86 sessions with an audience of 3,300 people. today is our social investment platform. In 2017, the sports activities: Institute centralized most of our social actions and Exhibitions: an art gallery that hosts exhibitions in invested R$ 21.6 million (including incentive amounts). Café Filosófico CPFL (“CPFL Philosophical Coffee”): partnerships with renowned institutions and with a Of this total, R$ 7.1 million was invested in private face-to-face meetings with intellectuals from various focus on art and education through mediated visits. In social investment initiatives. We estimate that these areas of knowledge, lives on the internet, recorded 2017, two exhibitions were held with a total audience investments benefited approximately 100,000 people and broadcasted on TV Cultura, which addresses the of 6,900 people and 172 mediated visits. in 96 municipalities, through face-to-face and remote concerns and anxieties of contemporary society. In participation. 2017, 30 meetings (with a total audience of 5,000 Circuito CPFL (“CPFL Circuit”): a national program that people) and live broadcasts (with a total reach of takes cinema activities (Cine Solar and Cine Autorama) The CPFL Institute is an OSCIP (Civil Society Organization 160,000 people) and 80 TV shows were held (with an to various municipalities in our concession areas, of Public Interest), with its own governance structure, annual audience of 36 million people ). music (concerts with maestro João Carlos Martins) which includes a Board of Directors and a Fiscal Council. and sports activities (races, walks and cycling tours). Contemporary Music: the only regular Brazilian In 2017, 166 events were held in 96 cities in six states, The social investment initiatives of our Institute are series of concerts dedicated to the music of our with a total audience of 50,000 people. Learn more structured on five fronts: Culture, Sports, Education, time, recorded and made available on the internet about the program by watching the video on the link Public Management and Community Development. and broadcasted on Rádio Cultura FM. In 2017, there https://goo.gl/DKVupy. All of them have the cross-cutting goal of transforming were 15 public concerts with 2,600 people and 53 the communities where we operate, through radio programs. the management of knowledge. Learn more 1 According to Ibope of 2017. 2017 Annual Report 58 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR RELATIONSHIPS Main social development initiatives Projects, approximately R$ 5.2 million were invested With the aim of multiplying knowledge of our Institute GRI 413-1 | 413-2 in communities around our areas of activity, in the and adding shared value, our Institute also has states of Rio Grande do Sul and São Paulo. the Semear volunteer program, an internal initiative involving 850 volunteers, which, in 2017, With the projects we carry out in partnership In 2017, our Institute’s private social investment benefited approximately five thousand people by with Geekie, Tamboro and Instituto Ecofuturo, initiatives were structured to strengthen public developing 80 actions in 10 municipalities in the we seek to increase knowledge in public schools, management and local development, based on seven countryside of São Paulo. through the use of digital platforms and adaptive ongoing major projects and under an investment of learning, in addition to providing more access to approximately R$ 7.1 million. reading with the implementation of community Following this line, we carried out two projects libraries. In all, approximately 13,000 students of institutional development in the Municipal were benefited. Councils for the Rights of Children and Adolescents Another project of great local impact that we (CMDCA) and Municipal Councils for the Rights carried out was the partnership with ToLife, which of the Elderly (CMDI), which we executed in 17 implemented a system to classify and organize the municipalities in the countryside of the states of flow of patients in Emergency Care Units of public São Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul. The total value of hospitals and / or that attend to the Unified Health the investment was R$ 1.7 million. System SUS. In addition, we also contributed to Another initiative to promote local the National Oncology Support Program Pronon, development was the execution of projects using which collaborated with projects for technological ISE (Social Investments of Companies) resources expansion of hospitals providing care for people social sub-credit of the BNDES. Through these with cancer. INSTITUTO ECOFUTURO LIBRARY | CAMPINAS | SP 2017 Annual Report 59 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR RELATIONSHIPS Other initiatives of Private Social Park is the result of research done before, during and Investment of the CPFL Group after the implementation of HPP Barra Grande, revealing GRI 413-1 | 413-2 a bit of the history of the region’s former inhabitants, whose vestiges indicate occupations of the site about 1,400 years ago. To learn more about Baesa initiatives, access: goo.gl/gpdMdw. In addition to the social investments we carry out HPP Barra Grande Socio-environmental centrally in our Institute, our plants also contribute Responsibility Program: supports several projects directly to the communities that live around our aimed at income generation, the environment, culture, operations and benefit thousands of people. sports, health, public safety and social development in municipalities within the area of influence of HPP Barra Among the main social investment initiatives of the Grande. During the period, 38 projects were received, plants, we highlight: of which 21 were selected and received investment of R$ 5.4 million from BAESA and from partners. Of this Baesa total, R$ 883,868.10 comes from our plant. Pinhal da Serra Archaeological Park: created in partnership with the Pinhal da Serra Municipal Government and IPHAN, the Park located on the São Jorge Line brings together a set of 11 semi-subterranean houses, funeral structures and TEATRANDO GROUP | ÁGUAS DE CHAPECÓ | SC ceremonial spaces, as well as areas destined to the collection of raw material and workshop of artifacts. The 2017 Annual Report 60 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OUR RELATIONSHIPS Foz do Chapecó During the period, the program promoted 78 projects, CPFL Renováveis of which 45 were selected and received from ENERCAN Social investment: in 2017, HPP Foz do Chapecó Raízes Program: a private social investment project and partners a total investment of R$ 7.9 million, of invested R$ 4.5 million, through Fiscal Incentive that aims to increase positive social impact in the which R$ 3.5 million from our Plant. In addition, through Laws, in projects that directly serve the communities communities that live around the operations of CPFL a partnership with institutions such as the Agribusiness surrounding the project, with special emphasis on Renováveis, in the social, environmental and economic Research and Rural Extension Company Epagri, the construction of the Museum of the Balseiros in fields. The program’s strategy is to establish a close and National Rural Apprenticeship Service Senar and Chapecó SC, the maintenance of centers of social trustworthy relationship for the social and environmental Secretaries of Agriculture, free courses are developed inclusion for children and adolescents in the city development of the territories served. In the last cycle of with the objective of contributing to the cultivation of of Alpestre RS, sponsorship for theater tours and the Program (2016-2017), R$ 6.5 million were invested, fruits, fish, milk among other products, developing the circus presentations for the public school system, the which indirectly benefited 76,000 people. Since its local economy and providing an income alternative project for the construction of an athletics track at inception, the Raízes Program has already made a social for rural producers in the region. To learn more about the Community University of the Region of Chapecó investment of around R$ 9.4 million. To learn more about Enercan initiatives, access: goo.gl/6xuFrF. (Unochapecó) and the support to the Brazilian CPFL Renováveis initiatives, access: goo.gl/fjCixP. Association of Cancer Patients. To learn more about Foz do Chapecó initiatives, access: goo.gl/bDfZA2. Ceran Complex Social investment: invested in 34 social projects in Enercan 2017. In total, R$ 11.5 million were invested, of which HPP Campos Novos Projects: Enercan’s Responsibility R$ 1.8 million were invested by incentive from Ceran’s Program works collaboratively to improve the quality of enterprises (own resources and tax incentive laws), life of the communities, stimulating partnerships for the and the remainder was raised with partners and development of the region, investing in safety, health, counterpart of tenderers. To learn more about Ceran environment, incentive to sports, culture and education. Complex initiatives, access: goo.gl/RYBdTk. 2017 Annual Report 61 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT STRENGTHENING INNOVATION GRI 102-15| 201-2 | EU8 2030 VISION FORCES THAT ARE INFLUENCING THE ENERGY SECTOR THE POWER SECTOR is undergoing an important transformation process, impacted by the constant technological evolutions of the 21st 2. DIRECTION 3. INTRODUCTION OF DISRUPTIVE 1. GREATER CONSUMER POWER FOR SUSTAINABILITY TECHNOLOGIES century, introduced mainly by the digitization and automation. In this context, we have More customers demand quality of The growth of environmental commitment By 2030, technologies such as smart opportunities provided by the wide connectivity, services, attentive to their rights and is transforming the way we generate and grids, distributed generation and energy social and environmental impacts consume electricity. The trend is for a more storage will be even more developed artificial intelligence, internet of things (IoT), generated by companies, will inﬂuence sustainable consumption, under economic and disseminated across the electric grid industry 4.0, and also challenges such as climate the regulator in the deﬁnition of rules growth and a search for more environmental and will impact the traditional business change, social inequalities and in the case of and policies for the sector. responsibility. of electricity distribution companies. the Power Sector clean and renewable energy generation, as well as the increasing requirement MAIN INNOVATION TRENDS IN THE ENERGY SECTOR of customers to have at their disposal new products and services, aligned with conscious consumer practices. Smart Energy Distributed grids storage generation Under this accelerated pace of change, maintaining a clear and well-designed vision for the future is an essential factor for our success New technologies Electrical Smart in the medium and long term. Thus, we work for solar energy Mobility Meters with a vision for the year 2030, in which we see three major influences and the main trends of innovation for the Power Sector. Check it out next: NEW BUSINESS MODELS 2017 Annual Report 62 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT STRENGTHENING INNOVATION GRI 102-15| 201-2 | EU8 Our 2030 Vision represents an essential driver PROJECTS AND INVESTMENTS IN R&D of our innovation projects, which involve not AUTOMATION According to the regulation of our Sector, only the work of our Research & Development distributors must invest 0.5% of their revenue in In 2017, we made significant progress in process (R&D) teams, but also the entire leadership of the R&D projects and another 0.5% in energy efficiency automation. Through the implementation of Company. You can learn more about our innovation programs. Generators invest 1% of their revenue. Robotic Process Automation RPA, we have fronts by watching the video available on the modernized and optimized the execution of link https://goo.gl/vCgK3h. In 2017, we invested R$ 44.5 million in this operational activities, such as the issuance of activity. Of this amount, R$ 22.7 million was electricity bills. The incorporation of this technology Due to our projects and achievements, in 2017, invested by Distributors 29% of this amount was resulted in an increase in productivity, generating we have integrated three important innovation allocated to the planning of the electric system savings in the bills printing activity. rankings: we are among the top five Hitachi and 25% to alternative sources of energy and Transformation Award finalists being the only R$ 21.8 million were invested by Generators1 in In addition to operational gains and cost reduction, company in Latin America we are ranked 12th in which our Company has participation. Check out the implementation of this robot software allowed the Best Innovator ranking, which awards the most the following details: an increase in the productivity of our teams, who innovative companies since 2003 (and since 2010 were able to devote more time on analytical and in Brazil). In addition to these, we were included in strategic activities. the Valor Econômico Brasil 2017 yearbook, a Valor Econômico publication that lists the 150 most innovative companies in Brazil. 1 Does not include investments by CPFL Renováveis. 2017 Annual Report 63 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT STRENGTHENING INNOVATION GRI 102-15| 201-2 | EU8 Distributors Investment in R&D (in R$ thousand) Theme 2015 2016 2017 Energy Efficiency 0 109 2,314 Alternative sources of electric power generation 4,184 942 5,753 Metering, billing and fighting commercial losses 217 0 109 Environment 777 0 0 Operation of Electric Power Systems 3,195 4,936 2,696 Other 2,700 1,674 1,496 Electric Power Systems Planning 8,520 6,903 6,478 Quality and Reliability of Electric Energy Services 2,020 149 52 Safety 2,949 2,639 2,308 Supervision, Control and Protection of Electric Power Systems 2,897 1,926 1,465 Total invested 27,461 19,279 22,671 10 Este montante TANQUINHO SOLAR POWER PLANT os não contempla investimentos | CAMPINAS | SPda CPFL Renováveis. 2017 Annual Report 64 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT STRENGTHENING INNOVATION GRI 102-15| 201-2 | EU8 Generators Investment in R&D (in R$ thousand) CPFL Group R&D Theme 2015 2016 2017 Investments (in R$ million)1 Energy Efficiency 785 307 4,201 44.5 Alternative sources 0 124 0 Alternative sources of electric power generation 3,549 4,012 4,827 36.4 35.2 22.7 Thermoelectric Generation 0.5 1,821 6,200 27.5 19.3 Basin and Reservoir Management 1,493 2,012 287 Environment 1,738 940 3,337 21.8 Operation of Electric Power Systems 0 1,248 1,356 15.9 8.9 Other 372 493 553 Electric Power Systems Planning 797 4,792 261 2015 2016 2017 Supervision, Control and Protection 197 195 780 Distribution Generation of Electric Power Systems Total invested 8,931 15,945 21,801 1 Does not include investments by CPFL Renováveis. 2017 Annual Report 65 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT STRENGTHENING INNOVATION GRI 102-15| 201-2 | EU8 Our innovation projects are classified on (refrigerator, stove, electric shower) consumes, so more robust maintenance plans; and two fronts: that they can direct their energy efficiency actions • Self-grounded pole: technological with more precision; and development, manufacturing and installation of selfStructural: focus on long-term projects • Storage: in 2017, we initiated three R&D grounded poles, eliminating the need to install an targeting on the future of the Power Sector, projects to analyze the impacts of insertion and use external grounding system on the poles. considering its main trends in technologies and of batteries throughout the electrical system chain, business models. On this front, among the ongoing from generation to end customer. RELATIONSHIP WITH STARTUPS – CPFL INOVA projects throughout the year, we can mention: • Mobilidade Elétrica (“Electric Mobility”): Operational Excellence: focused on the Developed in partnership with Endeavor, a global installation of 26 electric service stations and use excellence of service delivery and focused on dayNGO to promote entrepreneurship, CPFL Inova is of 16 exclusively electric vehicles to evaluate the to-day activities. On this front, among the projects an initiative that aims to identify, approach and impacts on the grid; in progress throughout the year, we can list: cooperate with up to 12 startups and scale-ups • Telhados Solares (“Solar Roofs”): creation of • Poda mecanizada (“Mechanized Pruning”): that are developing solutions with the potential to a real laboratory of distributed generation, from the articulated and telescopic arm with cutting tools transform the Power Sector. installation of photovoltaic panels in Campinas SP. and land operation with wireless communication Launched during our Innovation Week in October Held in partnership with CPqD and Unicamp, the that will significantly improve the quality and 2017, the project lasts seven months and will offer Project has made it possible to study and deepen increase the productivity of pruning activities; to select entrepreneurs a mentoring process led by the impacts of this type of generation for the Sector; • Self-healing system: software tool coupled our executives and the Endeavor network. In addition • Desagregação de Consumo (“Consumption with the optimized recloser allocation, which allows to the intellectual support, the selected companies Breakdown”): development of different the automatic and faster restoration of the service will have access to a fund of R$ 10 million for the methods of breaking down energy consumption, in the event of a network shutdown; development of R&D projects. More information: introducing the concept of Internet of Things. • Ultrasound for inspection of wooden goo.gl/Do9orX. With this technology, customers will have a deep poles: easy-to-use, with electronic control understanding of their consumption, knowing how equipment that significantly increases the much energy each item of their residence/store reliability of wood poles inspections, allowing for 2017 Annual Report 66 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT STRENGTHENING INNOVATION GRI 102-15| 201-2 | EU8 NEW BUSINESS MODELS – ENVO In 2017, we launched ENVO a company focused area required for the placement of the panels, as well GRI 103-2 | 103-3 on the solar distributed generation market for homes as to know more about the production of energy in and small businesses which became the first of our 12 months and the total investment. retail-focused companies. Through it, customers can generate their own energy clean and renewable Initially, ENVO has focused its efforts on the Far beyond the technological innovations and acquire credits, which can be used in rebates concession area of our Distributors, but there are that provide direct benefits to people, the for future bills or in other consumer units that are in plans to expand the operation to other regions. introduction of new technologies has impacted their name. our consumption habits and created new possibilities and business models. In recent years, ENVO’s business model provides a complete ENVO PROMOTES “SUNNY FRIDAY” we have witnessed radical changes in the way solution for the customer, which involves from we communicate, research information, use technical design (evaluating items such as: energy To encourage the adoption of solar energy by transportation, book a hotel, or purchase a product consumption, structural conditions of the property, homes and small businesses, we held, along with or service. Several sectors had the opportunity to levels of solar radiation and shading on the site), ENVO, the Sunny Friday on Black Friday. Through reinvent themselves and create possibilities for including the sale and installation of the solar panels this promotion, we offer a discount of R$ 5 their customers. and all the necessary electrical structure, to the access thousand in the installation of photovoltaic power approval with the local distributor. generation systems of any size to the first 20 clients In the Power Sector, this movement is no enrolled in the campaign, located in the regions of different. We have invested in new products and Customers interested in developing a solar Campinas, Jundiaí, Sorocaba and Piracicaba. technologies, as well as business models, which distributed generation project can use a simulator on This discount makes the acquisition of a distributed aim to meet and even anticipate the demands the ENVO website (www.envo.com.br) which, using solar generation system more affordable, which and expectations of our customers, reinforcing our consumption and locality data, will dimension the may reduce the value of the consumer light bill by company’s position in the low carbon economy. project, the number of solar panels, the minimum up to 95%. 2017 Annual Report 67 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT GRI 102-15 THE MANAGEMENT of our natural capital aims CLIMATE CHANGES GRI 102-12 | 103-2 | 103-3 to minimize the negative environmental impacts generated by our operations, seek maximum efficiency in the use and conservation of natural resources and work together with our stakeholders to stimulate the With great potential for business impact, the issue generation of clean energy and renewable sources. of climate change has a direct relationship with our strategy and high priority in the agenda of our leaders. In this sense, we have an Environmental Management System, aligned with ISO 14001 In our market, we have taken a leading role in certification standard. All our conduct is guided by our promoting a low carbon economy and we have been Environmental Policy (applied since 1997) and by the working so that the Power Sector may evolve in issues Sustainability Policy. related to climate change, such as clean and renewable energy generation and carbon pricing in Brazil. In 2017, we were recognized for our environmental performance by different We participate in several corporate initiatives organizations. We were winners at the Prêmio Época on the subject, such as: Carbon Pricing Leadership Empresa Verde (Green Company Award) in the Coalition CPLC, Brazilian Business Council for Services category. We also received, through RGE, the Sustainable Development CEBDS, World Business Troféu Onda Verde (Green Wave Trophy) of the Prêmio Council for Sustainable Development WBCSD, Expressão de Ecologia (Expression of Ecology Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, Global Compact Brazil Award), offered by Editora Expressão. In addition to Network, Corporate Climate Initiatives IECs and FGV’s these awards, we were recognized by the Guia EXAME Center for Sustainability Studies GVCes. de Sustentabilidade 2017 (2017 Sustainability EXAME Guide) as one of the companies that made the most progress in sustainable development. BONS VENTOS WIND FARM | CE 2017 Annual Report 68 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT GRI 102-15 In 2017, we worked on several actions on the subject, Global Compact Network in Brazil among which we highlight: In the first half of 2017, we coordinated the COP 23 Thematic Group on Energy and Climate, which has encouraged companies to be protagonists in the We have participated in all the Conferences of Parties discussion of themes such as: mitigation, adaptation, COP since 2009. In the last year we were invited to carbon pricing and financing for climate change. speak at a COP 23 side event held in Bonn, Germany, on the importance of implementing carbon pricing One of the Group’s strategies is the dialogue with mechanisms in order to contribute with the Nationally other business initiatives for joint actions, such as the Determined Contribution NDC1 by the participating development of studies, positions and participation in countries in the Paris Agreement. the United Nations Climate Conferences, among other events. At the international level, the Group is aligned At the end of COP 23, the IEC, formed by CEBDS, with the Caring for Climate platform. CDP, Envolverde, GVces, Instituto Ethos and Global Compact Network in Brazil with the support of Among the major projects carried out in 2017, CPLC published a letter signed by CEOs and CFOs we highlight four workshops on the theme “Climate of large companies in Brazil among them our CEO, Financing Dialogues”, whose objective was to discuss Andre Dorf who discusses possible ways to establish access to financial resources for climate change, linking a carbon pricing mechanism appropriate to the financing institutions and companies interested in country’s characteristics. these resources. CAMPOS NOVOS HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT | SC 1 The Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) is the document of each government that records its main commitments and contributions to the future climate agreement that was negotiated after the COP 21. 2017 Annual Report 69 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT GRI 102-15 CARBON CREDIT TRADING GRI EU5 Carbon pricing Since 2007, we have been trading carbon credits. Currently, we have 11 projects registered in In 2017, we started an internal pricing project involving several areas of our Group, with the objectives of the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), an developing a study and assessing the impacts and opportunities of carbon pricing for the Brazilian Power Sector, initiative that was born after the Kyoto Protocol by segment (Generation, Distribution, Commercialization and Services). (signed in 1997) and was created to assist in the GHG reduction process. It consists of two projects In addition, with the expectation that global agreements on GHG emissions will become mandatory from that include two hydroelectric power plants, four 2020, we have participated, with a group of companies, in the Emissions Trading System a tool developed by projects with 15 small hydroelectric plants and five the FGV’s Center for Sustainability Studies GVces -, which consists of a simulation of the cap-and-trade1 system projects with 19 wind farms. Besides these, we have to explain to the private sector regarding the use of this instrument. three projects registered in the Voluntary Carbon Standard VCS (voluntary market). In 2017, through two companies of the Group (Baesa and Foz do Chapecó), we traded 100,132 VCUs (certified emission reductions). 1 Cap-and-trade is an economic tool for pricing GHG emissions (or any other gas that has harmful effects on the environment), whereby regulated entities facing a restriction on their emissions can transact permits to emit gases. 2017 Annual Report 70 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT GRI 102-15 Risk management related to climate change GRI 201-2 Biomass • Availability and distribution of land with In recent decades, climate change has been a factor of attention for companies in all segments of the adequate edaphoclimatic1 conditions economy. In the Power Sector, it is no different. Aware of these impacts, during the reporting period we (agricultural zoning); performed a mapping of the physical and operational risks to which we are subject due to changes in the • Desertification; and climate, which will be deepened during 2018. Among those already mapped, we can mention: • Changes in crop productivity. Distribution and Transmission Generation Solar • Changes in sunshine (cloud formation); and • Increased frequency of interruption in Hydroelectric • Reduced energy production efficiency due to power supply due to the increase in extreme • Reduction in total and seasonal reduced radiation or environmental conditions weather events, such as storms, wind gusts, water availability; lightning and vegetation fall on the power • Increased drought; grid; and • Increased evaporation of reservoirs; and • Potential conflicts over water use Wind • Increased energy demand for the use of air • Changes in intensity, duration, direction and conditioning (in summer) and irrigation. Thermoelectric wind speed; and • Quantity and quality of cooling water; and • Damage to equipment due to extreme • Cooling and operational efficiency of weather conditions. the turbine. 1 Edaphoclimatic condition is a term that refers to the soil and climate environment. 2017 Annual Report 71 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT GRI 102-15 All these risks can generate a series of impacts for our Company, such as financial losses in Distribution and network maintenance services, payment of fines for interruption of power supply, reduction of hydroelectric power generation and consequent deficits in Generation Scaling Factor GSF and higher free market price volatility. Because of this, we have made several investments. In the Generation segment, we have invested in dam safety, which encompasses improvements in maintenance processes, such as the review of Emergency Action Plans (PAEs). In Distribution, we have been investing in preventive maintenance projects (more information on page 85, in the Arborização + Segura (Safer Tree Planting) BARÃO GERALDO SUBSTATION | CAMPINAS | SP Program (page 79) and in innovation initiatives, such In 2017, we also started a Research & our concession area, allowing better allocation and as a Self-healing system, which allows the network Development (R&D) project that also aims to preparation of teams during contingency periods, to automatically reestablish itself in case of power minimize climate risks. The “Forecast Contingency” as well as the reduction of operational indicators interruption (page 65). project is developing a tool to anticipate the such as the System Average Interruption Duration impacts of climate change in different regions of Index indicator SAIDI. 2017 Annual Report 72 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT GRI 102-15 Management of our GHG emissions In 2017, we have chosen to present in this report Emissions by category the inventory results by ownership interest, in other GRI 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-3 | 305-4 | 305-5 words, we account for GHG emissions according to 0.7% We have produced an inventory of our Greenhouse our stake in the share capital of a certain operation, Gas emissions GHG since 2007 and, as a benefit which allows us to include the emissions of generation of this practice, we have acquired a more precise plants in which we do not maintain operational knowledge of the emissions associated with control, but which are in our corporate structure1. 35.5% our activities, identified processes with potential In the reporting2 period, we emitted 1,192,116 for improvement and even became capable of tCO2e. Analyzing our emissions, we observed that 63.7% estimating future emissions, due to new investments 759,900 tCO2e come from scope 1, 423,348 tCO2e and growth. of scope 2 and 8,867 tCO2e from scope 3. Also, we In 2011, we joined the Brazilian GHG Protocol generated 8,107 tCO2e of biogenic emissions, as PBGHGP Program and increased the level of shown in the following graph: Scope 1 Scope 2 transparency of our emissions reporting. The PBGHGP inventory includes all gases internationally recognized Scope 3 as GHG (regulated by the Kyoto Protocol) and is in line with national and international methodologies. 1 In the 2016 Annual Report, we disclose in two forms (ownership interest and operational control). However, for the 2017 Annual Report, we opted to report only by ownership interest. It’s possible to see the complete result of both inventories (ownership interest and control) in the public emission register (link goo.gl/H2WhV3). 2 Unlike in recent years, to present a more accurate picture of our operations, starting in 2017, we start using the base year 2016 (before, we used the base year 2012). 2017 Annual Report 73 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT GRI 102-15 Within Scope 1, the main source of emissions was In Scope 3, the main source of emission was Efficiency monitoring the combustion of fossil fuel at EPASA (69%) the only outsourced transportation for the purchase of goods In 2017, we began to monitor emission intensity thermoelectric generation company in our Group and services (45%), followed by the waste generated indicators for Generation, Distribution and the CPFL followed by the suppression of vegetation (27%) in operations (41%), business travel (12%) and by our Group. By means of these criteria, we can measure and emissions of biomass at CPFL Renováveis (7%). In employees’ trips (1%). our efficiency in GHG emissions, that is, how our 2017, there was an increase in these categories, due to performance on this theme is, regardless of the the need for higher dispatch for thermal, by decision growth or decrease of our operations. of the National System Operator ONS, as well as a Emissions by category (thousand tCO2e) 3 more complete monitoring of GHG emissions from CPFL Renováveis. 798 760 Intensity rate 2017 In Scope 2, most emissions were due to technical 527 490 423 losses1 of energy from Distribution companies, 381 Emissions (scope 1 + 2) per energy 136.174 totaling 419,920 tCO2e (99%). We have been able to generated (tCO2e/GWh) reduce our loss ratio. However, the emission factor 18 6 9 Emissions (Scope 1 + 2) per Energy of the National Interconnected System2 SIN has 17.9 distributed (tCO2e/GWh) increased by 13.5%, which has a direct impact on the 2015 2016 2017 way in which GHG emissions are accounted for. Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Emissions (scope 1 + 2) by Net 44.24 Operating Revenue (tCO2e/ million R$) 3 The 2015 emissions do not include the RGE Sul, which was acquired by the 4 Considering the equity interest of CPFL Renováveis. CPFL Group in the last quarter of 2016. Emissions by Shareholding. 1 As explained on page 11, the Distributors acquire power from generators and resell it to final customers through a Transmission and Distribution system (T & D). Part of the energy being acquired is, however, lost during its transmission which is called “technical loss.” According to the GHG Protocol methodology, emissions resulting from this loss must be reported in Scope 2 (indirect emissions) by the company that owns or controls the T&D operation. To make this calculation, the emission factor of the National Interconnected System SIN of Brazil is used. 2 The National Interconnected System – SIN is a group that controls the energy generated in the five regions of Brazil. The SIN has its own GHG emission factor, which should be considered by all the companies that make up the System. 2017 Annual Report 74 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT GRI 102-15 WASTE GRI 306-2 | 103-2 | 103-3 In 2017, we generated 631 tons of waste. Of this total, 91% were hazardous and 9% non-hazardous. Disposal of hazardous We have a waste management program that waste in 2017 identifies and classifies the main residues generated in our operations. For each type of material mainly Waste by destination (in t)¹ 2% for hazardous waste (class I) the program provides 2015 2016 2017 for storage and transport standards, as well as Hazardous determining appropriate methods, in accordance with current legislation. Reuse 184 373 290 40% 46% Recycling 12 10 13 Non-hazardous waste (class II), which Recovery 73 106 254 corresponds to material removed from the grid (cables, posts, insulators, etc.), are collected in a Incineration 10 20 15 2% reverse logistics process and reused. Materials that Subtotal 278 509 572 cannot be reused are sent to a specialized company, Non-hazardous Reuse Recycling disassembling and assuring proper disposal. Electronic waste is destined for a company that Landfill 5 6 59 Recovery Incineration separates its various components and turns them Subtotal 5 6 592 into raw material. TOTAL 283 514 631 1 Consider the business 100% controlled by CPFL Energia. 2 The significant increase in the production of non-hazardous waste is mainly due to the increase in the disposal of Personal Protective Equipment PPE. 2017 Annual Report 75 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT GRI 102-15 NEW LAYOUT OF OUR EQUIPMENT REFURBISHER In 2017, through CPFL Serviços, we launched the new layout of our equipment refurbisher’s facilities. Located in São José do Rio Pardo – SP, the unit carries out the refurbishing of transformers, voltage regulators, reclosers, among other equipment that, at the end of their useful life, are collected after being removed from distribution grids and brought to be recovered. The implementation of this new layout resulted from an investment of approximately R$6 million, and provided a new organization to our refurbisher, which started working under a production line design. This brought more safety, productivity and quality, and also ensured that we would be awarded the Inmetro Seal. During the reporting period, we recovered more than 8,000 transformers and removed, from different equipment, more than 3,400 tons of scrap iron, CPFL SERVIÇOS EQUIPMENT REFURBISHER | SÃO JOSÉ DO RIO PARDO | SP aluminum, copper, plastic and other materials. 2017 Annual Report 76 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT GRI 102-15 BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT GRI 304-1 | 304-2 | 304-3 | 304-4 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 | EU13 Generation During the reporting period, we maintained 393 In all of the listed projects, we maintain the km (67% are flooded) of our own land, leased and/ 2 administrative and operational area of a hydroelectric The energy generating process may impact local or managed within or adjacent to protected areas plant (reservoir and engine room), and none of them biodiversity, which are identified during the and/or with high biodiversity value located outside are in protected areas or buffer zones2. However, in environmental licensing processes, being defined protected areas. Our projects and their respective Foz do Chapecó HPP, there are two areas that breach in the environmental studies elaborated prior to the protected or areas of high biodiversity are as follows1: the reservoir PPA, and these areas are considered implementation of each project. important for the region’s biodiversity – according Among the impacts normally identified in to fauna monitoring carried out by the project and, this type of project, we highlight: change in water Barra Grande HPP -----------------------------126 km2 as required by IBAMA – are in the process of being and soil quality; change in fauna; change in acquired. Campos Novos HPP ----------------------------51 km2 water availability; etc. In order to minimize these During our fauna monitoring process, in the impacts, the monitoring and conservation of Monte Claro HPP ---------------------------------4 km2 area of Foz do Chapecó HPP, species classified as Permanent Preservation Areas (PPA), fauna and flora, 14 de Julho HPP ----------------------------------8 km2 “endangered” were identified, two of which being ichthyofauna (fish species), surface water quality and herpetofauna (reptiles and amphibians), five erosion are part of our activities. Castro Alves HPP --------------------------------10 km2 avifauna (birds) and three mammals. Foz do Chapecó HPP --------------------------135 km2 CPFL Renováveis (Wind Farms, SHPP and TPP) -----59 km2 1 The location of these projects can be analyzed on page 12. 2 Buffer zones are areas located around a conservation unit, with the objective of filtering the negative impacts of activities carried out outside it, such as noise, pollution, invasive species, etc. 2017 Annual Report 77 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT GRI 102-15 In the areas of CPFL Renováveis’ projects in In addition to the constant monitoring of the Ceran: promotes training meetings for Rio Grande do Norte, a vulnerable bird species – biodiversity at the areas in which we operate, we institutions in the region, aimed at promoting, pintassilgo-do-nordeste (Spinus yarrellii) – and a work to raise awareness among local communities preparing and attracting projects focused on areas species of endangered reptile – cobrinha-de-duas about the importance of environmental protection supported by the Company. The impacts resulting cabeças (Amphisbaena heathi) – were identified. and invest in social and environmental programs from the project operation are monitored by an In Rio Grande do Sul, the following species were and initiatives that aim to conserve vegetation environmental licensing process and by periodic classified as vulnerable: tuco-tuco (Ctenomys around reservoirs and preserve biodiversity of the environmental audits – performed by third parties – minutus), ema (Rhea americana), gavião cinza region. Among the initiatives, we highlight: to assess compliance with the requirements and the (Circus cinereus), noivinha do rabo preto (Xolmis Integrated Management System, which is certified Baesa: third year of the Experimental dominicanus) and jaguatirica (Leopardus pardalis). by ISO 9001, ISO 14.001 and OHSAS 18.001. Program that has released 141,500 native species In Santa Catarina, we monitor the morcego ‘fingerlings’ in the Barra Grande HPP reservoir. In Enercan: released 55,000 native species falso-vampiro (Chrotopterus auritus) and the 2017, Baesa maintained its Social and Environmental fingerlings in the Campos Novos HPP reservoir. lontra (Lontra longicaudis), which are threatened, Responsibility Program, which selected 21 projects In the period, the project developed, for the 6th in addition to gato-do-mato-pequeno (Leopardus to support and direct a financial contribution of consecutive year, the Conservation Program for guttulus) and the veado-mão-curta (Mazama nana), R$5.4 million, and also delivered the 6th Program for Permanent Preservation Areas (APP), which awards which are both in a state of vulnerability. the Conservation of the Permanent Preservation the five best initiatives from local residents living in Area of the reservoir, awarding ten local residents the Plant’s reservoir region. In Minas Gerais, there are records of the in the region who developed the best practices of morceguinho-do-cerrado (Lonchophylla dekeyseri), Foz do Chapecó: carried out the release of conservation and environmental preservation. the lontra (Lontra longicaudis) and the arara canindé more than 270,000 fingerlings in the Plant’s reservoir, (Ara ararauna) – all of which are almost considered formalized an agreement with fishing associations endangered species. to pass on resources to support fishing. 2017 Annual Report 78 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT GRI 102-15 Transmission and Distribution The construction of transmission and distribution lines often requires suppression of vegetation, which may PRESERVA PROGRAM GRI EU13 generate environmental impacts related to the alteration efficiency to reforestation, these new models The Preserva Program is a reforestation initiative of landscape, alteration of flora and fauna, among others. promoted a significant cost reduction, as well as that arose from the need for forest replenishment, In the construction of projects considered as potentially greater environmental significance to mandatory in proportion to the expansion of our electric polluting, the environmental agency is required to carry reforestation. Considering the contractual values, system. Previously, these offsets were promoted out studies to obtain installation and operating licenses, in comparison to the reforestation costs applied in small and dispersed areas. Under the new which aim to monitor the local flora and fauna in order in the previous model, in eight years we saved model, we approved with CETESB (environmental to minimize the impacts generated during the work. about R$1.79 million, reducing our cost by protection agency for the State of São Paulo) 60% with implementation and maintenance of To minimize them, we work with well-defined a methodology in which we can combine reforestation in dispersed areas. rules that guide the choice of routes for the construction the environmental recovery commitment of new energy grids and determine that lines deviate agreements, directing planting schemes to This program extends the protection and from forest fragments and isolated trees. In places where sites of ecological interest defined in a mutual conservation of water resources and also it is not possible to change the grid’s routes, as standard, agreement with the environmental agency. biodiversity – it is part of the Programa Nascentes we elevate the structures and posts. (“Headwaters Program”), which is promoted by In addition to providing more robustness and the government of the state of São Paulo. In addition, we maintain our tree plantings and the so-called “service strips”, which are the areas on which our transmission lines are located. Because of these measures, we have significantly reduced our impact on biodiversity. 2017 Annual Report 79 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT GRI 102-15 In 2017, we delivered a 42 km transmission line to enable the operation of a new Sabesp plant – the São Lourenço Production System (SP) – for water supply in the state of São Paulo, substantially preserving local vegetation. Learn more about the ARBORIZAÇÃO + SEGURA urban environment, the substitution by adequate building of this line on page 89. (“SAFER TREE PLANTING”) seedlings and monitoring the growth of the plants There are, however, situations that do not allow reduces the need for pruning and contributes to In 2017, we continued the Arborização + Segura us to adopt these measures. In these cases, we harmonious coexistence between urban facilities Project, created to replace unsuitable trees by request authorization by environmental agencies and population in the cities. species adapted to the urban environment. The to carry out the suppression of vegetation, which project is present in 15 cities in our concession The Arborização + Segura Project is carried always includes the offsetting of impacts by means areas, listed according to the interference in the out jointly with municipal governments and of heterogeneous plantations or preservation of power grid, water and sewage, and accessibility contributed to our Company being highlighted areas proportional to the damages caused. of people. in the 2017 Exame Sustainability Guide. As well Another impact of energy distribution activities as replacing trees, the Program also leverages In the reporting period, we replaced about 400 is the reduction of plant cover in the urban an environmental education project in the trees and donated more than 9,000 seedlings to environment through pruning, which is justified by city’s schools. You can watch a Project video the municipalities that welcomed the initiative. In the maintenance of the networks for the supply of here: goo.gl/ke3gjg. addition to reducing the number of interruptions energy with quality and safety to our customers. in the power grid due to poor tree planting in the These prunings are performed by professionals trained according to technical standards and relevant legislation. To minimize this impact, CPFL carries out an afforestation program with partner municipalities and donations of forest seedlings to recompose the urban greening throughout the municipalities. 2017 Annual Report 80 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE GENERATION GRI 102-7 | EU1 | EU2 In the reporting period, we continued to expand our Generation and increased our Total Installed Capacity (in MW)2 CPFL Energia Installed installed capacity by 0.8%, from 3,259 MW to Capacity in 2017 % Var. 3,283 MW1, mainly due to the opening of the Power Source 2015 2016 2017 2016 – Pedra Cheirosa Wind Farm by CPFL Renováveis, 2017 6% with 23 wind turbines and 48.3 MW of total HPP (Hydro) 2,017 2,015 2,015 0.0% 6% capacity (enough to supply a city of 120,000 inhabitants). The complex came on stream with SHP (Small Hydro) and CHG (Central Hydraulic 206 218 218 0.0% 21% almost a year of anticipation and within the Generator) expected budget. 61% Solar 1 1 1 0.0% 0% At the end of 2017, CPFL Renováveis’ total Wind 533 650 675 3.8% portfolio totaled 2,103 MW of installed capacity 7% Thermo 182 182 182 0.0% in operation, comprising 39 SHPs (423 MW), 45 wind farms (1,309 MW), 8 thermal biomass Biomass 191 191 191 0.0% HPP plants (370 MW) and 1 solar plant (1 MW). In Total 3,129 3,258 3,283 0.8% (Hydro) SHP addition, the Company is building a new SHP (29.9 MW), which is expected to start operating 2 The number considers CPFL Energia’s stake in the Group companies (see corporate structure on page 20). Solar Wind in 2020. The table below shows the installed capacity, considering our ownership interest in Thermo Biomass generation projects: 1 The number considers CPFL Energia’s stake in the Group companies (see corporate structure on page 20). 2017 Annual Report 81 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE In 2017, we generated 8,689.36 GWh of energy, from different sources, as shown in the following graph: Energy generated by the ISSUANCE OF GREEN BONDS BY CPFL RENOVÁVEIS CPFL Group in 2017 In March 2017, CPFL Renováveis became the first company in South America 6% to issue an internationally certified green bond. Our Company, 100% dedicated 533.1 GWh to the generation of renewable energy, obtained the Climate Bond, certified in the criterion of Wind Energy (green bond) by the Standard Board of the Climate Bonds Initiative, and issued debentures in the amount of R$200 million. 26% 2,291.2 GWh 52% The green bond is a debt bond that requires the funds rose to be invested 4,499.7 GWh in environmentally sustainable projects. The Climate Bonds Initiative is an international non-profit organization that works exclusively to promote 8% large-scale investments in the low carbon economy. 661.0 GWh 8% The funds were liquidated and used for the construction of the Campos dos 703.6 GWh 0% Ventos and São Benedito wind farms, with 231 MW of installed capacity, both 0.8 GWh located in the state of Rio Grande do Norte. HPP (Hydro) Solar SHP Thermo Wind Biomass 2017 Annual Report 82 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE DISTRIBUTION GRI 102-7 | 103-2 | 103-3| EU3 Through our Group Distribution companies, in 2017, we provided electricity to 9,377,044 customers, 1.6% more than in 2016. Among our customers, 89% are residential, 6% are commercial and 4% are in rural areas. The total energy distributed in the period was 66,086.60 GWh. Number of CPFL customers GRI EU3 Energy delivered by Distribution companies in 2017 (in GWh) 20151 2016 2017 Var. 2016 – 2017 Company Distributed energy Residential 6,906,580 8,174,700 8,330,237 1.90% CPFL Paulista 30,232.1 Industrial 55,586 61,297 59,825 -2.40% CPFL Piratininga 13,905.2 Commercial 473,333 551,202 545,095 -1.11% RGE 10,304.6 Rural 245,238 355,586 359,106 1.00% RGE Sul 8,871.6 Government 51,359 61,208 60,639 -0.93% CPFL Santa Cruz 1,128.2 Public Service 8,402 9,649 9,790 1.50% CPFL Jaguari 561.1 Public Lighting 10,362 11,073 11,230 1.40% CPFL Sul Paulista 482.7 Own Consumption 845 939 958 2.02% CPFL Leste Paulista 358.8 Other 0 3 164 5,366.7% CPFL Mococa 238.3 Total 7,751,705 9,225,657 9,377,044 1.60% Total 66,086.6 1 Data from 2015 does not consider RGE. 2017 Annual Report 83 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE In 2017, we improved our grid maintenance Considering all our Distribution companies, we It should also be mentioned that the new CPFL service performance and achieved results superior had a reduction of 11.4% in SAIDI and 3.9% in SAIFI. We Santa Cruz – the result of the unification of CPFL Santa to those of the previous year in the ANEEL Collective note that CPFL Piratininga had the best SAIDI and SAIFI Cruz, CPFL Mococa, CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Leste Paulista Continuity Indicators. Compared to 2016, all our in Brazil in 2017, while CPFL Paulista had the second and CPFL Sul Paulista – as well as CPFL Piratininga Distribution companies reduced the System Average best SAIDI and third best SAIFI. In addition, we highlight and CPFL Paulista, present the best SAIDI results in Interruption Duration Index indicator (SAIDI) per the results of CPFL Sul Paulista, which had a reduction Brasil among distribution companies with more than Consumer Unit, and six of them reduced the System of 46% in SAIDI and 42% in SAIFI, RGE, which presented 400,000 customers. Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) per its best result for the SAIDI of the last 16 years and CPFL Consumer Unit. Santa Cruz, which obtained its best results for SAIDI and SAIFI throughout its history. GRI EU28 | EU29 CPFL CPFL CPFL Santa CPFL CPFL CPFL Leste CPFL Sul Consolidated RGE RGE Sul Paulista Piratininga Cruz3 Jaguari3 Mococa3 Paulista3 Paulista3 CPFL Group4 SAIFI1 4.94 4.45 3.68 5.64 6.05 6.19 6.77 7.74 7.62 5.69 SAIDI2 7.14 6.97 4.76 6.31 5.93 7.91 8.20 14.16 15.58 9.40 1 System Average Interruption Frequency Index per Consumer Unit (SAIFI): indicates the average number of interruptions per customer during the year. 2 System Average Interruption Duration Index per Consumer Unit (SAIDI): measures the average duration (in hours) of interruptions per customer during the year. 3 On January 1st, 2018, all these Distribution companies were merged into the new CPFL Santa Cruz. 4 Calculated based on the weighted average number of customers of each Distribution companies and the value calculated for SAIFI and SAIDI. 2017 Annual Report 84 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE System Average Interruption Duration Index per Consumer Unit (SAIDI) 19.11 19.45 15.20 15.98 14.44 15.58 14.16 10.56 11.51 7.76 7.62 7.14 8.44 8.46 7.92 8.01 7.91 8.20 7.25 6.97 5.65 6.63 7.10 6.31 7.04 4.76 5.93 CPFL Paulista CPFL Piratininga CPFL Santa Cruz1 CPFL Jaguari1 CPFL Mococa1 CPFL Leste Paulista1 CPFL Sul Paulista1 RGE RGE Sul 2015 2016 2017 System Average Interruption Frequency Index per Consumer Unit (SAIFI) 11.76 9.47 9.41 8.33 7.56 7.74 8.42 7.62 6.63 6.77 5.00 4.94 4.31 3.97 4.45 6.34 6.13 5.64 5.92 6.05 5.67 5.73 6.19 4.89 4.09 3.68 4.61 CPFL Paulista CPFL Piratininga CPFL Santa Cruz1 CPFL Jaguari1 CPFL Mococa1 CPFL Leste Paulista1 CPFL Sul Paulista1 RGE RGE Sul 2015 2016 2017 1 On January 1st, 2018, all these Distribution companies were merged into the new CPFL Santa Cruz. 2017 Annual Report 85 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE AVAILABILITY AND RELIABILITY In this context, we make continuous efforts in the • Satellite media implementation for telemetry of OF POWER SUPPLY exploration and implementation of Smart Grids. consumers located in remote regions; GRI EU6 Among the technologies already implemented, • Maximization of the fiber optic infrastructure to we highlight: Our preventive maintenance process aims to ensure service bases and substations of CPFL Paulista and the useful lives of the assets, improve the quality • Implementation of own communications CPFL Piratininga; and of energy supply, correct irregularities and provide infrastructure to support the mobility of field teams • Replacement of the satellite solution for the more safety to the population and our employees. and supervision of substations; dispatch of the RGE field teams. In addition, our emergency maintenance team acts • Expansion of the RF Mesh communication directly on defects and accidental causes, which can network for the automated reclosing of the affect the operation of the electrical system and the distribution network; continuity of the power supply. Investments in items related to the reliability and availability of energy in 2017 Distribution Amount invested (in R$ million) % of total Customer Service1 314 20.1% Market Growth Support 398 25.4% Electrical System Maintenance and Improvements2 851 54.5% Total 1,563 100% 1 Includes recovery of commercial losses. 2 Includes special projects. 2017 Annual Report 86 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE Loss reduction large database and allows us to exploit an important volume of information. In addition, through Hana, we In 2017, we intensified our work to fight losses, which are making more accurate analytical forecasts and tend to increase in periods of economic instability. gaining more speed in decision-making processes related to revenue and energy recovery. To this end, we have increased the number of inspections and invested in new technologies, As a result of this work, we have reduced our such as the introduction of the SAP Hana system, overall losses by 0.3 p.p., representing a recovery in a high-performance platform that incorporates a revenue of approximately R$19.1 million. BALANCE OF LOSSES GRI EU12 Type Of Losses 2015 2016 2017 Overall 8.55% 9.42% 9.12% Technical 6.47% 6.40% 6.28% Non-technical 2.07% 3.01% 2.84% CAXIAS DO SUL | RS 2017 Annual Report 87 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE Km of Distribution Lines GRI EU4 In 2017, we operated 330,218 km of Distribution Lines, 0.9% higher than in the previous year. Of this total, 319,141km are low and medium voltage lines and only 11,077 km are high voltage lines, as shown in the table below: Km of Distribution of low, medium and high voltage Lines 20151 2016 2017 Above Underground Total Above Underground Total Above Underground Total Low voltage (<1 KV) 87,593 478 88,071 110,039 593 110,632 110,901 650 111,551 Medium-voltage (≥ 1 KV and < 69 KV) 159,428 291 159,719 205,295 338 205,633 207,225 365 207,590 High-voltage (≥ 69 kv) 10,685 25 10,710 10,820 25 10,845 11,052 25 11,077 Total 257,706 794 258,500 326,154 956 327,110 329,178 1,040 330,218 1 Does not consider RGE Sul. 2017 Annual Report 88 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE TRANSMISSION Permitted Annual Revenue (RAP) of R$10.6 million for our company. Our Transmission operations focus on niche projects in areas close to major consumer centers and/or our CPFL Transmissão Morro Agudo renewable generation plants. In 2017, our operations in this segment were made through CPFL Transmissão Through the Morro Agudo Substation – SP, we Piracicaba and CPFL Transmissão Morro Agudo. collaborate with the supply of energy to the region of Ribeirão Preto – SP, strengthening the quality of service CPFL Transmissão Piracicaba provided by CPFL Paulista and facilitating the flow of biomass energy generation. With a total area of 95,000 m², the Piracicaba Substation was the first project of our Group in the Transmission Composed of seven autotransformers and a segment and received an investment of approximately total power output of 800 MVA, the Morro Agudo R$100 million. The source of the energy that passes Substation serves mainly the industrial and sugar through our Substation originates from a 440 kV and alcohol producing area of the region of Ribeirão transmission system of large Paraná river power Preto – SP, directly benefiting 700,000 inhabitants of 15 plants, such as Jupiá, Ilha Solteira and Porto Primavera, municipalities. At 150,000 m² and an infrastructure that PIRACICABA SUBSTATION | CPFL TRANSMISSÃO among others. was made in preparation for future expansions, our Substation works with advanced technology and has a Our Substation serves mainly the industrial fully automated operation – and can be operated from a and residential area of Piracicaba – SP, covering the distance by our Operation Center in Campinas. In 2017, municipalities of Piracicaba, Charqueada, São Pedro and CPFL Transmissão Morro Agudo generated a Permitted Saltinho (all in the state of São Paulo), with a population Annual Revenue (RAP) of R$10.8 million. of around 441,000 inhabitants. In 2017, it generated a 2017 Annual Report 89 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE MORE ENERGY FOR SABESP IN SÃO LOURENÇO PRODUCTION SYSTEM ahead of schedule, and with essential respect for the environment. In August 2015, we were contracted by SABESP to build and deploy a In order to reduce environmental impacts, we use a variety of resources, such Subtransmission line. The objective was to provide electricity to the São as taking advantage of local topography to increase the span between towers, Paulo water and sanitation company to operate a hydraulic system capable of using drones for cabling, raising the height of structures (to distance them from withdrawing water from the Cachoeira do França Dam, conducting it for 83 km vegetation), and reduction of access widths. to the Barueri region, benefiting 1.5 million people. As a result of this effort to preserve the environment, the deforested area was We were able to build the 42 km of this 138 kV line within budget, 11 months significantly smaller than had been predicted at the beginning of the project. 83 Ibiúna Vargem Grande SURGE km WATER COLLECTION TANK AND PUMPING STATION Itapevi Santana do Parnaíba from the Jandira collection to the VARGEM GRANDE WATER TREATMENT municipalities served TRANSPORT OF STATION UNTREATED WATER Cotia Juquitiba METROPOLITAN São Lourenço INTEGRATED SYSTEM GRANJA CAROLINA da Serra RESERVOIR Carapicuiba CACHOEIRA Itapecerica Embu Barueri DO FRANÇA da Serra São Paulo DAM 2017 Annual Report 90 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE COMMERCIALIZATION GRI 102-7 We also have a team specializing in Generating agents which, in addition to the aforementioned Through CPFL Brasil, we have a consolidated services, also offers energy balance management operation in the Energy Commercialization segment services and portfolio analyzes, always aiming at that offers companies both the purchase and sale of maximizing gains for the Generator. energy, as well as consulting and technical assistance at the Electrical Energy Trading Chamber – CCEE. SERVICES At the end of 2017, we had a portfolio of 1,055 free clients, 418 consumer units and 6 generating units. Through CPFL Serviços, we work with our customers to assist them in their Medium and High Voltage The focus is the companies that are already in needs. During 15 years in the Infrastructure the Free Market and also those that have the potential segment, we installed 2,300 MVA, have built 600 to enter, according to the current regulations. Our Km of Transmission Lines and more than 500 Km of services range from migration to monthly customer distribution networks. We currently have 25 operating follow-up, covering customized reporting, feasibility bases in the state of São Paulo and our own fleet with studies, alternatives to maximize profits, and energy 500 vehicles. contracting assistance, among others. CPFL SERVIÇOS OPERATING BASE | CAMPINAS | SP 2017 Annual Report 91 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OPERATING REVENUE GRI 102-7 COST OF ELECTRIC ENERGY In 2017, our gross operating revenue was R$ 40,053 • 9.8% (R$ 18 million) from updating the financial assets Electricity purchased for resale million, representing an increase of 30.1% (R$ 9,269 of the concession. In the reporting period, our cost of electricity purchased million) when compared to 2016. Excluding RGE for resale increased 58.6% (or R$ 5,768 million) and Sul consolidation effects, acquired in October 2016, Gross operating revenue reached R$ 15,617 million, which represented 65.8% of gross operating revenue increased to R$ 34,596 (in R$ billion) our total operations operating costs and expenses in million, an increase of 15.7% (R$ 4,685 million) when 2017. This is due to the following increases: 40.1 +30.1% compared to 2016. The consolidated balance sheet • 3.4% in the average price of electricity purchased includes the result of the RGE Sul of 12 months in 30.8 (in R$) from Itaipu, caused by an 11.4% tariff increase 2017 versus 2 months in 2016. The increase in gross (established annually by ANEEL in US$/kW) and 8.3% operating revenue is mainly due to the variation in reduction in the average rate of the Real against the sectorial financial assets and liabilities – which, in 2016, US dollar in 2017 compared to 2016, offset by a 12.2% generated an expense of R$ 2,095 million and, in 2017, increase in the volume of electricity purchased; started to generate revenue of R$ 1,901 million, and also • 107.6% (or R$ 290 million) in the cost of electricity to the following increases: 2016 2017 purchased in the cash market, mainly driven by a 59.6% increase in purchased volume; • 74.2% (R$ 2,594 million) from the supply of electricity • 67.1% (or R$ 5,728 million) in the cost of electricity to other agents in the Sector; From gross operating revenue, R$ 13,309 million purchased in the Regulated Market, reflecting a 22.2% • 6.9% (R$ 1,648 million) from the supply of electricity to was deducted, or 14.0% (R$ 1,636 million) more than increase in the volume of electricity purchased and a final consumers; the amount registered in 2016. Net operating revenue 36.7% increase in average purchase prices; and • 53.1% (R$ 719 million) from revenue from construction for the period was R$ 26,745 million, representing an • 58.2% (or R$ 575 million) in PIS/Cofins tax credit related of concession infrastructure; increase of 39.9% (R$ 7,633 million) in relation to the to electricity purchases, which represents a decrease in • 7.7% (R$ 287 million) from other operating revenue; and previous year. the cost of electric energy. 2017 Annual Report 92 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Charges for the use of the OPERATING COSTS AND EXPENSES Transmission and Distribution system In 2017, our operating costs were R$ 6,822 million, an increase of 26.6% (or R$ 1,432 million) when compared Charges for the use of our Transmission and to 2016 mainly due to the following events: Distribution system decreased by 5.0% (or R$67 million), closing the year at R$ 1,284 million. This • Increase of 53.2% (or R$ 719 million) in construction costs for concession infrastructure, resulting from decrease is mainly due to: investments in improvement and expansion of the Distribution and Transmission System; • Reduction of R$ 816 million in System Service Usage • Increase of 25.9% (or R$ 283 million) in our personnel expenses, reflecting the increase in costs from our Charges – ESS, referring to the higher spot price collective bargaining agreements; (PLD) on reserve energy, passed on to consumers, which reduced costs with the ESS; and • Increase of 11.7% (or R$ 76 million) in expenses related to outsourced services; • Reduction of R$107 million in the Reserve Energy • Increase of 19.9% (or R$ 207 million) in depreciation and amortization expenses; and Charges – EER. These reductions were partially offset by increases of R$ 707 million in Basic Network • Increase of 31.6% (or R$ 60 million) in material consumption. Charges, of R$ 107 million in Itaipu Transmission Charges; and R$ 38 million in Connection Charges. These events were partially offset by a 12.1% (or R$ 21 million) decrease in the provision for doubtful accounts. 2017 Annual Report 93 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE EBITDA Our operating cash flow, measured as EBITDA1, reached R$ 4,864 million, an increase of 17.9% (R$ 738 million) compared to 2016, mainly due to the increase in net operating revenue. EBITDA growth was impacted by increases of 50.9% (R$ 5,701 million) in electricity costs and charges, and by 29.1% (R$ 1,194 million) in operating costs and expenses – which include expenses with private pension and concession infrastructure construction costs. Reconciliation of net profit and EBITDA (in R$ million) 2016 2017 Net profit 879 1,243 Depreciation and Amortization 1,291 1,529 Assets Surplus Value Amortization 0.6 0.6 Financial Result 1,453 1,488 Social Contributions 151 169 Income Tax 351 435 EBITDA 4,126 4,864 1 EBITDA is a non-accounting measure calculated from the sum of net income, taxes, financial result, depreciation/ amortization. This measure serves as an indicator of management performance and is usually accompanied by the TANQUINHO SUBSTATION AND SOLAR POWER PLANT | CAMPINAS | SP market. The EBITDA calculation complied with the provisions of CVM Instruction No. 527, of October 4, 2012. 2017 Annual Report 94 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL RESULT Financial result (in R$ million) 2015 2016 2017 Var. 2017 vs. 2016 The financial result recorded net expenditure Revenues of R$ 1,488 million in 2017, an increase of 2.3% Income from Financial Investments 472.7 667.4 457.3 -31.5% (R$ 35 million) compared to the previous year. We Additions and Late Payment Fines 215.9 246.0 265.5 7.9% present the items that explain this variation of the Fiscal Credits Update 57.6 32.4 19.6 -39.4% Financial Result in the following table: Judicial Deposits Update 84.7 35.2 49.5 40.5% Monetary and Foreign Exchange Updates 121.6 147.8 61.0 -58.7% Discount on Purchase of ICMS Credit 13.0 16.2 16.4 1.2% Sectoral Financial Assets Update 162.8 32.7 -100.0% PIS and COFINS over Other Financial Revenues -52.8 -63.2 -48.3 -23.6% PIS and COFINS over Interest on Own Capital -6.9 -2.3 -27.8 1,096.1% Others 74.7 88.2 87.2 -1.1% Total 1,143.2 1,200.5 880.3 -26.7% Expenses Debt Charges -1,725.3 -1,811.3 -1,661.1 -8.3% Monetary and Foreign Exchange Updates -686.6 -703.1 -540.1 -23.2% (-) Capitalized Interest 45.6 68.1 50.5 -25.8% Sectoral Financial Liabilities Update -1.6 -25.1 -82.3 228.3% Use of Public Asset -16.0 -15.0 -8.0 -46.2% Others -167.3 -167.6 -126.9 -24.3% Total -2,551.1 -2,654.0 -2,367.9 -10.8% Financial Result -1,407.9 -1,453.5 -1,487.6 2.3% 2017 Annual Report 95 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE NET INCOME In 2017, we achieved net income of R$ 1,243 million, which represents an increase of 41.4% (R$ 364 million) when compared to 2016, mainly reflecting the 17.9% increase (R$ 738 million) in EBITDA. Net income was also impacted by an DEBT increase of 18.4% (R$ 238 million) in depreciation and amortization, R$ 102 million in Income Tax At the end of the reporting period, our gross financial and Social Contributions and 2.3% (R$ 34 million) debt (including derivatives) was R$ 19,615 million, a in net financial expenses. reduction of 8.2% compared to 2016. Cash and cash equivalents totaled R$ 3,250 million, a decrease of 47.3% compared to the previous year and, therefore, our net financial debt was R$ 16,366 million, an increase of 7.7% on the same basis of comparison. The increase in financial debt is intended to support the Group’s business expansion strategy, such as the financing of CPFL Renováveis’ new projects. It is also worth noting that we anticipated funding debts that will mature within 18 to 24 months. CAMPINAS | SP 2017 Annual Report 96 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE TARIFF ADJUSTMENTS The following Distribution companies had their rates adjusted (see table): Tariff Adjustments (RTA) in 2017 CPFL CPFL Santa CPFL Leste CPFL CPFL Sul CPFL CPFL Paulista RGE RGE Sul Piratininga Cruz1 Paulista1 Jaguari1 Paulista1 Mococa1 Ratifying 2,217 2,314 2,252 2,218 2,211 2,210 2,213 2,209 2,212 Resolution Adjustment -0.80% 7.69% 3.57% -0.20% -1.28% 0.77% 2.05% 1.63% 1.65% Parcel A 1.37% 6.78% 2.17% 2.32% 0.88% 1.26% 3.26% 0.44% 2.78% Parcel B 0.76% -0.45% 0.20% 0.63% 0.48% 1.92% 0.62% 0.53% 0.67% Financial -2.93% 1.37% 1.21% -3.15% -2.65% -2.41% -1.83% 0.66% -1.80% Components Effect on -10.50% 17.28% 5.00% -6.43% -10.37% -3.28% -8.41% -4.15% -2.56% consumer billings Valid since 04/08/2017 10/23/2017 06/19/2017 04/19/2017 03/22/2017 03/22/2017 03/22/2017 03/22/2017 03/22/2017 1 On January 1st, 2018, these Distribution companies were merged into the new CPFL Santa Cruz. 2017 Annual Report 97 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DIVIDENDS According to our Bylaws, we distribute a minimum of 25% of our adjusted net income in dividends to our shareholders. Following this assumption, in 2017, we distributed R$ 280 million (25% of adjusted net income) in dividends to the holders of our common shares, which corresponds to R$ 0.275259517 per share. More details on the following table: Distribution of dividends in 2017 (in R$ thousand) Net income of the fiscal year Individual 1,179,750 Realization of comprehensive income 25,873 Prescribed dividend 3,768 Net income base for allocation 1,209,391 Legal reserve -58,988 Statutory reserve concession financial asset -123,673 Statutory reserve working capital reinforcement -746,541 Additional proposed dividend Minimum mandatory dividend -280,191 2017 Annual Report 98 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE (DVA) GRI 201-1 In 2017, we distributed R$ 17,313 million in added value to our stakeholders, an increase of 9.4% over the previous year. Of this total, 70% was earmarked for taxes, fees and contributions, and 8% for the remuneration and benefits of our employees. You can find out more in the table below: Value Added Statement (in R$ thousand) 2016 2017 Revenues 31,664,675 40,687,927 Revenue from energy sales and services 29,430,560 37,980,073 Revenue relative to the construction of own assets 1,056,442 789,529 Revenue related to the construction of concession infrastructure 1,354,023 2,073,423 Provision for doubtful receivables -176,349 -155,097 Inputs acquired from third parties -16,150,083 -23,119,553 Cost with electric energy -12,452,018 -18,772,477 Material -1,711,064 -1,895,728 Outsourced services -1,352,299 -1,716,068 Other -634,701 -735,280 Gross value added 15,514,592 17,568,374 (revenue + inputs purchased from third parties) Retentions -1,293,924 -1,534,034 Depreciation and amortization -1,038,814 -1,247,819 Amortization of intangible assets concession -255,110 -286,215 2017 Annual Report 99 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Net value added Distribution of added 14,220,668 16,034,341 value in 2017 (gross value added + retentions) 8% Added value received by transfer 1,609,777 1,279,055 Financial revenues 1,298,363 966,664 7% Equity 311,414 312,390 15% Net added value to be distributed 15,830,445 17,313,396 (Net added value generated + Added value received by transfer) Distribution of added value 70% Employees 1,073,118 1,397,454 Direct remuneration 660,138 813,004 Benefits 359,604 516,208 Taxes, charges Remuneration F.G.T.S 53,376 68,242 and contributions of external capital Taxes, charges and contributions 11,066,274 12,181,755 Federal 6,109,701 6,696,508 Remuneration State 4,938,832 5,460,674 of own capital Employees Municipal 17,742 24,572 Remuneration of external capital 2,811,995 2,491,145 Interest 2,743,600 2,418,119 Rentals 68,394 73,026 Remuneration of own capital 879,057 1,243,042 Check our Financial Statements in full at: Dividend (including additional proposed) 143,379 272,294 https://bit.ly/2H5szGO. Retained earnings 735,678 970,748 Added Value Distributed 15,830,445 17,313,396 2017 Annual Report 100 4. OUR REPORT CUSTOMER SERVICE INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT ABOUT OUR REPORT GUIDELINES AND SCOPE DEFINITION To demonstrate the integration of our • The annual updates on the topics found via online GRI 102-44 | 102-46 | 102-47 | 102-50 | strategy with the Sustainable Development consultation through global references via Rep: Risk 102-55 | 103-1 Goals (SDG) of the United Nations Organizations, (national and international press), Robeco: SAM and we insert SDG references on the pages of the SASB (investors and financial public); and CPFL Energia’s 2017 Annual Report is a document at all times when our initiatives publication directed to all our stakeholders contribute to achieving one or more of these • The topics identified as relevant to the stakeholders addressing the main achievements, challenges and goals. This report is also a Communication on of the Brazilian and international Power Sector, impacts of our operations in the economic, social Progress – COP of the Global Compact. according to a sector benchmark study conducted in and environmental fields. The document covers December 2017. all companies controlled by the CPFL Group, from The content scope definition of the January 1st to December 31st, 2017. report followed: In order to build a document that fulfills these • The material topics of our Sustainability Platform goals, we voluntarily use the GRI Standards guidelines (page 31); (more information on the link goo.gl/Jpnpc) and the integrated reporting framework (more information • The topics pointed out as relevant by our on goo.gl/ef5Gbv), both widely used by the market stakeholders, according to the online1 consultation and internationally recognized. we held with 221 people for the 2014 Annual Report (link: https://goo.gl/ba3dfP, pages 30 to 35 and 126, item 14.6); 1 We plan to start a new stakeholder consultation in 2018. 2017 Annual Report 102 SANTOS | SP INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT ABOUT OUR REPORT The material topics guiding the construction of this report were as follows: Material topics Topic boundaries Impacted stakeholders Based on these topics of interest (or “Material Customers Issues”), we selected the GRI disclosures that could Efficient Services All businesses, except CPFL Geração and Society best support us in reporting our sustainability. All Customers GRI disclosures are flagged in the text through the Sustainable and Efficient Energy Use CPFL Eficiência and ENVO and Society GRI ticker and can be understood in detail in the GRI New Generation business (CPFL Geração and CPFL Local communities Biodiversity Content Index (page 103). Renováveis), and Distributed Generation (ENVO) and Society Effluent and Waste Transmission, Distribution and Services Society For questions, criticisms and/or suggestions Emissions All businesses Society regarding the content of the report, please contact us Employees, Third parties, by e-mail sustentabilidade@cpfl.com.br. Occupational Health and Safety All businesses 100% controlled by CPFL Energia Customers and Communities Employees, Human Capital Development All businesses 100% controlled by CPFL Energia Third parties Training and Education and Suppliers Employees and Employment Attraction and Retention All businesses 100% controlled by CPFL Energia Third parties Efficient Supplier Management All regulated businesses Suppliers Customer Health and Safety All businesses 100% controlled by CPFL Energia Customers Customer Privacy All businesses 100% controlled by CPFL Energia Customers 2017 Annual Report 103 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Page 9. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Pages 9, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16. 102-3 Location of headquarters Page 133. 102-4 Location of operations Pages 12 to 16. 102-5 Ownership and legal form Business Corporation (S.A). 102-6 Markets served Pages 9, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16. 102-7 Scale of the organization Pages 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 45, 80, 82 and 91. 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Page 45. 102-9 Description of the organization’s supply chain Page 53. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Pages 14 and 19. We adopt the precautionary principle through preventive initiatives such as online and face-to-face training for our employees, structured and periodic Whether and how the organization applies the Precautionary 102-11 communication for our strategic audiences, annual internal controls tests, Principle or approach dissemination and adherence to the Code of Ethical Conduct for all employees and compliance and ethics advisory service for several business areas. 2017 Annual Report 104 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Organizational Profile We participate in the following external associations and initiatives: 1. Brazil Network of the Global Compact (Member of the Board, Brazilian Committee, Thematic Group on Energy and Climate and SDG WorkGroup); 2. Brazilian Business Council for Sustainable Development – CEBDS (Climate Thematic Chamber); 3. World Business Council for Sustainable Development – List of externally-developed economic, environmental and WBCSD ( highlight to the CEO Guide on SDG signed by our CEO, page 68); 102-12 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4. FGV’s Center for Sustainability Studies – Gvces; Business for the Climate organization subscribes, or which it endorses EPC; Local Development Local ID (Brazilian Program GHG Protocol, GHG Public Emissions Registry, Emissions Trading System); and 5. Corporate Climate Initiatives – IECs (highlight to the Open Letter on Carbon Pricing signed by our CEO in 2017, link https://goo.gl/HPMWwB). More details about our participation in these associations on page 67. 2017 Annual Report 105 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Strategy Main associations in which we have significant participation: • Associação Comercial e Industrial de Frederico (Frederico Commercial and Industrial Association) – ACIFW; • Associação Comercial Industrial e Serviços de Serafina Corrêa ( Commercial, Industrial and Services Association of Serafina Corrêa) – ACISCO; • Associação Brasileira de Anunciantes (Brazilian Advertisers Association) – ABA; • Comitê de Geração ABNT – ABDIB Generation Committee; • Associação Brasileira de Gerência de Risco (Brazilian Association of Risk Management) – ABGR; • Associação Brasileira de Comunicação Empresarial (Brazilian Association of Business Communication) – ABERJE; • Associação Brasileira de Veículo Elétrico (Brazilian Association of Electric Vehicle) – ABVE; • Associação Brasileira de Qualidade de Vida (Brazilian Association of Quality of Life) – ABQV; • Associação Brasileira dos Contadores (Brazilian Association of Accountants) – ABRACONEE; • Associação Brasileira de Distribuidores de Energia Elétrica (The Brazilian Association of Electricity Distributors) – ABRADEE; • Associação Brasileira das Companhias Abertas (Brazilian Association of Publicly-Held Companies) – ABRASCA; List of the main memberships of industry or • Instituto Acende Brasil; other associations, and national or international • Fundação Nacional da Qualidade (National Quality Foundation) – FNQ; 102-13 advocacy organizations, in which the Company • Centro de Pesquisas de Energia Elétrica (Electrical Energy Research Center) –CEPEL; provides substantive funding beyond routine • Comitê Nacional de Produção e Transmissão de Energia Elétrica (National Committee for the membership dues Production and Transmission of Electric Energy) – CIGRÉ; • FUNDAÇÃO COGE (Comitê de Gestão Empresarial Business Management Committee); • Comitê Brasileiro de Barragens (Brazilian Committee on Dams) – CBDB; • Conselho Empresarial Brasil-China (Brazil-China Business Council) – CEBC; • Operador Nacional do Sistema (National System Operator) – ONS (associate members); • Conselho Regional de Engenharia (Regional Engineering Council) – CREA; • Instituto Abradee; • Fundação Getúlio Vargas; • Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis (Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Natural Resources) – IBAMA; • Instituto Brasileiro de Governança Corporativa (Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance) – IBGC; • Instituto Brasileiro de Relações com Investidores (Brazilian Institute of Investor Relations) – IBRI (associative participation ); • Movimento Brasil Competitivo – NOVO MBC; and • Sindicato da Indústria da Energia (Union of the Energy Industry) – SINDIENERGIA. 2017 Annual Report 106 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Strategy Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior 102-14 Pages 4 and 5. position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability 102-15 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Pages 28, 53 and 56. PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Ethics and Integrity Description of the organization’s values, principles, standards, 102-16 Pages 9, 24 and 25. and norms of behavior Description of internal and external mechanisms seeking 102-17 advice about ethical and lawful behavior and reporting Pages 24 and 25. concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior 2017 Annual Report 107 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Governance Governance structure of the organization, 102-18 Pages 21 and 22. including committees Process for delegating authority for economic, 102-19 environmental, and social topics from the highest Page 23. governance body to senior executives and other employees Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for 102-20 Page 23. economic, environmental, and social topics and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body The stakeholder consultation process on economic, social and environmental topics is assigned to our Sustainability Board that reports the results to the Sustainability Committee, Board of Executive Officers, Committee Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the of Management and Risk Processes and Board of Directors through our 102-21 highest governance body on economic, environmental, Sustainability Platform (page 31). and social topics On December 6, 2017, we held the 10th Investor Meeting, in which our main leaders had the opportunity to interact face-to-face with our stakeholders. Also, our Strategic Planning process involves consulting external experts, who subsidize the strategic plan, subsequently approved by the Board of Directors. Composition of the highest governance body and 102-22 Page 21. its committees Whether the chair of the highest governance body is The Chairman of our Board of Directors has no executive position 102-23 also an executive officer in the organization at CPFL Energia. 2017 Annual Report 108 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Governance Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees (including criteria Boards of Directors’ members are elected by the shareholders at the General 102-24 used for nominating and selecting such as diversity, Meeting, as provided by our Bylaws. Independence factors and knowledge independence, expertise and experience and also whether about the business are considered. stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved According to our Code of Ethics and Board of Directors’ Internal Regulations, Processes for the highest governance body to ensure any Director who has an actual or potential conflict of interest shall refrain 102-25 conflicts of interest are avoided and managed from attending the part of the Board meeting in which the matter in question is analyzed. The Board of Executive Officers is responsible for approving and updating our Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the strategic drivers (Vision, Mission and Principles), as well as defining strategies, development, approval, and updating of the organization’s 102-26 policies and goals related to sustainability. purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and It is incumbent upon the Board of Directors to approve the Sustainability Policy goals related to economic, environmental, and social topics as well as other Group’s Corporate Governance Guidelines. 2017 Annual Report 109 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Governance We provide Board of Directors’ members the Certification with the Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance (IBGC), encouraging continuing education and permanent updating, as well as stimulating their participation in governance events or business in which it operates. The last IBGC training took place in 2016 and will be applied again in 2018 as part of the biennial training process. During the strategic planning cycle, our Board Members were invited to Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest participate in a series of lectures with market experts covering the 102-27 governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, following topics: environmental, and social topics • Discussing market trends and competitive scenarios in the Electrical sector • Market trends Mario Veiga (PSR), Luiz Barroso (EPE) and Carlos Batlle (MIT) • Competitiveness Miguel Rodrigues (Morgan Stanley) • Understanding how the digital universe is changing the prospects for the future Arlindo Eira (Mckinsey) • Understanding the current changes in the macroeconomic scenario and its impacts in the Country Fernando Honorato Barbosa (Bradesco) Board of Directors’ members conduct an annual self-assessment addressing Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s issues related to the Board operation. The process is conducted by the 102-28 performance with respect to governance of economic, Corporate Governance team, based on the practices adopted by the Brazilian environmental, and social topics Institute of Corporate Governance IBGC. Highest governance body’s role in identifying and managing Impacts, risks and opportunities identification and management relating 102-29 economic, environmental, and social topics and their to economic, social and environmental issues are conducted by the Boards impacts, risks, and opportunities responsible and brought to the appreciation of the Board of Directors. 2017 Annual Report 110 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Governance Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the 102-30 effectiveness of the organization’s risk management Pages 28 to 30. processes for economic, environmental, and social topics Our Board of Directors must meet at least 12 times a year. In all meetings, the Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of 102-31 Company's monthly results, health and safety reports, business development economic, environmental, and social topics follow-up, among other topics are presented. The items that make up the agenda in Board of Directors meetings are recommended by our Board of Executive Officers. From time to time, our Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest Chief Executive Officer meets with the Vice President of the Board of Directors 102-33 governance body to communicate critical concerns, among other issues. In addition, every six months the internal audit presents the corporate risk map to the Board of Directors. CPFL Energia’s Corporate Risk Map is composed of strategic risks classified into Total number and nature of critical concerns that were seven categories: financial, market, operational, legal, reputation, environment 102-34 communicated to the highest governance body and and regulatory (more information on page 28). The internal audit area surveys mechanism(s) used to address and resolve critical concerns critical concerns through the corporate risk map and addresses the points identified for the Board of Directors. 2017 Annual Report 111 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Governance Pursuant to the Brazilian Corporation Law, our General Meeting sets the total remuneration amount of the members of the Board of Directors (BD) and the Board of Executive Officers. After our shareholders define the total amount of remuneration, the BD sets the individual remuneration levels. Under our Bylaws, our shareholders may grant profit sharing to our directors and officers in the fiscal years in which mandatory dividends are distributed. The amount distributed, as profit sharing, may not exceed the annual remuneration of Administration, or 10% of profits, whichever is less. Board of Directors compensation is composed of fees (fixed annually by the General Meeting). Board members receive no additional compensation for participation in Committees and/or Commissions. If an Alternate Member attends the ordinary monthly meeting of the BD (due to the absence of the Remuneration policies for the highest governance body 102-35 Board member), he/she shall be entitled to 50% of the remuneration to which and senior executives the Board member is entitled. The Board of Executive Officers receives variable remuneration, based on criteria defined in an Annual Targets Plan and a Long-Term Incentive Plan. We also work with two complementary private pension plans for high executives: • PGBL Bradesco • PGBL Banco do Brasil In addition, Executive Officers receive hiring bonuses at the moment of their hiring. 2017 Annual Report 112 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Governance The compensation of the Administration (Executive Board and Board of Directors) is established by the General Shareholders’ Meeting, based on a survey of the market 102-36 Process for determining remuneration carried out by a specialized company and submitted for prior appraisal by the Human Resources Management Committee. This payment consists of a monthly fee. PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Stakeholder Engagement • Governments (federal, state and municipal); • Parliamentary Regulatory Agencies (National Congress / Legislative Assemblies SP and RS); • Press Professionals; • Intellectuals and opinion makers; • Associations of the Brazilian Electrical System; • Class entities; • CPFL Energia Group Executives Holding, Directors and Leaders; • CPFL Energia Group Public Power and Large Clients Relationship Managers; 102-40 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization • Employees; • Third-parties; • Suppliers; • Communities; • Shareholders; • Customers; • Civil society; and • NGOs. 2017 Annual Report 113 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Stakeholder Engagement Percentage of total employees covered by collective 102-41 100% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. bargaining agreements The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders for engagement is the entire political map in the Group’s areas of activity and the main players in the Power Sector. After selecting the themes and their respective leaders, meetings with the working groups are held to 102-42 The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders create a list with the main stakeholders for each theme, the management of their data, their influence power and degree of decision. We have a Rule of Engagement for Public Interest establishing guidelines and the stakeholders’ engagement processes. This document is available on the link goo.gl/KkftQh. CPFL stakeholders’ engagement is governed by an Internal Rule that establishes the principles, commitments and description of the identification, prioritization, relationship levels and engagement processes method. In 2013/2014, an online consultation was conducted with CPFL’s stakeholders (link: https://goo.gl/ba3dfP, pages 30 to 35 and 126, item 14.6), when we obtained a return from 221 people, including the following stakeholders’ groups: • Employees; • CPFL Energia Group Holding Executives, Directors and Leaders; The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, 102-43 • Suppliers and third parties; including frequency of engagement • Local communities; • Customers; • Civil Society (Institutions and NGOs); • Shareholders; • Class Entities; and • Others (Governments, regulatory agencies, press professionals, among others). Besides, we hold frequent consultations (with no fixed periodicity), through meetings, participation in associations and meetings with the communities in which we are present. 2017 Annual Report 114 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Stakeholder Engagement Key topics and concerns that have been raised through All the concerns raised together with stakeholders in the consultation process stakeholder engagement, including how the organization 102-44 carried out in 2013/14 are considered in the result of materiality and are has responded to those key topics and concerns, including addressed throughout this report. through its reporting PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Reporting Practice 102-45 List of all entities included in the organization’s consolidated Page 20. financial statements or equivalent documents 102-46 Explanation of the process for defining the report content Pages 101 and 102. and the topic boundaries 102-47 List of the material topics identified in the process for Pages 101 and 102. defining report content 102-48 The effect of any restatements of information given in There were no restatements of information given in previous reports. previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements Since it was acquired at the end of 2016, RGE Sul was not included in several disclosures 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the in the previous Annual Report except when indicated. In the 2017 Annual Report, RGE list of material topics and topic boundaries Sul results are incorporated in the disclosures except when indicated. 102-50 Reporting period for the information provided Page 101. 102-51 If applicable, the date of the most recent previous report The annual report we previously published was for the year 2016. 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Page 133. 102-54 The claim made by the organization, if it has prepared a This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: report in accordance with the GRI Standards Core option 2017 Annual Report 115 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Reporting Practice 102-55 GRI content index Pages 103 to 129. Description of the organization’s policy and current practice According to GRI recommendations and best market practices, 102-56 with regard to seeking external assurance for the report we externally assure the annual report. PROFILE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of why the topic is material and boundaries Pages 102 and 103. 103-2 Explanation of how the organization manages the topic Pages 37, 42, 45, 50, 52, 53, 66, 67, 74, 76 and 82. Explanation of how the organization evaluates the 103-3 Pages 37, 42, 45, 50, 52, 53, 66, 67, 74, 76 and 82. management approach PERFORMANCE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Economic Performance Aspect: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Pages 98 and 99. Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential 201-2 to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue, or expenditure Pages 70 and 71. 2017 Annual Report 116 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PERFORMANCE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer We work with 13 complementary private pension plans, six of which are in insurance companies and seven in multi-sponsored entities. Modalities of Plans are: 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans • BD Defined Benefit Plans; • CD Defined Contribution; and • CV Variable Contribution. PERFORMANCE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Economic Performance Aspect: Procurement Practices Percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations In 2017, the percentage of the procurement budget with local suppliers in significant 204-1 of operation that is spent on suppliers local to that operation (such operating units was 99.8%. We consider national suppliers as local . as percentage of products and services purchased locally) Aspect: Anti-corruption 100% of our operations (Distribution, Generation, Commercialization, Services and Renewables) are subject to risk assessments related to corruption. Main risks identified are: ethical or legal deviations in our operations, suppliers and in companies that become part Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks of our group through mergers and acquisitions. To mitigate these risks we have compliance 205-1 related to corruption and significant risks related to corruption mechanisms and the Ethics Management and Development System – SGDE – further identified through the risk assessment information on the page 24 and an ongoing supplier evaluation process more information on page 53. In addition, as a way to mitigate corruption-related risks, we do not make donations to candidates and political parties. Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 205-2 Pages 26 and 27. procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken In 2017, no confirmed incidents of corruption were identified in our operations. 2017 Annual Report 117 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PERFORMANCE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Environmental Aspect: Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 304-1 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Pages 76 to 79. protected areas Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on 304-2 Pages 76 to 79. biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Pages 76 to 79. Total number of IUCN Red List species and national 304-4 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by Pages 76 to 79. the operations of the organization, by level of extinction risk Aspect: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Pages 72 and 73. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Pages 72 and 73. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Pages 72 and 73. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity ratio for the organization Pages 72 and 73. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Pages 72 and 73. 2017 Annual Report 118 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PERFORMANCE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Environmental Aspect: Emissions 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) In 2017, our ODS emissions of R-22 refrigerant gas were insignificant. Aspect: Effluents and Waste Distribution and Transmission operations do not generate significant water disposal. As for Generation, the only operation that performs water disposal is EPASA (which operates a thermoelectric plant), whose disposal complies with current legislation. In 2017, EPASA generated 28,116.56 m³ of industrial 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination effluents; such volume was treated according to prevailing legislation, partially directed to the rainwater system. The sludge generated by the treatment was sent to the destination by specialized companies and duly registered with the environmental agencies. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Page 74. 306-3 Total number and total volume of recorded significant spills There were no significant spills in the reporting period. 2017 Annual Report 119 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PERFORMANCE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Environmental Aspect: Effluents and Waste In 2017, 572 tons of hazardous waste generated as a result of our operations were transported nationally, of which 290 were sent for reuse and 282 for recycling, energy recovery or incineration in properly licensed national Transport of hazardous waste and percentage of hazardous 306-4 companies. There was no international transport of hazardous waste. waste shipped internationally The transportation of hazardous waste is not carried out by CPFL Energia, it’s done by a third-party company, which holds all the applicable licenses and authorizations. Water bodies and related habitats that are significantly We did not dispose of effluents directly into bodies of water, 306-5 affected by water discharges and/or runoff as described in indicator 306-1. Aspect: Environmental Compliance In 2017, the monetary value spent on environmental fines was R$ 45,722.69. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for This value, however, is not considered significant. In the same period, there 307-1 non-compliance with environmental laws were no non-monetary sanctions resulting from non-compliance with and/or regulations environmental laws and / or regulations. 2017 Annual Report 120 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PERFORMANCE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Environmental Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment In 2017, 37% of our new suppliers were screened based on environmental Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using 308-1 criteria. You can find more information about supplier management environmental criteria on page 53. All suppliers considered as “critical” were evaluated from an environmental Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and perspective in 2017, this group corresponded to 67 companies. In none of 308-2 actions taken them risks of significant environmental impacts were found. More information about this process is on page 53. Social Aspect: Employment Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee 401-1 turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender Pages 45 and 46. and region Benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the 401-2 organization but are not provided to temporary or part-time Page 42. employees 2017 Annual Report 121 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PERFORMANCE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Social Aspect: Employment In 2017, 144 employees took maternity leave and, out of this total, 90 Total number of employees that took parental leave, and employees returned to work. At the end of the reporting period, 35 employees 401-3 total number of employees that returned to work in the were still on leave and 19 employees had been terminated, generating a reporting period after parental leave ended, by gender retention rate of 86.8%. Although men are entitled to the same parental leave as women, we do not manage this indicator. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety 100% of our employees are represented by formal health and safety committees. The main committees are: • Executive Health and Safety Committee – CSS: composed by several members of the high leadership of our Group, has the role of deliberating and Percentage of workers whose work, or workplace, is promoting strategic actions and directives for operational safety; controlled by the organization, that are represented by • Operational Safety Committee – COS: composed by a multidisciplinary 403-1 formal joint management-worker health and team with representatives from all areas involved. Its purpose is to reinforce safety committees the prevention of accidents during the execution of operational activities, identifying and promoting solutions with greater speed; and • Internal Accident Prevention Committees – CIPA: in 2017, our employees had 89 committees, whose meetings addressed proposals and suggestions for improvements on health and safety issues. 2017 Annual Report 122 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PERFORMANCE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Social Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 403-2 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related Pages 42 and 44. fatalities, by region and gender Whether there are workers whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization, involved in occupational 403-3 We did not identify risks related to occupational diseases in our operations. activities who have a high incidence or high risk of specific diseases 100% of agreements with trade unions address health and safety topics, among them: • Actions related to CIPAs; Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements • Issues related to occupational health (ASO); 403-4 with trade unions • Safety inspections in contractors; • Communication of work accidents (CAT); and • Meetings addressing the theme of Health and Safety with trade unions (CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, Brasil and CPFL Geração). Aspect: Training and Education Average hours of training that the organization’s employees 404-1 have undertaken during the reporting period, by gender and Page 38. employee category 2017 Annual Report 123 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PERFORMANCE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Social Aspect: Training and Education Within competence management and continuous learning, our people have a Requalification Program that subsidizes undergraduate, postgraduate, Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate extension, language, computer and other courses. The Program reimburses continued employability and the management of career 80% of the monthly fee – up to R$ 600.00 and, in some cases, contributes to 404-2 endings resulting from retirement or termination of the travel expenses of the employee until the desired course location. In 2017, employment we invested approximately R$ 2.7 million in the Program and benefited more than 520 people. We do not have a formal retirement preparation program. Percentage of total employees by gender and by employee 404-3 category who received a regular performance and career Pages 38 and 39. development review during the reporting period 2017 Annual Report 124 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PERFORMANCE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Social Aspect: Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local 413-1 community engagement, impact assessments, Pages 58, 59 and 77. and/or development programs We have tools to evaluate our projects’ positive and negative impacts and we constantly invest in actions for community engagement and local development. The initiatives are promoted through the company’s own funds and others by means of tax incentive laws. Our significant impacts can be classified into two more relevant dimensions within the business: • Conventional generation: the construction of large plants generates impacts Operations with significant actual and potential negative on the surrounding community, such as families’ relocation, also affecting 413-2 impacts on local communities the environment. In 2017, we did not have new deployments, and all the plants are in the operational phase. Therefore, there were no significant environmental impacts in the reporting year. Negative impacts of the operation were mapped when obtaining the environmental licenses of these enterprises and were mitigated. • Distribution: impact on the area of operation and power supply, mainly with accidents related to the power grid; this issue is daily monitored and managed by our Health and Safety team. 2017 Annual Report 125 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PERFORMANCE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Social Aspect: Supplier Social Assessment Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using In 2017, 37% of our new suppliers were screened on the basis of human rights 414-1 social criteria criteria. You can find more information about supplier management on page 53. To manage possible social impacts in our supply chain, we conduct annual visits to our strategic and critical suppliers (more information about this 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken practice on page 53). In 2017, we evaluated 67 companies with respect to their social impacts; in none of them actual or potential negative social impacts were identified. Aspect: Customer Health and Safety The Health and Safety Management System evaluation process is carried out Total number of incidents of non-compliance with through internal and external audits, under the OHSAS 18001 standard. During regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning the health 416-2 the last external audit, three non-compliances were reported regarding the and safety impacts of products and services within the absence of recycling training from a member of our Fire Brigade. This nonreporting period conformity was remedied shortly after the audit report. 2017 Annual Report 126 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PERFORMANCE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Social Aspect: Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints concerning In the reporting period, no substantiated complaints concerning breaches 418-1 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data of customer privacy and losses of customer data were reported. Aspect: Socioeconomic Compliance The Regulatory Affairs Directorate aims at disseminating, to our business areas, the legislation of the Power Sector, seeking the compliance of the distributors’ processes with the current regulations. Regulatory non-compliance is subject to administrative sanctions by the Regulatory Agent that may include warnings or monetary fines as punishment for deviations committed. The actions’ success takes into account the penalties already drawn by the Regulatory Total number of non-compliance with laws and 419-1 Agent and has as a metric to evaluate the reduction of the monetary penalty, regulations in the social and economic area after final instance trial compared with the value originally established. Regarding the penalties applied by ANEEL in 2017, the CPFL Energia Group distributors received monetary fines totaling the amount of R$ 41,756,166.32 which, in final instance, were reduced to an amount of R$ 10,052,839.63 (24% of the original amount). 2017 Annual Report 127 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PERFORMANCE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Sector Supplement (Electric Utilities) Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source EU1 Pages 80 and 81. and by regulatory regime Net energy output broken down by primary energy source EU2 Pages 80 and 81. and by regulatory regimen Number of residential, industrial, institutional and EU3 Page 82. commercial customer accounts Length of above and underground transmission and EU4 Page 87. distribution lines by regulatory regime Allocation of co2e emissions allowances or equivalent, EU5 Page 69. broken down by carbon trading framework Management approach to ensure short and long-term EU6 Page 85. electricity availability and reliability (DMA) Research and development activity and expenditure EU8 aimed at providing reliable electricity and promoting Pages 61 to 66. sustainable development 2017 Annual Report 128 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PERFORMANCE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Sector Supplement (Electric Utilities) Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total EU12 Page 86. energy Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of EU13 Pages 76 to 79. the affected areas Within our Corporate University (more information on page 37), we have the School for Electricians, responsible for the development of our electricians Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled (page 41). In 2017, we launched the School of Training of Electricians project in EU14 workforce the Community, which seeks to identify, select and qualify people with a profile to act as a professional in the energy Distribution Sector around the Group companies. Every year, we provide training and recycling for fire brigade members. Also, Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency we have the Emergency Response Plans (PASEs), which simulate an emergency EU21 management plan and training programs, and recovery/ situation to evaluate the effectiveness of emergency procedures and restoration plans opportunities for improvement. Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and EU24 disability related barriers to accessing and safely using Pages 52 and 53. electricity and customer support services 2017 Annual Report 129 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 PERFORMANCE Disclosure Information to be obtained Reference or Direct Answer Sector Supplement (Electric Utilities) Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving The number of injuries and fatalities to the public can be seen on the page 52. EU25 company assets including legal judgments, settlements In 2017, 73 cases related to health and safety were settled in court; and pending legal cases of diseases 539 are still pending. EU28 Power outage frequency Pages 83 and 84. EU29 Average power outage duration Pages 83 and 84. 2017 Annual Report 130 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT ASSURANCE STATEMENT STATEMENT BY SGS ICS CERTIFICADORA LTDA. The SGS group has developed a set of Assurance The assurance process covered (i) the review (SGS) REGARDING THE SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES protocols for communicating the sustainability of indicators, information and data provided in PROVIDED IN “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017” GIVEN based on the best practices provided in GRI preliminary sustainability report, (ii) interview TO CPFL ENERGIA. Sustainability Reporting Standards guide and the with key personnel both to understand data ISAE3000 assurance standard. These protocols give from report and to understand the pertinent ASSURANCE NATURE AND SCOPE different options of assurance level depending on management process to subject matters and (iii) context and capacity of applicant organization – review of supplementary documents submitted SGS was hired by CPFL Energia. to render the CPFL. by CPFL to SGS. The CPFL accounting information independent assurance of its Sustainability Report and/or information provided in “SUSTAINABILITY 2017. Based on assurance methodology of SGS This report was assured through our protocol REPORT 2017” were not assessed as part of this Sustainability report, the certification scope for assessing the content legitimacy and its assurance process. includes the text and data related to GRI standard alignment with aspects of requirements of GRI indicators for 2017 provided herein. Sustainability Reporting Standards, (Universal INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE STATEMENT Standards 101, 102 and 103), as well as the The responsibility for information of“SUSTAINABILITY requirements of Topic-specific Standards (GRI The SGS group is a worldwide leader in inspections, REPORT 2017” and its presentation lies on board 200, GRI 300 and GRI 400) according to the analysis and verifications which operates in more and management of CPFL. SGS does not take subject matters identified by CPFL. through the than 140 countries rendering services that includes part of presentation in any material, including the process detailed in the said report. Furthermore, management system certification, audits and “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017”. We are responsible the GRI G4 sectorial appendix – Electric Utilities. training on quality, environment, social and ethic for giving our opinion of the text, data, charts and Based on such context, “THE SUSTAINABILITY areas, as well as assurance of sustainability reports statement within the certification scope, detailing REPORT 2017” is deemed as Core Option. and verification of greenhouse gases. SGS reinforce the intention of informing the stakeholders of CPFL. its Independence from CPFL becoming cleared from any interest conflict against the organization, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. 2017 Annual Report 131 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT ASSURANCE STATEMENT The assurance team was nominated based on ASSURANCE OPINION RECOMMENDATIONS, FINDINGS AND knowledge, expertise and skills for this service and CONCLUSIONS OF ASSURANCE was composed of: A wide assurance was applied for and the work performed was sufficient and adequate for a solid The CPFL “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017” is aligned • Lead Auditor on Assurance of Sustainability Report, assurance. Regarding the verification performed with Sustainability Reporting Standards, (Universal a Lead Assessor of Greenhouse Gases (GHG), Lead against the methodology, process and data Standards 101, 102 and 103) as well as the Auditor on Socioenvironmental Programs, Lead provided by CPFL, we attest the information and requirements of Topic-specific Standards (GRI 200, Auditor on ISO 26.001, Lead Auditor on Ecuador data provided in SUSTAIANBILITY REPORT 2017” GRI 300 and GRI 400), Core Opinion. It is important Principles. are reliable and a true and balanced representation to highlight the subject matters and its limits of the sustainability activities performed by CPFL were dully set in accordance with the Reporting • An Auditor on Assurance of Sustainability Report, in 2017. The assurance team has the opinion the Principles and indicated over the report and/or Lead Assessor of Greenhouse Gases (GHG), Lead report can be used by stakeholders of company as reference list Auditor on Socioenvironmental programs, Lead part of its assessment processes. The organization Auditor on Environmental, Quality and Sustainable has elected the core option, which meets its needs. Events Management System In our opinion, based on what was found in • An Auditor on Sustainability Report Assurance, company office in Campinas and on documents Lead Assessor on Greenhouse Gas Effect (GHG) and provided by CPFL, the report content meets fully Climate Change Program. the GRI standard requirements, including the one in Sectorial Appendix for Electric Utilities 2017 Annual Report 132 INTRODUCTION INSIDE THE COMPANY OUR MANAGEMENT SHARED VALUE OUR REPORT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Concerning to contribution to improvement to so, CPFL shall encourage the company interaction Executed by and on behalf of SGS development of sustainability reports in future means with the different stakeholders take and more effectiveness in assurance process, we advantage of the subject matters whenever they recommend to CPFL that: are related to external stakeholders and place the interface results on an appropriate section of the 1. Despite of having an exclusive report of new company sustainability platform. sustainability, they should not be considered the main mean to communicate the audience of its 3. Promotes a better understanding on importance practices against this matter. We understand the of GRI indicator management. During the Fabian Peres Gonçalves best way is to use the report as reposition tool of interview with the CPFL teams, SGS has found a Business Manager Sustainability sustainability information, which shall be addressed certain development level against the reasons SGS ICS Certificadora Ltda. specifically with each stakeholder, depending on for assessing the indicators, as a result a lot of the substantiality related to each stakeholder and interviewees considered this process as additional on communication channels the company uses task to their activities. We understand that, even with them. with the awareness rendered by company, this shall be enhanced. 2. Develops a continuous process for this matter and prevent to perform this activities in certain Finally, SGS congratulates CPFL for the initiative periods of the year only. The best practices indicate of assuring its report and for the historical Marcelo Abrantes Linguitte the subject matters shall be taken from interfacing commitment to sustainability and expects the Lead Auditor on Sustainability Report programs with the stakeholders that are already in significant development on this field the company SGS ICS Certificadora Ltda. place and that are performed over the year. To do has been reaching over the past years are kept. March 26th, 2018 www.sgssustentabilidade.com 2017 Annual Report 133 CORPORATE INFORMATION AND CREDITS GRI 102-3 | 102-53 CPFL Energia S.A. Rod. Engenheiro Miguel Noel Nascentes Burnier, 1755 Parque São Quirino Campinas – SP | CEP: 13088-900 GENERAL DIRECTION EDITORIAL COORDINATION Vice Presidency of Legal Affairs Sustainability Department and Institutional Relations Corporate Communications and Sustainability Department Institutional Relations Department Corporate Communications and Institutional Relations Department WRITING AND GRAPHIC DESIGN Ricca Sustentabilidade CONTENT GUIDANCE Rodolfo Nardez Sirol | Natalia Tadokoro Ricci | GRI CONSULTING Rafaele Rodrigues Lebani | Lígia de Lima Carvalho Keyassociados | Ana Cristina Pereira dos Santos | Andressa Monteiro PHOTOGRAPHY CPFL Energia Image Bank, iStock GATHERING OF INFORMATION Employees of the CPFL Energia Group (subsidiaries and affiliates) CONTACT Sustainability Department sustentabilidade@cpfl.com.br CAXIAS DO SUL | RS Corporate Communications and Institutional Relations Department Sustainability Department Rod. Eng. Miguel Noel N. Burnier, km 2,5 Campinas. SP. 13088-900 www.cpfl.com.br
