COP REPORT 2017 –CONTENTS– P a ge 3 C E O co mmitme n t P a ge 4 1 0 p rin c ip les P a ge 5 6 L ab o u r, h u ma n right s and sourcing P a ge 7 P e o p le a n d c o lleague cult ure P a ge 8 B o d y ima g e P a ge 9 C h a rity P a ge 1 0 E n viro n me n t a n d t ravel P a g e 11 Wellb ein g P a ge 1 2 A n ti-c o rru p tio n P a ge 1 3 D ata, s e c u rity a n d privacy P a ge 1 4 1 5 F in a n cia l s e rv ic e s P a ge 1 6 E x tern al re c o g n ition P a ge 1 7 S u mmary 2 –CEO COMMITMENT– 2017 was another year of strong progress at Shop Partnership for the Merseyside region, dedicated to Direct in our journey to becoming a world class unlocking the power of sport and physical activity digital retailer. within the workplace to further our colleague health and wellbeing agenda. Our 2016/17 financial year, which ended in June, saw a good performance in a challenging retail market. We took the decision during the year to increase We saw our fifth consecutive year of record sales, with transparency of our supply chain by publishing a full group sales growth of 5.6% on a like-for-like basis, list of our first-tier manufacturing sites on our corporate driven by sales growth of 14.6% to £1.26bn at Very. website, launched the ‘we don’t do rubbish’ initiative co.uk. This was followed by a strong Christmas trading across all colleague restaurants and raised £440,000 for period, with increased group revenue by 6.3% yeara local children’s hospital. on-year for the seven weeks up to and including 22 December 2017. Over the next 12 months, we will continue working on numerous initiatives that will drive progress and we look Since joining in January 2004, we have continued to forward to updating on those in 2018. In our next report, actively support the United Nations Global Compact we aim to submit a more comprehensive report and and to abide by the ten principles in all of our business report earlier to better align with our financial year end. operations. We place a strong focus on lending In the meantime, below is our report on progress for the responsibly to our customers, sourcing responsibly, 2017 calendar year. The report provides an overview reducing our environmental impact, engaging our of key activities undertaken across the business during colleagues and being the best citizen we can in the this period. communities in which we operate. We hope you enjoy it and find it useful. Alongside our UN Global Compact membership, we remain members of the Ethical Trading Initiative, SEDEX, Fast Forward, the Bangladesh Accord and the Carbon Trust, all of which continue to drive and monitor our work in this area. This year, we also developed a Derek Harding new partnership with the MSP the Community Sports Interim CEO (for the time period of the report) 3 – T HE U NIT ED NAT IONS G LOB A L COMPACT TEN P R I NCIPLES– The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative. The UNGC issues Ten Principles on Human Rights, Labour Standards, the Environment and Corruption. Membership of the UNGC requires companies to issue a ‘Communication on Progress’ report annually. This report is our ninth COP and outlines Shop Direct’s activities in support of these ten principles. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationallyproclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. 4 – L A B O UR , HUMAN RIGHT S A N D SOURCING– POLICIES Bangladesh, Malaysia, Poland and Turkey, where we We maintain and abide by rigorous labour, human have in-country sourcing offices. We are aware that rights and sourcing policies across our supply chain. our supply chain remains complex and is constantly All suppliers must sign up to our code of conduct prior evolving, but we work in collaboration with our to doing business with us. Alongside this, we have suppliers to ensure visibility of sites manufacturing worked hard to update and develop further policies our product through the use of the SEDEX system, an to support our responsible sourcing programme and online platform for factory audit sharing. improve the knowledge and understanding of our suppliers. These include an updated young worker Our dedicated responsible sourcing team, both in the policy, as well as a migrant and contract labour UK and within key sourcing countries, continues to policy, to support our factories in developing their own work hard to understand risks specific to our supply policies on these areas and adopting a best practice chain and the countries we source from. They utilise approach. internal expertise and databases, as well as third party information including audits, ETI updates, trade union Over the last year, we have improved our ongoing risk maps and NGO country reports. Certain countries verification of suppliers’ conformance to our code of within our operations may be deemed to be higher risk conduct by signing global agreements with three third and this leads us to more closely monitor these areas party audit companies. This will allow us to ask for through regular visits by our in-country teams. These specific areas to be looked at in more depth if we have teams offer additional support and guidance to ensure particular concerns at a supplier site. These audits our suppliers are managing situations responsibly. are a crucial due diligence tool, allowing us to better assess our suppliers’ level of knowledge and ability to 1.HUMAN RIGHTS comply with legal and ethical requirements. We continue to develop our responsible sourcing policies and due diligence approach as key aspects This year, we also took the decision to increase of our programme. Our human rights due diligence is transparency of our supply chain further by publishing based on the Ethical Trading Initiative’s human rights a full list of our first tier manufacturing sites on due diligence framework and ensures that we have our corporate website. This is updated every six a holistic risk assessment in place. We look not only months. We hope that sharing this data will support at risk, but also take into account our leverage and us in our efforts to better understand and make responsibilities, what we need to do to mitigate the risk improvements within our supply chain. and how we then ensure that we effectively monitor and review remediation efforts. This framework has led us to prioritise work in potential high-risk regions such PARTNERSHIPS as Turkey and Bangladesh, as well as looking more Alongside membership of the United Nations Global closely at regions such as Malaysia, where there is an Compact, we are also members of the Ethical Trading increased risk of potential labour rights abuse due to Initiative, Fast Forward and SEDEX, and continue the prevalence of migrant workers. to be a signatory to the Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building Safety. Our memberships of these We continue to ensure that all factories producing organisations allow us to build and maintain strong Shop Direct own brand product are SEDEX-registered relationships with a varied group of businesses, as well and have an appropriate ethical audit in place. Our as trade unions and NGOs, and to share information team reviews and grades them, which is a crucial and resources to better benefit workers in our supply aspect of our due diligence programme and gives us chain. These partnerships, collaborations and shared an insight into the conditions at our factories, allowing learnings will continue to drive our work in this area. us to better assess the potential risks. From these audits, we work in partnership with the supplier and SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENT factory to ensure effective remediation of any issues OF OUTCOMES raised. We continue to not source from countries We have a broad and varied supply chain, sourcing with international trade sanctions or embargoes and own brand clothing and footwear and home and actively monitor the countries that we do source from living products from over 700 factories in 30 countries to ensure that we are aware of any changes which may worldwide. These countries include China, India, negatively impact human rights. 5 – L A B O UR , HUMAN RIGHT S A N D SOURCING– 2. FORCED LABOUR & THE MODERN SLAVERY ACT (2015) In line with the legislative requirement, we updated our Shop Direct’s code of conduct, which is signed by all modern slavery statement in December 2017. suppliers, states the following: • There must be no form of forced labour, whether it be 3. SUPPLY CHAIN MONITORING involuntary prison labour, indentured labour, bonded Alongside our audit programme, our strategy focuses on better labour or otherwise. supporting our factories to assist them in making sustainable • No employee should be obliged to work through force, improvements. Our in-country specialists work collaboratively financial pressure, intimidation or any other means. with our internal teams and suppliers to resolve issues that are identified and deliver training to prevent issues occurring. Over • Workers are not required to lodge deposits or their identity the past 12 months, we have rolled out responsible sourcing papers with their employer and are free to leave their training to over 100 factories in China, with a view to expanding employment after reasonable notice. this throughout the supply chain in the coming years. • There must not be any form of social pressure, unpaid loans or other restrictions imposed by the employer that We’re partnering with a specialist ethical trade consultancy would restrict workers’ freedom. in China on a factory improvement programme aimed at giving our factories the tools to better assess, monitor and This year, our own brand factory monitoring programme found find solutions to their own risks. The training includes modules non-conformities related to our code of conduct point on on health and safety, responsible recruitment, working hours ‘employment is freely chosen’. These covered various areas and worker/management dialogue. The project is designed to including not having suitable policies in place on forced and move less compliant factories forward on their journey, promote bonded labour, toilet breaks being restricted and workers sustainable improvement in factories, provide practical having to provide deposits for uniforms. Shop Direct’s in-house support to achieve scalable improvement, share good practice team worked closely with the factories involved to implement between factories and ensure that workers are more engaged improved practices that better respect the human rights of with management on issues that arise. those workers involved. The solutions implemented were built in collaboration with peer group retailers and other ETI members and had been proven to work at other sites. We also found a consistent issue in Malaysia, where passports for migrants were being retained without the full consent of workers. We’re now working with the factories on a suitable solution for this and will ensure that each worker has their own locker in which to safely store their passport. We will verify this through visits to the factories and worker interviews. We will continue to work proactively with our suppliers, raising their awareness and giving them the tools they need to spot the signs of potential forced labour and modern slavery. In 2018, we intend to increase our participation and consumption. This will give us a in the UNGC by becoming participants and framework to drive our agenda forward as well joining the ‘global decent work platform’ as as allowing us to set specific targets. well as remaining strongly engaged with their UK working groups. We’ll continue to We’ll continue to develop our responsible PLANS proactively support the collaborations we’re sourcing strategy to focus on stronger part of, and use these memberships to shape partnerships and training, paying our program in tackling wider supply chain particular attention to key sourcing FOR 2018 issues, in conjunction with other members. countries such as India, Bangladesh and Turkey, and looking to start projects on We’ll also look to align our work more closely salient issues in these regions. with the UN sustainable development goals (SDGs), in particular looking at gender In line with the legislative requirement, we equality, decent work, climate action and will update our modern slavery statement economic growth and responsible production in December 2018. 6 –P EO P LE AND COLL EAGU E CULT URE– POLICIES The success of our recent initiatives was reflected in our Shop Direct is compliant with all UK employment world class colleague engagement score for 2017 of law and we proactively look to integrate updates and 84% – our seventh successive score above 80%. improvements. Our people activity can be grouped Key initiatives launched during the year included: under these policies: • Shop Direct is a purpose and values-led business 1. COLLEAGUE PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT • We aim to attract and retain world class talent We launched our new ‘Perform’ values and outcomes• We release our talent’s full potential driven performance management approach, focusing • We inspire internal stakeholders through on ensuring that every colleague knows their purpose, communications priorities and progress. • We focus on ways of working to ensure we are fit for world class 2. COLLEAGUE REWARD PARTNERSHIPS We enhanced transparency and fairness within our We continue to seek full and open dialogue with our reward structure by moving from performance-based colleagues and their representatives through channels pay to a market-based approach. such as people forums, joint working parties, briefing groups and our collective bargaining approach with the 3. LONDON HUB USDAW and SATA trade unions. We keep colleagues In August 2017, we opened our London hub to support updated on corporate and individual business unit our head office. The space reflects our focus on tech objectives, trading performance, economic conditions and was planned with our shift towards collaborative and other relevant matters. They are also represented on working practices at its centre. The office hosts our pension trustee boards. colleagues working across digital and product teams and includes a range of different collaboration spaces SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENT and product showrooms. OF OUTCOMES Our people strategy aims to support our business goals 4. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION by creating ‘a digital place full of purpose and passion’. We appointed a head of diversity to drive our diversity We want to build a truly customer-centric digital and inclusion strategy and enhanced our maternity, business and towards that goal, in 2017 we defined our paternity and adoption packages. priorities as: • Developing an organisational structure focused on customer and business outcomes 5. EARLY TALENT • Creating a candidate experience that delivers high We believe it’s vital to build the strongest pipeline calibre multi-skilled digital talent at pace and scale of talent possible, particularly in areas where skills • Fostering the digital and customer-centric capability, are scarce and in demand. The introduction of the mindset and skills our colleagues and leaders need apprenticeship levy gave us the opportunity to focus • Ensuring we have energised, engaged and on how we engage with early talent through degree productive colleagues at every step of our journey apprenticeships across key strategic areas – which for 2017 included IT, data intelligence, and product. 84% To support our ambition to become a digital place full of purpose and passion, our people plan will evolve to focus on supporting the development of a more collaborative, customer-centric digital retailer and lender. PLANS Our core values, originally created by our colleagues five years ago when were still a catalogue business, will evolve FOR 2018 to better reflect the digital leader we are today and the organisation we’re aiming to be in the future. We’ll also continue to develop our diversity strategy, Our seventh including publishing our first gender pay gap report, outlining successive world class commitments we’ll make to drive progress. engagement score 7 –WE L LBEING– Wellbeing is now our number one influencer on overall POLICIES colleague engagement. Activities this year included: Our wellbeing ambition is ‘we want our people to be the • Rolling out a consistent working from home and flexible healthiest, happiest and most fulfilled they can be, we’ll create working policy; opportunities for them to work, play, chill and revive, we believe that healthy people will delight and dazzle Miss Very.’ • Launching a new financial education portal to enable colleagues to manage their money better; • Working with our strategic partners to deliver a calendar PARTNERSHIPS of events with activities focused under our seven pillars; We completed our first full year partnering with Baxter • Gym membership in our in-house gym within our head Storey, the UK’s leading independent hospitality provider, office surpassing 1,000 colleagues; who provide our colleagues with access to freshly produced food and refreshments and Nuffield Health, the UK’s largest • Colleague roadshows delivered across all locations, not for profit healthcare provider, who continue to support giving our colleagues access to free health checks, as our wellbeing agenda. We also work with AXA and Retail well as wellbeing advice and support; Trust. We developed a new partnership with the MSP, the • 850 flu vaccinations delivered through our annual Community Sports Partnership for the Merseyside region, programme of free flu vaccination for all colleagues; dedicated to unlocking the power of sport and physical • Large-scale events delivered including fitness activity within the workplace. challenges ‘Cycle to the Moon’ and ‘Row to South Africa’; SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENT OF • Investing in training of 50 ‘physical activity champions’ OUTCOMES across the business (working with MSP), which led to Our wellbeing activities this year supported a 9% the formation of various activities and groups, including improvement in our colleague wellbeing engagement score. running, dodgeball, table tennis and more. Within our wellbeing agenda, we will continue to grow PLANS and evolve the programme through empowering our physical activity champions. FOR We will also continue regular company events and 2018 campaigns including a plan to hold our very first Shop Direct Games. MEM BER SHOP DIRECT CARES ABOUT MY WELLBEING 60 1000 100 TRAINED ACTIVITY CHAMPIONS GYM MEMBERSHIPS PCM PT/ADVICE SESSIONS +82% 850 1036 4700 FLU VACCINATIONS HEALTH CHECKS WATER BOTTLES WELLBEING +39% CORPORATE BIGGEST ROADSHOWS EVER 3000 9000 FREE FRUIT 2-4-1 WATER HEALTHY ME MEALS 403 RETAIL TRUST FLEX WORLD MENTAL HEALTH DAY COMMUNITY BEAUTY EACH MONTH EACH MONTH SERVICE YOURSELF LAUNCHED ENGAGEMENT LAUNCHED 8 –B ODY IMAGE– mix and body shape to create more inclusive brand appeal POLICIES across gallery and aspirational imagery. Shop Direct adheres to a body image policy which We promoted diversity and inclusivity by increasing ethnic includes the following requirements to ensure we produce diversity within our signed off model pack from 30% (2016) positive content for our customers: to 54% (2017) and choosing a mixed race model to front our • All adult models to be a minimum of 18 years old and advertising in both summer and autumn 2017 campaigns. models should look between 25 30 years when styled We sought out more shape diversity in our models, • We use models that are a minimum female UK size including the use of more athletic shapes within our branded 8 (for petite height models size 6-8) through to curve sportswear. To promote brand inclusivity we also used models up to a size 18 standard, petite and plus ranges within brand content rather • Female height 5ft 8in to 5ft 11in, petite height 5ft 3 to than segregating by body shape. 4in, male height generally 6ft to 6ft 3in Through our branded lifestyle content we actively encourage • All ethnicities and nationalities desirable to represent a healthy lifestyle based around medical recommendations the diversity of our customer base of exercise and consumption of healthy foods, and only • All child models should appear within healthy body comment positively on lifestyle and celebrity-related articles. weight parameters in line with age-related expectations To SUPPORT, INSPIRE, CELEBRATE and EMPOWER • All models booked through established agencies to women of all shapes, sizes and ethnicities, we presented ensure any required visas and licences are in place our first International Women’s Day influencer-led activity • Thorough casting process in place with regular studio on Very.co.uk. Partnering with both established and castings held to enable face-to-face model reviews emerging influencers, our International Celebrate Female and digital images and video footage to assess Empowerment campaign promoted the setting of life goals model suitability and women supporting one another. PARTNERSHIPS We work with a number of external model agencies, all of which must adhere to our policies. We ensure that model agencies are informed of any body shape concerns we may have. In such cases the model will not be booked again until a new assessment (casting or digital imagery) is complete. SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In 2017 we maintained the strict standards of our body image policy. We continued to implement research learnings that reflected consumer preferences towards model age, racial In 2018, we aim to maintain our standards on body 54% imagery, as well as the level of ethnic diversity across our model board. In line with customer PLANS research recommendations, we plan to constantly review brand imagery and model pitch. Specifically FOR 2018 we will look to promote inclusivity by including models who have more achievable, realistic healthy body shapes and plus size male models, and to consider the use of models with disabilities. Ethnic diversity within our model pack 9 –CHARITY– POLICIES House’s biggest to date, and enabled the charity to Giving something back to the places where we live begin working on a substantial refurbishment and digital and work is important to us. We continue to play a infrastructure programme to meet the needs of a modern positive role in our local communities through our charity children’s hospice. We also formed an innovation board to programme. Through a business-wide colleague vote, help the charity define what a world class digital hospice our colleagues choose from three options to support a was and to deliver the plans. digitally-focused project that will deliver maximum impact in our local communities. The support is delivered through Activity across the partnership included: colleague fundraising activities as well as skill sharing. • A stretching fundraising target per team or site The following policies underpin our approach: • Charity roadshows at all sites to drive engagement • We match-fund colleague fundraising of up to £200 • Regular group-wide communications per activity • A calendar of group-wide fundraising activities • We raise funds for our chosen charity partner through a biennial themed ball • Samples sold through Claire House’s network of 25 retail stores • We donate our sample clothing to charity partners, which they sell to raise funds • We offer payroll giving to enable colleagues to donate In November 2017, our colleagues voted to support directly to their chosen charities Booth and Whitechapel Centres, the North West’s leading homelessness charities. We’ve committed to raising • We do not support any charities with political or £600,000 across a two-year period to support the charities religious links in delivering a multi-faceted approach to improve digital inclusion and employment for some of the area’s most PARTNERSHIPS excluded and impoverished people. In October 2017, we completed our year-long partnership with Merseyside-based Claire House Children’s Hospice. Our colleagues then voted to support the North West’s leading homelessness charities, Whitechapel Centre in Liverpool and Booth Centre in Manchester. Charities Trust operates our matched giving scheme and administers our payroll giving scheme. SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES This year saw the culmination of our partnership with Claire House Children’s Hospice, which helps seriously and terminally ill children and young people across the North West. We raised £440,000 for Claire House in just 12 months, exceeding our target of £400,000, to help the charity to digitally equip and futureproof its new, second site in Liverpool. Our corporate partnership was Claire We’ll continue to support and engage our colleagues to reach our target of £600,000 for Booth and Whitechapel Centres. This will be supported by our commitment to our shared innovation board £440,000 PLANS to ensure we share our knowledge and expertise to drive the project. FOR 2018 In November 2018, we’ll hold our biennial themed charity ball, hoping to raise in excess of £150,000 towards our fundraising target, through table sales and fundraising activities. Raised for Claire House Children’s Hospice 10 –EN V IR ON MENT AND T RAVE L– POLICIES our waste, processing waste locally to each of our Shop Direct commits to strive to reduce our impact on different sites the planet. Our policies comprise: • We carry out random DNA analysis on our waste streams to ensure behaviours have not changed and • Zero to landfill policy we’re focusing on the right objectives • Reducing our carbon footprint • We launched the ‘we don’t do rubbish’ initiative • Making recycling easy and convenient across all colleague restaurants and the promotion of • Committing to year-on-year energy reduction ‘free’ coffee grounds to be used as a natural fertiliser by our green-fingered colleagues PARTNERSHIPS 2. TRAVEL We continue to develop our strategic partnerships with • To ensure our travellers book responsibly, we our core facilities management suppliers, including continue to promote safe, cost-effective and Veolia, Statesman Travel, Engie and Inspired Energy. responsible travel by working with our partner Veolia is a UK leader in environmental solutions, and Statesman Travel key to our ambition to reduce our environmental impact. • In 2017, our Statesman Travel implant model Statesman Travel remains our trusted travel provider, became well established and Statesman Travel and in the last year has grown in capability and resource representatives formed good working relationships through partnering with USA-based Travel and Transport across our sites – bringing them closer to the Statesman, giving improved global capability. We are business and therefore more aware of behaviours midterm into our Engie partnership and, in the last 12 and trends within Shop Direct when delivering their months, have been exploring demand side response bespoke service opportunities, PV Solar panelling and further LED lighting refresh opportunities. Inspired Energy (formerly STC 3. ENERGY Energy) is one of the UK’s leading independent third• Inspired Energy is our partner for utility invoice party intermediates, and we continue work closely in our validation, carbon reduction commitment and energy efforts to reduce energy consumption. savings opportunity scheme • We now have 100% automatic meter reads across SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENT OF all of our sites, feeding directly into Inspired Energy’s OUTCOMES web portal for easy access reviewing • We have made a reduction in electricity consumption 1. WASTE year-on-year of 3% • Our waste model treats waste as a resource and we • We regularly review our energy consumption for both continue to improve our recyclate streams hierarchy positive and negative expenditure to ensure our zero to landfill commitment • We share best practice across our group for all • Our waste supplier is a recycling company (not a innovations and best practices waste collection company), which leads to a more • Water consumption is regularly reviewed and a transparent waste process number of assets have been replaced with more • We continue our investment in making recycling efficient types, such as taps, WCs and showers convenient for our staff via awareness campaigns • We remain certified to the Carbon Trust Standard for and updating our internal waste streams Carbon, recognising our best practice approach to • Veolia commits to carbon footprint reduction by managing and reducing greenhouse gas emissions keeping the mileage low in the vehicles that pick up Our focus for 2018 is to improve our carbon footprint through focusing on our waste hierarchy and further educating our colleagues on how we recycle. PLANS We will continue to work closely with our frequent travellers through our implant team to make responsible travel easy, convenient and safe. Our focus remains on partnering with FOR 2018 responsible airlines who are committed to reducing their environmental footprint. Within our energy agenda, our focus is to continue the good work and downward trajectory in energy consumption and further educate colleagues on how they can play their part. 11 – A N TI-C ORRUPTION– POLICIES Shop Direct maintains its zero tolerance approach to • Conducting annual refresher training on key policies; corruption, which is underpinned by a number of key the training module maintained levels of participation policies and processes, including: and engagement of 96% • Any gifts, hospitality and entertaining must be • All internal policies were regularly reviewed as part of formally approved in advance and must be our ongoing assurance activity appropriate, proportionate and not have the ability to • Our conflicts of interest policy and our gifts and unduly influence decisions hospitality policy were re-communicated to all • Any potential conflicts of interest must be declared relevant colleagues and registered and potential mitigating action • Bribery and corruption risks were considered within considered by the appropriate director all relevant internal audits • A confidential whistleblowing line is in operation • We also proactively considered the Corporate and is operated by a third party, with any reported Criminal Offences legislation introduced in 2017, incidents being investigated independently and held a risk workshop facilitated by a third party • All new suppliers receive Shop Direct’s code of provider conduct and a statement of our zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption; existing suppliers also receive reinforcement communications periodically • Bribery and corruption risks are reviewed on an annual basis and are factored into the audit planning process • All employees are trained annually on the above key policies, including a knowledge check PARTNERSHIPS We manage our own policies through internal teams. Our confidential whistleblowing line is operated by our security partner, Cordant Security. SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Specific areas of focus and development over the period included: We will continue to progress in 2018, including: 96% • All relevant policies being reviewed and updated as appropriate • Online training to be updated and refreshed for all PLANS colleagues; we will also further evaluate the use of technology to monitor potential bribery and corruption risks FOR 2018 • We will evaluate how additional supplier intelligence sources can be embedded in our supplier due diligence processes • The key elements of our Corporate Criminal Offences Colleague training legislation workshop will be included in our policy participation and within the annual training 12 – D A TA , S ECURITY AND P R IVACY– POLICIES SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENT OF At Shop Direct, we are committed to preserving the OUTCOMES confidentiality, integrity and availability of all customer As part of our security transformation in 2017, we: information from the threat of cyber attack. Our approach • As part of our three lines of defence approach to to the security of customer information is underpinned by a cyber security, formalised security into a structured number of key policies and processes: information security management team • Information and cyber security policy: we ensure that • Put in place a strategic education and awareness our customers’ data is appropriately protected from programme to run for the next three years across Shop unauthorised access, distribution, loss or corruption Direct • Privacy policy: our data privacy programmes and • Reviewed and enhanced several of our technical practices are focused on processing information controls across our estate appropriately and lawfully, ensuring it is in accordance Delivered GDPR compliance, ensuring as a business we with GDPR requirements protect customers’ personal data and privacy. We also • Security awareness and education standards: we identified a data protection officer who is responsible for hold our colleagues accountable for complying with ensuring Shop Direct processes the personal data of its our internal policies on acceptable behaviour when staff, customers, providers or any other individuals (data handling customer data subjects) in compliance with GDPR. • Secure configuration: establishing and actively We regularly assess and measure our resilience to cyber maintaining the secure configuration of information and threats by benchmarking our environments objectively using communications technology (ICT) by having policies the ISF’s benchmarking service. This allows us to measure and processes in place to develop secure and report upon the effectiveness and value of our security baseline builds programme and security investments. We’re also working towards independent certifications for our security measures PARTNERSHIPS to protect customers’ financial and personal information. We work with leading security organisations to help us deliver a cyber-resilient service for our customers. These partnerships include: • CESG – the UK government’s National Technical Authority for Information Assurance, which advises organisations on how to protect their information and information systems against today’s threats • CERT – the UK’s national Computer Emergency Response Team, which manages and prepares for national cyber security incidents • ISF – the Information Security Forum, which is the world’s leading authority on cyber, information security and risk management • IBM – as a strategic partner, IBM provides enterprisewide security intelligence and expertise We will continue to progress with our bold certification scheme that sets out a good and innovative security strategy in 2018, baseline of cyber security suitable for our delivering on the following objectives: business. The scheme addresses five key • Continue to mature information security controls that, when implemented correctly, • Increase our technical capability can prevent around 80% of cyber attacks. PLANS Achieving certification will also help to • Meet our regulatory and CSR address other compliance requirements, requirements such as the EU General Data Protection FOR 2018 • Use information security to enable and enhance our business Regulation. Our technical capability to predict, We’re building an approach that will prevent, detect and respond will also be ultimately lead to a cyber essentials greatly enhanced with further adoption of certification. Cyber essentials is a machine learning, automation and artificial governmentbacked cyber security intelligence techniques in 2018. 13 – F I NA NC IAL SERVICES– POLICIES as the Finance and Leasing Association Lending Code. Shop Direct monitors customers’ financial wellbeing We are authorised and regulated by the Financial every month, both in terms of account performance Conduct Authority. and using external bureaux data in every credit decision. We work closely with free debt advice charities, such as StepChange, as well as calling on expertise from Credit decisions are assessed through highly leading charity Samaritans, to ensure customers have predictive automated scoring, which provides the most appropriate available options for support. consistency and robust decision making. As a responsible lender, Shop Direct refuses credit SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AND MEASUREMENT where we feel it is unaffordable for customers to OF OUTCOMES sustain. We are proud of the range of financial services products we offer and the role we play in our We use a wide range of controls to protect our customers’ lives. We have a variety of policies in place customers and ourselves from fraud. to ensure we bring good products within reach of our customers in a responsible way. PARTNERSHIPS We have continued to ensure that we achieve the right Shop Direct Financial Services is the sole provider customer outcomes with our credit decisions, refusing of credit facilities to support our retail offering. This to approve new or further credit where we do not feel it enables customers to finance their purchases using is responsible to do so. easy to understand credit products. In addition, we partner with other responsible lenders to offer personal loan and credit card facilities to customers. All credit facilities are provided in line with the Consumer Credit Directive 2010, and we comply with regulatory guidance and industry codes and practices, such 14 – F I NA NC IAL SERVICES– There are also times when our customers experience financial difficulty, for a variety of reasons. Whilst the vast majority of customers are able to resolve any difficulties, we sometimes have to increase the level of support we give. At such times, our colleagues work with customers to find appropriate short or longerterm solutions, taking a customer-centric approach including the customer’s overall affordability to meet the proposed solution. If the customer is in broader financial difficulty, we make sure that we refer them for independent debt advice. We continue to invest heavily in measures to prevent and detect criminal activity and lessen the effects this can have upon our customers and wider society. In addition to the fraud protection measures we undertake internally, we continue to educate our customers on fraud threats, such as phishing scams on the internet and the need to protect their personal data. We continue to generate improvements in our capability to assess and understand customers’ circumstances. We improved our data and decisioning capability once again this year, ensuring we continue to make the best and most responsible possible credit decisions for our customers. We take a proactive approach to assessing the financial wellbeing of our customers. As an indication of impact in 2017: • We accepted only around 31% of new credit applications • We declined 12% of existing customer order requests for extending credit in order to protect against affordability issues or fraud • We saw a continued reduction in fraud incurred During 2018, we will continue to such as two-way SMS and webchat in enhance our credit decisioning and line with our digital ambitions. further strengthen the policies that are PLANS We will continue to monitor customers’ in place to assess creditworthiness and financial wellbeing every month, both affordability. FOR 2018 in terms of account performance and We have commenced the roll-out using external bureaux data in every of new technologies to enable our credit decision. customers to interact when in arrears, 15 –E XTE R N A L RECOGNITION – In 2017, Shop Direct won a number of awards in recognition of our continued progress. These included: The OC&C Strategy Consultants pure Best pureplay etailer – play etailer of the year – Shop Direct Over £50m turnover Best use of mobile Best eCommerce – Littlewoods Ireland Business of the year (over 250 Tech. team of the year employees) Digital launch of the year – Very.co.uk’s Marketing initiative of the year Very Assistant Very.co.uk’s #LoveGiving campaign 16 –SUMMARY– In this annual communication on progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Throughout 2018, we will continue to drive CSR activities across Shop Direct and ensure we hold ourselves accountable for meeting our commitments. We look forward to reporting on our progress next year.
