GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PLH ARKITEKTER A/S VERMUNDSGADE 38K 2100 KØBENHAVN Ø WWW.PLH.DK CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PLH Arkitekter A/S is a multi-disciplinary architectural practice focused on stimulating an interactive and productive working environment for our talented and creative people, partly architects, but also interior designers and industrial designers, together with specialists within construction, process planning, sustainability and communication. PLH works with a broad spectrum of commissions from architecture, urban planning and workplace design to client advisory. The company is often involved in complex, large-scale multi-disciplinary projects that evolve over long time frames and are often associated with a high degree of confidentiality and proper due process. Regardless of the project type, PLH’s commitment to responsible business practices and highest standards of professional integrity is at the foundation of all interactions with clients, collaborators and fellow colleagues. PLH’s business ethics and code of conduct is grounded in years of professional industry experience and the commitment of the leadership team to follow responsible business practices in an ever changing global marketplace. Since , PLH has been a member of the UN Global Compact initiative as part of maintaining and developing our social and environmental responsibility. PLH embraces, supports and enacts, within its sphere of influence, the Global Compact set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. PLH wishes to continue our participation in the Global Compact and we seek to support the principles as an integral part of our day-to-day operation and organizational culture, and where possible, align leadership strategies to the ten principles. The principles covering the environment are a focus area for PLH where we can have a measurable, positive impact. Søren Mølbak, Director, Architect MAA July THE 10 PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the eﬀective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diﬀusion of environ mentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND RESPONSIBILITY Member of DANSKE ARK UN Global Compact Paulette Christophersen Partner PLH is a member of the Danish Association of Architectural Firms (DANSKE ARK), and our operational procedures are based on Danish Financial Reporting Svenn Gunborg Olsen Chief Financial Oﬃcer Legislation and DANSKE ARK’S instructions, supported by BDO consulting auditors guidelines and contractual standards, aimed at strengthening the quality level and professionalism of practicing architectural firms, and Legal Accountability and Risk covering: Management Søren Mølbak Partner and Director Level of professional liability insurance and supported by Mazanti-Andersen Korsø Jensen standard contracting agreements General AdvokatPartnerskab Conditions for Consultancy and Assistance (ABR ). Quality Assurance Søren Mølbak Partner and Director Collective bargaining process whereby DANSKE ARK negotiates the general agreements on pay and working conditions etc. of the technical staﬀ Digital Knowledge Management in the employment of the member firms. Jan Sander Fredriksen Partner and Claus Johannessen Senior Architect Fees and standards for architectural work with individual clients, private client organizations Sustainability PLH Green Team and public authorities. Søren Mølbak Partner and Director DANSKE ARK also participates in negotiations Paulette Christophersen Partner, Steen Enrico with public authorities on tax aspects, prices and Andersen Partner and Sisse Marie Rüsz profit legislation, regulations on competitive tenSustainability Manager dering, liability and insurance matters as well as building assignment procedures, quality assurStaff Representatives ance and other terms relating to the professional Henning Solfeldt Design Specialist activities of the member firms. Mark Hamann Hansen Constructing architect MAK and Sisse Marie Rüsz Sustainability PLH is obliged to respect the basic conventions Manager. based on national and international legislation Occupational Health & Safety Supervisor Helle on human rights, the Danish Consolidation Act Maria Christensen Senior Project Leader no. , of January , and our membership of the Danish Association of Architectural Firms. “Our business responsibility is Leadership Responsibility based on high standards of Danish legislation and our active The PLH leadership team members are individengagement in associations, ually and collectively responsible for ensuring committees and conferences” the firm’s adherence to responsible business practices and our Code of Ethics. To that end, the following nominated partners, directors and professional staﬀ have been assigned specific areas of responsibility: WORK ENVIRONMENT, POLICY AND SOCIAL ACTION PLH has a clear and balanced gender employees have undergone specialised every employee has a formalized confipolicy where some of our key values are training through the Psychiatry Fund to dential meeting with the closest partner to embrace diversity of competencies, be able to advise and guide colleagues once a year. The purpose is to give the experiences and viewpoints and to on issues of stress. The PLH leadership, employees an opportunity to address support a humanistic and collegial work together with the stress counsellors issues related to their work situation to style in order to add real value to our have prepared an anti-stress policy express their professional wishes and business. guideline that covers both preventative dreams and to align the wishes of the actions (behaviours and organisation of employee with the overall direction of work), detection of early warning signs the company. Actions and management of stress aﬀected We recruit solely on proven competenstaﬀ. Any stress aﬀected employees will cies and experiences, not sex, nationalbe oﬀered psychological consultation as Attractive Workplace ity, religion nor age. Staﬀ members are needed. PLH is recognized as a stable and attracselected for project teams on the basis tive workplace, with many employees of relevant qualifications and experibeing a part of the practice for ence corresponding with the project Employee Involvement years. demands and our overall strategies and PLH follows the Danish Working According to our latest annual Work goals for meeting the clients’ needs. Environment Act and an integrated part Assessment carried out in , our of working at PLH is, involvement and staﬀ is very satisfied with the working Stress Prevention day-to-day dialogue between the leadenvironment, also in relation to the split ership team members and the employof sex, nationality and age. We foster an In order to promote well-being at ees. To make sure employees thrive and open and inclusive culture where racism work, PLH has in recent years focussed develop their skills and competences, or bullying is not tolerated. on prevention of stress. One of our We believe that responsible design and architecture is based on understanding people's activity and culture WORK ENVIRONMENT, POLICY AND SOCIAL ACTION Number of employees at PLH split on sex and age. PLH is a team of employees in July age to years age to years age to years age to years age to + years Continued Focus on the around the world who are working The interest groups range widely and Working Environment together to improve quality of life new ones are added continuously. Thus, through design. This creates a diverse the PLH Cycling Team has this year been Our procedures have proven eﬀective working environment where multiple followed by PLH Runners, PLH Morning and PLH wishes to continue to invest languages and cultures meet. Yoga and an additionally group of PLH in the working environment in order Crossfit is in the making. to remain an attractive, healthy and productive oﬃce retaining and attracting Social Engagement the best. The priority of a responsible Great value is put into maintaining and Lunchtime work environment and recognition of strengthening the social interactions In PLH has started a new lunch human diversity is a significant value for between colleagues through multiple scheme as a way to encourage employthe oﬃce’s ability to evolve in tune with events and interest groups. ees to stay at the oﬃce and have lunch the changing demands, challenges and Events range from educational lectures with their co-workers hereby strengthtendencies of our industry. and study trips to social events such as ening social ties. The lunch scheme the annual summer party, clay pigeon also focuses on supporting small local Celebrating Diversity shooting, canoe trips, vine tasting, businesses through a ongoing rotation fishing trips, golf tournaments, theatre of the lunch suppliers. Additionally all One of the building blocks of the PLH outings and an annual PLH football toursuppliers are chosen based on a focus family is our celebration of diversity. nament with teams from diﬀerent on ecological produce and diversity in The oﬃce is home to colleagues from architectural companies. cuisine. Our purpose is to improve the quality of people’s life through design. This could be at home, at work, at school, in the city, in nature, at the station anywhere people gather in a space or use objects of design OUR PURPOSE IS TO IMPROVE QUALITY OF LIFE THROUGH DESIGN Environmental Challenges Promoting Awareness are also aesthetically, functionally and economically successful. PLH’s main focus in connection to PLH supports a considered approach to the principles of UN Global Compact environmental challenges by promotis directed towards environmental ing our own and others awareness of Environmentally Sustainable challenges and possibilities. PLH has a the impacts on the environment and Design responsibility to create holistic sustainsurroundings. We expect our staﬀ to be By focusing attention and knowledge able and humanistic solutions to the conscious of the consequences of their sharing on environmentally sustainable greatest extent that it can influence actions concerning the environment, design (ESD) parameters, the pracproject outcomes. whether it is “locally” at the oﬃce or tice has been able to inform clients of “globally” with a client. possibilities and advantages, and advise Improving Quality of Life them about ESD options and systems, Through Design Sustainability that can become an investment in operational savings. We are committed to reviewing how Buildings are more than “passive” users our activities can contribute to the of energy. They are also “active” enviOur significant competencies within the reduction of CO² emissions and minironments where the accommodation of area have enabled the oﬃce to respond mize the planet’s consumption of fossil human needs is an integral part of the to and challenge the expectations of resources. creation of environmentally sustainable our increasingly environmentally consolutions where people thrive. scious investors and clients. However, sustainability is not only a question of energy – social well-beTherefore, sustainability is an inteing and cultural behavior are aspects grated element in our projects right Sustainability Design Tool that we consider just as vital a part of from the initial thoughts about form We aim to strengthen our holistic designing sustainable buildings. and function, where passive design approach across disciplines creating Our mission and purpose is to improve parameters help define the physical informed, inventive and sustainable quality of life through design and the design. We strive to inform our clients solutions. Our latest eﬀort is the develvalue of our work is found where the throughout the decision making process opment of a new design and communibuilt environment becomes a better to optimize the outcomes within the cation tool. The tool is both meant as an place for people – whether it’s miniparameters of each project. internal design tool, assisting the design mizing energy consumption, improving We see the integrated design process, team in the design process, as well as indoor climate or providing structures with workshops and knowledge shara means of communication with other that resolve social challenges. ing, as the foundation for the develstakeholders. The tool will illustrate the opment of sustainable projects that chosen focus on diﬀerent sustainability LOCAL INITIATIVES GLOBAL IMPACT issues and can thus be used to commuInternal Task Force An essential approach in all our work nicate how design changes aﬀect the is the integration of hard factors such The oﬃce is revitalizing the internal overall sustainability performance. as geometries, orientation, location of task-force working with initiatives and windows, choice of materials, engiapproaches for internal development, neering systems and lighting, with soft Local Resources including; training, debate and knowlfactors related to user comfort and edge sharing, study trips, lectures, Central to sustainable design is using welfare. workshops etc. The aim of the tasklocal resources and adapting the buildforce is to create ownership of the susing complex to the local climate conditions, inspired by the local tradition. tainable development across the entire Our Office oﬃce and create an environment where Sun screening, lighting control, natural PLH is working on a targeted eﬀort to challenging the status quo is the norm. ventilation as well as local and natural minimize the environmental load of the materials are important factors to daily running of our own oﬃce and to obtain a comfortable indoor climate DGNB Certification create a healthy and safe workplace. and optimize energy eﬃciency. The Resource consumption (power, HVAC, We are continuously having employchoice of green initiatives needs to be water) as well as the waste of oﬃce ees partake in the certification trainseen from a lifecycle perspective as supplies and paper is continually being ing from the Green Building Council many solutions will have an appealing reduced or recycled. Denmark. DGNB Denmark is a Danish pay-back time when considered over certification system for sustainability in We are conscious of the environmental a , or year horizon for running buildings which match the high internaimpact of transportation to/from meetcosts. tional standards. ings, and use oﬃce bikes for meetings Other local resources such as wind for held within a km radius of the oﬃce. We have also been part of a DGNBelectricity, sun for energy, sea water for Our other initiatives in this area include development team drawing up a new cooling, rainwater for recycling and the widespread use of tele-conferences and certification tool for existing oﬃce underground for geothermal potentialtele-meetings, together with purchasbuildings. As part of the pilot phase, are also important factors to consider ing carbon quotas on air travel. we’ve completed the first ever certification of an existing oﬃce building in Denmark. “As architects, our area of expertise within sustainable design, is optimizing the passive characteristics in buildings, promoting the integrated design process and facilitating collaboration between the different stakeholders.” SISSE MARIE RÜSZ, SUSTAINABILITY MANAGER PLH ARKITEKTER PLH OFFICE PREMISES REDESIGNING A FORMER FACTORY BUILDING We have transformed and redesigned dynamic eﬀect, and exciting new vanrepresentatives of the Danish building our own oﬃce building contributing to tage points. industry evaluated the 6 projects and the social task of updating the existing voted for the best project. building stock. Our oﬃce building was once a factory in the city of Showcasing the Industrial Past Copenhagen now it's transformed into The original crane structures and elePreserving History and Spirit a new workspace for PLH based on synments such as steel trusses and beams The committee described our project ergies from inside to outside. are exposed as a dramatic reminiscence with these words – ‘The PLH oﬃce has of the buildings industrial past. The taken a dose of their own medicine and cranes are now parked in each end of transformed an old factory building to The Refurbishment the studio where they create a ‘roof’ their new studio. The refurbishment is The conversion project involved rethat defines the café at one end and a beautiful example of how to modfurbishment of the existing building, team space at the other. ernize an old building while preserving adding a mezzanine along one side, as its history and spirit.’ Chairman of the a huge ‘piece of furniture’ providing 40 Nomination Committee and former City extra workspaces upstairs and diverse Nominated for Architect, Gøsta Knudsen, said: “The six ‘laboratory spaces’ below for meetings, The 'RENOVER' Award nominated projects are all performed model-making, brainstorming and prodOur oﬃce renovation was one of six at the highest professional level while uct research. The interior is defined by its projects to be nominated to become showcasing the width of renovation. spaciousness, with a ceiling height of 6.5 Denmark's best renovation in 2014. We have projects that intelligently and meters, and the tall, narrow industrial Initially, 165 projects were set to the artistically interact with their surroundwindows. The verticality of the space Renovation Award ‘RENOVER prisen’ ings, projects with enormously ambitious is underlined through the rhythmic in March 2014 and in June 2014 the energy solutions and projects that comrepetition of columns and windows, and field was reduced to only 6 nominated pletely rethinks the buildings function the inserted mezzanine level creates a projects. An electoral college of 67 without compromising the heritage.“ It was important for us to preserve and showcase the history and spirit of the building to create an authentic atmosphere. We now have a spacious studio with distinct character and PAULETTE CHRISTOPHERSEN, both employees and visitors enjoy coming here PARTNER AND LEAD WORKPLACE DESIGNER, and complement our beautiful office. PLH ARKITEKTER ANTI-CORRUPTION, LABOUR AND HUMAN RIGHTS Anti-Corruption Danish legislation. Being a member of building materials respect the protecDANSKE ARK The Danish Association of tion of internationally claimed human According to 'The Corruption Architectural Firms, PLH has to follow rights and are not complicit in human Perceptions Index' Denmark has been DANSKE ARK’S instructions, guidelines rights abuses. We make sure we only do the least corrupted country in the world and contractual standards and we are business with companies and suppliers for years ( ) and is nd in obliged to follow Danish legislation as that respect the rights of their workers, . Although bribery and corruption well as respecting national and intertake care of their security and do not are not a common phenomenon in our national legislation on human rights use child labour. It's part of our normal culture, we are still very aware of the conventions. procedures to use certified materials possibility of nepotism, exchanges of and to state in tenders that we do not favours, unoﬃcial agreements between accept materials produced and mancompanies etc. Therefore, we aim for Suppliers and Business ufactured with the assistance of child clarity in all our business agreements. Partners labour. Where PLH can make the greatest We demand good working conditions Ensuring Human Rights and diﬀerence with regards to human if we hear of workers in marble quarries Labour Rights rights and labour rights is when we do not wearing masks or the use of child business with companies and suppliers labour, we immediately abolish all colHuman rights and labour rights are from other countries. When possible laboration. very well protected in Denmark and in we always make sure manufacturers of SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS AND DESIGNS # CASES General Approach to Sustainable HQ for DSV The DSV Warsaw building is designed Sustainable Solutions at PLH Over the past years, PLH qualified to with emphasis on encouraging a social and vibrant working environment. PLH’s knowledge about sustainable participate in many competitions, most Outwardly, the building has a distinctive solutions and initiatives, seen in a of which included sustainability as critemetal fin facade that reduces direct broader perspective, is developed ria in the weighted scoring system. sunlight. significantly by implementing specific In , PLH won the competition for a projects with defined goals from the The building prospect calls for a building new headquarters for the transportaclient’s viewpoint, and by participating that is certified according to BREEAM tion and logistics company DSV with a in competitions. All projects play an “Very Good”. PLH focuses on multiple compact atrium for employees. The important role as ”case studies” which elements through the holistic approach. building supports DSV’s core values of reinforce the practice’s competencies, Elements such as; energy eﬃciency equality and openness, and the comskills and profile. through a compact building envelope, petition proposal suggested a series of external solar shading, highly insulated sustainable initiatives, such as natural façades, creating a visual connection Everyday Sustainable ventilation and CTS-controlled external around the central open atrium space, Designing at PLH blinds. A large solar power plant on the day lit working spaces located near the Apart from specific project examadjacent terminal could be integrated façades, easily divided oﬃce areas for ples, it is important to note that on a on the roof, in order to produce elecdual tenancy arrangements and prodaily basis, the staﬀ at PLH is making tricity used for forklifts and other local moting reductions in transport burdens. informed and conscious decisions equipment. impacting on the environment when Designs are currently being drawn on an they use passive design parameters, extension of the building, which continDGNB Certification select and specify materials, finishes, ues on the ideas of the original design PLH continues to partake in the develfurniture and fixtures. Through one-onwhile also incorporating changes due opment of sustainability in the building one or group activities, our staﬀ is conto lessons learned from the first project. industry. One of the ways has been as tinually updated on new and emerging part of the DGNB-development team, products, techniques or manufacturers drawing up a new certification tool for that can strengthen our ESD approach. BREEAM Certification existing oﬃce buildings. During the As a direct result of the DSV HQ in pilot phase, PLH has completed the first Denmark, PLH is now working on a new ever DGNB certification of an existing Products and Techniques to DSV oﬃce building in Warsaw which oﬃce building in Denmark. Reduce Environmental Impact builds upon key ideas developed in The focus of the DGNB certification for PLH put eﬀort into the specification, the successful project at Hedehusene, existing oﬃce buildings is to reveal the use and development of new products Denmark. A compact oﬃce building unresolved potential of our existing and techniques that reduce the impact is proposed with working spaces building stock on optimizing resources on the environment. As stated earlier, arranged along the perimeter, adjacent and supporting the green change in it is a question of using local resources to breakout spaces around a light open society. and adapt the construction methods central atrium. The new building reuses and technologies to the local climate the distinctive filleted curve geomeconditions, inspired by local traditions. try and a similar palette of materials PLH integrates this in developing prochosen white balconies, distinctive jects with the central aim to improve natural timber with concrete columns. the environment, generating energy This maintains a common architecand add value to the human everyday tural aesthetic in DSV’s buildings and life. reinforces a singular brand identity. PRODUCT DESIGN LONGEVITY & ENERGY SAVINGS # CASES PLH has put great initiatives in prodinternational product design award “iF to bring a homely atmosphere into uct design that bears modern marks Design Award”. the work spaces. It has a unique LEDand aims at long lasting validity. This shielding so the light does not dazzle or is, among other designs, shown in the distract the user. LumiStone is designed PlanSign series, which was designed Lighting that Saves Energy for long life cycling and has a lifespan of in and gained a Cradle to Cradle PLH design team developed a new approx years by usage of hours a Certification in . series of light fittings for energy saving day and all materials can be reused by a lighting. These innovative light fixtures simple separation of the fixtures parts. are produced in collaboration with, and 'PlanSign Series' Cradle to for, major international light manufacCradle turing companies. 'LumiLine' The sign is made of mm aluminium, In , the LED technology and the in a very flexible design, that allows it to be combined in countless ways and 'LumiStone' Reusable, Long cone-shaped apertures from LumiStone in many diﬀerent sizes for indoor and Lifespan, High Efficiency were transferred unchanged into a In April Philips Lighting launched recessed ceiling fixture, called LumiLine. outdoor use. The sign is equipped with LumiStone a new LED fixature Design kinship with LumiStone is clear the patented magnetic locking system designed by PLH (Henning Solfeldt even though LumiLine is a flat, oval that ensures that it is easy and simple design specialist) as the first suspended luminaire. LumiLine was developed to maintain. PlanSign is the only sign LED fixture that meets current requirefor DSV’s new headquarters, where system in the world that is Cradle to ments for oﬃce lighting. LumiStone the building’s rounded volumes called Cradle certified. In , the manugives a luminous eﬃciency exceeding for a ceiling fixture in a similar friendly facturer DanSign met higher environlm / W, which is % higher than expression. The fitting was subsemental standards and increased their T luminaires often used for oﬃces. The quently also used throughout Alfa certification level from Basic to Bronze. fixture is elegant, evocative and energy Laval’s new oﬃce in Aalborg. PlanSign was previously awarded the eﬃcient, and is specifically developed “I develop products with common sense in mind. Firstly, the product should be able to get dismantled into individual components when its lifetime has come to an end. Secondly, the materials or components should be reusable. Thirdly, the product should have as sensible an energy consumption as possible“ HENNING SOLFELDT PRODUCT DESIGN SPECIALIST PLH ARKITEKTER SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY WORKPLACE # CASE SIVANTOS Sivantos headquarters in Singapore is a that ensures employees embrace, utilise and immediate wow factor to anybody collaboration between Danish architecture and understand their new workplace enviwho visits. The visual elements work practice PLH Arkitekter as the concept deronment. Sivantos’ desire to strengthen its aesthetically and acoustically towards signer, and local interior design company identity has resulted in a new headquarters transforming sound waves into physical Geyer Design for design development and that represents a powerful manifestation form and bringing sound to life visually for delivery. The leading hearing aid company of the company’s vision to invent the fuan emotional and uplifting experience. It is Sivantos relocated its global headquarters ture of better hearing and understanding. here that global and local visitors want to and its Singapore operations, representing PLH’s concept for Sivantos is called “Conbe photographed with the Sivantos logo as a critical moment to change culture and esnected by Sound”, hereby the design is a a backdrop. tablish a renewed image and identity. The physical manifestation of the experience outcome is a sound-inspired workplace and connective potential of sound. The Hubs as Sound spaces Drawing that fosters collaboration, agility, accountworkplace design and spatial experience People Together ability and an entrepreneurial spirit. It is draw on two main themes “sound unites Hubs are centrally located around the floors a place that employees are proud of, and us” and “sound as a celebration of global creating spaces for collaboration, focus, that gives visitors a memorable experidiversity”. Subsequently, form, light, colcontemplation and breakout. In connection ence. our and materiality are integrated to bring is a series of team support functions such visitors and employees together in spaces as phone booths, small meeting rooms, Connected by Sound that are rich in sensory experience. Upon pantries, print/storage rooms and various The facility is intuitively designed, across entering the head quarter, it becomes break-out spaces with diverse seating 3 very large floor plates, and comprises clear that sound is the focal point of this modes that encourage team building, research & development (R & D), manufacorganization. exchange of expert knowledge and collaboturing, global departments and South East ration. Easy accessibility and close proxAsia oﬃce. Eﬀective branding experience Bringing Sound to Life Visually imity to all desk areas means all functions is integrated into both the visitor and emInspired by sound waves, an exciting are equally distributed through the floors. ployee flow around the workplace, and it sculptural ‘sound wall’ encases the arrival has been developed in an inclusive manner and reception area – establishing a strong SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY WORKPLACE # CASE SIVANTOS The hubs act as attractive destinations the variations and nuances of the sounds processes with each department having its within the workplace, each with their own that we hear in nature, the city and when own home base. The desks are modular and sound concept based on the diversity and we celebrate. respond to each team’s individual needs contrasts of ‘sound of nature’, ‘sound but also share similar design elements of the city’ and ‘sound of celebration’ Team Neighbourhoods creating a unified look throughout, with a creating diﬀerent soundscapes within The private work areas are grouped into balance of privacy and team spirit. the oﬃce. The combination of materials, neighbourhoods that can accommodate colour and lighting in each hub emphasize a variety of individual and group work Environmental Materials The linoleum we have used was possibly the most environmental flooring choice so “The new headquarters has completely that’s a big plus – 97% raw material + 43% transformed the culture of working here at recycled, this was a big win to convince Sivantos, making the interaction between the client to go for something like this over different departments and teams much stone, ceramic tiles etc. The carpet is also stronger. The collaboration hubs provide a Green product. The acoustic timber clada platform for spontaneous meetings and ding should also be Green certified. brainstorm sessions improving productivity immensely, and at the same time giving SIVANTOS SENIOR the opportunity to unwind while still at VICE PRESIDENT ȃ HR work.” NICOLAI R. JENSEN ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGY # CASE BREATHE 55 Recycling of Energy to Improve Better Indoor Air Quality and Energy Efficient Technologies Air Quality in Older Buildings Easier Life for Allergy Sufferers The project was initially sponsored by The existing building stock represent a The unit is easily applicable and adaptthe Innovation Fund (Fornyelsesfonden) tremendous energy consumption and able to diﬀerent wall thickness’s. It and one version of the unit is now there is a great potential for reducing ensures basic ventilation of individual sponsored by the Market Maturation the total energy consumption in refurrooms with high heat recovery eﬃFund (Markedsmodningsfonden). A bishments of older buildings. ciency transforming the energy to fresh slightly diﬀerent version of the unit air entering the room. It is also possible better suited for kitchens and bathto incorporate filters that make life rooms is sponsored by the Danish Public Recycling 4/5 of the Energy easier for allergy suﬀerers and the unit Service Agency 'Elforsk' which supports Otherwise Lost improves indoor air quality. research in and development of energy PLH has developed a ventilation unit eﬃcient technologies. called Breathe , that can recycle / of the energy in the otherwise lost heat, Operates Automatically units have been tested in a residential area in Kokkedal. The test results have which makes the unit an obvious techniThe unit operates automatically been analysed and incorporated into the cal device to use in connection with the depending on the indoor climate. With final design of the unit which has now renovation of older buildings. more people and high levels of CO or been put into production. humidity in the room, the unit automatically increases the ventilation intensity. SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY REVITALIZATION # CASE HUNOSØGÅRD Social Sustainability at PLH This means that when we design with Reversing the Depopulation social sustainability in mind we aim At PLH we understand social sustainaThe island of Møn, as many other areas to combine the design of the physical bility as a process for creating sustainin the outskirts of Denmark, suﬀers realm with design of the social world – able, successful places that promote from increasing depopulation with a this could be infrastructure to support well being and improve the quality of decrease in commercial activities as a social and cultural life, social amenities, peoples’ lives by understanding what consequence. The project to develop systems for citizen engagement and people need from the places they live Hunosøgård opens up the estate to the spaces for people and places to evolve. and work. public and the local community by creating a cultural center and farmers market “Our mission is to improve the New Local Gathering Point where locals can sell their foods and quality of people's life through The aim of the conversion and expanproducts to hotel guests and tourists in design. That's why it's especially sion of the estate and mansion of the area – and where cultural activities important for us to be part of proHunosøgård is not only to strengthen such as exhibitions by local artists and jects like Hunosøgård that not only and increase the number of visitors and outdoor activities can take place. improve the everyday experience hotel-guests coming to enjoy the unique for the immediate users but also nature – but also to make Hunosøgård Increasing Local Activities help create success and better a new local gathering point marking The new Hunosøgård thus helps revitalconditions for people in the entire the start of a revitalization of the entire ize the community by increasing cultural community “ community. and commercial activities. SØREN MØLBAK PARTNER, DIRECTOR AND LEAD DESIGNER PLH ARKITEKTER SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY WORKPLACE # CASE PHARMACOSMOS Workplace design design to the world, we also create setnatural and friendly” feel, open oﬃce At PLH workplace we develop environtings for our clients to fulfil their dream with views, natural daylight and high ments for people and organisations to of helping people around the world. quality ergonomic furniture aligns the thrive. This is done from the inside out Pharmacosmos new UK oﬃce with the with a focus on the long term perspecPharmacosmos UK Office company’s strong Danish roots. Here, tive to both solutions and overall design. One example of this work is the new UK the Danish culture of dining together is The ability of the physical framework to oﬃce for Pharmacosmos. Pharmacosgiven a special place in the new oﬃce, adjust and respond to future changes in mos is a global specialist in iron therapy with its informal collaboration lounge, an organisation’s needs is a significant and they develop, manufacture and complete with cafe, long team table and success criterion. market medicines for the treatment of terraced seating. This space is the first As per our holistic approach to architeciron deficiency. area you meet on arrival to the oﬃce and ture, human needs and patterns of use functions as a meeting point throughare integrated into the interpretation of The Scandinavian Feel out the day for specialists in the field organizational and real estate strateThroughout the design, patient stories and those concentrating on projects in gies to achieve sustainable workplace are integrated in the daily experience the oﬃce. The new oﬃce supports the environments. Not only does PLH bring of the oﬃce alongside the emphasis on company’s commitment to help people the humanistic approach of Scandinavian team spirit. The welcoming, Scandinaby being people driven, committed to vian inspired design with an “inviting, quality, and innovating for better lives. “We aspire to develop a workspace that on its own ignites desire and ambition to improve care for people living with iron deficiency. A workspace created in the belief that its design and functionality is an extension of our company: our aspiration, our values and our culture.” ANDREAS SIDELMANN CHRISTENSEN MANAGING DIRECTOR UK/IE PHARMACOSMOS SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BETTER QUALITY OF LIFE # CASE FIXER ROOMS HALMTORVET “I have to put myself in the place of the users to create an optimal framework for their living and working conditions. This case has been very interesting because the living conditions of drug abusers are so extreme. And it has been inspiring to experience the people who – on a daily basis – are fighting for dignity and decent lives for drug abusers. RIKKE HAUGAARD SEJERSEN LEADING ARCHITECT PLH ARKITEKTER A New Injecting Center supervision of and counselling from members. It’s estimated that approx. in Copenhagen medical staﬀ that can oﬀer first aid 500-1000 drug users live in Copenhagen PLH has transformed a former storage as well as a chance to rest after drug and that the majority will pass through building in the Meatpacking district in intake, acute nursing and counselling on the center on a daily basis. the central part of Copenhagen into a other health services and treatments. medically supervised injecting center. Besides saving lives and create good Cooperation, Engagement and The center opened to the public on Aurelationships with drug users in order to Involvement gust 15, 2016. It is located at Halmtorvet refer to establish a connection to other Authorities, politicians and locals pay 17 in the neighbourhood of Vesterbro – a services and treatments, the aim is to regreat attention to the new center and very mixed neighbourhood populated by duce inconvenience for the locals while the impact it will have on daily life in the artists, creative businesses, restaurants, creating a safer neighborhood in order neighbourhood. Because of the special galleries but also an area frequented by attain a peaceful coexistence of drug nature of the project it’s founded on codrug abusers and aﬄicted by drug reabusers and the rest of the community. operation, engagement and involvement lated problems and crime. The injecting between diﬀerent interested parties center is an initiative aimed at improving Architecture Creating Stability, such as health professionals, the local the conditions for the substance abusers Security and Safety community, the local police, the Meatthemselves, but it’s also aimed at diminThe users of the center need a safe and packing District facility department and ishing the problems and the discomfort welcoming place where they encounter the client – the Municipality of Copenrelated to drug-issues for the majority of respect and tolerance. The character of hagen. All parties are part of a Building the people living in the neighbourhood. the spaces must therefore give a sense Committee where the entire socio-culof calmness and discretion without an tural and health spectrum is representA Better Life for Drug Users and institutional touch, so the users expeed. PLH has carried out an intensive and Reduced Inconveniences for rience stability and security. Safety is a structured process with the Building the Community key issue for both staﬀ and drug users. Committee and the building’s space The center is open 24/7 and designed Nudging through design and commuprogram has been clarified and adjusted to facilitate the intake of drugs while nication makes it possible to aﬀect in accordance with the economy. Being staﬀed by health professionals. The user behaviour in a positive direction able to decode all issues, suggesting purpose is to give drug users a better life preventing conflicts and creating more the right solutions and navigate an area and diminish the number of drug related fertile situations and ensuring staﬀ-overof great public and political attention is deaths and overdoses by assisting with view and visual contact with other staﬀ imperative to a project like this. ENERGY EFFICIENCY & SUSTAINABILITY # CASE K29 In the first year after completion the ple’, ‘profit’ and ‘planet’ in mind. When Less Need for Power Related to building K29 has been awarded 5 titles. PLH designs with ‘the planet’ in mind it Cooling and Ventilation One prize was given in late 2016 by The often means investing in local, sustainable The façade is an advanced double skin Lithuanian Ministry of Environment for the materials and labour force and designconstruction with energy glass and an aumost sustainable building in the category ing structures that promote sustainable tomated solar control system. The building innovative buildings. behaviour. When we design for ‘people’ has a hybrid ventilation and cooling system it means investing in an attractive and with natural ventilation of oﬃce spaces The K29 business center is a major, new healthy workplace ensuring increased with high-sitting openable windows on the landmark in Vilnius built from all natural user satisfaction and well-being. And inner façade and through the atrium skyand mostly local, eco-friendly materials when we design with ‘profit’ in mind it lights as well as ventilation on each floor making it the most eco-friendly building in means designing structures that add following the newest guidelines. Lithuania to date. K29 sets the standards value for our clients as well as the users of for a healthy and attractive workplace the new structures. Local Resources in Lithuania. The building is situated on Central to the sustainable design paramKonstitucijos Prospektas (Constitution AvOptimized Energy Savings eters of PLH is using local resources and enue) creating a transition area between a K is equipped with the newest building adapting the building complex to the local large park area to the north of Vilnius and management system optimizing energy climate conditions. In the building of K the city’s international business area in the savings. It has an eﬃcient water managelocal materials, local manufacturers and east. ment system and the lighting design is local contractors have been used to the created with the newest and most energy benefit of the environment, the local comHolistic Design Approach with eﬃcient components. All meeting rooms, munity and the economy of the project. ‘People’, ‘Profit’ and ‘Planet’ in ancillary spaces, toilets etc. are equipped Mind with light sensors and the lighting design Through a successful integrated design as well as the natural light control system process K has been developed and has been designed to give the users a designed with the three objectives ‘peomaximum feeling of wellbeing. DESIGNED FOR PEOPLE # CASE K29 A Building Designed for People Designing for people and improving the Acoustics Design quality of life for the users is part of the The acoustic design has had a strong overall PLH-approach – and it has been for focus on creating the best auditory many years. PLH was the first architecturenvironment for the users in all areas of al company in Denmark to design workthe building. Besides the ceiling tiles and places focusing on learning environments carpets, specially designed core cladding and how the architecture can strengthen and balcony frontages are important the integration and knowledge sharing elements of the acoustic control. between diﬀerent business areas of a single company. Enhanced Physical Working Environment Maximum Daylight Access Design elements like double facades, The oval shape of the building with the an optimal location on the site and a central atrium and a sloping roof gives opmaximum utilization of daylight are all timal conditions for daylight for all users. elements that enhance the physical work Because of the sloping roof, light flows in environment. K is the first atrium oﬃce to the atrium most of the day – and users building in Lithuania oﬀering a variety close to the windows of the inner atrium of shared settings in a pleasant indoor can look beyond the atrium itself having climate all year around – and tenant “We are very proud that K29 visual contact with the cityscape beyond feedback shows an increased workers recently was awarded best the building. The building thus ensures satisfaction and productivity. office building in The Baltics. maximum wellbeing and daylight access K29 was awarded because having no dark areas. the building creates increased worker satisfaction and productivity, improved health, greater flexibility and enhanced energy and environmental performance of the workplace STEEN ENRICO ANDERSEN PARTNER AND LEAD DESIGNER PLH ARKITEKTER THE ENVIRONMENT & IMPROVED INFRASTRUCTURE # CASE RAIL BALTICA, RIGA Creating an Infrastructural Heart The Station Building ities that enhance way finding and maintain PLH has been announced the winner of The focal point of the plan is the iconic orientation in the building landscape. The the open International sketch design station building that creates a strong visual generous space, reminiscent of ecclesiasticompetition ‘Rail Baltica’ arranged by The identity in the cityscape strengthening the cal architecture, creates moments of great European Railroad Lines, Ltd. The purpose sense of Riga as a metropolis. The inspirawonder as travellers enters the building – a of the competition is to develop the central tion for the design is the archetypal form memorable experience and a recognizable multi-modal public transport hub in the Latof historic central stations worldwide – The point of arrival and departure. vian capital Riga, and to construct the Rail Arch. Baltica railway bridge over The Daugava Bridge & Railway River. The Rail Baltica project is part of the The station building stands as a new The plan contains two new tracks that run European transport network. landmark with eye-catching canopies parallel on the south side of the existing resembling arched fern leaves – aspiring tracks amplifying the clear signage of the “Our proposal delivers a coherent, to the qualities of the Art nouveau period. railway in the cityscape and across the smooth and living infrastructural The sloping roof canopies let light flow river. The bridge is designed with a light hub that connects the city and easily and evenly throughout the building, and floating expression. To maintain the strengthens the existing identity creating a concourse space with an open relation between the new and the old, of Riga” and airy atmosphere. To the North side the the bridge has a varying cross section that canopy lifts allows a unique undisturbed emerges on the underside of the bridge, view over the historic city creating a strong with a rolling, wavy line that refers to large STEEN ENRICO ANDERSEN sense of relation to the city you have just arch construction of the old bridge. The PARTNER AND LEAD DESIGNER arrived in, or are leaving behind. Geometric new bridge is designed with integrated PLH ARKITEKTER features, symmetry and repetition are qualbicycle and pedestrian path that creates THE ENVIRONMENT & IMPROVED INFRASTRUCTURE # CASE RAIL BALTICA, RIGA a better connection along the rails and storm water management and preventing The entire project serves multiple functions across the Daugava. urban heat island eﬀect. as an infrastructural heart that connects the regional with the local, where one can Green Metropolis Connecting the City seamlessly change between modes of One objective of the design is to create The full project comprising the bridge, the transport, train, to bus, car, bike, and as a a denser city with defined squares and overpass and the station, is planned as one public space, an urban living room for both urban places to frame an active city life for coherent infrastructural element with a derecreation and commercial activities. inhabitants, commuters and visitors alike – sign-language that belongs to the language thereby strengthening the sense of Riga as of bridges, as a low scale, continuous wavThe green rampart, the water, the historic a metropolis. An increase in the amount of ing series of arches and vaults – opposed to city and the market are all elements that green in the city creates better urban conthe vertical elements of the city towers. contribute to the strong identity of Riga. ditions and adds sensory experiences and By taking on a holistic approach to traﬃc an aesthetic dimension to strengthen the “The central station, the conand urban space development we have feeling of aﬃliation with the city. The new nected station area, and the removed barriers and prioritized public sequences of green urban spaces will also adjacent infrastructure hold transport, pedestrians and cyclist to create act as a new chapter in the development of great potential to be much a more liveable and sustainable city. the city with great respect for the existing more than just infrastructure city and its cultural heritage. At the same – becoming an important city time the added urban nature has the power hub with a strong visual identiSTEEN ENRICO ANDERSEN to remedy climate challenges by creating a ty in the cityscape in a modern PARTNER AND LEAD DESIGNER better micro climate in the city, improving sustainable urban developPLH ARKITEKTER air quality, thermal comfort, biodiversity, ment” SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY WORKPLACE # CASE MAERSK A Connecting Multi-user Building footprint is distinct with its rounded corSustainability Maersk’s new domicile at Amerika Plads ners, which create lightness, transparency The Danish building authorities’ energy is a multi-user building for 800 staﬀ from and a comfortable, functional flow. The regulations are among some of the toughMaersk. interior expression mirrors the soft exterior est in the world and the increasing interest The building marks its presence with a shape with dynamic and varying spatial exonly leads to stricter, future regulations. striking curved corner towards the busy periences. The focus has been to promote The building is designed with a holistic Kalkbrænderihavnsgade, and likewise the welfare of the employees through the approach, which in sustainable terms gives towards the inner square behind. Thus crelayout of the building. Across the 6 floors a cheaper, greener and healthier operationating a welcoming meeting with its urban open spaces meanders to create room for al building. The sustainable aspects include context where residential, oﬃce, retail and cafés, breakand meeting places near the a compact building mass, daylight through restaurant activities blend together. stairs and oﬃce spaces in the periphery of the big atrium, visual connection throughthe building. The ground floor is disposed out the building, optimized floor plans and Building Concept with a reception, meeting rooms and a circulation as well as being flexible and enaThe building is perceived as a carefully canteen. The proceeding floors are arbling departments to expand more freely. designed object with a clear and simple ranged with associated communal facilities. modern expression. The roughly quadratic Changing rooms and technical spaces can be found in the basement. Compact Building Visual Connection Circulation Flexibility Reduced facade area Creates a visible Main staircase in atrium High degree of flexibility More energy efficient connection Circulation without ‘dead between departments, Supports ‘one company’ ends’ which are able to expand in Universal contact with Only three cores > good two directions and around atrium orientation / way finding corners. PLH GLOBAL COMPACT AMBITION 2018/2019 PLH is proud to be a member of Global Upholding a humanistic and collegial We will aim at creating sustainable, sucCompact. In the year ahead we will working style, high employee involvecessful places that promote wellbeing continue to seek opportunities to supment, stress prevention and creating and improve the quality of peoples’ port and enact the principles. a responsible working environment lives by understanding what people where human diversity is recognized, need from the places they live and In particular, we aim to show built will continue to be very significant work. works that demonstrate more extenfactors for the oﬃce. Furthermore, we sive and measurable outcomes in the will continue to recruit solely on proven Through research, innovation and area of environment. competencies and experiences not cooperation with manufactures, instiregarding gender, nationality, religion, tutions and clients we will continually age or other discriminating criteria. strive to develop and diﬀuse sustainaHuman Rights ble solutions, environmentally friendly We will also continue to demand that technologies and new sustainable collaborators, business partners, structures that underpin and promote We will continue our membership suppliers and others we have business environmentally responsible behavior. of DANSKE ARK, continue to follow dealings with, will respect and uphold DANSKE ARK’S instructions, guidelines the freedom of association, recognize Anti-Corruption and contractual standards. PLH will the right to collective bargaining, continue to follow Danish legislation as support the elimination of all forms of well as respecting national and interforced and compulsory labour and child national legislation and human rights labour and support the elimination of We will continue to work against conventions. discrimination in respect of employcorruption in all its forms and avoid ment and occupation. nepotism, exchanges of favors, unofIn addition we will continue to demand ficial agreements between companies that collaborators, business partners, and other forms of bribery aiming for Environment suppliers and whoever we have busiclarity in all our business agreements. ness dealings with both in Denmark and abroad will respect national and international legislation and human PLH will continue to support the rights conventions. principles 7, 8 and 9 of The UN Global Compact as an integral part of our day to day actions and creative processes. Labour We will continue to design sustainable solutions and structures that support and promote sustainable behavior – We will continue our membership and continue to promote sustainable of DANSKE ARK, continue to follow solutions to our clients. DANSKE ARK’S instructions, guidelines and contractual standards. PLH will Our central purpose is to improve the continue to follow Danish legislation on quality of peoples’ lives and we will labour standards and will continue to continue to design with the 3 objecdissociate ourselves from all forms of tives ‘People’, ‘Profit’ and ‘Planet’ (A discrimination. triple bottom line) in mind. The triple bottom line-approach ensures sustainIn addition, we will continue to invest able design that also betters the lives in the working environment making of the users while at the same time PLH Arkitekter an attractive workplace improving conditions for the client. retaining and attracting the best.
