Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report PFIZER AUSTRIA AT A GL ANCE (as at November 2017) Business location Manufacturing at Sales in Warehouse in Orth an der Donau Vienna Leopoldsdorf Our core business 142 medicinal products 5 new 12.1 mpackages ≈10 m vaccine doses produced in (540 articles) approvals sold Orth/Donau Transparency ≈ €1.3 m ≈ €2.7 m ≈ 54.2 m to physicians and other members to institutions of the in research & development of the healthcare professionals (HCPs) healthcare organizations (HCOs) (R&D) Family-friendly Workforce employer audit berufund­ familie [work and Diversity Member of Charter Unternehmen für 553 45.7 % 4.305 family audit] Familien [compa­ employees of management positions home office days nies for families] held by women ø6 ø 14 22 Employees have been with Pfizer for sick days in Vienna sick days at Orth mentoring relationships established in 2017 9 yearson average Our diversity in numbers More than 25% of Pfizer employees are 28 nations are Nearly 50% of Pfizer employees over 50 years old represented at Pfizer Austria are female Product stewardship 98.8% 547 delivery capacity complaints or 0.0045%of packages sold 256 patient inquiries in 2017 Economic footprint (as at 2016) ≈1.600 jobs in Austria depend directly € 37 million in annual wage-related taxes or indirectly on Pfizer and duties Superior employment multiplier of 3.45 1 1 Pfizer job 2 additional jobs in Austria Value multiplier of 2.367 1 1.3 Pfizer Corporation Austria generated more than €1.3 of added value for every euro earned Clinical trials 20 clinical and nonPatients per federal state OÖ NÖ Vienna interventional studies 15 3 54 Bgl Sbg Vlbg Tyrol 5 5 6 2 Total of 90 patients Corporate Volunteering Total 2017 2,258 hours of volunteer work 106 11 4 21 176 10 CV days days secondparticihours community ments pants service agencies Donations and support € 46,000 in service of patient organizations € 62,385 in donations of medicines ≈ € 2.5m solidarity contribution Ecological footprint: 7,796 t Total GHG emissions 33% air travel 1% material input 9% vehicle fleet 1% parcel delivery 9% Employee commuting 45% energy input 1% paper use 1% IT 1 LETTER TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS [GRI 102-14] Dear Reader, Another distinguishing feature of Pfizer is our environmental awareness. After analyzing our business performance, we had Pfizer's ecoPfizer Austria has published a logical footprint in Austria scrutinized for the first time in 2017. This Sustainability Report since 2009. report provides a detailed look at the results. It affords you deep insight into Pfizer's business activities in I would like to highlight two issues that have always been important Austria and shows you where we to us, but have been even more on our minds lately—careful hand­ stand, what we are working on, ling of personal data and the safety of medicines. Putting the new and what we have already GDPR into action, properly and sustainably, to safeguard our cusachieved jointly with partners. tomers and partners' data privacy is a top priority for us. We will continue to push hard for this. As of February 2019, drugs will have new 2017 was an exciting year for security features to protect against counterfeiting. In addition to the Pfizer—eventful, enriching and product code, expiry date and batch number, there will be a serializanot least successful. Mindful of tion number, a 2D data matrix code, and a dedicated protective foil our motto Working together for a healthier world, we launched five affixed to packages containing medicines. Before a drug can be disnew drugs: an antibiotic against dreaded hospital germs, a new drug pensed in a pharmacy, its authenticity must be verified by means of to treat rheumatoid arthritis, and three innovative therapies to treat a scan. This is an important measure that will make the supply chain various forms of cancer. At this time, there are 70 molecules in 160 even safer to benefit our patients. clinical trials in our global pipeline for clinical research. Twenty studies are underway in Austria. That is great. Read on to learn more about these and more topics—our contribution to responsible corporate governance, our ongoing business, our Speaking of innovative, one topic that has occupied us over the past cooperation with stakeholders and patients, and last but not least, year and fascinated me is digital innovation in medicine. Big data, our goals. We will also give you an outlook on future projects that we artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things, and cognitive comintend to pursue with our partners. And all partners in this will indeed puting are not just futuristic buzzwords. A look ahead to the near have to work together for the healthcare system to remain viable. As future reveals that the digital revolution is gaining ground in media pharmaceutical company, we see ourselves as being very much a cine and is becoming increasingly important for the healthcare part of this picture and we want to do our part for it. As a symbolic system. For example, the development of a drug takes around twelve gesture of this mindset, we invited some of our partners to have their years, and this process has not changed in a very long time. More photos taken with us for our sustainability report. This is a first for us, than 1,000 scientists may have to test nearly 10,000 molecules to and we want to thank all of you who participated! end up with just one drug. We now have an opportunity to accelerate this process with the help of new technologies. Pfizer In this spirit, I look forward to continuing our partnership and wish researchers are already using artificial intelligence in immunoncoyou all the best and, above all, the best of health! logical research to deliver new and better therapies for cancer patients that much faster. All this would not be possible without our highly qualified and motivated employees. OWN IT!—this is the special corporate culture that sets Pfizer apart from others in the industry. It provides the underpinning for a good and productive working environment. I am Yours sincerely, therefore proud that our engagement is bearing fruit and that we were again able to substantiate in 2017 that we are an attractive employer for our colleagues in Orth/ Donau and Vienna, and of course for future employees. Our employees have been with the company for nine years on average! This is the fourth time that we have been awarded the Federal Ministry for Families and Youth's berufundfamilie [work and family] audit certificate. We are a partner Robin Rumler of the Unternehmen für Familien [companies for families] initiative. Country Manager Pfizer Austria The 2017 Trendence Graduate Barometer ranked us among the top Vienna 2018 100 employers in Austria. In our ongoing efforts to strike the right work/family life balance, we set up a parent-child room in our Vienna office last year and provide childcare for our employees at Orth on working days when school is out. Note: In preparing our Sustainability Report, we followed the international guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. Our focus is on the third sustainability goal, to ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages. We firmly believe that access to good healthcare (SDG 3) for people is essential for achieving all SDGs. Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is Pfizer's sixth Sustainability Report in Austria. It contains This report primarily covers Pfizer's activities in Austria. To learn information about the fiscal year 2017 of two companies, Pfizer more about Pfizer Inc.'s international activities and global susCorporation Austria GmbH and Pfizer Manufacturing Austria tainability policy, read the Pfizer Annual Review, an integrated GmbH. [GRI 102-1] annual report provided online at www.Pfizer.com/annual. In fiscal 2017, Pfizer entered into a license agreement with the We have dispensed with gender-specific differentiations for the biopharmaceutical company Basilea to manufacture and dissake of readability. Words in the masculine form should, of tribute a drug for treating life-threatening mold infections. course, be taken to include the feminine form. [GRI 102-10] Pfizer's fiscal year runs from December to November of the folPfizer Austria has been publishing Sustainability Reports since lowing year. [GRI 102-50] 2009. [GRI 102-52] The next report is slated for 2020; it will contain information on fiscal 2019. The previous Sustainability Report Pfizer Manufacturing Austria primarily employs people in Producwas published in 2017; it covered fiscal 2016. [GRI 102-51] tion, Quality Control and Engineering; Pfizer Corporation Austria primarily employs people in Marketing, Medical and Sales. The Pfizer Austria Sustainability Report 2014/15 won the Austrian Sustainability Reporting Award (ASRA), taking third place in the category of Large Enterprises in October 2016. The 2016 Report won the ASRA in October 2017 with a fourth-place ranking Please feel free to address any quesin the category of Large Companies. Pfizer is the first pharmaceutions, suggestions or feedback to me, tical company in Austria to be awarded an ASRA. your Sustainability Officer at Pfizer Austria. In this report, we wish to highlight our activities, progress and goals related to sustainability, and discuss areas where we see Elisabeth Dal-Bianco room for improvement and are planning to take action. We aim Senior Corporate Affairs Manager to afford you and all our stakeholders deeper insight into Pfizer's [GRI 102-53] business activities in Austria. What follows is a transparent account of where we stand, what we are working on, and what Contact: we have already achieved in joint efforts with our partners. verantwortung.austria@Pfizer.com, phone # +43 1 521 15-0 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Option Core. [GRI 102-54] External auditors verified compliance with these guidelines. Denkstatt was tasked to perform the Augmented reality: audit. [GRI 102-56, 103-3] Robin Rumler approved the report for publi­ To view AR content, download the free Layar app from the App Store or Google Play Store cation. [GRI 102-32] and scan the marked area. Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS 4 Responsible organizational governance 16 Fair business practices 24 Labor practices 36 Product stewardship 44 Environment 52 Community 60 Audit report 62 GRI Index Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Our priority SDGs 4 Responsible organizational governance WORKING TOGETHER FOR A HEALTHIER WORLD Many things can change for people when they get sick; it is the start of an often difficult journey. Our employees around the world are working to help people on this journey. They research, develop and distribute innovative medicines and vaccines to treat or prevent diseases such as cancer, rheumatism and pain. Pfizer is headquartered in New York and has branches worldwide, including in Austria. [GRI 102-2, GRI 102-4] Pfizer has been furnishing medicines to the Austrian market since 1956. The company is a reliable partner to patients, doctors, pharmacists and the healthcare system, working together to enable patients to live healthier and longer lives. Pfizer Corporation Austria's core business is providing state-of-the-art medicines and therapies to Austrian patients. In Austria, the company offers 142 medicinal products in various dosage forms, package sizes and potency levels (for a total of 540 articles as at November 2017). Most are prescription drugs. Generics have been part of the portfolio since 2011. Pfizer Austria also sells over-the-counter (OTC) health products. Five new active ingredients for patients were brought to market in 2017. Our direct customers are primarily wholesalers and hospitals. Pfizer Austria's activities are not limited to sales; we are also an important partner to the country's medical research and development community. [GRI 102-6] 142 medicinal products (540 articles) 5new 12.1 m packages (as at November 2017) approvals sold The company has operated as two entities in Austria since December 1, 2014: [GRI 102-45] • Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH is headquartered in Vienna's Floridotower. An important partner to Austria's medical research and development community, the company markets prescription drugs and over-the-counter products. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer Deutschland GmbH. Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH has no subsidiaries or stakes in any joint ventures. [GRI 102-1, GRI 102-3, GRI 102-5] • Pfizer Manufacturing Austria GmbH is our production site at Orth an der Donau, a plant that meets global demand for vaccines to protect against meningitis caused by serogroup C meningococci and tick-borne encephalitis. The production site at Orth/Donau borders on a nature reserve. Pfizer Manufacturing Austria was founded in 2014 with the acquisition of Baxter's approved vaccines. The shareholder is Pfizer Luxembourg SARL. [GRI 102-1, GRI 102-2, GRI 102-3, GRI 102-5, GRI 304-1] Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report On the right: Robin Rumler, Country Manager Pfizer Austria On the left: Martin Dallinger, Site Leader Orth an der Donau Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 6 Responsible organizational governance ~10 m vaccine doses produced in Orth/Donau Business units [GRI 102-2] Pfizer is set up as two business units (as at 2017). Pfizer Innovative Health Business (PIH) The Pfizer Innovative Health Business offers innovative medicines to general practitioners and hospitals for the following therapeutic areas: immunology and inflammatory diseases, cardiovascular and metabolic disorders, oncology, and rare diseases. It also furnishes vaccines and consumer products. Pfizer Essential Health Business (PEH) The Pfizer Essential Health business unit in Austria manages an extensive portfolio of proven medicinal products. It encompasses more than 100 products used for various therapeutic areas, including cardiology, gynecology, urology, neurology, pain management and ophthalmology. Pfizer Essential Health also focuses on researching, developing and marketing innovative hospital antibiotics and biosimilars. Biosimilars are very similar versions of biological medicines that are approved after the patent on the original active ingredient expires. With the benefit of many years experience in researching, manufacturing and marketing biological drugs, Pfizer is able to play a leading role in the field of biosimilars. To learn more about the therapeutic areas and indications, visit www.Pfizer.at/unternehmen/rezeptpﬂichtigemedikamente or www.Pfizer.at/unternehmen/rezeptfreie-produkte. Our management in Austria [GRI 102-18, GRI 102-22, GRI 102-23] Robin Rumler has been Country Manager Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH since January 2009 and Country Manager Pfizer Manufacturing Austria GmbH since 2014. He also heads up Internal Medicine as Business Unit Director and reports globally to the Internal Medicine Western EU Cluster Lead. Martin Dallinger has headed up Pfizer Manufacturing Austria GmbH, Pfizer's vaccines manufacturing plant at Orth an der Donau in Lower Austria, as Site Leader since 2014. The Country Management Team The Site Leadership Team of Pfizer Corporation Austria in 2017 of Pfizer Manufacturing Austria in 2017 Robin Rumler – Country Manager & IM Lead Martin Dallinger – Site Lead PGS Orth Martin Dallinger – Site Leader Manufacturing Martin Ausserleitner – Manufacturing Sérgio Alves – PEH Country Lead Eva Berger – Human Resources Tobias Eichhorn – Oncology Lead EU Cluster 1 Lead Hannes Dengg – Engineering Renée Gallo-Daniel – Vaccines Lead Michaela Eder – EHS Dieter Hackl – Director Health & Value Thomas Frühwirt – Procurement Claudia Handl – PA Director Annett Hessel – Vaccines Analytical Development Inga Hartleb – HR BOS GER & AUT Ulrich Holdhaus – Business Technology Richard Öllinger – I & I Lead Stefan Past – Ops Mgmt., Strat. & Business Support Sylvia Nanz – Medical Director Bernd Rinne – Quality Dirk Rommens – Finance Director Werner Schmid – Finance Marion Rottenberg – RD Lead Simon Tihanov – Legal Director Austria & Switzerland & Western EU Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Responsible organizational governance 7 Anchor points for sustainability in the Pfizer organization Sustainability Officer Elisabeth Dal-Bianco manages and coordinates the sustainability agenda, which is under the auspices of the Corporate Affairs department. The Country Manager is involved in all decisions and part of the Sustainability workgroup consisting of representatives from all relevant departments and employee resource groups such as Medical, Quality, Compliance, HR, Works Council, Environment, Health & Safety (EHS), Health & Value, Procurement, as well as representatives from the business units and the Sales force. Meetings are held regularly in a coordinated effort to analyze the sustainability agenda, develop it strategically, and put those strategies into action. [GRI 102-19, GRI 102-20, GRI 102-33, GRI 102-26] Impact on various core processes [GRI 102-15, GRI 413-2, GRI 308-2] We are aware that our actions have an effect on society and the environment. This is why we have set ourselves the goal of analyzing our value chain's impact and identifying opportunities for improvement in Austria. Economic impact Environmental impact Social impact (Example) (Example) (Example) Research & • Creates direct and indirect jobs • New therapy options that could mark a development • Investments in R&D significant advance in the treatment of • Clinical trials in Austria diseases • Patients take part in clinical trials in Austria Approval • Approvals in Austria/EU • New therapies that could mark a • Reimbursement significant advance in the treatment of diseases • Affordable prices for medicinal products Production • Jobs in Orth/Donau • Energy, water • Major contribution to the global supply • Regional benefits in Orth/Donau • Effluents, waste of vaccines to protect against • Biohazards meningitis caused by serogroup C • Animal testing meningococci and tick-borne encephalitis (TME) • Shortage/overproduction Marketing, Medical • Information on medicines • (Printed) promotional materials • Further training for medical personnel & Sales • Advanced training for physicians • Company vehicles • Proper use of medications (scientifically • Further training for medical personnel • Business travel sound and balanced information) • Drug safety/counterfeits • Image of the pharmaceutical industry Distribution • Sales and delivery to wholesalers, hospi• CO2 greenhouse gas emissions • Access to essential medicines tals, pharmacies (own fleet, deliveries to hospitals) • Supply shortages Application • Productivity, maintaining/restoring • Unused medicines • Productivity, maintaining/ restoring health, quality of life • Excreted drugs in wastewater health, quality of life • Costs/savings for patients health • Efficacy/desired therapeutic effect insurances • Substance abuse • Benefits/costs for patients • Side effects • Drug donations The Pfizer value chain Pfizer researches, develops, produces and distributes modern drugs and vaccines to treat and prevent diseases. On the following pages you will find pictured the Pfizer value chain. Note that many of these processes are actually concurrent, as this illustration goes to show. Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 8 Responsible organizational governance From a molecule to a medicine Before developing a medicine First, understand the disease Scientists of many different disciplines work together with companies and universities. But before researchers can start developing a drug to treat a disease, they have to learn as much as they can about the disease. They need to understand what the disease does, what causes it, and how to detect it. 1 year Discovery Find the right treatment Once the researchers know what triggers a disease, they have to find a way to treat it. They test anywhere from 5,000 to 10,000 different molecules to identify one that could be truly effective. Developing the molecule Test and test again 4 years Researchers use various tests to investigate the effectiveness of a specific active substance and molecule to determine if it really makes a difference. They also test it for safety—a drug should fight the disease rather than cause unintended changes in the body. Researchers can conduct many of these tests on a computer; for others, they use cell cultures. Developing the drug Make the medicine Once researchers have found a suitable molecule, they consider how to best administer or take it. Can it be administered in form of a tablet or does it have to be an injection? And what is the easiest way for patients to use it? 5 years Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Responsible organizational governance 9 7 yars Clinical trials Determine if the medicine helps people The next step is for researchers to find out if the drug actually helps the people for whom it is intended. They conduct clinical trials for a first test with patients to see how they tolerate it. These studies take place in many hospitals and research institutions with thousands of patients. Very strict rules must be followed. And that is a good thing. Researchers design trials to learn how well the body absorbs and patients tolerate the drug. They want to know how often it needs to be taken to achieve the best benefit and what advantages the new drug has over other treatments. Only if this succeeds will this protracted research effort achieve its goal. Andover and Cambridge, Massachusetts; Cambridge and Sandwich, UK; Groton, Connecticut; La Jolla and San Francisco, California; Pearl River, New York & St. Louis, Missouri—these are the R&D facilities where researchers, technicians and other experts are working to develop new medicines. 8 years Obtaining official approval Make the medicine available Authorities in the EU and Austria have to give their approval for a pharmaceutical company to sell a new drug. The authorities review the results of all studies and then decide if the drug is beneficial to patients. Then it is determined if health insurance companies will cover the costs of the medication. Production & quality assurance Manufacture the medicine The drug is produced, packaged and distributed in keeping with the strict rules of Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). All this is constantly monitored to ensure compliance. 11 years Orth an der Donau Pfizer operates many production facilities worldwide, one being in Austria. It produces vaccines for worldwide use. Distribution Deliver the drug to patients Application The medicine goes to hospitals, doctors and pharmacies. When doctors administer the medicine, this provides new insights into the disease and its therapy, which can help researchers develop new drugs. 12 years Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 10 Responsible organizational governance Our corporate philosophy [GRI 102-16, GRI 103-2, UNGC 10] Our business activities are guided by our vision, mission and goals. And our actions are guided by our imperatives and values, which contribute materially to the company's success and further development. Our guiding principle—Working together for a healthier world—epitomizes Pfizer's goal. We want to drive innovation to provide patients with therapies that improve their quality of life. Our products are designed to help all members of society live healthier and longer, with a better quality of life at every stage. We rise to this challenge by engaging in intensive research, taking innovative approaches, and assuring high quality standards in every area of our activities. 1. Ensure a productive, industry-leading innovative core. 2. Make capital allocation decisions that maximize patient benefits and enhance shareholder value. 3. Be a responsible corporate citizen. 4. Continuously strengthen our ownership culture. Our sustainability strategy We want to be a responsible company in all areas. Our sustainability strategy is based on our corporate strategy, identified key topics, and the following international guidelines and principles: • the ten internationally recognized principles of the United Nations Global Compact • the principles of ISO 26000, an international guideline for corporate social responsibility • the global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations [GRI 102-12] Imperative SDG SDG subgoals Key topics Maintain a 3) Ensure healthy lives and 3.5 Strengthen the prevention and treatment of • Protecting consumers' health and safety productive, promote wellbeing for all at substance abuse, including narcotic drug abuse – Prevent product counterfeiting and industryall ages and harmful use of alcohol manipulation leading • Access to essential medicines innovative • Research and develop drugs in Austria 3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, including core. – Provide information on studies financial risk protection, access to quality – Drive innovation essential health-care services and access to safe, • Education and awareness effective, quality and affordable essential – Make (product insert) information useful medicines and vaccines for all for everyone 3.a Strengthen the implementation of the WHO – Offer information on diseases and support Framework Convention on Tobacco Control in all – Use/administer medication correctly countries, as appropriate – Promote safety in self-medication Allocate 8) Promote sustained, 8.2 Achieve higher levels of productivity of • Responsible organizational governance capital to inclusive and sustainable economies through diversification, technological • Creating benefits for the surrounding region maximize economic growth, full and upgrading and innovation, including through a – Create jobs benefits for productive employment focus on high value added and labor-intensive – Invest in the greater good patients and and decent work for all sectors – Promote education & knowledge exchange boost – Pursue health initiatives 8.4 Improve progressively through 2030 global shareholder • Health and safety at work resource efficiency in consumption and value. – Human development and training in the production, and endeavor to decouple economic workplace growth from environmental degradation in – Promote employee accountability accordance with the 10-year framework of • Social dialog and co-determination programs on sustainable consumption and • Conditions of work and social protection production with developed countries taking the – Offer fair terms of employment lead – Diversity & inclusion 8.5 By 2030 achieve full and productive – Equal opportunity, non-discrimination employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value 8.6 By 2020 substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Responsible organizational governance 11 Imperative SDG SDG subgoals Key topics (12) Responsible consump12.2 By 2030 achieve sustainable management • Protection of the environment tion and production and efficient use of natural resources – Safe handling of biohazards • Promoting social responsibility in the value chain – Consider social & ecological aspects when 12.4 By 2020 achieve environmentally sound selecting suppliers management of chemicals and all wastes – Foster supplier awareness throughout their lifecycle in accordance with – Avoidance of complicity; child labor, forced agreed international frameworks and signifilabor, etc. cantly reduce their release to air, water and soil to • Sustainable resource use minimize their adverse impacts on human health – Materials, energy, water, effluents & waste and the environment • Prevention of pollution (from end to end) – Production, products, packaging 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste – Medicinal products disposal generation through prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse 12.6 Encourage companies, especially large and trans-national companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle 12.8 By 2030 ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness of sustainable development and lifestyles in harmony with nature Be a (13) Take immediate action 13.3 Improve education, awareness raising and • Climate change mitigation and adaptation responsible to combat climate change human and institutional capacity on climate – Reduce CO2/ greenhouse gas emissions corporate and its effects change mitigation and adaptation, adaptation, – Efficient use of renewable energy sources citizen. impact reduction, and early warning (16) Promote peaceful and 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery • Ethical behavior inclusive societies for in all its forms – Participate responsibly in public policymaking sustainable development, – Compliance and anticorruption provide access to justice for – Fair competition 16.7 Ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory all and build effective, • Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and representative decision-making at all levels accountable and inclusive and fair contractual practices institutions at all levels • Transparency 16.10 Ensure public access to information and • Consumer service, support, and complaint and protect fundamental freedoms, in accordance dispute resolution with national legislation and international • Respect property rights agreements • Data protection and privacy (17) Strengthen the means 17.17 Encourage and promote effective public, • Stakeholder engagement of implementation and public-private, and civil society partnerships, – Dialogs with patient organizations, charitable revitalize the global building on the experience and resourcing organizations, etc. partnership for sustainable strategies of partnerships development Continuously (5) Achieve gender equality 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all • Ethical behavior strengthen and empower all women women and girls everywhere – Respect human rights our and girls • Conditions of work and social protection ownership – Offer fair terms of employment culture. 5.4 Recognize and value unpaid care and – Diversity & inclusion domestic work through the provision of public – Equal opportunity, non-discrimination services, infrastructure and social protection • Promote team spirit (ONE Pfizer) policies, and the promotion of shared responsibility within the household and the family as nationally appropriate 5.5 Ensure women's full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic, and public life Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 12 Responsible organizational governance Materiality analysis [GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47, GRI 103-1, GRI 102-49, GRI 102-44] Identifying and responding to our stakeholders' changing needs is important to us. This insight provides the underpinning for our responsible business practices and efforts to develop our practices to further the cause of sustainability. In 2015, we conducted an online survey to have all employees and relevant external stakeholders in Austria help determine key topics for Pfizer. This was a first for us. Originally initiated as part of a materiality analysis, this process was discontinued in 2016. Instead, we engaged in a direct dialog with representatives of various stakeholder groups such as doctors, patient organizations, advocacy groups, NGOs and many more. The stakeholders we had invited to join us helped determine the future challenges for Pfizer in Austria and topics that would have the strongest impact on the company, which were then rendered on a themed map. In the previous Sustainability Report, we presented and described in detail the results of these efforts in 2015 and 2016. For the 2017 report, the Sustainability team reviewed the 35 topics addressed to date for topicality and importance, and condensed these to 22 key themes. A workshop was held to analyze Pfizer's actions through the lens of these topics and discuss how they impact the economy, the environment and society. Every team member then assessed these effects in an anonymous online survey. The materiality analysis has been updated, which is why the key topics have changed slightly. Pfizer Austria materiality matrix Key topics at Pfizer Austria: high 1 Protecting consumers‘ health and safety 2 Ethical behavior Importance according to stakeholders 1 3 Transparency 4 Responsible organizational governance 2 5 Conditions of work and social protection 3 4 6 Human development and training in the workplace 6 5 7 Health and safety at work 8 7 medium 8 Research and develop medicinal products 9 10 11 9 Education and awareness 12 10 Promoting social responsibility in the 14 13 15 value chain 16 18 17 11 Data protection and privacy 19 20 12 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 21 13 Access to essential medicines 14 Promote team spirit (ONE Pfizer) 22 15 Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution low 16 reating benefits for the surrounding region low medium high 17 Protection of the environment 18 Respect property rights 19 Sustainable resource use Importance of economic, environmental and social impacts 20 Stakeholder engagement 21 Prevention of pollution (from end to end) 22 Climate change mitigation and adaptation This report describes what we are doing and what we want to achieve in these areas. Stakeholder engagement [GRI 102-43] Who are our stakeholders? Our stakeholders are individuals or groups that are affected by Pfizer Austria's actions or can have an impact on our company. This includes actors who have an interest in Pfizer's development as a company in Austria. Because our society's healthcare is such a complex matter, Pfizer has many heterogeneous stakeholders. Pfizer defines its interest groups in an annual stakeholder analysis. Every year, the Sustainability workgroup's participants confirm the accuracy of this assessment. [GRI 102-42] Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Responsible organizational governance 13 Pfizer's key stakeholders in Austria [GRI 102-40] Employees' family members Municipality & neighbors NGOs Charitable organizations Media Animal and environmental protection organizations Manufacturing materials Vienna & Orth an der Donau Transparency International Equipment Donau-Auen National Park / viadonau Specialized Consultants media Insurance organizations Staffing Consumer media Office & Main Association of Suppliers training Austrian Social Security Fleet management Institutions, private Disposal companies insurance companies Event & convention management Advocacy groups Internal stakeholders Pharmig, IV, EFPIA, IGEPHA, FOPI, ÖVIH, PMCA, Austrian Biosafety Network, Pfizer branches Hospitals IBM, Kammern, GPMed Local management Customers Employees & contractors Works Council & Fair Play Network Patients & relatives Partner organizations Physicians Patient organizations Orth an der Donau Pharmacies factory premises Wholesalers Medical societies Research institutes Competitors Schools & universities Policymakers & legislators Pharmaceutical companies Federal, state, municipal governments; EU, federal ministries Federal Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection BASG, AGES, GÖG, ÖBIG, FGÖ, BIQG Auditors Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Research A look at the most important ways Pfizer engages with stakeholders in Austria follows [GRI 102-43, GRI 102-21] Dialog type Goal Action Examples Information Create Keep stakeholders up to date on Pfizer apprises its stakeholders of current corporate affairs via these channels: transparency topics of interest to the company Sustainability reports, Pfizer.at, Twitter, Pfizer Austria News (a stakeholder newsletter), employee newsletter, annual report, the PfizerMed.at service portal, educational materials, other newsletters, apps, YouTube videos, events Consultation Listen and Ask stakeholders for feedback on Surveys target specific small and large groups, as do online surveys such as learn decisions, issues and activities the annual Pfizer Voice employee survey and the 2015 stakeholder survey on future issues Conversation Share Bring stakeholders on board to have Person-to-person conversations are a key channel. We regularly share information a say in decision-making information with our stakeholders during visits and meetings, and at events openly such as the Pfizer Reception stakeholder event, the Pfizer Stakeholder Dialog in October 2016, lectures and training courses Collaboration Encourage Implement solutions and projects This includes collaborative efforts such as the Pfizer Kids initiative, the tenth active jointly with stakeholders of which took place in 2014 participation Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 14 Responsible organizational governance 2017 Stakeholder Dialog In May 2017, we invited relevant stakeholders to join us in the Floridotower to talk about sustainability in the supply chain. Representatives from the following interest groups took us up on our invitation: pharmacies, the Chamber of Pharmacists, logistics companies, distributors, wholesalers, disposal firms and employees. We discussed the challenges in supply chain processes and considered where the need to take action is greatest and where we can work together to make changes for the better. This dialog yielded actionable proposals, some of which we are now putting into action. The following topics are on our agenda: • How do we prevent the destruction of flawless products? • How do we educate the general public on the proper use and disposal of medicines? • How do we keep the channels for disposing of damaged or expired drugs as short as possible? Internal working groups are currently addressing these problems, with solutions expected for 2018/19. Key figures for responsible organizational governance GRI Key figures PCA 20151 PCA 20161 PCA 20171 PMA 20152 PMA 20162 PMA 20172 201-1 Sales revenues / net revenue [€] 201,785,372.40 186,630,794.39 211,879,083.30*** 17,017,975.13 55,755,724.96*** 51,624,573.60*** Profit from ordinary activities [€] 10,417,860.12 6,596,968.61** 3,481,985.47 7,272,485.87 Taxes on income [€] 2,834,164.00 1,223,471.82** 222,124.50 1,818,118.91 Net profit [€] 7,583,696.12 5,373,496.79** 1,730,339.18 3,259,860.97 5,454,366.96 3,647,457.58 Total assets [€] 115,653,191.28 165,424,227.16 98,357,090.32 131,530,670.48 Personnel expenses [€] 24,115,949.67 28,397,747.68 24,219,642.51 16,506,366.95 17,370,241.88 17,360,991.89 Operating costs [€] 24,754,519.17 12,973,725.73 Depreciation [€] 8,572,288.34 6,502,914.45 Balance sheet total [€] 106,186,104.32 86,769,008.56 Equity [€] 39,371,222.57 17,500.00 Profit before taxes[€] 2,592,691.93 4,867,496.67 Income tax [€] 862,352.75 1,220,039.09 201-3 Expenses for social benefits [€] 537,169.58 726,531.56 647,002.48 177,118.47 137,645.47 159,837.19 201-4 Financial assistance received from government [€] 0 0 0 0 0 0 203-2 Significant identified indirect economic impacts: 26.7m 4,684,479.87 ≈ 54m NS* NS* NS* Research expenditure [€] 102-7 Scale of the organization: 11,804,285 12,383,744 12,111,816 ≈ 10m ≈ 10m ≈ 10m Number of packages sold [units] vaccine doses vaccine doses vaccine doses 1 Pfizer Corporation Austria's fiscal year 2 Pfizer Manufacturing Austria's fiscal year * NS = not specified: These figures were not documented at that time. ** The 2016 income statement reported €24.3 million POA. This included €18 million in non-recurring extraordinary income, which for reason of better comparability was not taken into account in the POA and net income stated here. *** Sales revenues were redefined in the POA for the 2016 and 2017 owing to the 2014 Accounting Changes Act. Actions taken in 2017 Actions we have Goals to achieve goals yet to take Actions we intend to take in 2018/198 Foster dialog/ Hosted stakeholder roundtable on the Engage in dialog with patient organizations about exchange with sustainable supply chain (see below) patients' rights and patient-centric information internal and Host stakeholder dialog with suppliers on external sustainable procurement and the Supplier Code of stakeholders Conduct Manage the Evaluated and expanded external Survey internal and external stakeholders on company certifications/management systems such Pfizer's key topics responsibly as ISO and EMAS Increased employees' awareness of healthcare policymaking Federal Environment Agency measured Continue to analyze and take measures to achieve impact of our carbon footprint Sustainable Development Goals Continued to analyze and take measures to achieve Sustainable Development Goals Take Hosted stakeholder roundtable on Improved and standardized Amend contractual clauses in supplier agreements responsibility sustainable supply chains: Come up with terms of payment for Pfizer's to stipulate respect for human rights, etc. in the value ideas to make our supply chain in Austria suppliers (60 days) chain more sustainable and identify actionable Evaluate and define measures to promote issues sustainable purchasing Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Robin Rumler, Martin Dallinger (Pfizer Austria) Our priority SDG: 16 Fair business practices TOGETHER FOR ENHANCED ETHICS & TRANSPARENCY We pledge to market our products responsibly and report transparently on our business practices. Pfizer is committed to conducting all business with integrity and complying with all applicable laws and regulations from both ethical and legal vantage points. This applies to all employees without exception. We expect the same commitment from our business partners. [GRI 103-2] The Medicinal Products Act (AMG), the Medicinal Products Import Act (AWEG) and the Arzneimittelbetriebsordnung (Medicinal Product Plant Regulations; AMBO) are among the key statutory provisions that provide the legal underpinning for Pfizer's activities in Austria as a pharmaceutical company. As a subsidiary of an US corporation, we also comply with the Federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Our actions at Pfizer Austria are also guided by the Code of Conduct (VHC) of the Association of the Austrian Pharmaceutical Industry (Pharmig). This code reflects the legal developments and industry-specific compliance requirements for the pharmaceutical industry. It sets out anticorruption rules and competition and advertising constraints. There were no violations of the VHC in 2017. [GRI 205-3, GRI 102-16, UNGC 10] Compliance & anticorruption The Blue Book, our corporate code of conduct for business activities, provides the underpinning for our principled behavior (http://www.Pfizer.com/purpose/transparency/code-of-conduct). Serving as a guide and reference for all employees, the Blue Book goes to ensure compliance in all business activities. Drafted by Pfizer for global use at all subsidiaries, it sets out corporate guidelines and binding codes of conduct. These surpass industry standards in many areas. Pfizer also has a whistle-blowing system in place. Both locations in Austria are regularly audited internally by Pfizer Inc. [GRI 102-12, GRI 102-16, 102-17, 103-3, 205-1, UNGC 10] 100% of employees Top marks for the 2017 internal audit are trained of Pfizer Corporation Austria Transparency & fair competition [GRI 103-2] Transparency is an important and sensitive issue. We firmly believe that the right way to convey a better understanding of our joint services is to afford better insight into our collaborations with medical experts and institutions. This is why we support the initiative of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) and Pharmig (local advocacy group) for greater transparency, and disclose benefits-in-kind granted to physicians and other medical professionals as well as to healthcare organizations at www.Pfizer. at/verantwortung/transparenz.html. The purpose of this reporting is to create transparency, thereby helping the public gain a better understanding of the collaboration between the Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Peter Kastner-Bauer, Eva Szaboova (Kwizda Pharmadistribution) Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 18 Fair business practices medical community and the industry, and building trust in our company. This disclosure shows all benefits granted in the previous year, either individualized by name or aggregated. It requires consent, whereby the approving party can decide if this information is to be individualized or aggregated. Figures for 2017 29% individual approval rate for HCPs ≈ €1.3 m in payments to members of ≈ €2.7 m in payments to institutions of ≈ €54.2 m in research & development 99.7% approval rate for the medical profession (MMP) the medical profession (IMP) (R&D) institutions In what areas does Pfizer work with doctors and institutions? All benefits-in-kind related to prescription drugs are documented and disclosed. This includes benefits granted for • Research and development (e. g. clinical or non-interventional studies) • Service and consulting (e. g. lectures, medical/science advisory) • Functions and events (e. g. participation fees, travel expenses for advanced training) • Donations and grants Who benefits from the collaboration between Pfizer and medical professionals? • Patients benefit from jointly achieved advances. This can range from participation in clinical trials to newly developed drugs and better ways of using legacy medicines—anything to ensure every patient gets the best possible treatment for that individual. • Medical doctors and scientists have opportunities to research, take part in clinical trials, and apply new therapies at an early turn. They can also take advantage of a wide range of advanced training and education offerings. • Our researchers can draw on the practical experience gained with their innovations and then leverage this experience to drive efforts to enhance legacy medicinal products and develop new drugs. Pfizer regularly conducts centrally managed/initiated audits of financial flows. One example of this is the annual Trend Report. It is imperative to determine if external science consultants and speakers could become economically dependent when their services are purchased. Pfizer would intervene if this were found to be the case this. Video: Transparency Breeds Trust Augmented reality: To view AR content, download the free Layar app from the App Store or Google Play Store and scan the marked area. Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Fair business practices 19 Responsible political participation [GRI 102-25, GRI 103-2] Pfizer is a nonpartisan actor unaffiliated with any political party. We provide neither financial nor material support to Austrian parties. Pfizer's interests are represented by way of informational activities and membership in various organizations. They aim to create a supportive environment, gain public acceptance and underscore the legitimacy of our business activities. [GRI 415-1] The names of Pfizer Austria's corporate lobbyists are published in the Austrian Lobbying and Interest Representation registry. Dieter Hackl, Director Health & Value, is listed at the time of writing. Pfizer Austria bases its lobbying activities on the Pfizer Blue Book, the Pharmig Code of Conduct and the Code of Conduct of the Austrian Public Affairs Association. In addition to his function as Country Manager Pfizer Austria, Robin Rumler was also President of Pharmig from 2010 to 2016. His duties as Pharmig's president included weighing in on healthcare policy decisions and promoting quality assurance and trans­parency in the healthcare system. Rumler's second term of office ended in late April 2016; he has since served Pharmig as Vice President. Robin Rumler was appointed President of the Pharmig Academy in October 2016. The Pharmig Academy is an integral component of the continuing education landscape in the Austrian healthcare system. It offers high-quality seminars, training and discussion events centered on current topics. The following colleagues were actively involved in the institutions and workgroups indicated below: [GRI 102-13] Sylvia Nanz Dieter Hackl Pharmig Rare Diseases workgroup Pharmig workgroup Health Economics and Reimbursement GPMed Board Member, Communication FOPI General Meeting Chamber of Commerce (WKÖ) Federation of Austrian Industries (IV) Austrian Public Affairs Association (ÖPAV) Claudia Handl Pharmig Communication FOPI workgroup on Responsibility PMCA Board Member Elisa Schornsteiner Austrian Public Affairs Association (ÖPAV) Pharmig workgroup on Austria as a Pharmaceutical Location FOPI workgroup on Innovation Renée Gallo-Daniel President of the Austrian Association of Vaccine Manufacturers (ÖVIH) Martin Ausserleitner Austrian Pharma Cercle Robin Rumler Pharmig Vice President Elisabeth Dal-Bianco Pharmig Academy President respACT Austria AmCham Vice President UN Global Compact Network Austria Chamber of Commerce (WKÖ) Alexander Celedin COVO (Corporate Volunteering Network Austria) Pharmig Clinical Research workgroup Boris Wilke Transparency International workgroup Markus Edelbacher Compliance – Risk Assessment Pharmig workgroup on Manufacturing & Quality Pharmig Code of Conduct/Compliance workgroup Assurance and Distribution Michaela Eder Annett Hessel Austrian Biosafety Network Vac2Vac European Vaccine Initiative Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 20 Faire Geschäftspraktiken Parliament, National Council Policymakers and legislators Parties define and implement laws (health spokespersons) Federal Administrative Court European Union Federal government Federal Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection: BASG, AGES, GÖG, ÖBIG, FGÖ, BIQG provide services The actors in the Inpatient care Austrian health system Outpatient care Hospitals Nursing homes Laboratories, Therapy medical engineering facilities Pharmacies firms Speech therapists Physical therapists Outreach clinics Pharmaceuticals Mobile wholesalers Practicing physicians nursing service receive services Citizens Patients Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Faire Geschäftspraktiken 21 The insured, employers, the privately insured, taxes Association of Austrian Social pay, finance Insurance Institutions Pension insurance Private insurance Casualty Health insurance insurance Professional associations, self-help groups, medical associations, Self-payers patient associations Interest groups: furnish information WKO, Pharmig, IV, EFPIA, IGEPHA, FOPI, ÖVIH Medical Chamber, Chamber of Pharmacists, Relatives GPMed of patients Patients' ombudspersons Forum of Austrian Ethics Committees Austrian Association of Full-Line Pharmaceutical Wholesalers (PHAGO) Pharmaceutical industry, Austrian Generics Association manufacturers of medical equipment research, develop, manufacture Universities & colleges, schools & training centers, research institutes (e.g. IM-BA, IST) research, train Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 22 Fair business practices Fair business practices & ethical behavior We conduct our business in accordance with the principles of fair competition and act honestly and fairly in all our business dealings. We require our suppliers and partners to adhere to high standards and audit and inspect our suppliers and partners. We hold ourselves to the highest ethical standards and expect the same from our business partners. Key figures for fair business practices GRI Key figures PCA 20151 PCA 20161 PCA 20171 PMA 20152 PMA 20162 PMA 20172 Total 2017 205-1 Locations investigated for corruption 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 205-3 Confirmed corruption cases and action taken 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 415-1 Political donations [€] 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 206-1 Proceedings because of anti-competitive practices 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 419-1 Fines [€] 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Solidarity payments, Framework Pharmaceutical 1,005,568 5.6m* ≈ 2.5m* 0 0 0 ≈ 2.5m* Contract [€] Benefits-in-kind granted to members of the medical 1.5m 2,694,033 1,273,299 0 0 0 1,273,299 profession (MMP) for training and fees [€] 102-2 Research and development (R&D) [€] 26.7m 4,684,480 54,178,442 0 0 0 54,178,442 204-1 Share of expenditure on local suppliers (€) NS** NS** 23,431,515 NS** NS** 15.2m 38.6m 102-9 Total budget, procurement [€] NS** NS** 1,111,689 NS** NS** 10.3m 11.4m 102-9 Total number of suppliers NS** NS** 1,049 NS** NS** 478 1,527 102-9 Number of new suppliers NS** NS** 29 NS** NS** 35 64 205-1, Number of audits focused on corruption: An internal corporate audit was conducted from February 20 to March 10, 2017. A team of six Pfizer 103-3 auditors spent three weeks on site auditing the cooperation with HCPs, compliance with FCPA/GPIHP (congresses, invitations, etc.) and travel expense reports. Several hundred spot-checks were made. Pfizer Austria achieved good results in all audited areas. 205-2 Information and training on measures and identified significant risks: Mandatory training and communication for all employees (including contractors and summer students). Every employee was trained within a year. 1 Pfizer Corporation Austria's fiscal year 2 Pfizer Manufacturing Austria's fiscal year * Preliminary figures ** NS = not specified: These figures were not documented at that time. Actions taken in 2017 Actions we have Goals to achieve goals yet to take Actions we intend to take in 2018/19 Prevent 100% of employees in relevant business Train 100% of employees in relevant business corruption, units trained on Pfizer's Blue Book units on Pfizer's Blue Book anticorruption promote anticorruption guidelines guidelines compliance within the Implement suggestions for improvement gleaned company Archive service provider audited from the audit to continue developing the company Create Disclosed benefits granted to members Regularly disclose benefits granted to members of transparency of the medical profession (MMP) and to the medical profession (MMP) and to institutions inside the institutions of the medical profession of the medical profession (IMP) company and out (IMP)(EFPIA Disclosure Initiative) (EFPIA Disclosure Initiative) Regularly disclose all benefits and donations granted to patient organizations and self-help Disclosed all benefits and donations groups granted to patient organizations and self-help groups Have Compliance Officers collaborate and network internationally across the group Sustainability in Assessed and defined measures to Create supplier guidelines procurement promote sustainable procurement Create guidelines for sustainable procurement based on ISO 20400 Host stakeholder dialog with suppliers on sustainable procurement and the Supplier Code of Conduct Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Brigitta Bors (Pfizer), Albert Dlaska (Kwizda) Our priority SDGs: 24 Labor practices ACHIEVING MORE TOGETHER Pfizer Austria's success is attributable to our engaged employees. In keeping with our corporate responsibility, we want to offer every employee the best possible professional and personal development prospects. Pfizer also attaches great importance to employees' health and safety. To this end, two sites in Vienna and Orth an der Donau are constantly pursuing a host of programs to ensure a safe working environment, actively promote employees' health and enable staff to find a good work/life balance. Pfizer is committed to treating all employees and applicants with fairness and respect. Our policies prohibit discrimination, harassment and personal disadvantagement. These apply worldwide and are intended to create a positive and productive working environment. Co­­ opera­tion, teamwork and trust are very important to us. This contributes to a positive and productive working environment. Hostilities and harassment will not be tolerated. [GRI 103-2] Conditions of work OWN IT! – a culture of accountability Pfizer's open, responsible culture offers plenty of room for personal and professional growth. Our employees also appreciate the opportunity to work flexibly. Employees are motivated to take on more personal responsibility for their job's purview, their career, the quality of internal and external working relationships, and the success of the company as a whole. This includes standing behind decisions and being bold enough to embrace new ways of thinking and to take acceptable risks. It goes to encourage open, constructive straight-talk between employees and mutual support in the event of setbacks. OWN IT! is Pfizer's way of driving the development of a culture in which employees act on their own initiative and seek constructive dialog. OWN IT! also means fostering a culture in which employees can take responsible risks and pursue new ideas. This, after all, is the bedrock of our company's success. OWNIT! Pfizer A culture of accountability encourages employees to take personal responsibility, motivates employees to try new things and to break out of old thought patterns. On top of that, the Dare to Try initiative is underway at Pfizer to encourage employees to explore innovative new possibilities and ideas beyond the confines of conventional thinking in order to drive the business forward. Pfizer Austria Leadership Charter Pfizer Austria's Country Management and all supervisory personnel developed the Pfizer Austria Leadership Charter in a joint effort. This charter sets out actionand communication-related guidelines; everyone at Pfizer Austria with the responsibility for leading people has committed to it. The key topics are presented on the next page. Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Mario Höber, Marie-Lena Müller, Sandra Sabeditsch, Markus Edelbacher (all Pfizer) Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 26 Labor practices Topics of the Leadership Charter 1. ONE Pfizer 5. Expectation management 2. Leadership by example 6. Internal presence / 3. Family-friendly behavior code of conduct 4. Transparency 7. Diversity & inclusion The aim is to promote consistent management practices throughout the company. ONE Pfizer esprit de corps Although we are organized in two companies with two locations in Austria, we all work together across both locations and companies under the credo of ONE Pfizer. We operate as one management unit, support decisions collectively, act as a coordinated whole, and communicate with ONE Voice. Information-sharing and knowledge transfer are second nature to us. Family-friendly employer berufundfamilie audit certificate (GRI 103-3) Pfizer Austria has been entitled to the full berufundfamilie [work and family] audit certificate since 2011. Awarded by the Federal Ministry for Families and Youth, it signifies an organization's dedication to promoting and systematically implementing family-friendly measures. Pfizer Corporation Austria was awarded the berufundfamilie government seal of quality for the fourth time in 2017. www.familieundberuf.at When an employee wishes to request progressive retirement or take parental leave, we strive to find a mutually satisfactory arrangement for both the company and the employee. We offer a wide variety of working time models, including a combination with a home office. Home office Employees in positions suitable for working in a home office can do so with the benefit of modern information and communication technologies. The added flexibility of working from home not only supports efforts to reconcile a career with family life, it also boosts our staff's productivity. Our workplace is a segmented open-plan office, but there are times when it is beneficial to work in a quiet environment. The home office option gives staff greater leeway in determining how the work gets done, which has a positive impact on job satisfaction and performance. The home office is appreciated and embraced at Pfizer. Home office days 2,998 1,037 254 days, Vienna headcounts days, Orth headcounts Vienna contractors 16 Orth contractors Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Labor practices 27 Flexible working hours: The ”Zeit+” time tracking system In Austria, Pfizer uses ”Zeit+” time tracking, a system that enables flexible working hours to be captured independently. • Flex time: Monday to Friday from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. (no core hours) is indeed more flexible. • If an employee accumulates credit hours, up to 1/12th of the normal weekly working hours per month is deposited in a separate comp-time account with the option of taking up to five days of comp time per year. This also applies to all-in contracts. • The guidance for weekend and holiday work and comp time is clearly defined. Support for employees in various aspects of life One service merits special mention: It supports our employees anonymously and free of charge in various aspects of life (financial issues, family matters, bereavement, burnout prevention and counseling, childcare matters, etc.). For more on this, visit: www.consentiv.com Health and safety at work [GRI 403-4, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3] Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) management system We manufacture vaccines at our site in Orth an der Donau. Seventy people work under Biosafety Level 2 or Biosafety Level 3 con­ ditions. We operate a Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) management system to ensure health and safety throughout the facility. To this end, we set specific goals and define indicators, and measure our performance against these indicators. Pfizer uses Leading Safety Indicators to make EHS measurable. The Good Saves program serves as one of our key indicators. It is comparable to Austria's statutory provisions for near-miss incidents, but this program's reports far exceed the legal requirements. Good Saves aims to motivate all employees in the facility to adopt a safety-first mindset. Every employee develops safety awareness of his or her job—for that individual's benefit and for the benefit of the team. The workforce is encouraged to report observations and prevent recurrences. Pfizer Manufacturing Austria launched this program in 2015, tallying 631 reports in 2016 with 98.18% of the workforce taking part. Preventive health measures Physical health and mental well-being are fundamental prerequisites for our employees' motivation and performance. Pfizer cares very much about its employees' health, and is keen to actively promote it. The workforce is welcome to take advantage of preventive health services such as free vaccinations, checkups, voluntary eye exams and hearing tests, vascular screening and smoking cessation counseling. An occupational health physician and a specialist in workplace ergonomics support us to this end. The occupational health physician is available to employees once a week for one-on-one consultations and care. A workplace ergonomics expert is available to employees on demand to assess the individual's workspace and formulate suggestions for improvement. Employees may also take part in a regular 'healthy back' workshop (every two weeks) offering tips and exercises for working hours spent at the computer. Sick days ø6 sick days in Vienna ø 14 sick days at Orth Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 28 Labor practices Continuing education and knowledge transfer [GRI 404-2] Access to modern technological resources and exposure to a wide range of functions, cultures and countries are all part of working at Pfizer. All employees can bring their talents to bear and seize opportunities for personal and professional growth. Personal development and career planning Managers conduct annual appraisals with their staff to assess performance and plan careers. The supervisor and staffer jointly define personal goals based on the given potential, tasks, needs and development perspectives. This management by objectives goes to tap the full potential and promote talent. Trainings and seminars Our employees can take advantage of training and education opportunities, including a range of online training courses (Power 2 Learn, Discover Talent). Internal one-on-one knowledge transfer is encouraged. Regular events such as the Pfizer Information Circle and Lunch & Learn facilitate knowledge-sharing among the workforce and with experts. International career opportunities As a multinational group of companies, we offer our employees career and development opportunities in Austria and beyond. Employees may take on international tasks (virtual positions) while based in Austria, be seconded or assigned abroad for a limited time, or work for Pfizer in another country for the long term. These exciting career opportunities offer our staff chances to grow professionally and personally while mastering another language. Mentoring All of Pfizer Austria's employees are welcome to take part in a mentoring program launched in October 2015. Mentoring is a shareand-care program aimed to develop mentees' personalities by supporting their professional and personal growth. Mentors serve as advisors, sharing their experience and knowledge to benefit mentees' development. A mentor is never the mentee's line manager. The mentee-mentor relationship is confidential, as is all the information imparted. The usual period for a mentorship is 12 to 18 months. The Fair Play Network Austria coordinates the mentoring program at Pfizer Austria in collaboration with the local HR department. Employees have taken a great interest in this program. In 2017, 22 mentoring relationships have been initiated with more cycles to come. 22 Employees have been with Pfizer for mentoring relationships established in 2017 9 years on average Employment relationships Pfizer also employs temps/contractors. In 2016, the Fair Play Network team evaluated potential differences between Pfizer employees and contractors' access to certain benefits in Vienna, redressing the differences that can be redressed. Employees were briefed on this matter in 2017 to clarify any residual ambiguities. Pfizer provides outplacement counseling for employees that the company is compelled to part with. Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Labor practices 29 Social dialog and co-determination [GRI 102-33] We endorse employee participation/co-determination and dialog in our company. Our interaction is respectful; open communication is encouraged. Colleagues regularly have the opportunity to offer feedback at internal events, during employee appraisals, and in surveys. Personnel are free to contact their immediate supervisor (open-door policy) or the Works Council at any time. Employee surveys Pfizer conducts an annual global employee survey called Pfizer Voice. Its questions address matters of leadership, employee satisfaction and motivation, training, professional development, information policies and communication. The feedback tells us what we are doing well and where there is room to improve. In recent years, we developed an action plan after each survey to work towards improving areas in which we could do better. In 2016, Pfizer Austria was in the green zone for all survey categories. (Green means that at least 75% of respondents answered the question positively with agree fully or agree. Employees at the Orth an der Donau site were able to participate for the first time in 2016. The results for 2017 were not yet available at the time of publication. Dimensions/Indices 2014 2015 2016 Strategy – Pfizer strategy 85 % 89 % 94 % Strategy – department 78 % 86 % 92 % Strategy – business unit 78 % 95 % 92 % Organizational system and structure 65 % 74 % 82 % Management – CEO and Executive Leadership Team 82 % 88 % 91 % Management – department 78 % 84 % 92 % Management – business unit 74 % 91 % 90 % Management – immediate supervisor 91 % 92 % 93 % Employees 80 % 85 % 90 % Work climate/engagement 76 % 82 % 87 % Loyalty index 82 % 87 % 92 % Inclusion index 83 % 88 % 91 % Culture index 76 % 83 % 88 % Works Council Works Councils are in place at both Vienna and Orth an der Donau to represent our employees' interests. These councils have participation possibilities and rights to be informed by management. Suggestions and criticism may be submitted to the Works Councils at any time, which meet regularly with management to address colleagues' concerns. Pfizer Austria is bound by the provisions of the Labor Constitution Act with regard to its duties to furnish information to the Works Council. Chair of the Vienna Works Council: Susanne Lind, Chair of the Orth an der Donau Works Council: Monika Kies No cases of discrimination were reported to the works council during the reporting period. [GRI 406-1] Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 30 Labor practices Diversity and equal opportunity We see diversity in our company as an enrichment. The diversity of our colleagues, the different perspectives, experiences and life stories are part of our strong and innovative corporate culture. Pfizer's diversity strategy is to develop and implement programs that • help employees value diversity and perceive Pfizer as a fair and supportive environment in which to pursue a career • charge managers and executives with the responsibility for creating inclusive, equal-opportunity jobs • afford patients, shareholders and other stakeholders the opportunity to see the value of diversity reflected in innovative product development and good corporate governance Pfizer's Diversity & Inclusion team focuses on activities and initiatives that • cultivate the OWN IT! culture in which employees and executives demonstrate inclusive behaviors and show respect for others • draw attention to and eradicate unconscious and conscious bias • select, train and engage employees with different backgrounds to give us a leading position in the market • contribute to measures and spark efforts to drive our company forward by making the most of diversity Our diversity in numbers More than 25% of Pfizer employees are over 28 nations are represented Nearly 50% of Pfizer employees 50 years old at Pfizer Austria are female At the time of writing, 26.5% of our colleagues are over 50 years of age. The issue of age-appropriate work will be of increasing concern to us in the future, particularly the question of what options, apart from progressive retirement, we have to prolong colleagues' productive role and tap their valuable experience to enrich our teams and our company. People with the following nationalities work at Pfizer in Austria: Belgium, Bosnia, Brazil, China, Croatia, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Iraq, Iran, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, Turkey, UK, Ukraine, USA, Uzbekistan and Austria (as at 2016). Pfizer signed the Diversity Charter, a voluntary public pledge made by Austrian companies, institutions and organizations, in fall of 2015. It was launched in fall of 2010 as an initiative of the Austrian Federal Economic Chamber and the Vienna Economic Chamber. Fair Play Network Set up in 2008, the Fair Play Network's mission is to improve equal opportunity and the work/family-life balance at our company. This workgroup draws up proposals to this end, regularly touching bases with Pfizer Austria's management. Part of the global Diversity & Inclusion Group, the Fair Play Network is composed of colleagues from various departments. They are striving to: • create conditions within our company that assure equal opportunities for all in-house and Sales force personnel (professional development, promotion, leave management, re-entry, work/life balance) • eliminate gender-specific, geographical and other internal barriers • nurture talent Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Labor practices 31 Key figures for labor practices GRI Key figures PCA 20151 PCA 20161 PCA 20171 PMA 20152 PMA 20162 PMA 20172 Total 2017 102-7, Total workforce (in headcounts) 260 281 271 261 257 282 553 102-8, 405-1 Men 73 84 81 151 117 129 210 Men [%] 28.08 29.89 29.89 57.85 45.53 45.74 37.97 Women 187 197 190 145 140 153 343 Women [%] 71.92 70.11 70.11 55.56 54.47 54.26 62.03 102-8, Contractors (headcounts) 43 58 53 16 9 9 62 405-1 Men 10 17 15 6 5 5 20 Women 33 41 38 10 4 4 42 102-8, Pfizer employees (headcounts) 217 223 212 245 248 263 475 405-1 Men 63 67 64 110 112 119 183 Women 154 156 148 135 136 144 292 Full-time 169 173 160 205 208 214 374 Full-time women NS* NS* 98 NS* NS* 106 204 Full-time men NS* NS* 62 NS* NS* 108 170 Part-time 48 50 52 40 40 49 101 Part -time women NS* NS* 50 NS* NS* 38 88 Part -time men NS* NS* 2 NS* NS* 11 13 Temporary (fixed-term) NS* NS* 12 NS* NS* 20 32 Temporary women NS* NS* 9 NS* NS* 13 22 Temporary men NS* NS* 3 NS* NS* 7 10 Permanent NS* NS* 200 NS* NS* 243 443 Permanent women NS* NS* 139 NS* NS* 131 270 Permanent men NS* NS* 61 NS* NS* 112 173 102-8, Summer students NS* NS* 6 NS* NS* 10 16 405-1 Men NS* NS* 2 NS* NS* 5 7 Women NS* NS* 4 NS* NS* 5 9 Full-time NS* NS* 5 NS* NS* 10 15 Part-time NS* NS* 1 NS* NS* 0 1 401-3 Maternity leave 14 9 13 18 15 14 27 Paternity leave NS* 1 1 NS* 0 3 4 Women whose maternity leave has expired NS* NS* 7 NS* NS* 7 14 Men whose paternity leave has expired NS* NS* 0 NS* NS* 1 1 Women whose maternity leave has NS* NS* 7 NS* NS* 6 13 expired and who have returned Men whose paternity leave has expired NS* NS* 0 NS* NS* 1 1 and who have returned Return rate women [%] 100 NS* NS* 100 NS* NS* 86 93 Return rate men [%] NS* NS* NS* NS* NS* 100 NS* Men in an employment relationship 1 year NS* NS* NS* NS* NS* NS* NS* after paternity leave Women in an employment relationship NS* NS* NS* NS* NS* NS* NS* 1 year after maternity leave Employees exempted from normal duties 6 7 6 1 1 3 9 Employees on sabbatical 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 405-1 Age (Pfizer only; contractor ages not on file) Under 30 13 11 26 40 31 30 56 Under 30 [%] 5.99 4.93 12.26 16.33 12.50 11.41 11.79 30–50 136 145 142 164 153 169 311 30–50 [%] 62.67 65.02 66.98 66.94 61.69 64.26 65.47 over 50 68 67 44 41 56 64 108 over 50 [%] 31.34 30.04 20.75 16.73 22.58 24.33 22.74 405-1 Citizenship 188 NS* 173 NS* NS* 239 412 Austrian NS* NS* 81.60 NS* NS* 90.87 86.74 Other nationality 29 NS* 38 NS* NS* 24 62 Born in Austria 173 NS* 169 NS* NS* 231 400 Born outside of Austria 44 NS* 43 NS* NS* 32 75 405-1 Persons with disabilities 7 2 1 2 4 4 5 1 Pfizer Corporation Austria's fiscal year 2 Pfizer Manufacturing Austria's fiscal year * NS = not specified: These figures were not documented at that time. ** Persons working under Biosafety Level 2 or Biosafety Level 3 conditions *** Home office day count calculated on the basis of an 8.5-hour working day as of 2017 Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 32 Labor practices Key figures for labor practices GRI Key figures PCA 20151 PCA 20161 PCA 20171 PMA 20152 PMA 20162 PMA 20172 Total 2017 405-1 a Persons with supervisory responsibility 40 43 40 35 39 41 81 Men 22 22 21 22 21 23 44 Men [%] 55.00 51.16 52.50 62.86 53.85 56.10 54.32 Women 18 21 19 13 18 18 37 Women [%] 45.00 48.84 47.50 37.14 46.15 43.90 45.68 Under 30 NS* NS* 5 NS* NS* 5 10 Under 30 [%] NS* NS* 12.50 NS* NS* 12.20 12.35 30–50 NS* NS* 30 NS* NS* 26 56 30–50 [%] NS* NS* 75.00 NS* NS* 63.41 69.14 over 50 NS* NS* 5 NS* NS* 10 15 over 50 [%] NS* NS* 12.50 NS* NS* 24.39 18.52 202-2 Percentage of locally recruited leaders 72.72 100 100 90.90 100 100 100 in the management team [%] 401-1 Total employee turnover (exits) 18 NS* 31 12 7 26 57 Men NS* NS* 11 NS* NS* 12 23 Women NS* NS* 20 NS* NS* 14 34 Under 30 NS* NS* 7 NS* NS* 12 19 30–50 NS* NS* 21 NS* NS* 11 32 over 50 NS* NS* 3 NS* NS* 3 6 Employee turnover (terminations by 10 NS* NS* 8 0 NS* NS* employees) Employee turnover (terminations by NS* 14.00 15.00 13.00 13.00 12.00 26.41 employer + by employees) Employee turnover (terminations by NS* 6.26 7.00 6.00 6.00 5.00 11.93 employees) [%] Total employee turnover [%] NS* NS* 14.62 4.90 2.82 9.89 24.51 New hires 13 30 21 31 14 21 42 New hires [%] 5.00 10.68 7.75 11.88 5.45 7.45 15.20 Men NS* NS* 7 NS* NS* 20 27 Women NS* NS* 14 NS* NS* 21 35 Under 30 NS* NS* 11 NS* NS* 25 36 30–50 NS* NS* 10 NS* NS* 15 25 over 50 NS* NS* 0 NS* NS* 1 1 401-3 Returned and retained after parental 8 12 5 6 3 6 11 leave Did not return after parental leave NS* NS* 0 NS* NS* 1 1 Did not return after parental leave [%] NS* NS* 0 NS* NS* 16.67 9.09 Termination by mutual agreement 0 0 1 1 1 1 2 Termination by mutual agreement [%] NS* NS* 20.00 NS* NS* 16.67 18.18 403-2 Accident types and rates, organization 1 0 0 6 1 2 2 overall Commuting accident 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 Work accident 0 0 0 6 1 2 2 Death 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 On long-term sick leave (>6 months) 1 0 0 NS* 0 2 2 Cases of occupational diseases 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Days of sick leave (calendar year) 1,549 1,471 1,718 NS* 3,511 3,911 5,629 Days of sick leave, men NS* 405 441 NS* 1,366 1,376 1,817 Days of sick leave, women NS* 1,066 1,277 NS* 2,145 2,535 3,812 Days of sick leave per employee (women) NS* NS* 7.88 NS* NS* 15.75 11.82 Days of sick leave per employee (men) NS* NS* 5.44 NS* NS* 10.92 8.18 Total days of sick leave per employee 6 5 6 NS* 14 14 10 Home office days 2,096 4,705 3,252 NS* 1,792 1,053 4,305 Home office days, employees NS* 4,408 2,998 NS* 1,792 1,037 4,035 Home office days, contractors NS* 297 254 NS* 0 16 270 403-3 Workers at risk of occupation-related 0 0 0 75** 70** 82** 82** diseases 404-1 Total hours of training NS* NS* NS* NS* NS* 2,443.25 NS* Total hours of training per employee NS* NS* NS* NS* NS* 9.29 NS* 1 Pfizer Corporation Austria's fiscal year 2 Pfizer Manufacturing Austria's fiscal year * NS = not specified: Figures were not documented at this time. ** Persons working under Biosafety Level 2 or Biosafety Level 3 conditions *** Home office day count calculated on the basis of an 8.5-hour working day as of 2017 Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Labor practices 33 Key figures for labor practices GRI Key figures PCA 20151 PCA 20161 PCA 20171 PMA 20152 PMA 20162 PMA 20172 401-2 Benefits which are standard for full-time Contractors are admitted to the Pfizer pension fund There are no differences between full-time and employees only only after four years of service. Most contractors also part-time, but slight differences between PMA and receive a bonus PCA 403-1 Joint management–worker health and Safety specialist, occupational physician, safety EHS, safety officers, safety specialist, Works Council, safety committees officers, Works Council, first responders first responders, occupational physician 404-1 Average hours of training employees have At the time of writing, it is not At the time of writing, it is not undertaken during the year by category possible to retrieve data on possible to retrieve data on and gender training hours from the system. training hours from the system. The next report is to present data The next report is to present data on external training hours on external training hours 404-3 Percentage of employees who receive a 100% (Global Performance 100% regular performance and career developManagement [GPM], Individual (of employees with an active ment review Development Plan [IDP] or Sales employment contract) force duty roster) 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of No data on wages/salaries No data on wages/salaries women to men 201-3 Coverage of benefit plan obligations Supplementary pension fund, yearly Vienna public Meal allowance in the company restaurant, free plant transport pass, travel allowance, vouchers shuttle bus, Consentiv Employee Assistance Services, (anniversary and Christmas), gifts for special private gifts for special occasions (birth & marriage bonuses), occasions (birth & marriage bonuses), meal allowance vouchers (company anniversary), preventive in the company cafeteria, private accident insurance, healthcare, supplementary pension fund, progressive preventive healthcare, referral rewards, progressive retirement, accident insurance and referral rewards retirement Audits November Feb. 2015: EHS Sept. 2016: 2015: Global Baseline Audit Fire safety Asset (Pfizer global); audit by XL Protection Nov. 2015: Gaps and audit Security Fire safety by animal Assessment audit by XL research Result: Very Gaps authority positive 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 0 0 actions taken 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right 0 0 to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk 0 0 for incidents of child labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk 0 0 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 1 Pfizer Corporation Austria's fiscal year 2 Pfizer Manufacturing Austria's fiscal year Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 34 Labor practices Actions taken in 2017 Actions we have Goals to achieve goals yet to take Actions we intend to take in 2018/19 Maintain and Conducted regular Pfizer Voice employee survey Conduct regular Pfizer Voice employee survey to promote employee to analyze opportunities for improvement analyze opportunities for improvement satisfaction Drove on with the OWN IT! initiative for cultural Drive on with the OWN IT! initiative for cultural change at Pfizer change at Pfizer Support employees' Made use of the Consentiv service offering for Harmonize the Sales force's days off work/life balance Vienna: Counseling for employees (anonymous) for burnout prevention, financial woes, family problems, bereavement, childcare matters, problems at the workplace Be a family-friendly Buddy system kept people on parental leave Organize a Family Day at Pfizer employer by connected to the company offering support Provide childcare on working days Revised Step-by-Step Guide to facilitate when school is out on-boarding after a hiatus Took part in the Unternehmen für Familien network Repeated the berufundfamilie audit Set up parent-child room at the Vienna office Train and educate Persisted with mentoring and development Launch Rep2020 training program for the Sales employees well programs (job rotation, secondments) force Staged Digital Health employee event and Launch mentoring program the Orth/Donau site provided further training on other companyrelated topics Stepped up talent acquisition programs by engaging in online career portals such as Karriere.at Assure equal Raised diversity & inclusion awareness (Rainbow Conduct inclusion training for managers and opportunity and Honor Walk, Diversity Day poster campaign) employees prevent Continued to assess and, when feasible, discrimination at harmonize differences between contractors and the workplace Pfizer employees (Corporation) Hosted a diversity workshop to develop ideas for Make fair play a focus topic for the Sales force improvement Promote Conducted another occupational health survey to Step up the 'Fit and Healthy' workplace health employees' health assess work-related physical and psychological campaign burdens Used the Consentiv service offering at Vienna: Focus on burnout prevention / raise awareness Counseling for employees (anonymous) for for mental health burnout prevention, financial woes, family Continue to develop measures to promote problems, bereavement, childcare matters occupational health based on a 2017 survey to assess work-related physical and psychological Pursued addiction awareness initiative burdens Took measures to prevent all types of accidents Take measures to prevent all types of accidents and boost employees' awareness on the job at and boost employees' awareness on the job at Orth/Donau (Good Saves) Orth/Donau (Good Saves) Earn Company Health Promotion seal of approval Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Maurice Weber, Amelie Weber, Sandra Weber (Pfizer) Our priority SDG: 36 Product stewardship TOGETHER FOR AND WITH PATIENTS As a pharmaceutical company, we are committed to health. Our day-to-day business decisions focus on patients. It is for their benefit that we research and develop drugs and vaccines to prevent, cure or alleviate diseases. When people get sick, they need more than just medicine. This why Pfizer strives to make a contribution that goes beyond the development and delivery of medicines. We manufacture and market our products in a responsible way, and inform patients, physicians and pharmacists about benefits and risks. The Medicinal Products Act (AMG), the Medicinal Products Import Act (AWEG) and the Arzneimittelbetriebsordnung (Medicinal Product Plant Regulations; AMBO) provide the legal underpinning for Pfizer's activities in Austria as a pharmaceutical company. Our production facilities operate according to the rules of Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). Geared specifically to pharmaceuticals, these quality standards are internationally valid and rank among the strictest in manufacturing. In the area of transport, Pfizer works exclusively with suppliers whose vehicles are equipped with suitable temperature recording devices and who comply with local (AMBO, Transport Code) and international (Good Distribution Practice) statutory requirements. Compliance with these guidelines is audited on an ongoing basis. [GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3] Protecting patients' health and safety [GRI 416-1] It is our ethical and legal responsibility to assure the quality of our products and thus the safety of patients—especially in an area as sensitive as health. Pfizer collects and continually assesses safety-relevant information, from researching the active ingredient in the lab to the product's approval and market launch. To this end, we work with experts such as researchers, physicians, pharmacists and authorities all over the world. For example, we obtain information relevant to product safety in clinical trials and from reports on adverse drug reactions or quality complaints. Pfizer's quality management system is central to our work. It steers processes, tracks their progress and monitors outcomes. The idea of continuous improvement plays an important role; employees vigorously pursue its principles. Our ongoing quality surveillance en­ sures Pfizer's medicinal products always meet the requisite standards. Education & awareness [GRI 417-1] All products approved in Austria are subject to strict statutory informational requirements. The Austrian Medicinal Products Act stipulates the type, scope and contents of the summaries of product characteristics and package inserts for physicians, pharmacists and patients. The currently valid package inserts for all Pfizer products as well as information on therapeutic areas may be viewed on the company's website at www.Pfizer.at. Current information about Pfizer products can thus be obtained directly from the manufacturer, regardless of time or place. This service is also accessible to people with impaired vision or hearing. Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Martina Mistlbachner, Martina Luger, (Pfizer) Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 38 Product stewardship Pfizer is keen to furnish easily understood product information, and we also use additional informational channels and contact options to this end: • Service portal for physicians, pharmacists and other medical professionals • Product information in different languages • Assistance via mobile applications Service for medical professionals: www.Pfizermed.at A special service portal has been available to Austrian physicians, pharmacists and other members of the medical community since 2014. They can get a quick overview of all Pfizer Austria products, therapeutic areas and services simply by visiting www.Pfizermed.at. The website also serves our customers and employees as a communication interface. A tool to order samples for healthcare professionals has been available since September 2016. This portal pools all of Pfizer's product information, web pages and online services at one address. Designed to provide a user-friendly experience, the site is easy to navigate and the desired information is quickly found. Its contents may also be viewed on mobile devices (smartphones and tablets) so they are always accessible to members of the medical profession with the requisite passwords. Patient service: Pfizer helps doctors treat people with a migrant background Flexibility is very much in demand in Austria's multicultural society. Physicians are increasingly confronted with language barriers that are difficult to overcome. But instructions and education are an essential part of treatment and therapy management. However, the language barrier often makes doctor/patient communication very difficult. To remedy this problem, Pfizer started offering bilingual sheets providing directions for the use of medicinal products in 2016. They help the doctor and patient communicate. Clearly structured and illustrated, the sheets are easy to understand, with pictograms to visually underscore the directions for use. They are available in English, Kurdish, Russian, Serbian, Turkish, Urdu, Vietnamese, Arabic and Farsi. To learn more, visit www.Pfizer.at/bilingual. Compliance/adherence Medication must be taken as directed by the physician for it to be effective. Package inserts are a valuable additional source of information for the patient. They contain extensive information on effects, side effects and proper use, and address important topics such interactions, resistance and drug abuse. For more complex applications in some therapeutic areas such as rheumatology, endocrinology, oncology and antibiotics, Pfizer supports patients with other guidance and videos to ensure medicine is taken properly and regularly as prescribed. Mobile applications (apps) & patient videos Pfizer also provides digital support such as mobile applications (apps) to help patients throughout the day and with therapy. The new EmotionSpace app – a place for cancer patients to share their thoughts and feelings Breast cancer is a devastating diagnosis. It is not always easy for patients to open up and trust others, especially in the advanced stages of the disease. The new EmotionSpace app is designed to help these women better understand and deal with the emotional turbulence brought on by this condition. It provides a safe place for women to express, with just a few clicks, their emotions and thoughts on what triggered these feelings. This space can be shared with designated family members and friends to help them ask the right questions at the right time or to simply be there when they are needed. EmotionSpace also offers a special view enabling women to communicate their recorded feelings, for example, with their doctor. The physician can see at a glance how the patient is doing and respond appropriately. The app also provides information about patient organizations and informational events in the vicinity. EmotionSpace was developed in collaboration with patients who are living with metastatic breast cancer. This free app is available for iPhones at the App Store and for Android devices at the Google Play Store. To learn more, visit www.emotionspace.at. More patient apps are available at www.Pfizer.at/patienten-apps. Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Product stewardship 39 Data protection and privacy (GRI 418-1) Data privacy and the implementation of the new General Data Protection Regulation are a top priority – the careful handling of personal data has always been central concern of ours. We attach great importance to properly implementing the regulation for safeguarding the data privacy rights of our customers, partners and employees. All our customer databases are registered with the Austrian Data Protection Authority and comply with all applicable regulations and guidelines. Pfizer currently has 24 data applications registered at the Data Protection Authority. There were no complaints in the reporting period. Access to essential medicines Accurate demand planning and responsible supply chain management are at the core of Pfizer Austria's business activities. Timely access to and the sufficient availability of our medicinal products is imperative, as some of these products support, sustain and save lives. Our products must be available immediately when they are needed. Although we analyze market demand in great depth and plan accordingly, there may be situations where medicines are not available. Pfizer works proactively with all departments involved in the management of supply bottlenecks to prevent such critical situations. Our delivery capacity in 2017 was 98.8%. 98.8%delivery capacity The Pfizer Global Supply (PGS) President's Award is presented to Pfizer sites and countries that have made remarkable progress in their areas of responsibility and therefore a key contribution to implementing the PGS strategy. Austria garnered two PGS President's Awards in 2017: • Pfizer Manufacturing Austria – Platinum President’s Award • Pfizer Corporation Austria Supply Team – Gold President’s Award Protection against counterfeits Counterfeiting of medicines poses a risk to patients' health. Counterfeit drugs may contain the wrong active ingredient, an incorrect amount of it or none at all. In the best case, patients will have no health benefit. In the worst case, the therapy will fail or trigger serious side effects. Counterfeits containing toxic substances can cause permanent damage and can be life-threatening in extreme cases. In 2017, Customs seized 1,665 shipments of pirated products, the highest number since a 2014 EU regulation on product piracy empowered authorities to takes auction. The 2017 product piracy report states that a total of 54,895 counterfeit drugs were confiscated (www.bmf.gv.at/zoll/produktpiraterie/PP-Bericht_2017.pdf?6e78a5). Manufacturers, wholesalers and pharmacists collaborate closely to ensure that counterfeit medicines cannot reach patients through the legal distribution channel. The supply chain will be even safer in future. The Falsified Medicines Directive introduces new safety features for prescription drugs throughout the EU as of February 2019: In addition to the expiry date and batch number, a serialization number – a 2D data matrix code – will be added so that each package has an individual number that enables the medicinal product's authenticity to be checked at any time. Before a drug may be delivered to a pharmacy, its authenticity must be verified by means of a scan. In addition, a security seal with a tear-away perforation, a shrink-wrapped foil or an adhesive seal ensure the integrity of the original packaging's contents. This new packaging gives patients even greater certainty that they will get genuine/authentic medicines in the pharmacy. Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 40 Product stewardship An end-to-end control system Pharmaceuticals manufacturer Wholesaler Wholesaler Pharmacist chemist Patient Individual serialization with randomized numbers Risk-based verification Verification when dispensing to the patient Produkt code Batch Upload Check the number the number Expiration date Serial number Complaints At Pfizer, we deem any dissatisfaction with a purchased product on the part of a customer to be complaint. It is very valuable to us to be notified of such observations. They help us discover potential quality defects, which can never be ruled out entirely despite rigorous controls. But suggestions from customers can sometimes help improve even those products that satisfy all quality criteria. For example, complaints prompted us to identify and modify similar packaging so that it is now easier to distinguish between different products and packages containing different strengths of the same preparations. The Quality Department constantly strives to improve product safety and customer satisfaction. Every year, it conducts training for all employees on good sales practices, safe handling of samples for medical professionals and reporting product defects. All Pfizer employees are trained to recognize product complaints, which they promptly convey to the appropriate colleagues in the Quality Department. Pfizer was on the receiving end of exactly 547 complaints in 2017, which amounts to 0.0045% of the total number of packages sold. The company inspects every submitted package, and, if necessary, notifies the Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety. This was not necessary in 2016. Patients, doctors and pharmacists may report quality defects in a Pfizer product directly by calling +43 1 521 150 or sending an email to reklamation.austria@Pfizer.com. 547 complaints or 0.0045% of packages sold Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Product stewardship 41 Adverse event reports We need to know and understand the safety and quality profile of all Pfizer products in order to provide physicians, patients, pharmacists and users with the best possible information. The safety profile of a drug is not yet fully clear at the time of its market launch, as some adverse events may only be detected after it is used by very many patients. It is therefore our ethical duty and legal obligation to collect and evaluate safety-relevant information, to convey it to regulatory authorities worldwide, and to notify prescribing physicians and patients accordingly. Safety-relevant reports for Pfizer products address the following issues: • Tolerance or (lack of) efficacy • Misapplication • Authenticity • Use during pregnancy • Quality and appearance or while breastfeeding • Functionality • Addiction and misuse Adverse events may be reported by physicians, patients and users to Pfizer Austria directly by calling +43 1 521 15-0 or sending an email to AUT.AEReporting@Pfizer.com. To learn more about suspected adverse reaction reports, visit www.adrreports.eu. Pfizer Medical Information In addition, the Pfizer Medical Information service is available to doctors, pharmacists and patients. It is a global team of employees tasked to provide up-to-date, scientifically sound and balanced answers to medical questions about our products. Physicians, pharmacists and patients in Austria also like to use the service. Customers can call or email us with their medical questions or send us messages around the clock via an online form. The Medical Information department can be reached by calling +43 1 521 150, sending an email to medicalinformation.austria@ Pfizer.com, using our online form at www.Pfizer.at/medinfo (for medical professionals only) or by contacting our Sales representatives. To learn more about our service, visit www.Pfizer.com/medinfo or watch this video: Video: Medical Information Service Augmented reality: To view AR content, download the free Layar app from the App Store or Google Play Store and scan the picture. Responsible marketing [GRI 417-3] We are committed to marketing our products responsibly and transparently. Pfizer complies with all applicable laws and regulations such as the Austrian Medicinal Products Act and the Pharmig Code of Conduct, as well as with the provisions of the Pfizer Blue Book. Awareness campaigns play an important role in prevention. They educate the public and raise awareness of certain diseases. In the reporting period, there were two complaints in the context of the annual monitoring of advertising media by the Federal Office for Safety in Health Care (BASG): An advertising statement on Baldriparan® – Chemical compounds of the sesquiterpene group are primarily responsible for the sleep-promoting and calming effect – was deemed to be inconsistent with the Summary of Product Characteristics/package insert, which states These effects cannot be attributed with certainty to one of the known components of the valerian root. This statement was worded in a potentially misleading way; we no longer use it in that form. The statement low interaction potential for the product Tresleen® was also deemed to be inconsistent with the Summary of Product Characteristics/package insert. We had already noted this inconsistency earlier, during the regular internal quality controls of our advertising media. This statement was subsequently deleted in all newly produced advertising collateral for Tresleen®. It appeared in just one promotional item at the time of the complaint, whereupon we immediately halted its distribution. Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 42 Product stewardship Key figures Product stewardship GRI Key figures PCA 20151 PCA 20161 PCA 20171 PMA 20152 PMA 20162 PMA 20172 416-1 Percentage of significant product and service categories 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Delivery capacity (product availability) 97.00 % 98.80 % 98.80 % NS* NS* NS* 416-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with 0 0 0 0 0 0 regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their lifecycle 417-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with 0 0 0 0 0 0 regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes 102-2 Sale of banned or disputed products 0 0 0 0 0 0 417-3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with 0 0 0 0 0 0 regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship 418-1 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding 0 0 0 0 0 0 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 419-1 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations 0 0 0 0 0 0 concerning the provision and use of products and services 1 Pfizer Corporation Austria's fiscal year 2 Pfizer Manufacturing Austria's fiscal year * NS = not specified: These figures were not documented at that time. Actions taken in 2017 Actions we have Goals to achieve goals yet to take Actions we intend to take in 2018/19 Assure patient Product and drug safety: Introduced packaging Equip all packaging with a 2D security code by health and safety with seals that cannot be restored to their original 2019 allowing every Pfizer medicinal product to condition after opening. Aim: Rule out the be identified and traced individually and to keep possibility of manipulated content. Packaging counterfeit drugs out of the legal supply chain. implemented step by step To be implemented step by step Increase customer Responded rapidly to customer complaints satisfaction (547 complaints in 2017 = 0.0045%) Updated Pfizermed.at; introduced a brochure ordering tool for physicians Protect customer All our databases are registered with the Austrian Introduce new data protection and privacy rules privacy Data Protection Authority. There were no data in the company protection and privacy-related complaints in 2017 Inform and raise Extended digital product information channels Offer more digital information channels to awareness alongside established channels (relaunched www. customers, for example, innovative virtual reality pfizer.at with a new design, value-adding content apps and a new concept for addressing patients to raise awareness & educate) www.pfizermed.at, medinfo, Raise public awareness of counterfeit medicines Material safety data sheets Ensure access to Ensured Pfizer medicines were available to Ensure Pfizer medicines are available to patients essential medicines patients Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Martina Unteregger (BASG), Heide Wahlen (Pfizer) Our priority SDGs: 44 Environment TOGETHER FOR OUR ENVIRONMENT Environmental responsibility extends across our medicines' entire product lifecycle. Pfizer strives to understand and effectively manage all environment, health and safety (EHS) risks associated with the discovery, development, manufacture, use and disposal of our products for each of our active ingredients. Our global EHS management program based on ISO 14000, OHSAS and other internationally applicable regulations guide us in this effort, which combines data collection and verification, internal audits, facility self-assessments and management system reviews of the site, functions and company. Pfizer is producing more and more active ingredients in green chemical processes. For example, wherever possible we strive to develop new tablets and capsules with formulations that can be produced without using water. Pfizer also aims to produce packaging materials for all products from sustainable raw materials. Oriented on the United Nations' sustainability goals, Pfizer's global environmental strategy focuses on three areas – reducing CO2 emissions, using water efficiently and conscientiously, and searching for innovative ways of minimizing waste. We are continuously working towards these goals in a joint effort with all our contractual partners and suppliers. [GRI 102-11, 103-2] Pfizer's carbon footprint in Austria We took a close look at Pfizer's carbon footprint in Austria for the first time in 2017. The carbon footprint serves to identify the main emitters of greenhouse gases (GHGs) and subsequently develop measures to avoid or reduce them. In the 2017 reporting period, a total of 7,796 metric tons of greenhouse gases were emitted as a result of Pfizer's business activities; 56% at the Orth/Donau site and 44% in Vienna. Energy input for production at the Orth/Donau site accounts for a significant share of total greenhouse gas emissions – that is, 3,367 metric tons of CO2 equivalent emissions. Around 45% of CO2 equivalent emissions are attributable to power and heating. The Orth/ Donau site's electricity consumption accounts for 19.1% of total GHG emissions; steam production and process heat generated via natural gas account for 24.1% of total GHG emissions. The Vienna site's employees traveled more than five million kilometers by air, generating a sizable share of the company's total greenhouse gas emissions – 32.7%. The vehicle fleet and employees' individual commutes to the workplace accounted for 9% of total companyrela­ted emissions. [GRI 102-11, GRI 103-3] Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Alexej Worster, Gertrude Langer, Stefanie Bail, Sandra Sabeditsch (all Pfizer) Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 46 Environment GHG emissions at Vienna and Orth 2017: 7,796 t Vienna 66% 0% 19% 3% 5% 4% 2% 1% Power Paper Air travel Material input Vehicle fleet Parcel delivery Commuting IT consumption consumption Orth 6% 1% 1% 0% 13% 78% 0% 1% Promote green commuting Pfizer motivates its employees to leave the car behind when they travel to the office. • Those who opt for public transport receive a monthly allowance. • The company provides a factory shuttle bus at the Orth/Donau site to reduce commuter car use. It runs to and from Vienna on weekdays. • Bicycle parking and showers are available for cyclists. • Every year, Pfizer also takes part in the Austria Cycles to Work campaign. Twenty employees cycled 10,685 kilometers from February to July 2017. Deploy innovative technologies Pfizer has increasingly relied on video, Webex and phone conferences for many years now. Fewer journeys by car and air have reduced our carbon footprint at home and abroad. Condense transport routes Pfizer does not operate trucking fleets or logistics facilities of its own. We have outsourced warehousing and distribution to Kwizda Pharmadistribution GmbH in Leopoldsdorf near Vienna. Nonetheless, we continue to work with our partners towards eco-friendly improvements in this area. Partners and customers join in to better coordinate ordering, delivery and pick-up. These measures optimize supply chain processes and handling, reduce CO2 emissions, and protect the environment. Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Environment 47 Sustainable resource use Treatment of animals Pfizer has an ethical and legal obligation to evaluate the efficacy of medicines and therapies. Animal-based biomedical research in the pharmaceutical industry remains a vital component of discovery, evaluation and regulatory processes that lead to the development of products that save or improve the lives of people around the world. New technologies make it possible in many cases to dispense with animal experiments. However, animal studies are frequently critical to drug assessments and are required by regulatory authorities to ensure the quality, efficacy and safety of a medicine. Pfizer endeavors to carry out as few animal experiments as possible and complies with all applicable statutory requirements. In cooperation with the Federal Office for Safety in Health Care (BASG), Pfizer is developing a method that will in future make animal experiments unnecessary when testing the efficacy of the TBE vaccine. Pharmaceuticals in the environment We are aware of the potential impact that the manufacture, use and disposal of our medicines can have on human health and the environment, and we are committed to minimizing this impact throughout our supply chain and our products' lifecycles. The disposal of our medicines is an important part of this. We set up a depot service at the Floridotower offices in 2017 for employees to drop off expired or unused medication during working hours for proper disposal. In addition, we intend to educate other stakeholder groups about the proper disposal of medicines. Requirements for suppliers Pfizer rigorously screens candidates when selecting partner companies to transport and distribute our medicinal products. Compliance with local and international legal requirements is a prerequisite for collaboration. Occupational safety and environmental protection as well as health and safety management certifications play a weighty role in our deliberations. Pfizer regularly monitors compliance with stipulated quality criteria and standards. In 2015, Pfizer developed the following supply chain goals aimed to benefit the environment. Austria has adopted these goals and plans to implement them in the next few years: • 100% of key suppliers support Pfizer's Supplier Code of Conduct and align their activities with the Principles of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative • 100% of key suppliers manage greenhouse gas emissions, water use and waste generation responsibly • 90% of key suppliers establish reduction goals for greenhouse gas emissions, water use and waste generation Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 48 Environment Key figures for the environment GRI Key figures PCA 20151 PCA 20161 PCA 20171 PMA 20152 PMA 20162 PMA 20172 Total 2017 Scope 1-3 Total CO2e emissions [t] (location-based) 598.80 1,765.64 3,469 1,595.65 1,913.66 4,325 7,794 305-1 CO2e emissions of the overall fleet in 518.78 520.14 459 NS* NS* 36 495 (Scope 1) accordance with actual mileage [t] CO2e emissions, refrigerants NS* NS* 7 NS* NS* 51 58 CO2e emissions, natural gas heating NS* NS* 0 NS* NS* 1,387 1,387 Total CO2e emissions [t] NS* NS* 466 NS* NS* 1,474 1,940 305-2 CO2e emissions, electricity [t] 54.23 44.86 72 1,595.65 1,698.84 1,296 1,368 (Scope 2) (location-based) CO2e emissions, electricity [t] (market-based) NS* NS* 44 NS* NS* 736 780 CO2e emissions, district heating [t] NS* NS* 57 NS* NS* 0 57 (location-based) CO2e emissions, district heating [t] NS* NS* 59 NS* NS* 0 59 (market-based) Total CO2e emissions [t] (location-based) NS* NS* 129 NS* NS* 1,296 1,425 Total CO2e emissions [t] (market-based) NS* NS* 103 NS* NS* 736 839 305-3 CO2e consumption, paper [t] 2.82 3.42 52 0 0 3 55 (Scope 3) CO2e emissions, package deliveries [t] 22.96 21.36 115 0 0 NS* 115 CO2e emissions, air travel [t] NS* 1,176.00 2,289 0 214.82 262 2,551 CO2e emissions, employee commuting [t] NS* NS* 162 NS* NS* 543 705 CO2e emissions, hygiene (disinfectants) NS* NS* 1 NS* NS* 9 10 travel [t] CO2e emissions, IT [t] NS* NS* 44 NS* NS* 38 82 CO2e emissions, Scope 3, energy consumpNS* NS* 212 NS* NS* 701 913 tion (electricity, heat, fuel) and vehicle production [t] Total CO2e emissions [t] (location-based) NS* NS* 2,874 NS* NS* 1,555 4,429 Total CO2e emissions [t] (market-based) NS* NS* 2,889 NS* NS* 1,648 4,537 Energy 302-1 Electricity [kWh] 397,451 332,328 5,719,176 6,089,020 Electricity sourced from hydropower [kWh] 332,221 6,005,860 6,338,081 Steam [kg] 0 0 0 12,470,625 9,036,796 6,252,603 6,252,603 District heating [kWh] 153,468 189,517 317,472.97 0 0 0 317,473 District cooling [kWh] 142,705 169,059 2,090.35 0 0 0 2,090.40 Diesel [kWh] NS* NS* 890,123.50 NS* NS* 72,041.50 962,165 Gasoline [kWh] NS* NS* 19,159 NS* NS* 0 19,159 Natural gas in boilers [m³] 0 0 0 NS* NS* 8.30 8.30 Compressed air sold to Shire [m³] 0 0 0 162,834.90 198,036.93 120,733.60 120,733.60 Total energy consumption, renewable [kWh] NS* NS* 470,197.62 NS* NS* 5,885,126.40 6,355,324 Total energy consumption, nonrenewable NS* NS* 1,090,869.20 NS* NS* 6,324,652.80 7,415,522 [kWh] Total energy consumption, renewable + NS* NS* 1,561,066.82 NS* NS* 12,209,779.20 13,770,846 nonrenewable [kWh] Share of renewable energy [%] NS* NS* 30% NS* NS* 48% 39% Materials and water 301-1 Paper consumption [sheets] 534,000 647,500 430,000 NS* NS* 500,000 930,000 Paper consumption [t] NS* NS* 40.30 NS* NS* 2.500,00 2,540.30 Paper consumption [sheets per employee] 2,053.85 2,304.27 1,586.72 NS* NS* 1,586.70 Eggs 0 0 0 NS* NS* 1,338.40 1,338.40 Auxiliary materials [kg] 0 0 0 NS* NS* 46,990.80 46,990.80 (disinfectants & gloves) Working materials (salts & glucose) 0 0 0 NS* NS* 2,269.20 2,269.20 303-1 Water consumption [m³] 1,119.67 1,361.55 1,162.41 41,551 33,396.30 25,764 26,926.40 (PCA: public water supply; PMA: wells) Effluents [m³] 0 0 0 39,347 33,763 33,304 33,304 301-1 Refrigerant [kg] 0 0 0 NS* NS* 36 36 1 Pfizer Corporation Austria's fiscal year 2 Pfizer Manufacturing Austria's fiscal year * NS = not specified: These figures were not documented at that time. Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Environment 49 Key figures for the environment GRI Key figures PCA 20151 PCA 20161 PCA 20171 PMA 20152 PMA 20162 PMA 20172 Total 2017 IT LCD flat screens, 5-year service life NS* NS* 200 NS* NS* 300 500 Laptops, 5-year service life NS* NS* 262 NS* NS* 183 445 Desktop computers, 3-year service life NS* NS* 0 NS* NS* 88 88 Small laser printers, 5-year service life NS* NS* 8 NS* NS* 0 8 Small laser printers, 3-year service life NS* NS* 0 NS* NS* 14 14 Large laser printers, 3-year service life NS* NS* 0 NS* NS* 20 20 Inkjet printers, 5-year service life NS* NS* 70 NS* NS* 0 70 Cell phones, 18-month service life NS* NS* 228 NS* NS* 107 335 Tablets, 3-year service life NS* NS* 118 NS* NS* 0 118 Ink cartridges, inkjet color printer NS* NS* 5 NS* NS* 0 5 Printer cartridges, inkjet b/w printer NS* NS* 5 NS* NS* 0 5 Toner, laser color printer NS* NS* 15 NS* NS* 110 125 Toner, laser b/w printer NS* NS* 10 NS* NS* 0 10 Mobility 302-1 Gasoline [kWh or l]** 4,248 2,507 38,318 NS* NS* 0 38,318 Diesel [kWh or l]** 192,759 190,138 1,780,247 NS* NS* 144,083 1,924,330 Total fuel consumption [kWh or l]** 197,007 192,646 1,818,575 NS* NS* 144,083 1,962,648 305-3 Packages (2–8°C) to wholesalers [no.] 5,204 6,334 7,095 NS* NS* 0 7,095 Packages (15–25°C) to wholesalers [no.] 22,458 19,096 17,682 NS* NS* 0 17,682 Intercontinental air travel [passenger km] NS* 1,159,015 2,538,171 NS* 202,909 329,432 2,867,603 Inter-European air travel [passenger km] NS* 1,723,514 2,532,786 NS* 334,400 251,810 2,784,596 Business travel in privately owned vehicle, NS* NS* 58,957 NS* NS* 235,330 117,914 diesel [km] Business travel in privately owned vehicle, NS* NS* 3,046,383 NS* NS* 0 6,092,766 gasoline [km] 305-5 Public transport allowance [no. of people] 10 18 13 0 0 0 13 Job tickets [no. of people] 43 54 51 0 0 0 51 Pfizer Cycles to Work [participants] 11 13 11 8 9 9 20 Pfizer Cycles to Work [km] NS* NS* 461 NS* NS* 10,224 10,685 Nonhazardous & hazardous waste 306-2 Waste paper [t] 1.02 3.40 2.95 9.90 10.80 2.50 5.45 Residual waste [t] 7.24 7.24 3.80 0 0 0 3.80 Colored glass [t] 0.59 0.59 0.21 0 0 1.45 1.66 White glass [t] 0.55 0.55 0.42 0 0 Plastics [t] 0.58 0.58 0.51 0 0 0 0.51 Metal [t] 0.07 0.07 0 0 0 0 Medical waste 0 0 0 31.08 46.64 53.36 53.36 (nonhazardous/ incinerated) [t] Carcass waste (nonhazardous/ incinerated) [t] 0 0 0 0.30 0.30 0.30 0.30 Egg waste (nonhazardous/recycled) [t] 0 0 0 30.67 28.42 25.91 25.91 Laboratory chemicals (hazardous/recycled) [t] 0 0 0 1.76 0.82 1.30 1.30 Small electronic devices 0 0.54 0 1.59 0.36 0.70 0.70 (hazardous/recycled) [t] Pharmaceutical waste 0 0 0 1,76 0.33 0 0 (hazardous/incinerated) [t] Screens (units) NS* NS* 12 NS* NS* NS* 12 Printer (units) NS* NS* 6 NS* NS* NS* 6 E-waste disposal [kg] NS* NS* 280 NS* NS* NS* 280 Cell phones (units) NS* NS* 36 NS* NS* NS* 36 Laptops [units] NS* NS* 118 NS* NS* NS* 118 Cooling and air conditioning units [kg] NS* NS* NS* NS* NS* 696 NS* 306-4 Total hazardous waste 0 0.54 0 5.11 1.51 2.00 2.00 Total residual waste 7.24 7.24 3.80 0 0 0 3.80 Total waste materials 1.79 1.80 0.72 0.42 0 1.45 2.17 Total medical waste 0 0 0 31.08 46.64 53.36 53.36 Total 10.05 12.98 7.47 77.48 87.67 85.51 92.98 Spills NS* NS* 0 NS* NS* 0 0 Compliance & investments 307-1 Fines and total number of non-monetary 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 1 Pfizer Corporation Austria's fiscal year 2 Pfizer Manufacturing Austria's fiscal year * NS = not specified: These figures were not documented at that time. ** 2015 – 2016: [kWh], 2017: [l] Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 50 Environment Actions taken in 2017 Actions we have Goals to achieve goals yet to take Actions we intend to take in 2018/19 Reduce resource Conduct fuel Source green electricity / increase clean energy share consumption and conservation training at Orth/Donau emissions for the Sales force Install a photovoltaic system at Orth/Donau Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 1% at Orth/Donau Use water resources Reduce water consumption by 1% at Orth/Donau conscientiously Conduct another energy efficiency audit at Orth/Donau & Vienna Minimize our Set up expired/unused medicine drop-off Raise public awareness for the topic of medicinal products' impact point for employees at the Vienna office products disposal on the environment Promote Reduced amount of waste at Orth/Donau Reduce amount of waste at Orth/Donau by 2.3% responsible waste handling AfB social & green IT – donated used IT hardware to charity Reduced amount of waste at Orth/Donau within the production process  external consulting at the Orth/Donau site Promote green Offered incentives for eco-friendly Launch pilot project where the wholesaler destroys commuting and commuting, public transportation allowance/ returned medicines directly to reduce trips to the transport job tickets, and supported 'Pfizer Cycles to plant Work'; factory bus at Orth/Donau Evaluated wholesalers/order processes and reduced order/pickup frequency Raise awareness of Engaged in a stakeholder dialog to educate Designate local EHS Raise public awareness for the topic of medicinal environmental suppliers coordinator for the products disposal protection Vienna offices Set up new Sustainability workgroup for Orth/Donau Set up environmental protection suggestion scheme at Orth/Danube (Green Saves/Orth) Ensure sustainable Green printing – Complied with the 'Print Give preference to local suppliers wherever possible at procurement products' guideline, used eco-friendly, Orth/Donau & Vienna materials for printed products, with onshore production in Austria Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Environment 51 Johann Mayer (Major of Orth/Donau), Michaela Eder (Pfizer) Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Our priority SDG 52 Community TOGETHER FOR OUR SOCIET Y Pfizer has pledged to engage in the regions in which we do business and take action to their benefit. At Pfizer. we are aware that our contribution to society benefits everyone. We want to enhance people's well-being by acting responsibly, by continuing to engage in the community, and by improving access to medicines and health care. We work with select local organizations to this end. [GRI 103-2] Create jobs Pfizer employs more than 500 people at two locations in Austria, making it one of the country's largest pharmaceutical companies. An analysis conducted by the independent Economica Institute of Economic Research impressively attests to Pfizer's performance: In 2016, Pfizer created macroeconomic added value amounting to €144 million and secured 1,600 jobs in Austria, thereby contributing €37 million in annual wage-related taxes and duties. This underscores the company's importance to the local health industry and economy. [GRI 203-2] ≈1,600 jobs in Austria depend directly € 37 m in annual wage-related taxes or indirectly on Pfizer and duties Superior employment multiplier of 3.45 1 1 Pfizer job 2 2 additional jobs in Austria Value multiplier of 2.367 1 1.3 Pfizer Corporation Austria generated more than €1.3 of added value for every euro earned Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report On the right: Natalie Kager (Pfizer) Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 54 Community Pfizer Austria not only invests in its employees' continuing education. We also afford pupils, school-leavers and university students insights into the day-to-day work at Pfizer and the opportunity to explore what working in the pharmaceutical industry is all about. Summer Student Program Students with various majors have enrolled in the Pfizer Summer Student Program every summer since 2008. With this initiative, Pfizer enables students to test the waters and gain some practical experience to prepare them for their future careers. They are familiarized with the company's business processes, and gain insight into finance, materials management, clinical research, pharmaceuticals marketing, and other topics in presentations given by the various departments. In 2017, six summer students were employed in Vienna and ten in Orth an der Donau. 'School Does Business'—start-up mentoring in the classroom In 2017, Pfizer again supported young people who want to turn their good ideas into an operating business as part of the Schule macht Wirtschaft [School Does Business] campaign. Pfizer colleagues also address a wide range of audiences as guest lecturers and talk to visiting students and schoolchildren to afford insight into our company and the pharmaceutical industry. Research at Pfizer in Austria Austria is an important location for Pfizer's efforts to develop medicines. Pfizer tasks clinical research organizations to carry out this work. They do so in compliance with Good Clinical Practice (GCP) standards, and are audited accordingly. GCP sets out internationally recognized rules for clinical trials, drawn up in accordance with ethical and scientific criteria. They focus on protecting subjects, gaining their informed consent, and ensuring the quality of outcomes. GCP is part of the GxP set of good practice guidelines for pharmaceuticals development and manufacturing. [103-3] During the 2017 reporting period, 20 clinical and non-interventional studies were conducted with a total of 90 patients. Pfizer's core areas of drug development in Austria are inflammatory diseases, oncology and neurology/pain. Our key R&D partners are university medical clinics, hospitals and specialized practices in all federal states. 20 Clinical trials: Patients per federal state OÖ NÖ Vienna clinical and noninterventional studies 15 3 54 Bgl Sbg Vlbg Tyrol 2 5 5 6 Total of 90 patients Clinical trials play an important role in pharmaceuticals R&D. A drug may only be brought to market after all phases of clinical research have been successfully completed. Pharmig has posted a video clip and further information to illustrate the phases of a clinical trial and explain why trials are so important to the development of a drug: https://goo.gl/VZm23Q Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Community 55 € 54 m spent on R&D in Austria Pfizer has supported an international breast cancer study called the PALLAS Trial since 2015. The Austrian Breast & Colorectal Cancer Study Group (ABCSG) leads this trial globally (outside the USA); its mission here is to test a new strategy in therapy. [GRI 203-2] Pfizer Pediatric Center of Excellence (PedCoE) and OKIDS partner Clinical trials for pediatric medicinal products are costlier and take longer. It is also more difficult to find the right infrastructure and research staff. Pfizer has established its own department, the Pfizer Pediatric Center of Excellence (PedCoE), to this end. Austria is currently taking part in five of the international pediatric trials, including trials addressing thrombosis and epilepsy in children. PedCoE employs people worldwide who are tasked to find partners to conduct research and clinical trials, and initiate and support studies. Pfizer has also joined the OKIDS (Organization for Pediatric Medicine Research) network, alongside other pharmaceutical companies in Austria. This alliance strives to pursue pediatric trials at the national level so that new and better medicines can be made available to children in Austria. To learn more about Pfizer's current product pipeline, visit www.pfizer.com/research/science_and_technology/product_pipeline Antibiotic resistance Antibiotics are a great achievement of medicine. They can effectively cure bacterial infectious diseases. However, the often thoughtless, careless and inaccurate ways they have been administered over the past decades have given rise to bacterial pathogens that are impervious to antibiotics. Antibiotic resistance is a growing problem, especially in hospitals and nursing homes where many pathogens encounter people with weakened immune systems. A recent European study shows that hospital germs cause 2.6 million infections per year, 91,000 of which are fatal.1 WHO says new antibiotics are urgently needed In early 2017, the WHO raised the alarm and published a list of the twelve most dangerous bacteria. This global priority pathogens list categorizes the urgency of the need for new antibiotics in critical, high and medium priorities, and aims to drive research and develop new substances that act effectively against these pathogens. The WHO gives top priority to three families of bacteria – Enterobacteriaceae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Acinetobacter baumannii – that are increasingly resistant to the carbapenems class of anti­ biotic agents. Carbapenems have a very broad antimicrobial spectrum of activity. They are reserved as the last treatment option, often for severe to life-threatening hospital infections. New Pfizer antibiotic for multidrug resistant microbes In 2017, Pfizer rolled out a new antibiotic in Austria that acts against two of the three carbapenem-resistant families of bacteria. This antibiotic is effective for a number of carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE) and difficult-to-treat Pseudomonas aeruginosa. It may be used for complicated urinary tract infections, inflammation of the renal pelvis and hospital-acquired pneumonia. Four-point plan to combat resistance Without global countermeasures, we run the risk of antibiotic resistance becoming the number one cause of death by 2050. If this comes to pass, multidrug-resistant bacteria could soon kill more people than cancer does.² The WHO has adopted a global action plan to counteract growing antibiotic resistance. Pfizer also joined forces with twelve other pharmaceutical companies to draw up a comprehensive four-point plan. Signatory companies have pledged to ensure that medicines are only taken by patients who really need them. They also want to improve global access to legacy and future antibiotics, vaccines and diagnostics. The total consumption of antibiotics for humans in Austria in 2016 came to 71,602 metric tons of active ingredients, with outpatients accounting for 67% and inpatients for 33%. The figure is up from 2010, when consumption came to 69,158 metric tons of active ingredient. Inpatients account for most of this increase (15.5%, from 20.5 metric tons in 2010 to 23.5 metric tons in 2016). Outpatients' consumption remained largely unchanged over the same period (Resistance Report Austria, AURES 2016). 1 Cassini A et al., Plos Medicine; Oct. 2016 2 Antimicrobial resistance. WHO, Global Report on Surveillance 2014 Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 56 Community Preventing infections with vaccinations Pfizer is also committed to preventing infectious diseases, for example, with vaccines that protect against pneumococcal diseases or meningococcal infections. We are also investigating two other vaccines aimed to prevent bacterial infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus and Clostridium difficile, particularly in hospitals. Pfizer has a share of around 15% in Austria's antibiotics market, making us the country's second biggest supplier. We are aware of our responsibility. Since 2016, we have been stepping up our communication activities to raise awareness and educate the public on antibiotics and their proper use. Video: The right way to take antibiotics Augmented reality: To view AR content, download the free Layar app from the App Store or Google Play Store and scan the picture Create benefits for the surrounding region Get Active for Hemophilia Pfizer has for many years supported efforts to raise awareness of the rare hereditary disease hemophilia, and to improve treatment methods. As the name suggests, the 'Get Active for Hemophilia' campaign is all about getting active. The aim is to log as many kilometers as possible in various activities. Cycling, jogging, swimming, dancing, etc.—it all contributes to the kilometer count. The 2017 campaign also reached out to people from outside the company who took part alongside the workforce. A total of €15,000 euros was donated to the Austrian Hemophilia Society in 2017. Pfizer Corporate Volunteering Days This corporate volunteer program takes place around once a month or so, affording two to four colleagues the opportunity to perform a voluntary community service. Corporate volunteering has a threefold effect benefiting non-profit organizations, employees and the company. In Austria, like elsewhere, nearly all social and welfare organizations' services depend on volunteers and unpaid work to furnish the services a community needs. With this corporate volunteering initiative, Pfizer encourages people directly to lend a helping hand, while the multiplier and role-model effect promotes the general idea of volunteering. This ultimately benefits Austrian society. What is more, the employee can provide new impetus, knowledge, contacts or skills to the NGO. Launched in May of 2008, the Pfizer Corporate Volunteering Days have been a company staple for nine years running. Pfizer colleagues have since devoted 2,258 hours to community service. We regularly partner with Caritas institutions and the Austrian Youth Red Cross. In 2017, colleagues were also able to contribute to the Austrian Children's Cancer Foundation's efforts to support families with cases of cancer. Two colleagues also helped out with the Vienna Economic Chamber's 'Mentoring for Migrants' campaign. Total 2017 2,258 hours of volunteer work 106 CV days 11 4 21 176 10 days secondments participants hours community service agencies Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Community 57 Our health initiatives Prevention and therapy support Pfizer is committed to preventive healthcare and therapy support programs. We also try to help where help is urgently needed by donating medicines. Payments/support granted to patient organizations Since 2009, Pfizer Austria has disclosed biannually all monetary donations and other benefits (donations in kind, sponsorship and training) granted to patient organizations. For more on this, visit www.pfizer.at/patienten/patientenorganisationen.html Drug donations In Austria, Pfizer donates medicines to registered domestic institutes and associations, in line with local needs. The guidance for drug donations is sourced from the Drug Donation Guidelines of the World Health Organization (WHO Drug Donation Guidelines 2010), the Pharmig Code of Conduct, the nation's laws and corporate provisions. The value of our drug donations is calculated according to their market value. Framework Pharmaceutical Contract Unique in Europe, the Framework Pharmaceutical Contract has been in effect since 2008. The pharmaceutical industry and social health insurance organizations work together on a contractual basis to underpin statutory health insurance funds' ability to provide services, particularly to patients. With the Framework Pharmaceutical Contract, pharmaceutical companies and wholesalers pay millions of euros in solidarity contributions to local health insurance funds. This contract also serves to pursue the common health objectives. Around €2 million a year are earmarked for projects aimed to improve children's health. To learn more about preventative healthcare projects for children, visit http://bit.ly/1P QsROd Child and adolescent advocacy Pfizer Kids – Giving hope to children in need Many families in Austria are affected by poverty, homelessness and disadvantaged life situations. However, social services are primarily specialized on the problems of adults, and not children. Joining forces with the Caritas organization of the Archdiocese of Vienna, Pfizer Austria launched the Pfizer Kids project in 2004 to close this gap in the social service system. Caritas's professionals have since devoted their efforts to children who are growing up under adverse conditions and have experienced childhood trauma. These specialists offer individual and group therapies as well as accompanying support for parents. In keeping with the credo Hope for tomorrow – bringing a future back to life, their efforts focus on helping children come to terms with their experiences by imparting coping strategies, restoring their self-confidence, and promoting their development. The duration of therapy depends on the diagnosis, available resources and the progress made. The average is 2.5 years. Pfizer provided €45,000 funding for this project in 2016. Some 13,172 hours of counseling have helped 236 boys and girls cope with their trauma, heal emotional wounds, and emerge from therapy with a renewed lease on life. € 46,000 in service of patient organizations € 62,385 in donations of medicines ≈ € 2.5 m solidarity contribution Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 58 Community Rheumacamp – the holiday camp for children suffering from rheumatism Around 2,000 children and adolescents in Austria suffer from juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, a disease that poses great challenges for sufferers and their families. Pfizer has supported the annual summer holiday camp in Warmbad Villach, Carinthia, since 2007. This therapeutic and recreational stay is organized by the Austrian Youth Red Cross in cooperation with the Vienna University Orthopedic Clinic, the Vienna University Children's Hospital, the Preyer'sche Children's Hospital Vienna, and Linz General Hospital's Orthopedic Department. Specialists such as pediatricians, orthopedists, occupational therapists, physiotherapists and a team of teachers are on site to offer children between the ages of six and 18 numerous exercises to strengthen their muscles and improve joint mobility. Pfizer's support for the Rheumacamp is not just financial; we also provide peoplepower. A Pfizer Day is staged every year under a special motto, providing entertaining diversions for the kids to enjoy. Rheumacamp in its tenth year In 2017, it was the tenth year running that Pfizer supported the Austrian Youth Red Cross's special vacation offering for children afflicted by rheumatism. The children shared their experience in Villach in this video. Video: 10 Years of Rheumacamp Augmented reality: To view AR content, download the free Layar app from the App Store or Google Play Store and scan the picture. Key figures for the community engagement GRI Key figures PCA 20151 PCA 20161 PCA 20171 PMA 20152 PMA 20162 PMA 20172 413-1, Drug donations [€] 119,930.00 107,238.44 62,385.47 0 0 0 201-1 to patient organizations [€] NS* NS* 36,191.05 0 0 0 Social sponsoring [€] 6,298.90 6,031.82 5,560.23 0 0 0 Sponsoring NS* NS* 33,762.00 0 0 0 for patient organizations [€] NS* NS* 33,762.00 0 0 0 Donations [€] 125,79.00 129,000.00 119,000.00 0 0 0 to patient organizations [€] 36,294.00 31,000.00 36,000.00 0 0 0 Donated time [h] 135.00** 294.20** 176.10** –*** –*** –*** to patient organizations [h] NS* NS* 15.00** –*** –*** –*** 1 Pfizer Corporation Austria's fiscal year 2 Pfizer Manufacturing Austria's fiscal year * NS = not specified: These figures were not documented at that time. ** Includes time donated by PMA *** Time donations factored into PCA Actions taken in 2017 Actions we have Goals to achieve goals yet to take Actions we intend to take in 2018/19 Creating benefits for Organized a blood donation drive for employees Survey employees on the current status and the region at the Vienna & Orth/ Donau locations expansion of Corporate Volunteering Days Brought more facilities on board the Corporate Host stakeholder dialog on the topic of Ten years Volunteering Program, offered opportunities for of Pfizer Corporate Volunteering – quo vadis? secondments and drove the development towards Give preference to local suppliers skills-based volunteering Social investments Pfizer invests in R&D for the benefit of patients in Raise awareness for R&D in Austria Austria Partnership with Nurtured long-term relationships and Continue to nurture long-term relationships and charitable collaborated with social services such as Caritas collaborate with social services such as Caritas organizations and the Austrian Youth Red Cross and the Austrian Youth Red Cross Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Elisabeth Drabek (Caritas Vienna), Elisabeth Dal-Bianco (Pfizer), Gudrun Köhne (Caritas Vienna) 60 denkstatt GmbH Hietzinger Hauptstraße 28 1130 Wien, Österreich T +43 1 786 89 00 E office@denkstatt.at www.denkstatt.eu Pfizer Corporation Austria Floridsdorfer Hauptstraße 1 1210 Wien Austria Unabhängiger Independent Audit Bestätigungsbericht Report Pfizer Corporation Austria and Pfizer Manufacturing Austria, headquartered in Vienna 1210 and Orth an der denkstatt Die Donau 2304, GmbH, Hietzinger tasked Denkstatt Hauptstraße Wien, wurde 28, 1130Hauptstraße GmbH, Hietzinger 28, unabhängiges als1130 Vienna, as Beratungsunternehmen an independent von Pfizer Corporation consulting firm to assess Austria und Pfizer Manufacturing Report 2017'sAustria the Sustainability mit Sitz conformity Wien withinthe 1210 und Orth International Donau an der of Guidelines the Global 2304 Reporting beauftragt, den Initiative (GRI). An assessment Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2017 inof the formal Hinblick report auf seine criteria was conducted mit denin keeping Übereinstimmung accordance–Core with GRI-G4's InRichtlinien Internationalen der Globaloption, as was Reporting a review Initiative of data (GRI) and the qualitative zu beurteilen. Es wurde eineanchoring of Bewertung der sustainability processes in the company. formalen Berichtskriterien im Sinne GRI Standards „In Übereinstimmung“Kern vorgenommen sowie eine Prüfung der Daten als auch die qualitative Verankerung von Nachhaltigkeitsprozessen im Unternehmen This Sustainability Report is Pfizer Corporation Austria's sixth report and the third joint report with Pfizer berücksichtigt. Manufacturing Austria. This audit gave particular attention to compliance with the general and specific Der vorliegende indicators GRI Directive, as well asistander of theNachhaltigkeitsbericht sechste analysis ofBericht der Pfizer the anchoring Corporation Austria of sustainability und der procedures dritte within the company.Bericht gemeinsame Statementsmit der andPfizer dataManufacturing Austria. Besonderes have been spot-checked for accuracy Augenmerk bei der by conducting Prüfung with lag auf interviews theder Einhaltung responsibleder allgemeinen parties and spezifischen at Pfizerund by reviewingAngaben internal documents. Duringsowie der GRI Standards der Analyse process, auf derauditing the two-day the auditors weredes Verankerung givenNachhaltigkeitsmanagements comprehensive and unrestricted im Unternehmen. insight into all Aussagen requiredund Daten wurden documents. The audit was stichprobenartig hinsichtlich ihrer Richtigkeit durch Interviews mit verantwortlichen Personen locations. carried out on both days at the Vienna location with the involvement of employees from both bei Pfizer und durch Einsicht in interne Dokumente geprüft. Während des zweitägigen Auditprozesses wurde den the Data sourced from external studies were not reviewed; only the proper transfer of these data from external studies AuditorInnen einto this report was umfassender undevaluated. Key figures uneingeschränkter from the Einblick annual in alle financialUnterlagen geforderten were Die statementsgewährt. beyond the Prüfung scopeanofbeiden this audit, erfolgte Tagenapart am from theirWien Standort GRI-compliant presentation. unter Einbeziehung The detection or investigation von MitarbeiterInnen aus beiden of criminal offences was beyond the scope of this audit. Standorten. Daten aus externen Studien wurden nicht geprüft, lediglich die korrekte Übertragung aus den externen Studien in den vorliegenden Bericht wurde kontrolliert. Kennzahlen aus dem Jahresabschluss waren denkstatt GmbH hereby confirms that the joint Sustainability Report of Pfizer Corporation Austria, headnicht Gegenstand der Prüfung, abgesehen von deren GRI-konformen Darstellung. Die Aufdeckung oder quartered in 1210 Vienna, and Pfizer Manufacturing Austria, headquartered in 2304 Orth an der Donau, Aufklärung strafrechtlicher Tatbestände war nicht Gegenstand der Prüfung. meet all the requirements of the GRI Directive in the Core area of application. Based on our audit, Die denkstatt nothing GmbH has come to bestätigt thatdass hiermit, our attention us gemeinsame leadsder to believe that Nachhaltigkeitsbericht information and key figuresder Pfizer Corporation in the report do not conform Austria with mit Sitz the defined in 1210 Wien undcriteria. PfizerManufacturing der Pfizer Corporation Austria Austriais mit responsible for all Sitz in 2304 Orthfigures an der Donau, in published the report. Anforderungen der GRI Standards, Anwendungsbereich „Kern“ entspricht. Auf Grundlage unserer sämtlichen Prüfung sind keine Sachverhalte bekannt geworden, die uns zu der Annahme veranlassen, dass die Informationen und Kennzahlen in der Berichterstattung nicht in Übereinstimmung mit den definierten Unicredit Bank Austria • IBAN AT191200024011542500 • BIC BKAUATWW Raiffeisenlandesbank Niederösterreich-Wien AG • IBAN AT44 3200 0000 0066 1413 • BIC RLNWATWW UID Nummer ATU 63506833 • Firmenbuchnummer FN294077t, Handelsgericht Wien 61 Kriterien sind. Für alle im Bericht veröffentlichten Zahlen zeichnet sich die Pfizer Corporation Austria verantwortlich. Ohne das oben dargestellte Ergebnis unserer Prüfung einzuschränken, sprechen wir folgende Empfehlung zur Weiterentwicklung des Nachhaltigkeitsmanagements und der Nachhaltigkeitsberichterstattung aus: 1.Without qualifying Eine stärkere the aforementioned Anbindung result of our an die Internationalen Ziele vonthe audit, we propose Sustainability Pfizer sollte recommendation following vorgenommen und for the further development dargestellt werden. of sustainability management and reporting: 2.1.DerA schrittweise Aufbau einer stronger connection stärkeren to Pfizer's Zusammenarbeit International mit Geschäftspartnern Sustainability Goals should be madeim Bereich Nachhaltigkeit, and presented. 2.umStep positive Effekte up the cooperation with und auf Umwelt Gesellschaft business partnersentlang der gesamten in the area Wertschöpfungskette of sustainability zu erwirken. to achieve positive effects on 3. Diethe environment entwickelten and society Indikatoren all along noch stärker zurvalue the chain. des Unternehmens verwenden, indem Steuerung Make greater 3.quantitative use of the developed indicators Ziele sowie entsprechende Maßnahmen to abgeleitetquantitative extrapolate werden. targets and appropriate actions by which to guide the company. denkstatt denkstattGmbHGmbH Mag. KarlKarl Resel Resel Leitender Auditor Lead Auditor 62 GRI Standards Index 'In Accordance – Core' GRI Description Reference Page External UNGC SDGs audit GRI 102: General disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization RCG, Working together for a healthier world 4 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services RCG, Working together for a healthier world, 4 PS, Key figures 102-3 Location of headquarters RCG, Working together for a healthier world 4 102-4 Location of operations RCG, Working together for a healthier world 4 102-5 Ownership and legal form RCG, Working together for a healthier world 4 102-6 Markets served RCG, Working together for a healthier world 4 102-7 Scale of the organization RCG, Working together for a healthier world, 14, 31 Key figures; AP, Key figures 102-8 Information on employees and other workers AP, Key figures 31 Principle 6 8 102-9 Supply chain RCG, Supply chain, FBP, Key figures 22 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No material changes 2 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach E, Fundamental principles 44 102-12 External initiatives FBP, Compliance & anticorruption, RCG, 10, 16 Sustainability strategy 102-13 Membership of associations FBP, Responsible political participation 19 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Letter to our stakeholders 1 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities RCG, Pfizer value chain 7 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior RCG, Our corporate philosophy, FBP, 10, 16 Principle 10 16 Compliance & anticorruption 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics FBP, Compliance & anticorruption 16 Principle 10 16 Governance 102-18 Governance structure RCG, Our management 6 102-19 Delegating authority RCG, Anchor points for sustainability 7 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics RCG, Anchor points for sustainability 7 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics RCG, Stakeholder engagement 13 16 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees RCG, Our management 6 5, 16 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body RCG, Our management 6 16 102-25 Conflicts of interest FBP, Compliance & anticorruption, 16 19 Responsible political participation 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy RCG, Anchor points for sustainability 7 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting About this report 2 102-33 Communicating critical concerns AP, Social dialog and co-determination; 7, 29 RCG, Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups RCG, Stakeholder engagement 13 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements AP, Key figures 33 Principle 3 8 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders RCG, Stakeholder engagement 12 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement RCG, Stakeholder engagement, PS, 12, 13 Complaints 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised RCG, Materiality matrix 12 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements RCG, Working together for a healthier world 4 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries RCG, Materiality analysis 12 102-47 List of material topics RCG, Materiality analysis 12 102-48 Restatements of information About this report 2 102-49 Changes in reporting No material changes 12 102-50 Reporting period About this report 2 102-51 Date of most recent report About this report 2 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About this report 2 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index 62 102-56 External assurance About this report 2 Legend: RCG = Responsible organizational governance, LP = Labor practices, FBP = Fair business practices, PS = Product stewardship, E = Environment, C = Community, UNGC = UN Global Compact, SDGs = Sustainable Development Goals Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 63 GRI Standards Index 'In Accordance – Core' GRI Description Reference Page External UNGC SDGs audit GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary RCG, Materiality analysis 12 103-2 The management approach and its components 4, 10, 11, 16, 3, 5, 8, 12, 13, RCG, FBP, LP, PS, E, GS 24, 36, 44, 16, 17 52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach About this report; FBP, Anticorruption, Key figures; LP, Family-friendly employer, 2, 16, 22, Health and safety at work; PS, Protecting 26, 27, 36, patients' health and safety; E, Carbon 44, 54 footprint GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed RCG, Key figures; GS, Key figures 14, 58 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change This information is unavailable 13 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans RCG, Key figures; LP, Key figures 14, 33 201-4 Financial assistance received from government RCG, Key figures 14 GRI 202: Market presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community LP, Key figures 32 Principle 6 8 GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts RCG, Key figures, GS 14, 52, 55 1, 2, 3, 8, 10, 17 GRI 204: Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers FBP, Key figures 22 12 GRI 205: Anticorruption 205-1 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption, and significant risks identified FBP, Key figures, Anticorruption 16, 22 Principle 10 16 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies Principle 10 16 FBP, Key figures 22 and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken FBP, Key figures 16, 22 Principle 10 16 GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior 206-1 Total number of legal actions regarding anti-competitive behavior or FBP, Key figures 22 16 violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation and their outcomes GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume E, Key figures 48 GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization E, Key figures 48, 49 Principle 7 7, 8, 12, 13 GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source E, Key figures 48 Principle 7 6 GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas VUF 4 6, 14, 15 GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions E, Key figures 48 Principle 7 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions E, Key figures 48 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions) E, Key figures 48, 49 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions E, Key figures 49 Principle 8 13, 15 GRI 306: Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method E, Key figures 49 Principle 8 3, 6, 12 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste E, Key figures 49 Principle 8 3, 12 GRI 307: Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations E, Key figures 49 Principle 8 16 GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken RCG, Impact on various core processes 7 GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover LP, Key figures 32 Principle 6 5, 8 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees LP, Key figures 33 8 401-3 Parental leave LP, Key figures 31, 32 Principle 6 5, 8 GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 403-1 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on LP, Key figures 33 8 occupational health and safety programs 403-2 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and LP, Key figures 32 3, 8 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their LP, Health & job safety, occupation 32 3, 8 Key figures 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions LP, EHS 27 8 Legend: RCG = Responsible organizational governance, LP = Labor practices, FBP = Fair business practices, PS = Product stewardship, E = Environment, C = Community, UNGC = UN Global Compact, SDGs = Sustainable Development Goals Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report 64 GRI Standards Index 'In Accordance – Core' GRI Description Reference Page External UNGC SDGs audit GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee (has yet to be reported) 32, 33 Principle 6 4, 8 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs LP, Continuing education and knowledge 8 28 transfer 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career LP, Key figures 33 Principle 6 5, 8 development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees LP, Key figures 31, 32 Principle 6 5, 8 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken LP, Key figures 29, 33 Principle 6 5, 8 GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and LP, Key figures 33 Principle 6 5, 8 collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 408: Child labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor LP, Key figures 33 Principle 6 5, 8 GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or LP, Key figures 33 Principle 6 5, 8 compulsory labor GRI 412: Human rights assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact Both locations are in Austria; all applicable laws are observed assessments GRI 413: Local communities 413-1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, GS, Our responsibility to society 58 Principle 1 impact assessments, and development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local RCG 7 Principle 1 1, 2 communities GRI 415: Public policy 415-1 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary FBP, Key figures 19, 22 Principle 10 16 GRI 416: Customer health and safety 416-1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health PS, Protecting patients' health and safety, 36, 42 and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Key figures 416-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and PS, Key figures 42 16 services during their lifecycle, by type of outcomes GRI 417: Marketing and labeling 417-1 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and PS, Education and awareness 36 12, 16 percentage of significant products and service categories subject to such information requirements 417-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, PS, Key figures 42 16 by type of outcomes 417-3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and PS, Responsible marketing; voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including 41, 42 PS, Key figures advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes GRI 418: Customer privacy 418-1 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer FBP, Data privacy; PS, Data privacy; 39, 42 16 privacy and losses of customer data PS, Key figures GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area FBP, Key figures; PS, Key figures 22, 42 16 Key Pfizer-specific topics (Materiality analysis) Promote education & awareness PS 41 Ensure access to essential medicines PS 39 Prevention of pollution (from end to end) RCG 11 Promote team spirit (ONE Pfizer) RCG 26 Customer service, complaint management PS 40 Environmental protection (safe handling of biohazards) RCG 7 Legend: RCG = Responsible organizational governance, LP = Labor practices, FBP = Fair business practices, PS = Product stewardship, E = Environment, C = Community, UNGC = UN Global Compact, SDGs = Sustainable Development Goals Pfizer Austria 2017 Sustainability Report Imprint Publisher: Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH Concept and text: Elisabeth Dal-Bianco, Senior Manager Sustainability & Internal Communication, and Agnes Kaspar, Corporate Affairs Creative Directors: Klemens Fischer Kommunikationsdesign & Chris Saupper/maupi Design: Klemens Fischer Pictures: © maupi/Chris Saupper Technical consulting: CSR Vienna, Maria-Domenica Tscherne Translation: Thomas Green, TD Green Translation Service Print production: Adare International Ltd Leipziger Platz 15, D-10117 Berlin, 2018, printed in Austria by Buchdruckerei Lustenau www.pfizer.at Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH Floridsdorfer Hauptstraße 1 1210 Vienna, Austria © 2018 Pfizer Corporation Austria GmbH Printed on RecyStar Polar PP-PFE-AUT-0514/08.2018
