Communication on progress 2017 1 Human rights Labour Environment Fight against corruption 2 Letter of commitment It is with great responsibility and always the same conviction, that I renew our commitment to the principles of the Global Compact and our respect for the fundamental themes that are: human rights, labour, environmental protection and anti-corruption. For several years now, ATALIAN Group has been committed to implementing concrete and pragmatic actions and to communicate its results in a transparent way to its stakeholders. We will continue our efforts in this direction and will never cease to audit our CSR practices in order to continuously improve them. Franck JULIEN President ATALIAN Holding The present communication on progress describes the actions carried out in 2017 to completely integrate the principles of the Global Compact within our company values. 3 Human rights 4 MTT ATALIAN’S customer obtains a Gold certification from the Kaizen Institute MTT ATALIAN, our subsidiary in Romania, has been providing services to its client JT International, a major cigarette manufacturing group, for the past 8 years. Once a year, the site that ATALIAN manages, a large factory located in Bucharest, is audited by an international auditing firm: The Kaizen Institute. Through its « 5S Best in Class » certification programme, the Kaizen Institute awards companies that display the highest standards in the management and the organization of their work processes. Workplace safety and ergonomics, productivity as well as efficiency and employee integration are among the 5 steps that lead to improvement. At the JT International factory, MTT ATALIAN employs more than 80 agents and provides full FM services. Our subsidiary is therefore involved in all the factory’s processes, including the production, storage and quality control. MTT ATALIAN therefore largely contributed to the success of the audit.At the end of the audit, the factory received a gold certification, which is the highest international recognition you can obtain in the industrial field.  ATALIAN Cambodia present at the French Volunteering Day ATALIAN Cambodia exhibited at the 5th edition of the French Volunteering Day. The event, which was open to the public, took place on 7th October 2017 at the famous Chaktomouk Theater in Phnom Penh. Organised by France Volontaires, the main objective of the event was to promote the work of international volunteers and the impact of volunteering in Cambodia towards achieving the United Nations 2017 Sustainable Development Goals. It was a full day of professional and leisure activities: NGO and institutional booths, round tables & debates, as well as shows, concerts, topped-off with speeches from Khmer & French authorities. On top of providing all the cleaning and security services, participating in the event gave ATALIAN the opportunity to show its support to the local community. 5 Labour 6 ATALIAN Belgium’s newcomer mentoring programme ATALIAN Belgium’s training policy is entirely compatible with our Group’s social model: helping employees to grow alongside the development of the Group. We feel that it is essential that a new employee is welcomed in a warm and professional manner, which is why we assign him/her a mentor upon arrival. This mentor is usually another member of staff to whom the newcomer can go to if he/she has any questions or needs any practical advice. Normally, the mentor will be an experienced member of staff, but it can sometimes be a team leader, a brigadier or a District Manager. The mentor is in charge of welcoming the new collaborator and guiding him or her in his daily tasks during his/her first month at the company. This mentoring programme enables newcomers to integrate more rapidly and to acquire knowledge relating to general security guidelines at sites, as well as the group’s quality assurance policy and environmentally-friendly behavior to adopt.  Our solution to monitor the start and finish of service provision receives an award at the 2017 Security Awards Lancry, our subsidiary specialised in security services, received an award at the Security Awards, which took place at the Théatre de la Madeleine in Paris on Monday 25th of September 2017. This year, 700 professionals were able to discover the major innovations of the safety and security sector. At the event, Lancry presented its automated solution to monitor the start and finish of service provision, in the category “Human and On-site security». This interactive solution allows us, on the one hand to reduce our paper consumption and on the other to guarantee the security of our agents on site, thanks to a system that instantaneously alerts on the start and finish of service provision (scheduled and non-scheduled). To this effect, each employee is endowed with a new professional card that includes a magnetic chip, which he/she badges onto specific devices. Thanks to this innovative solution, Lancry was awarded a Silver medal at the Security Awards. 7 Environment 8 ATALIAN’s Smart Cleaning Programme ATALIAN has continued to develop its Smart Cleaning Programme, which is leading to significant technical, structural and economic breakthroughs. For this, the Innovation's Department has been working with the Group's experts and support functions to develop tools that are adapted to our company, our strategy and our CSR vision. The tools developed should bring about profound changes to both our clients and operational staff’s attitudes, essentially transforming our work methods. These training programmes will be adapted and strengthened to incorporate a digital component and thus increase the employability of our agents. The various projects in progress will be delivered in 2018. The Group will then be able to evaluate the social, economic and environmental benefits of this endeavor. ATALIAN is also aiming to facilitate the work of its site managers and client relations officers, by automating operational steering (scheduling, managing anomalies, reporting), so that they are closer to their teams and clients. I this way, they will be able to listen more intently to their needs and be closer to their clients and teams, in order to have a stronger relation of trust in the long term. If necessary, the services provided will be adjusted: rationalisation of consumable and chemical products; moving agents within their assigned site; using resources. Moreover, the services will be congruent with the purpose of the building and the client’s needs. 2018 will be a year for return on experience. The results will enable us to adjust the tools we have designed in order to increase their efficiency. During the next three years, we will further study and expand the training programme so that we can offer more productive training templates and methods, especially in terms of cost effectiveness, knowledge retention and pedagogy, to ensure that our teams adhere to the projects. 9 Anti-corruption 10 Deploying a Code of conduct and a Procedure for internal alerts With regards to fighting corruption, ATALIAN decided to deploy a Code of conduct and a Procedure for internal alerts within each of its subsidiaries, in France and at international level. For implementation purposes, these documents were translated into English and local language. Subsequently, it was necessary to ensure that the Code of conduct and the Procedure for internal alerts were compliant with local regulation. For example in certain countries, these documents must be submitted to the company Advisory board, in the presence of labour unions. Finally, Compliance Officers have been appointed in each of the 31 countries where the Group is present. Furthermore, in 2017, a first wave of anti-corruption e-learning was dispensed to 500 employees. A second wave of training will be launched in 2018. In the long term, the Group would like to create its very own e-learning tool and thus be able to train all collaborators upon arrival in the Group.  Signing the Charter for Responsible Supplier relations Signed by ATALIAN in May 2017, the objective of the Charter for Responsible Supplier relations is to encourage companies and public organisations to adopt responsible procurement practices with regards to their suppliers, in a mutually trusting context, whereby each party is aware of their respective rights. Jointly created in 2010 by the Médiation du crédit and the French National Procurement Council (CDAF), the Charter includes 10 commitments for responsible procurement: ensuring financial fairness, reducing the risk of reciprocal dependence, incorporating environmental issues such as end of life-cycle recycling, waste management, energy consumption, carbon foot-print. Through the various commitments it has taken, ATALIAN wishes to maintain a “win-win” partner relationship with its suppliers. Signing this Charter, makes the Group’s approach in terms of procurement, set in motion inside the Responsible Procurement Policy in 2015, official. 11 Conclusion 12 ATALIAN is dedicated to respecting its commitments In 2017, ATALIAN renewed its subscription to the EcoVadis Premium platform for 3 more years. In this way, our Group is committed to the continuous evaluation and monitoring of its social and environmental practices. Beyond our yearly EcoVadis evaluation, we have decided to increase the visibility of our CSR practices on a voluntary basis. Indeed, we have decided to undergo a parallel evaluation carried-out by AFNOR (the French normalizing Association), called ACESIA, for which we obtained a good score, which underpins the results issued by EcoVadis and other monitoring bodies, which in turn give a reliable and credible vision of our CSR commitments. ATALIAN 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 43 55 56 62 In progress 69 70 95.6 In progress 95.6 13 For a better performance ATALIAN GLOBAL SERVICES Administrative Headquarters 111-113 quai Jules Guesde Follow us on: 94400 Vitry-sur-Seine France T. +33 1 55 53 03 00 14
