To our Stakeholders Dato Vedrørende: Denmark june 2018 Brevstart I am pleased to confirm that Skovhus Privathospital reaffirms its Med venlig hilsen support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to Afsendernavn continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its Titel principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Firmanavn Adresse Sincerely yours, Adresse Kit Kjaersgaard Att: Attentionperson Managing Direktor Annebergparken 14 | 4500 Nykøbing Sj. | Telefon: 59 96 15 90 | Fax: 59 96 13 90 kontakt@skovhusprivathospital.dk | www.skovhusprivathospital.dk Human Rights Skovhus Privathospital supports the universal declaration of human rights. We have during the last 2 years, implemented the human rights and a standard for preventing potential abuses part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations and request the same for our business partners and suppliers. Over the next couple of years, we will improve our intern strategies for all our employees by education Skovhus Privathospital participates in several actions and campaigns, standing up for the human rights especially for people with mental difficulties Skovhus Privathospital is by law required to report all incidents og human rights violations to the Danish parliament Labour Skovhus Privathospital is ongoing participating in debates, talking about negotiating workers pays, benefits and safe working conditions. We believe in the right to unionize and urge our own employees to stand up for their rights Skovhus Privathospital are using many resources of educating and training our employees on labour rights and policies and we are continuously aware of, how the world acts on theese conditions Skovhus Privathospital measures our results of labor rights twice a year, and are using theese reviews in our work with kvalites monitoreringer Environment Skovhus Privathospital still encourage the use and promotion of environmentally friendly products, only using products which are less malicious to the environment than equivalent brands. It is our hope that by buying labelled goods, we as consumers will be able to put pressure on manufacturers and retailers both to make and to stock greener products. This includes the effects they have on the environment at all stages. Skovhus Privathospital is by law required to recycle and reduce waste materials. we are focused on consumption of resources and dispose alle our medical waste as recommended Skovhus Privathospital measures our results of environmental performance twice a year Skovhus Privathospital has joined a CSR concern group in order to reduce our daily CO2 emissions. We will be working with this subject over the next 5 years. Anti-Corruption Skovhus Privathospital are very interested in ensuring, that neither we or our business partners are engaged in any corrupt practices. We are requiring our business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Global compact anti-corruption principles We are requiring our business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Global compact anti-corruption principles Skovhus Privathospital are reviewing our anti-corrupting performance twice a year
