USHIO Report 2018 Year Ended March 31, 2018 www.ushio.co.jp/en Cleaning Curing & CONTENTS Bonding 1 Lighting Edge Technologies 25 Solutions to Social Issues and Lighting Edge Technologies 3 Corporate History 27 USHIO’s CSR 5 Current Business and Future Potential 31 Environmental Vision and Environmental 7 Performance Highlights Action Plan 9 Globally Expanding USHIO 33 Directors 11 Message from the President 34 Corporate Governance 15 Value Creation Model 37 Human Resource Development 17 Medium-Term Management Plan 39 Promotion of Diversity (FY17–FY19) 41 Relationship with Society 19 Light Sources Business 21 Equipment Business 43 Financial Data It has been 120 years since Edison invented incandescent light bulbs. It is less than 50 years since light began to be used as energy. 23 New Businesses 45 Non-Financial Data Light is said to have a vast amount of unexplored potential. 47 Stock Information 48 Corporate Data “Using light as illumination and as energy, we create a new market for light.” 49 Publishing USHIO Report 2018 Under this business policy, we have continuously worked to realize the possibilities of light as “light professionals,” from the Company’s founding in 1964 to today. As we discover these uses of the unique properties of light, we may be able to realize safe, secure, comfortable and prosperous societies, and create settings that are yet to be seen. Management Philosophy Editorial Policy This is what we believe, and we will continue to give form to light in the future. USHIO had previously reported its business strategies and financial information in the form of an Annual Report, and its initiatives concerning the environment and society in the form of a Sustainability Report. However, from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, USHIO has started publishing the USHIO Report so that all of these information categories are reported in an integrated manner. The USHIO Report describes the unique business development model of USHIO that Treating has grown through discovering the functions of light and giving them form. The report concisely summarizes the information needed for understanding the possibilities of improving the long-term and sustainable corporate value of the Company. We hope that this report will enable all of our many stakeholders to understand the appeal of USHIO. In this report, all of the information presented refers to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 when no other time period is specifically mentioned. We use the style “fiscal 2017” and so forth in this report where “fiscal 2017” refers to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. Patterning Caring & In addition, when the name “USHIO” appears in the report, it refers to the entire Ushio Group, whereas the name “USHIO INC.” refers to the non-consolidated company Ushio Inc. Positioning of the USHIO Report Extremely high USHIO Report Degree of importance to stakeholders [Point of emphasis] Importance Conciseness Sustainability Imaging USHIO INC. corporate website Investor Relations Information Financial Results, Securities Reports, Financial Presentations, etc. CSR/Society and the Environment High Degree of importance to management Extremely high 1 2 Corporate History 1964 – 1980s 1990s 2000s 2017 – 2019 Net sales* Establishment period Growth period Expansion period I Expansion period II Solidify the foundation (Millions of yen) 200,000 200,000 200,000 for taking the next 2008 leap forward EPITEX, INC. (currently USHIO 180,000 180,000 180,000 2003 OPTO SEMICONDUCTORS, INC.) acquired USHIO SHANGHAI, INC Entered solid-state light established sources business 160,000 160,000 160,000 Business expansion into China 140,000 140,000 140,000 1985 USHIO EUROPE B.V. established 120,000 120,000 120,000 Business expansion into Europe 1992 1964 CHRISTIE (currently CHRISTIE DIGITAL USHIO INC. established with capital of ¥12.5 million 100,000 100,000 100,000 SYSTEMS GROUP) acquired 1986 Entered imaging equipment business USHIO HONG KONG 80,00080,00080,000 LTD. established 1967 Business expansion into 1980 USHIO AMERICA, INC. established Asia Listed on the First 60,00060,00060,000 Business expansion into the U.S. Sections of the Tokyo Stock Exchange and Osaka Securities 40,00040,00040,000 Exchange 1970 20,00020,00020,000 Listed on the Second Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange 0 0 0 1964 1965 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2017 2018 2019 (FY) * Until 1979, net sales are for USHIO INC. alone 1 3 5 7 9 11 4 10 6 2 8 1962 1 Xenon short arc lamps for cinema projectors 3 Light sources for the large solar simulators used in artificial 1975 ‌ 1993 ‌ 7 Excimer irradiation unit for cleaning LCD panels 2003 ‌ 9 Digital cinema projector CP2000 series (USHIO KOGYO INC.) satellite testing Contributed to the spread of LCD TVs Contributed to the increasing digitalization of movies Contributed to the transition from black-and-white to color Participated in the space development plan (a national project) movies 1998 ‌ 8 Lamps for data projectors 2006 ‌ 10 TheraBeam® UV308 excimer light phototherapy device 1979 ‌ 4 Super high-pressure UV lamps for semiconductor lithography Contributed to the spread of data projectors Entered medical businesses 1964 2 Halogen heater lamps for OA equipment Increasing applications of industrial-use light Contributed to the spread of plain-paper copiers amid 1999 Step & repeat projection lithography tool for high resolution 2011 ‌ 11 Photo-alignment equipment expanding office automation 1982 ‌ 5 Halogen heater lamps for semiconductors printed circuit boards Contributed to the spread of higher resolution LCD panels A pioneer in using the “energy” of light Used in semiconductor manufacturing equipment 2000 ‌ ODF for bonding panels of LCD 1988 ‌ 6 Lithography tools for TAB tape Contributed to the spread of laptop computers 3 4 Current Business and Future Potential USHIO is dedicated to unlocking the potential of light. Humankind has discovered only a fraction of the potential functions of light. USHIO will continue striving to create new “light markets.” Scope of USHIO’s Light Technology Short wavelength Long wavelength Vacuum Far ultraviolet Near ultraviolet Near infrared Mid-infrared Far infrared Visible light ultraviolet light light light light light light Discovered Functions of Light Existing Business Domains USHIO’s Unique Technologies Give Form to Light Curing Sterilizing Catching USHIO gives form to various kinds of light using its unique technologies. & & Bonding Decomposing We have expanded our business fields, focusing mainly on the electronics and the visual imaging fields. Imaging Cleaning Aligning Visual imaging Functions of light as Functions of light as Illuminating Heating Preventing illumination energy Treating Inspecting Electronics Patterning & Caring Growing Protecting Growing Expansion into New Business Domains Looking forward, USHIO will expand these functions of light into new business fields, such as life sciences, aiming to further expand its great dream of contributing to society with light. Examples of Functions of Light That Has Been Given Form Cleaning with light Patterning with light In the manufacturing process for semiconductors, LCD panels, and Semiconductors are used in various devices, including smartphones, other equipment, dust particles at the molecular level can affect function game consoles, PCs, home appliances, and automobiles. In the and quality. Therefore, in the ultrafine processing of semiconductors at semiconductor manufacturing process, the most important part is Life sciences the micron and nano level, as much as one-third of the process can considered to be photolithography, a technology that creates delicate be spent on cleaning. Invisible dirt is removed using invisible light in a circuit patterns. USHIO’s light technologies play an important role in unique cleansing method using USHIO’s light technologies. this tiny, nanoscale environment. 5 6 Performance Highlights Net Sales Operating Income/Operating Margin CO2 Emissions Use of Water Resources Operating ¥10.1 ¥173.4 39,900 394,691 income billion billion t-CO2 m3 Operating margin 5.9 % Foreign Sales Ratio Number of Employees Total Waste Output Ratio of Employees Returning to Work after Taking Maternity and Childcare Leaves* Japan 2,463 79.3 % 1,227 t 100 % Overseas 3,384 Free Cash Flow Return on Equity (ROE) Average Length of Service* Percentage of Paid Vacation Days Used* Men 17.9 ¥19.8 5.1 71.1 years billion % % Women 19.2 years Dividends per Share/Dividend Payout Ratio Earnings per Share (EPS) Statutory Monthly Overtime Hours* Number of Directors (including Audit and Supervisory Committee Members)* Dividends ¥26 Outside 5 ¥86.11 12.3 per share Directors hours/person (including 1 female director) Dividend payout ratio 30.2 % Internal Directors 5 * USHIO INC. non-consolidated 7 8 Globally Expanding USHIO Overview by Region Japan Net Sales ¥35.9 billion Europe Employees 2,463 Net Sales ¥17.9 billion Group Companies 11 Other Countries/Regions Employees 225 1.3 % (Net Sales: ¥2.2 billion) Americas Group Companies 9 (North America/South America) Asia (excluding Japan) Europe 10.3 % Japan Net Sales ¥47.9 billion Net Sales ¥69.5 billion 20.7 % Employees 1,791 Employees 1,368 Breakdown of Group Companies 17 Net Sales by Group Companies 22 Asia (excluding Geographic Japan) Segment Americas (North America/ 40.1 % South America) 27.6 % * FY17 net sales results. The amounts are shown in units of billion yen and rounded down to the nearest billion yen. * The number of Group companies does not include USHIO INC. Main Market Shares (Research by USHIO) Step & repeat Super high-pressure 35 % 20 % 95 % 80 % 85 % Lamps Digital cinema projection lithography UV lamps for Photo-alignment for data projectors tools for high resolution semiconductor equipment projectors printed circuit boards lithography ODF for bonding 65 % 80 % 95 % 70 % 75 % Excimer irradiation Super high-pressure Xenon lamps for Halogen heater lamps panels of LCD units for cleaning UV lamps for cinema projectors for OA equipment for LCD panel LCD panels LCD lithography bonding systems 9 10 Message from the President USHIO will contribute to society through “light” as we initiate a transformation to drive sustained growth. Kenji Hamashima President and Chief Executive Officer We believe that products and services supported by thriving employees are bound to satisfy and delight our customers. That is why our Management Philosophy begins with a call “to build both a prosperous Company and prosperous employees.” Since its founding, USHIO has been working tirelessly “to the global market as a challenger, rather than merely retain the become a global medium-sized company by enhancing the top niche-market positions we have established to date. To specialized optical technologies that only we can provide.” To accomplish this ambitious initiative, the strength of each and this end, USHIO has embraced a niche-market leader stratevery employee will be a crucial factor as before. Apart from egy, where it seeks to capture the No.1 or No.2 position in this, we will also need “creativity and proactive execution” and niche markets around the world as a specialized manufacturer “challenging spirit.” I believe that my mission as president is to of optical products. By rigorously pursuing and achieving foster these principles in every employee. the quality and performance sought by customers, we have To make this happen, I’ve created opportunities to hold developed numerous products that hold high shares of the open discussions with employees at Group companies in global market. Our employees have “the ability to see things Japan as well as overseas. While listening closely to the honest through to the very end,” as embodied by their determination opinions of employees, I’d like to repeatedly convey my views to relentlessly pursue and achieve their goals. I firmly believe directly to employees. Rather than merely requesting employthat this ability has been the driving force of our growth over ees to take the correct action, I’d like to emphasize the importhe years. tance of sharing your views with others, learning from others Today, we are positioning ourselves as being in our second and thinking things through together, and then taking action. founding, so to speak, in response to changes in the market In parallel with this engagement with employees, we will creenvironment and in preparation of making our next leap ate a human resource development system as part of efforts forward. Our operating results have been growing steadily. to build an organization that encourages employees to tackle However, in order to continue to grow, we must boldly seize ambitious initiatives. Page 37: Human Resource Development 11 12 Message from the President Currently, we are considering eight fields where USHIO trust between the parent and each subsidiary. Flexible but “Light” offers infinite possibilities. has the potential to contribute to the achievement of the UN’s firm decision-making is implemented by passing resolutions Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by leveraging its on major management decisions in meetings of the parent’s I firmly believe that the boundless possibilities of optical technologies. I believe that we should make a GroupBoard of Directors. In addition to seeking to avoid risks as wide effort to address the SDGs by conducting repeated a matter of course, if there is any incidence of misconduct, “light” provide USHIO with further potential for growth. discussions and studies and narrowing down our targets. we will always provide disclosure to the public and deal with Guided by the slogan, “Lighting Edge Technologies,” we remain Page 30: Relationship with Sustainable Development Goals the issue promptly, including third parties. To this end, we To achieve sustainable growth, it is essential that we have set up an internal reporting system covering the entire committed to doing our utmost to create a safe, secure, enhance our governance structure. We have been working Group, including overseas subsidiaries, in order to publicly to ensure the transparency of management by reshaping the disclose any incidents of internal misconduct or harassment. comfortable and prosperous society. composition of the Board of Directors, as well as developing This is a crucial system for rapidly identifying and dealing with internal control, compliance and risk management systems. In problems without allowing them to be covered up, along with addition, we have also been proactively holding training semensuring that whistleblowers are able to report incidents with We have entered the second year of our three-year MediumAt the same time, as part of our next leap forward, we intend inars and study sessions in recognition of the importance of peace of mind by making the third-party offices of lawyers term Management Plan announced in May 2017. The to continue to strive to create businesses that will realize a safe, imparting awareness to every board member and employee, and other professionals accessible through the system. plan’s main theme is to “solidify the foundation for taking secure, comfortable and prosperous society through “light.” in addition to merely developing systems. The primary focus Through these systems and the awareness of officers and the next leap forward.” To “maintain and improve earnings We are currently focused on two functions of light: of USHIO’s group management is to respect the autonomy employees, we will not only seek to avoid risk, but will also capability in existing businesses” and “pursue new growth “Treating & Caring” and “Sterilizing & Decomposing.” To make of its subsidiaries. However, this does not mean taking a strive to effectively deal with any incidents that may occur. opportunities,” we are working intensively to solve internal the most of these functions, we are working on initiatives hands-off approach. We are able to respect the autonomy Page 34: Corporate Governance issues. Page 17: Medium-term Management Plan Our next ranging from those verifying the sterilization and decompoof our subsidiaries because we have built relationships of leap forward embodies our aspirations to create a safe, sition effects of UV light to those developing products using secure, comfortable and prosperous society by serving as a these functions. UV light can have a negative effect on people “light professional.” Guided by our slogan of “Lighting Edge and objects. However, depending on the wavelength, there Technologies,” we will pursue the full potential of light and are many forms of UV light that can benefit people by curing contribute to society by giving it form. diseases or providing sterilization. Focusing on these new USHIO has solved various social issues by giving form to possibilities of light, we are working on a daily basis to develop We are currently in the midst of a transformation to solve social the diverse functions of light. Notably, USHIO has realized the new businesses. Page 23: New Businesses issues through our “light technology.” “Patterning” function of light by applying it to lithography tools In the process of creating new businesses, we are pursuand the light sources for this equipment. We have realized the ing research and development internally as a matter of course, We will march forward on a daily basis to ensure that “Cleaning” function of light by using it in excimer irradiation units but we are also considering M&A deals as an effective means and light sources. This has sparked innovation in the electronics of creating new businesses. The basic principle underlying investors can appreciate our potential and growth prospects field, thereby contributing to the development of IT and other USHIO’s M&A strategy is to invest in companies that offer as a “light professional.” digital technologies. USHIO has put the “Imaging” function of prospects for generating synergies. In the M&A deals exelight to work in cinema projectors and light sources. Doing so cuted so far, we have executed deals that have paved the way has contributed to the widespread adoption of 3D movies, for strengthening and expanding the solid-state light sources projection mapping and other advances, thereby providing business and generated business synergies by upgrading USHIO’s optical technologies have the potential to solve a new entertainment experiences for people around the world. and expanding our lineup of lithography tools. Going forward, variety of issues faced by people around the world. However, Looking ahead, we will proactively pursue the development of we will make investment decisions by carefully analyzing the we have not yet been able to realize the full potential of our new products and related priorities in order to drive technologisynergies expected from M&A deals. optical technologies in terms of our financial results. To do so, cal innovation in the electronics and visual imaging fields. we must transform USHIO into a lean company that is able to take on new initiatives with agility and persistence by stripping out inefficiencies through measures to enhance our profitability and efficiency. Under the current Medium-term Management Plan, we are in the midst of making Group-wide efforts to USHIO has earned positive recognition from ESG indexes based solidify the foundation for transforming into a lean company. We are confident that achieving the goals of the Medium-term on the accomplishments of its CSR activities to date. Management Plan will be the first step toward ensuring that investors are able to appreciate USHIO’s potential and growth In the years ahead, we will focus on making an even greater prospects. contribution to society through our businesses. We aim to become a company that is valued by stakeholders around the world by realizing the promise of our slogan, “Lighting Edge Technologies.” The entire USHIO will continue working tirelessly to remain an enterprise that provides “light” USHIO has formulated a medium-term CSR plan. Guided by MSCI indexes. Page 28: Evaluations of USHIO’s CSR Looking to all stakeholders and society as a whole. this plan, we have been focusing on CSR activities since 2010. ahead, we will continue to implement CSR activities to fulfill During those years, we have taken actions such as regularly our obligations to society. In parallel, we will use USHIO’s holding study sessions led by external guest experts. As a optical technologies to solve issues faced by the public and result, USHIO has been selected for inclusion in the FTSE and contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. 13 14 Value Creation Model Business Partners Intellectual capital Patents 1,532 Input R&D expenditure ¥10.6 billion Capital Supporting Sustainable Growth Business Partners Intellectual capital Collaboration between industry, academia, and government, To secure the competitive advantage of our technologies cresuch as universities and research institutions, is essential to ated to discover the functions of light and give them form, we our goal of discovering the various functions of light and giving pay special attention to the number and the quality of our patHuman capital Financial capital them form. USHIO will pursue such collaborative research to ents. We will continue to invest R&D expenditure and secure Global employees Free cash flow provide light that contributes to society. patents for investigating and exploring the possibilities of light, 5,847 ¥19.8 billion with a view to supporting USHIO’s sustainable growth. Human capital Part of USHIO’s Management Philosophy is to “build both a Financial capital USHIO prosperous company and prosperous employees.” To realize We will continue generating stable free cash flow through our this, we continue to include diverse human resources and niche-market leader strategy* and the creation of high-valueDiscovering the produce various innovations. Human resources are a powerful added products, using this to fund continuous growth investfunctions of light and driving force that supports USHIO’s sustainable growth. ments for supporting our sustainable growth in the future. giving them form For details, please see pages 37–40. * Niche-market leader strategy: Q  uickly identify domains where light can provide solutions and be the first to solve those issues Creating a society with higher levels of safety, Light Outcome security, comfort, with form and prosperity Toward Creating Social Value Light is said to have a vast amount of unexplored potential. USHIO’s technologies for giving form to light have been develUSHIO will investigate, explore, and discover the functions of oped over many years, and recently we have been using them light, giving form to even more types of it with a view to solving to support safe, secure, and comfortable societies by consocial problems affecting the world and contributing to safe, tributing to the health of people and the global environment. secure, comfortable and prosperous societies. There is also the possibility that light can be used in health management that results in no sickness and disease prevenCustomers For example, in the field of electronics, we have been supplying light that supports the world’s most advanced manufaction, as well as holding the answers for therapeutic treatments with less pain and fewer side effects, thereby limiting damage Society Technological turing for the creation of new cultures and societies. to the body and offering ways to treat illnesses that have so innovation using far eluded a cure. Moreover, initiatives that will help to solve light Meanwhile, in the field of visual imaging, we are contributing to environmental issues on a global scale have begun. the evolution of the cinema industry by providing light sources Solving social issues with higher brightness that are as close to sunlight as possible. Going forward, USHIO must build relationships with business In addition, light created by USHIO is providing enchantpartners and customers if it is to provide value sustainably. and creating a new ment for people at events and in cityscapes around the world. We will carefully maintain these relationships, cooperating with culture business partners and customers to solve social issues and create new cultures. 15 16 Medium-Term Management Plan (FY17–FY19) In May 2017, USHIO formulated a three-year Medium-term Management Plan (“MTMP”) with FY19 as the final Progress of FY17 (MTMP’s First Fiscal Year) fiscal year. We will describe the MTMP’s outline and report on the progress of its first fiscal year, FY17. Achievements Challenges Theme Progress in structural reform Sluggish imaging equipment earnings In optical equipment (in the equipment business), there were In imaging equipment (in the equipment business), competition Guided by the key concept of “solidify the foundation for taking the next leap forward,” we will engage in the following two business priorities profitability issues, and USHIO advanced various structural intensified, including the expanded use of projectors using phosand aim to achieve the key performance indicators (KPIs). improvement initiatives. We improved profitability drastically due phor laser light sources, instead of lamp-type projectors, resulting to initiatives such as measures focused on profit (taking orders at in weak business results. In response to this situation, we will appropriate prices and standardization of products) and reviewing implement a fundamental earnings structural reform, including Business Priorities Numerical Targets (FY19) the production processes (going fablite, production innovations reducing fixed costs, aiming to improve profitability. utilizing IT, etc.). 1. Maintain profitability and improve existing businesses In the light sources business, we continued to maintain market Insufficient speed ∙ Secure profits and maintain market share by strengthening share in each market by ensuring reliable quality and competitive Although there were potential new businesses and M&A activities KPIs competitiveness in existing markets strength, and to secure stable profitability, we advanced initiatives in and other initiatives in the field of optical equipment, speeds were 2. Pursue new growth opportunities Operating income ¥15.0 billion IT and robotization at manufacturing sites. As a result, we improved slower than expected. Looking beyond the current MTMP, we will ∙ D evelop new markets and create new businesses by Operating margin 7.5 % productivity by lowering defect rates and shortening lead times. further improve “quality” and “speed” from now on in preparation leveraging USHIO’s strengths of taking the next leap forward as a “light innovation company.” ∙ A ccelerate development of new markets through M&A investments that emphasize synergy 7.5 Initiatives from the Second Year Onwards 6.6 5.6 Numerical targets The actual result for operating income for FY17 was ¥10.1 billion KPIs First year of Second year Final year of (1.5% higher than the initial plan), thereby achieving the target of Operating income MTMP of MTMP MTMP ¥10.0 billion set as a KPI for the MTMP’s first year. Furthermore, 15.0 12.5 (Billions of yen) FY17 (Results) FY18 FY19 we aim to achieve the target of ¥15.0 billion for operating income 10.0 Operating margin Operating income for the final year of the MTMP (FY19). (%) 10.1 12.5 15.0 (Billions of yen) 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Operating margin (Final year of MTMP) 5.9 6.6 6.9* 7.5 7.9* (%) * At the time of announcement in May 2017 * The “operating margin” has been changed in line with the change in the plan’s figure for “net sales.” Formulating the Current MTMP Taking the Next Leap Forward as a “Light Innovation Company” In previous MTMPs, USHIO adopted a rolling targets system because of the significant impact of external factors such as M&A Strategy R&D Strategies foreign exchange fluctuations. In the current MTMP however, we switched to fixed three-year targets to build a system that encourUSHIO has positioned M&A as the key to future growth, and we To underpin USHIO’s high-value-added products, it will expand ages USHIO to grow into a lean company which is not influenced will actively work on M&A projects that fully promise synergistic the scope of use for existing “light” technology and actively by external factors, and to clarify our commitment to achieving the effects such as leading to opening up new markets for “light.” engage in R&D activities tied to sustainable growth. announced numerical targets. To this end, we will prepare an investment framework of approximately ¥40–50 billion for carrying out large M&As, and USHIO’s R&D investment USHIO recognizes that the period of market expansion for lamps we will also consider selling investment securities in the case of • Implementation of research activities with an eye to launching highimplementing a large M&A. value-added products has passed, and that its business growth is slowing in the medium • Exploration of new wavelength needs via collaboration with industo long term. Therefore, we must create new businesses so USHIO try, academia, and government (joint research) itself may grow sustainably. “Light” possesses many functions that M&As focused on synergies • Cultivation of new markets via advancement and application of FY19 net sales are as yet unknown. If we discover these functions and use “light” • Acquisitions to respond faster to new light sources (solid-state core technology ¥200.0 billion to solve social issues, USHIO will still be able to grow. light sources) • Development of products matching customer needs, a strength • A cquisitions to accelerate entry into new markets leveraging New businesses existing technology and products R&D expenses (Billions of yen) • ‌M&As to acquire sales channels and technology USHIO lacks, Ratio of R&D expenses to net sales (%) targeting a business model shift to a solutions provider 7.0 6.8 5.7 6.3 5.7 6.2 5.8 Core businesses • ‌Acquisitions to speed up development of high-value-added products 9.9 10.8 11.2 9.8 10.6 10.5 8.9 FY17–FY19 FY20– (FY) Solidify the foundation for Take the next leap forward 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) taking the next leap forward as a “light innovation company” (Plan) * At the time of announcement in May 2017 For details, please refer to the Medium-term Management Plan announced on May 11, 2017. For details, please refer to “FY2017 Financial Results” (released May 10, 2018). https://www.ushio.co.jp/documents/ir/library/plan/ushio_plan2017_e.pdf https://www.ushio.co.jp/documents/ir/library/presentation/2017/ presentation_en_pdf_20180510.pdf 17 18 Light Sources Business Business Overview (Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2018) Electronics Super high-pressure UV lamps In the electronics Imaging replacement equipment field,Optical equipment demand was firm for super (Billions of yen) Net sales Segment income (Billions of yen) USHIO’s super high-pressure UV lamps are used as light sources in the most critical lithography Others Segment income high-pressure UV lamps used in various manufacturing processes, processes, primarily in the production of semiconductors, electronic components, and flat panel 106.0 Others to growing 97.6 due98.7 capital investment 99.0 related to semicon97.6 in markets 1.5 80.0 displays. These lamps have contributed to the advancement of cutting-edge technologies in Optical 77.2 77.0 ductors, electronic components, and flat panel displays equipment (FPD). 71.9 72.4 the electronics field. Supported by joint development projects with equipment manufacturers, In the visual imaging field, demand for xenon short arc lamps 39.5 USHIO has gained a strong reputation and trust from its manufacturing partners by fulfilling installed in cinema projectors has been contracting in step with various customer needs. USHIO holds a worldwide share of 80% and 75% for its super highprogress on the adoption of solid-state light sources such as LEDs pressure UV lamps for semiconductor lithography and for LCD lithography, respectively (based on and laser diodes (LDs) in the cinema market. This trend mirrors the 10.9 10.4 Imaging internal research). equipment 8.1 adoption of LEDs in the lighting field. 65.0 With these movements, there has been gradual progress on 1.7 the adoption of solid-state light sources for industrial applications. 0.07 (0.5) Life Sciences USHIO’s lamps have been gradually impacted by this trend. In 2015 response, USHIO 2016 2017 has been strengthening 2018 2019 the and expanding (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Various light sources (Plan) (Plan) (Plan) (Plan) solid-state light sources business through M&As and other initiaXenon short arc lamps and super high-pressure UV lamps are also used in the life sciences field. tives. In the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020, USHIO expects to These lamps are smaller versions of the xenon short arc lamps and super high-pressure UV lamps increase net sales to ¥17.0 billion, compared with ¥11.0 billion in that play vital roles in the visual imaging and the electronics fields. Leveraging the characteristics the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. of each type of lamp, the lamps for the life sciences field are used widely as light sources in solar simulators, microscopes, optical experimental apparatuses and related equipment. Major Products and Market Share Visual Imaging Xenon short arc lamps Business Strategies Xenon short arc lamps have characteristics that are very similar to sunlight and offer outstanding color rendering properties. Therefore, these lamps are used widely as light sources for high-intensity USHIO has earned strong trust in various markets. This trust is the result of USHIO’s niche-market leader strategy, where it focuses on projectors and related applications. supplying specialty light sources mainly to the visual imaging and the electronics industries, and its customer-centric approach of rapidly Notably, USHIO’s xenon short arc lamps for digital cinema projectors boast the industry’s fulfilling customer needs in terms of Quality, Cost and Delivery (QCD). Since its founding, USHIO has been advancing business expansion highest level of quality and have been adopted for use in movie theaters around the world. USHIO initiatives with a global perspective. As a result, USHIO’s products have captured high shares of the worldwide market. holds a worldwide share of 65% for its xenon short arc lamps for digital cinema projectors (based In the past few years, there has been gradual progress on the adoption of solid-state light sources (LEDs, LDs, etc.) in industrial fields. on internal research). In response to these trends, USHIO has launched the solid-state light source business through M&A activities and other initiatives, thereby developing an extensive product lineup for a variety of applications as a specialist “light” manufacturer. Through these measures, USHIO will continue to expand its business as the world’s No.1 industrial light source manufacturer capable of proposing solutions that meet customer needs. Halogen heater lamps The light from halogen lamps can be used as heat. Halogen heater lamps are thus used in a wide range of fields as heat sources for applications such as heating, sintering and drying. USHIO’s halogen lamp heaters are chosen by customers as their preferred toner fixing light Opportunities Risks sources in copiers and laser beam printers (LBPs). USHIO holds a worldwide share of 80% for halogen heaters for toner fixing (based on internal research). In lamps, USHIO has launched new business expansion initiatives Demand for conventional lamps could decrease as a result of the in unconventional fields such as medicine and environmental adoption of solid-state light sources in industrial fields. There is hygiene, where it is difficult to adopt solid-state light sources. also the risk of encountering difficulties in procuring raw materiIn the area of solid-state light sources, USHIO will enter new als and parts unique to lamps. In order to minimize these risks, fields in addition to existing fields. This will be done by providing USHIO will make every effort to secure a stable supply of parts Laser modules and laser diodes (LDs) high-value-added solutions that take full advantage of the unique and materials. characteristics of solid-state light sources. These products are high-power laser light sources used in projectors, remote lighting systems and other applications. Notably, the Necsel Laser Solution and high output power red LDs developed, manufactured and sold by an USHIO subsidiary are chosen by many projector manufacturers as their preferred light source for digital cinema projectors, which are increasingly shifting to solid-state light sources. 19 20 Equipment Business Business Overview (Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2018) Life Sciences TheraBeam® UV308 excimer light phototherapy device In the equipment business, digital cinema projectors are the core Imaging equipment Optical equipment (Billions of yen) Net sales Segment income This medical device makes use (Billions of yen) of the immunosuppressive effect of ultraviolet light. This device Others Segment income product in imaging equipment. Although China has become the realizes highly therapeutic benefits and reduced side effects through the use of USHIO’s excimer 106.0 Others primary market for digital cinema projectors, demand for digital 97.6 lamp and proprietary excimer filter. 80.0 It is mainly used in the field of dermatology. 98.7 97.6 99.0 1.5 cinema projectors was sluggish due to intensified competition in Optical 77.2 77.0 equipment 71.9 72.4 the Chinese market. In response, since March 2018, USHIO has 39.5 started sales of high-value-added laser projectors to address market needs for adopting solid-state light sources, with the aim Business Strategies of increasing its market share in China. 10.9 10.4 Meanwhile, in the optical equipment field, demand for a variety Imaging equipment 8.1 Imaging Equipment Optical Equipment of optical equipment has been increasing, supported by growth 65.0 in capital investment in various related markets against the back1.7 USHIO’s imaging equipment has earned a strong reputation in the USHIO started out in business as a manufacturer of industrial light drop of megatrends such as the Internet of Things (IoT) and 5G cinema industry under the CHRISTIE brand. This reputation is based sources. In the 1970s, USHIO established optical lighting technol0.07 (0.5) technologies. on USHIO’s relationships of trust with customers and its advanced ogy and optical projection technology, which are the fundamental 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 technological 2017 capabilities 2018 developed 2019 over the years. USHIO’s (FY) technologies that underpin optical equipment. By doing so, USHIO (Plan) (Plan) (Plan) (Plan) imaging equipment has driven the cinema industry’s adoption of evolved from a manufacturer of light sources to a manufacturer digital technology, which began in earnest in the 2000s, through an of optical systems. Through these steps, USHIO has become the innovative financing scheme known as the Virtual Print Fee (VPF). world’s only manufacturer that is able to independently supply a full In addition, USHIO has continued to spark innovation in order range of optical products and services, from the light sources essento realize visual experiences that fascinate people not only in the tial to lithography equipment to peripheral technologies and support. cinema industry, but also in various other settings where visual In addition, USHIO has earned strong trust from customers by imaging is needed. Going forward, USHIO will expand business by delivering proposals that fit their needs. For example, USHIO has Main Products and Market Share developing the imaging solution business, a field that goes beyond merely supplying equipment. To this end, USHIO will sell new enhanced customers’ productivity by enabling semiconductor manufacturing through large-area, full-wafer projection exposure. products such as RGB laser projectors, which project clearer and Moreover, USHIO has captured a large market share by realizing both sharper images than before in a variety of environments, and LED high profitability and customer satisfaction through the niche-market Visual Imaging video wall displays, which use micro LEDs. USHIO will also enhance leader strategy. Under this strategy, USHIO has specialized in semiDigital cinema projectors content management systems that integrate multiple images. conductor back-end processes and products for various devices where it is able to maintain a competitive edge. In the past few years, USHIO’s digital cinema projectors are used to show movies at movie theaters. USHIO’s xenon investment in the electronics field has been expanding to Asia and short arc lamps or lasers are installed in these projectors as light sources. various countries in Europe and the Americas. In response, USHIO CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS, a subsidiary of USHIO, is a long-standing manufacturer of cinhas been pushing ahead with global strategies to conduct marketing, ema projectors in the cinema industry, with a history of approximately 90 years. The company has sales and services leveraging USHIO global sites. earned a strong reputation and trust from the markets over many years. USHIO holds a worldwide share of 35% for its digital cinema projectors (based on internal research). Opportunities Imaging Equipment Optical Equipment Electronics In the entertainment field, there have been an increasing number Demand for USHIO’s wide range of projection lithography equipLithography tools of scenes that require the use of visual imaging, such as various ment, direct imaging exposure systems and related products could entertainment events and amusement facilities. The pursuit of increase as investment picks up in related industries, in response In lithography tools, USHIO develops and manufactures projection lithography tools and direct highly realistic visual experiences presents USHIO with business to growing needs for a variety of electronic devices. These needs imaging exposure systems. This equipment is used mainly in manufacturing processes for semiconopportunities that are likely to drive future growth in its imaging will be driven by advances in megatrends in the electronics field ductors, printed circuit boards (PCB) and various electronic devices. USHIO’s super high-pressure equipment business, given that USHIO excels in high dynamic led by IoT and 5G technologies. There are also plans for the UV lamps or lasers are installed in these lithography tools as light sources. In the past few years, range (HDR), high frame rate (HFR) and large visual images. adoption of EUV light source units for photo mask inspection advances in cutting-edge technologies have been seen in a variety of fields, such as the evolution Growth of demand is anticipated for solution projects encompassused in cutting-edge semiconductors. Moreover, USHIO is also of smartphones. USHIO’s lithography tools have earned a strong reputation in the markets for coning not only projectors but also LED video wall displays, content working to advance into other fields, such as medical devices, by tributing to advances such as higher energy efficiency and the miniaturization of various electronic management systems, software and other products and services. developing functional optical parts based on optical technologies devices installed in smartphones and other products. Notably, USHIO holds a worldwide share gained through the aforementioned initiatives. of 95% for its step & repeat projection lithography tools for high resolution printed circuit boards (based on internal research). Risks Photo-alignment equipment Imaging Equipment Optical Equipment Photo-alignment equipment is used in the process of aligning liquid crystal molecules in a certain International political trends, particularly growing protectionism, are In the field of optical equipment, USHIO could see unstable business direction (alignment control) during the LCD manufacturing process. USHIO’s UV lamps are installed one type of risk faced by USHIO in the field of imaging equipment. performance given the difficulty in maintaining sustained growth in in this equipment as light sources. This photo-alignment equipment enables alignment control to To minimize this risk, USHIO is accelerating the diversification and a market environment that is structurally subject to highly volatile be performed in a contact-free, clean environment, thereby contributing to improved production localization of its supply chains. fluctuations in investment cycles. In addition, as a result of advances yields and reduced costs in the LCD manufacturing process, as well as to improved picture quality in megatrends such as IoT and 5G technologies, there is the risk (higher resolution) in LCD panels. USHIO holds a worldwide share of 85% for its photo-alignment that USHIO may find it difficult to secure engineers and procure equipment (based on internal research). parts and materials, among other challenges. Accordingly, USHIO will continue to closely monitor changes in demand in the market. 21 22 New Businesses The theme of the current Medium-term Management Plan is to “solidify the foundation for taking the next leap forward.” To do so, USHIO is making steady strides on a daily basis to “pursue new growth opportunities.” At the same time, in anticipation of the period after the current Medium-term Management Plan (fiscal year ending March 31, 2021 onward), USHIO is ambitiously developing new business fields to take its next leap forward as a “light innovation company.” Solidify the foundation for taking the next leap forward Take the next leap forward as a “light innovation company” Successfully “pursue new growth opportunities” by exploring and Develop new business fields to take the next leap forward as a realizing the functions of light “light innovation company” Based on strengths nurtured in existing businesses, USHIO is developing solid-state light sources, EUV light source In order to take its next leap forward as a “light innovation company” from the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021 units for photo mask inspection, and high-end imaging-related equipment for the short to medium-term. onward, USHIO is developing new business fields from a mediumto long-term perspective. USHIO is focusing on two USHIO will harness its proprietary technologies to refine and realize the functions of light it has uncovered so far, fields in particular: environmental hygiene and cutting-edge preventive medicine. In these two fields, USHIO is tackling thereby contributing to society. ambitious initiatives on a daily basis in order to provide people with safe, secure, healthy and prosperous lifestyles. Solid-state Light Sources Environment and Sanitation In markets shifting from lamps to solid-state light sources, USHIO will stay on top of USHIO is developing new functions of light by using light to create a hygienic changes by expanding and upgrading its lineup of solid-state light sources. In the environment. USHIO seeks to clean air and water using light that can only be process, USHIO will make the most of its relationships with customers developed generated from lamps, and to prevent infections through the use of ultraviolet light through lamps. In addition, USHIO will enter fields where solid-state light sources that is harmless to the human body. In these and other ways, USHIO will contribute have been used previously, such as the fields of sensing, measurement and sortto a safe, secure and comfortable society. ing, and will create new business opportunities in each of those fields. EUV Light Source Units for Photo Mask Inspection Cutting-edge Preventive Medicine Amid continuing miniaturization of semiconductors, EUV lithography technologies USHIO is exploring ways to use light to identify and treat illnesses at an early stage. have attracted interest in the manufacturing process for next-generation semiconUSHIO will repurpose the microfabrication technology it has developed in the ductors. To establish EUV lithography technologies as a mass production techelectronics field by using it to manufacture biochips and functional optical parts. In nology, USHIO will focus on developing light sources for the inspection of photo doing so, USHIO aims to contribute to the realization of a society where people can masks and patterns. From the standpoint of inspection applications, USHIO will lead even healthier lives. contribute to innovation in EUV lithography technologies, thereby contributing to an important area of technological innovation for society as a whole. High-End Imaging-related Equipment The entertainment field, including cinema and theme parks, continues to evolve in order to provide people with attractive entertainment. Going forward, USHIO will remain focused on the development of imaging-related equipment and the display of high-end video images, with the aim of delivering entertainment experiences that thrill and amaze people. 23 24 Solutions to Social Issues and Lighting Edge Technologies World’s First Successful Bacterial Disinfection of Pressure Ulcers Using 222 nm UV Light Harmless to the Human Body USHIO regards creating new business in fields such as medicine and hygiene as something more than a key management task. To illustrate this, we introduce some of the ways we are helping solve social issues through our operations. A Ray of Light for the Bedridden UV Sterilization Has Great Potential USHIO’s Light Technology and SDGs A medical term for bedsores is pressure ulcers. Both terms Sterilization and disinfection that harnesses UV light’s powOf the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we are especially focusing on “Good Health and Well-being” as it is allude to how the injuries come about. erful energy has immense potential. Basic research is already deeply connected to our business. Our 222 nm UV sterilization system is one example. USHIO is contributing toward When people are bedridden for a long time, constant presunderway in the United States and Japan to put it to use in the achievement of SDGs via light technology. sure against the skin in contact with the bed limits blood flow disinfecting surgical sites during surgery, and applications for and can lead to skin, hypodermis, and muscle death. In serious disinfection and sterilization abound in the field of hygiene. We “Good Health and Well-being” is a particularly relevant target for USHIO cases, these pressure ulcers can bring about bacterial infections believe it is our mission to wield the power of light to ease the of the hypodermis, bone, and so forth, and even complications pain and suffering of patients worldwide. By 2030, end the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and neglected tropical diseases and comleading to death. bat hepatitis, water-borne diseases and other communicable diseases. Many patients are now suffering from pressure ulcers. In the United States, it costs some three trillion yen a year to treat the By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, numerous patients with pressure ulcers, diabetic leg ulcers, and Potential applications for our 222 nm UV sterilization water and soil pollution and contamination. the like. As life expectancy increases in the future, that cost may system rise. In addition, chronic wounds are at risk of infection. While • Treatment of infected chronic wounds antibiotics and antibacterial creams are used accordingly for • Disinfection of surgical sites during surgery prevention and treatment, multi-drug resistant bacteria such as MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus) that cannot • ‌Curbing airborne transmission and infection through be eliminated with such drugs are on the rise of late. Moreover, contact of SARS-CoV (SARS coronavirus), MERS-CoV using antibiotics entails a risk of creating new strains of drug (MERS coronavirus), dengue fever, and the Ebola virus resistant bacteria. • ‌Hand disinfection A desire to use USHIO’s “light” to help suffering patients is • ‌Equipping appliances like hand dryers with a sterilizawhat fueled the R&D that gave rise to USHIO’s 222 nm ultration function Why the 222 nm Wavelength of UV Light Is Harmless to the Human Body violet sterilization system. What started with the conclusion of • ‌Spore fungus and norovirus sterilization UV light causes things like tanning and photoexclusive license and research agreements with Columbia Human-friendly Human-friendly aging such as wrinkles and sunspots. While it is genUniversity in the United States led to a collaborative project UV light UV light erally thought of as being harmful to the human body, with the National University Hospital of Singapore (NUHS) and 222 nm 222 nm that is not always the case. The effects of UV light the world’s first successful method of ridding pressure ulcers of depend on the wavelength. bacteria without otherwise affecting patients’ bodies. UV light around 260 nm is actually the most effective for disinfection, but that wavelength is very harmful to the human body. On the other hand, 222 nm UV light reaches the core of bacterial cells but not the nucleus of human cells, so it does not damage human DNA or bring about carcinogens or otherwise harm the human Bacterial cells body. 1 μm 222 nm is the best wavelength of UV light for sterilization and disinfection since shorter wavelengths are Human cells (10–25 μm) are bigger than bacterial cells (1 μm). So when not only less effective but also require use in a vacuum 222 nm UV light is irradiated, it environment and secondary equipment. reaches the core of bacterial cells but Our 222 nm UV sterilization system (left) not the nucleus of human cells, and therefore does not damage human and its light source (right) Human cells DNA. 10–25 μm 25 26 USHIO’s CSR USHIO’s Management Philosophy and CSR Management Evaluations of USHIO’s CSR USHIO aims to solve social issues and realize a sustainable society through products and services that use its light technology. CSR activities USHIO has been selected for three Environment, Governance, and Society (ESG) indexes—the MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index, are the management foundation of our business activities; we will conduct a diverse range of activities and build good relationships with all the MSCI Japan Empowering Women (WIN) Select Index, and the FTSE Blossom Japan Index—which were adopted by the Government of our stakeholders through communication, which will serve as one of the driving forces for achieving sustainable development alongside Pension Investment Fund (GPIF), the world’s largest pension fund management institution. USHIO was highly evaluated on its initiatives for communities and societies. In addition, we are developing concepts for our Management Philosophy and Action Guidelines to ensure that environment, society, and governance in terms of ESG investment that is expected to enhance risk-adjusted returns the longer it is invested. each employee is conscious of fulfilling their responsibilities as a member of society. Going forward, USHIO will proactively advance its initiatives, working to improve its corporate value while contributing to the realization of a sustainable society. Evaluations of CSR Management USHIO was selected as a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series, a socially responsible investment (SRI) index provided by FTSE Russell, for the 15th consecutive year. USHIO was also selected for the second consecutive year for the FTSE Blossom Japan Index, which includes performance indicators of Japanese companies with outstanding ESG practices. USHIO was selected as a constituent for both the MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index and the MSCI Japan Empowering Women (WIN) Select Index for the second consecutive year. The MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index is based on the MSCI Japan IMI Top 500 Index, and includes companies with highly -evaluated ESG initiatives. The MSCI Japan Empowering Women (WIN) Select Index is also based on the MSCI Japan IMI Top 500 Index and includes companies with a high level of gender diversity among their workforce, indicated by a “gender diversity score” that was newly developed by MSCI. USHIO was also selected for inclusion in the 2018 SNAM Sustainability Index managed by Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset Management Co., Ltd. (SNAM, pronounced “S-NAM”), an index used in the SNAM Sustainable Investment Fund project that allows pension trusts and institutional investors to invest in about 300 listed brands with excellent ESG performance. This is the 7th consecutive year that we have been highly evaluated for our ESG initiatives since this index’s establishment in 2012. Support for United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles Evaluation of Reports USHIO has declared its support for the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles, which are universal USHIO received an Award for Excellence in the Environmental Report catprinciples concerning human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. egory of the 21st Environmental Communication Awards; our Sustainability In September 2015, the UN adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and amid rising interest Report was highly evaluated for content and target-setting methods. in social issues, we are working to promote all facets of CSR among the many other participating companies and NGOs. To this end, we are continuing to play an active role in sectional activities for sharing information on necessary specific measures and enhancing the activities of each company. 27 28 USHIO’s CSR CSR Management Selection of Materiality CSR Promotion Framework Since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, we have emphasized discussions and reviews on important issues (materiality) for improving corporate value in the Environmental Committee (presently the CSR Committee). USHIO has decided on five pillars of materiality at present, USHIO has established a CSR Committee, which is chaired by the president. The committee decides on the Group’s policies relating to stemming from items such as dialogues with suppliers, interviews with employees, trends for the ISO 26000 standard, and the importance of CSR initiatives. The separate subcommittees for each initiative and Ushio Inc.’s CSR manager are developing plans for business divisions, company businesses. business sites, and Group companies in accordance with these policies. In addition, USHIO is disseminating policies and sharing information through individual Group meetings and the USHIO Green Network. High Quality CSR Promotion Framework Importance to Society Important Issues (The Five Pillars) People President of USHIO INC. CSR Committee The Five Environment (Chaired by the President of Pillars USHIO INC.) CSR division of USHIO INC. Society USHIO INC. USHIO Green Network business divisions and business sites Governance Importance to USHIO High Individual Group meetings Japanese subsidiaries Disseminating policies, information-sharing, etc. Overseas subsidiaries Relationship with Sustainable Development Goals Medium-Term CSR Plan The United Nations Sustainable Development Summit adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in September 2015. These SDGs In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, we created a framework for the new medium-term CSR plan in order to advance our CSR activities describe goals for 2030 that aim to realize a sustainable world without poverty, inequality and economic disparity, and climate change. one step further while aiming to develop as a company and improve the social aspects of our business at the same time. At USHIO, we are examining eight possible areas in which we can contribute to achievements among the 17 targets in the SDGs. We will Targeting 2020, our new medium-term CSR plan seeks to “deepen” our stance by focusing on priority matters for both business and utilize the knowledge we have cultivated as professionals in light technology to conduct activities that are linked to the resolution of social social contributions, as well as “broaden” our CSR activity framework for the Group as a whole, instead of focusing mostly on the parent issues. company. In particular, we believe we can utilize many special features of light technology in the fields of medical care and sanitation, thus focusing While continuing to strengthen the initiatives we have implemented to date, we will focus more on activities that contribute to society most of our attention on Goal 3 “Good Health and Well-being.” in addition to our own development. We believe sustainable development would not be possible without CSR management that suits the USHIO Group amid globalization. Roadmap of the Medium-Term CSR Plan Strengthen materiality (“deepen” priority issues) USHIO INC. Reinforce Plan and Disclose KPI data, (Noninitiatives, identify implement KPIs continue PDCA consolidated) initiatives and initiatives cycle Widen boundaries (“broaden” the scope) Continue Identify key Ongoing USHIO surveys, share issues at each information GROUP information company disclosure 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 29 30 Environmental Vision and Environmental Action Plan 2020 Environmental Vision Implementation Status of Phase Five of the Environmental Action Plan We have completed the second year of Phase Five of the Environmental Action Plan and although we are steadily progressing, many issues USHIO is working to realize a low-carbon, recycling-oriented, biodiversity-preserving society by the year 2020. We have set these three goals remain concerning the reduction of CO2 emissions generated by business activities. Regarding the reduction of CO2 emissions, USHIO is as our 2020 Environmental Vision, and we have formulated an Environmental Action Plan to achieve them through our business activities. In also considering setting a target in line with a SBT (Science-Based Target),* as well as reducing them on a per unit basis. the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, USHIO started implementing Phase Five of the Environmental Action Plan, which continues through to the final year of the 2020 Environmental Vision. USHIO has also begun considering its new vision for the year 2030. * A reduction target in line with current scientific knowledge, aimed at a “2°C target” to keep the increase of global temperature below 2°C compared to pre-industrial revolution temperatures, as specified in the Paris Agreement. The advocacy of this target is a joint initiative conducted by the WWF (World Wildlife Fund), the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project), the WRI (World Resources Institute), and the United Nations Global Compact. 2020 Environmental Vision For further information, please refer to the “Environmental Action Plan” webpage on the Company website. Through Lighting-Edge Technologies, we will contribute to the creation of USHIO’s vision for https://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/eco/manage/plan.html a low-carbon society, conservation of resources, and preservation of biodiversity. the Company in 2020 Low-carbon society Back casting Recycling-oriented society Biodiversity-preserving society Goals and Targets of Goals and Targets of Goals and Targets of Goals and Targets of Goals and Targets of System for Promoting Environmental Management Phase 1 of USHIO’s Phase 2 of USHIO’s Phase 3 of USHIO’s Phase 4 of USHIO’s Phase 5 of USHIO’s Environmental Action Plan Environmental Action Plan Environmental Action Plan Environmental Action Plan Environmental Action Plan 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Ushio Inc.’s CSR Committee, chaired by the Company president, is the top decision-making body for environmental activities at USHIO. (FY) Under the CSR Committee are issue-specific committees, and each department, business division and Group company determine the 2004 2007 2011 2014 Acquisition of Introduced Formulated CSR Strengthened green procurement trajectory of activities at the worksite level. Group-wide ISO 14001 material flow cost Action Plan in the supply chain By carrying out these environmental activities independently, we are working to advance Phase Five of the Environmental Action Plan. certification accounting 2010 2014 2004 Signed UN Global Strengthened management at six major bases with Published Compact large volumes of CO2 emissions environmental 2006 2009 2013 report Introduced environmental Began participating in CDP Promoted adoption of LED for energy conservation System for Promoting Environmental Management 2003 management information Established Environmental system 2009 2013 2015 Committee ‌Environmental tasks presented at Began aggregation Strengthened management of CSR Committee (CSR Committee from 2011) productivity improvement meeting of Scope 3 data chemical substances (Chaired by the President of USHIO INC.) USHIO’s top environmental Phase Five of the Environmental Action Plan body Phase Five of the Environmental Action Plan was drafted by back-casting from the 2020 Environmental Vision and considering the issues under Phase Four, data analysis, and many other elements. Phase Five of the Environmental Action Plan will continue to focus on the key Issue-specific committees areas of green products, reducing CO2 emissions at business sites, CSR procurement, and resource recycling. In addition, as an initiative to shift to the 2015 version of ISO 14001, the Company is taking measures to prevent these efforts from losing their significance and ensure Global Warming Countermeasures they are implemented in an efficient and businesslike manner. In particular, with regard to green products, USHIO is planning to increase Committee corporate value by adding social demand aspects such as safety and security in addition to environmental considerations. Five Themes of Phase Five of the Environmental Action Plan Green Products Committee ISO 14001 Develop products Reduce the volume CSR procurement Management of chemical Environmental that contribute to the of CO2 emissions in substances, resource Management System environment and society business activities recycling, and preservaCSR Procurement Committee tion of biodiversity Objective: Objective: Objective: Objective: Objective: Complete transition to the Provide safe, secure and enviReduce CO2 emission by 3% from Advance CSR procurement as Strengthen chemical substance 2015 version of the ISO 14001 ronmentally conscious solutions the fiscal year ended March 31, a group management 3R activities at each business site Environmental Management 2015, levels on a sales unit basis (1) D evelop benchmarks and (1) C onduct and analyze CSR (1) Reinforce management from System implement evaluations based (1) M anage measures at main surveys ingress to egress of chemical (1) S hare information about on both environmental and sites (2) A d m i n i s t e r a c c o rd i n g t o substances regulations social contribution of products (2) V isualize conditions after USHIO Green Procurement (2) Share information about laws Formulation, Group-wide implementation and (2) Work on issues to improve (2) RoHS compliance for equipresponding to business change Standards and regulations promotion of environmental plans ISO compliance at each ment and LEF products (3) A u t o n o m o u s re d u c t i o n s (3) S hare information about (3) Reduce the volume of water Group company (prevent (other sites) harmful chemical substances resources used and evaluate substance loss, improve in products water risks effectiveness, conduct rigor* Efficiently conduct CSR procure(4) I m p l e m e n t b i o d i v e r s i t y ous internal audits, etc.) ment surveys preservation initiatives under each theme Promote activities centered on committees and business sites Global Warming Countermeasures Green Products Committee CSR Procurement Committee 3R* activities at each business site Committee * 3R: Derived from the three initial R’s of Reduce (reduce the waste generated), Reuse (reuse waste), and Recycle (recycle waste) 31 32 Directors (As of June 28, 2018) Corporate Governance USHIO INC. recognizes that realizing the vision set forth in its Management Philosophy, and promoting the sustainable growth of USHIO INC. and increasing corporate value over the medium to long term, will bring satisfaction to all stakeholders. Jiro Ushio Kenji Hamashima To achieve this goal, USHIO INC. strives to ensure the transparency and efficiency of corporate management Chairman and USHIO Group President and Representative Chief Executive Officer and to reinforce corporate governance to realize speedy and resolute decision-making. Corporate Governance Framework Shiro Ushio Hiroaki Banno USHIO INC. has transitioned to a Company with Audit & and business execution for top priority issues, including basic Director Director Supervisory Committee and been functioning under this system. management policy. This system has been fostering speedy decision-making by Delegating decisions on certain important business execution delegating decisions for certain important business matters from to overseeing directors has accelerated decision-making. At the the Board of Directors to executive directors. It has also strengthsame time, the executive officer system has led to more accurate ened the supervisory function of the Board of Directors by ensurand speedier business execution. USHIO INC. established the ing that most of its members are outside directors. The system Executive Council and Group Coordination Council to discuss and has also been reinforcing audit & supervisory functions by having report on priorities in business execution. established an Audit & Supervisory Committee with the authority The Audit & Supervisory Committee audits and oversees to assess the legality and validity of board members in performing directors’ performance of duties in line with its own audit and Yoshinari Hara Yasufumi Kanemaru their duties. supervising standards. USHIO INC. appointed a Full-time Audit & Outside Director Outside Director The Board of Directors comprises 10 directors. Seven are Supervisory Committee member to enhance the efficacy of audits not Audit & Supervisory Committee members (consisting of six by collecting information from directors (excluding those who are Japanese men and one Japanese woman, and including three also Audit & Supervisory Committee members) and employees outside directors), and three are Audit & Supervisory Committee and coordinating smoothly with the Business Auditing Department members (all consisting of Japanese men and including two outand Accounting Auditor. side directors). The Board of Directors oversees decision-making Sakie T. Fukushima Nobuyuki Kobayashi USHIO INC.’s Internal Control Framework Outside Director Director (Full-time Audit & General Meeting of Shareholders Supervisory Committee Member) Election and Election and dismissal Election and dismissal dismissal Seven directors who are Three directors who not Audit & Supervisory are Audit & Supervisory Audit & Cooperation Committee members Committee members Accounting Auditor (including three outside (including two outside Supervisory Committee directors) directors) Masanori Yoneda Nobuyoshi Yamaguchi Outside Director Outside Director Board of Directors Auditing (Audit & Supervisory (Audit & Supervisory Appointments Reporting Committee Member) Committee Member) and removals Auditing Cooperation Supervision Supervision Representative Directors Instruction and Reporting about supervision important matters Business Auditing Department (Including evaluation of the internal control system) Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Committee Executive Council Group Coordination Council Risk Management Office Reporting (including security export) Compliance Committee Internal Directors Outside Directors Internal Directors Outside Directors 1 2 Instruction and Reporting about Corporate Social Responsibility supervision important matters Committee 5 5 Submitting policy Authorization of policy proposals and plans proposals and plans (including 1 female director) Divisions, subsidiaries and affiliates 33 34 Corporate Governance Stance on Corporate Governance Code Internal Auditing and the Audit & Supervisory Committee Audits USHIO INC. is implementing its corporate governance in line with all the principles of the Corporate Governance Code of the Tokyo Stock The Audit & Supervisory Committee comprises three members, including one Full-time Audit & Supervisory Committee member, and has Exchange. been established to oversee the directors’ performance of duties. The Business Auditing Department, which conducts USHIO INC.’s internal auditing functions, performs on-site audits to check the approSee the “Corporate Governance Report” on the USHIO corporate website for more details. priateness of operational controls and procedures. The department submits an annual audit plan to the Audit & Supervisory Committee and https://www.ushio.co.jp/en/ir/library/governance/ explains its specific auditing policies. It also reports as necessary to the committee on the results of internal audits. The Accounting Auditor submits annual plans to the Audit & Supervisory Committee and explains its specific auditing policies. It also presents reports summarizing reviews and audit results for quarterly reviews and accounting audits for quarterly and year-end results. The Audit & Supervisory Committee, Business Auditing Department and Accounting Auditor exchange information and opinions and Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors cooperate with each other. USHIO INC. conducts questionnaires and interviews regarding individual directors concerning the composition of the Board of Directors, the status of operations, matters discussed and more, and analyzes and evaluates the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. As a result of the analysis and evaluations conducted in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the Company judges that the effectiveness of the Board of Directors has been generally secured. Compliance At the same time, USHIO INC. will continue to further reinforce information provision and discussions as challenges that must be tackled, and it has been confirmed and shared by the Board of Directors. USHIO INC. will continue to work on these improvements. USHIO INC. has established “10 Action Guidelines” to define standards for behavior that require everyone at the Group to comply with laws, regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, and Management Philosophy. The Compliance Committee is responsible for ensuring that employees observe these guidelines. The Business Auditing Department and Compliance Committee jointly perform audits to monitor the status of compliance and submit audit reports as necessary to the Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Committee. Furthermore, information involving the performance of directors’ duties is recorded, stored, and managed, in documentary and electronic formats. This Stance on Directors Remuneration enables the directors and Audit & Supervisory Committee members to view the information at any time and take timely and appropriate action The remuneration system comprises monetary compensation and stock-based compensation consisting of a basic amount based on posias required. tion and an amount determined based on operating performance and performance evaluation. To reinforce awareness of the importance of compliance, all Group companies use USHIO INC.’s standards for behavior and other Resolutions by the Board of Directors regarding remuneration are reached based on deliberation conducted in advance by the guidelines and the Business Auditing Department performs audits of the Group companies. Remuneration Advisory Committee, which consists of a chairperson and a majority of outside director members. This composition is from the perspective of ensuring fairness and appropriateness regarding the remuneration system and standards and the assessment of contribution to operating performance. Risk Management Total Remuneration and Other Payments by Director Category, Total Amounts by Type of Remuneration, and Number of Eligible Directors In its risk management regulations, USHIO INC. has specified departments responsible for respective risk categories, including compliance, the environment, product quality, finance, legal matters, natural and other disasters, information management, and export controls. Each Total Total amounts by type of remuneration (millions of yen) responsible department is to establish rules and guidelines, conduct training, and produce and distribute manuals and so forth. When a new remuneration Number risk emerges, a director or an executive officer is to be promptly appointed to take responsibility for handling it. Furthermore, if a risk materialDirector categories and other Stock-based of eligible Basic Retirement izes and is expected to incur significant damage, the responsible director or executive officer is to report it promptly to the Board of Directors. payments Stock options Bonuses compensation directors compensation benefits (millions of yen) for directors Directors (excluding Audit and Supervisory Committee 257 207 — — 50 — 4 members) (excluding outside directors) Directors (Audit & Supervisory 27 27 — — — — 1 Committee members) (excluding outside directors) Outside directors 56 56 — — — — 7 Note: S  tock-based compensation for directors is based on expenses recorded in the consolidated financial results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, under Japanese GAAP. 35 36 Human Resource Development USHIO’s Management Philosophy is to “build both a prosperous company and prosperous employees.” Ushio Inc.’s Education and Training Systems To realize this philosophy, Ushio Inc. has set out a Human Resources Vision. Ushio Inc. has established an education system based on our image of and requirements for human resources premised on employees Moreover, we have documented the image of human resources required by Ushio Inc. and the requirements growing through their work. In addition to essential training such as new recruit training and new appointment training, we offer cross-industry for the human resources in order to realize the vision. We have also established initiatives to provide systematic training, an internal recruitment system, and other opportunities for employees to voluntarily learn and take on challenges. education to accelerate the growth of each employee. Human Resources Vision Selective Selection Developing personnel with Developing next-generation leaders global competencies A Vibrant Group that Creates Joy and Wonder • Developing managers (succession planning) • Trainee system • Young Executives Group • Study-abroad system • Cross-industry training • Language skill advancement support system The reassurance of being Each employee is a professional A close-knit team Essential watched over Business literacy Career support • New recruit training/Follow-up with new recruits • Career sheet/Transfer request • Third-year training • Internal recruitment system • New appointment training (Including business • Self-development aid skill training such as problem-solving abilities, facilitation, and strategy planning) Image and Requirements of Human Resources Professional human resources who have “will” and “passion,” respect diverse values, Developing Management Personnel and continue to collaborate and take on challenges USHIO is concentrating on fostering management for the next genManagement Human Resource Requirements eration to realize sustainable growth. In October 2017, we launched the Nomination and Education Conduct Good Attitude Advisory Committee to increase the effectiveness and value of Vision development measures. Imagination • Customer service • Tenacity We will systematically and continually develop future leaders Ability to provide real value that exceeds customers’ Commitment to take risks as necessary and by selecting candidates, establishing and executing training plans, Overwhelming needs to persist to the end without quitting and conducting assessments, all centered on the requirements for awareness management positions. Risk-taking • Issue identification • Flexible thinking Specific initiatives include transfers and assignments that take into DecisionCommitment making ability to earnings Ability to grasp situations correctly, identify essential Commitment to question established ideas account leadership candidates’ training plans, involving employees in important internal decision-making organizations, implementation Strong ethics tasks, and establish resolution strategies and accept change and diversity without being of a mentor system, and dispatching employees to external training bound to conventional practices to gain business literacy and engage in cross-industry networking. • Target achievement Ability to organize and execute processes for realizing • Ambition targets Commitment to take on challenges with an Young Executives Group awareness of the people involved, and without This is one of our systems for nurturing future management personnel. • Active engagement fearing failure Members of the group are chosen from an openly canvassed Ability to engage other people and execute strategies pool of applicants, typically young employees in their 20s and 30s with synergy and speed • Respect from Group companies. There are four target criteria: aspiration and Commitment to have a spirit of altruism, passion, a strategy construction ability, an ability to act, and an ability • Learning consider others and build relationships of trust to work in a global setting. The participants tackle specific initiatives, including acquiring business skills such as management strategy, and Ability to drive own growth, support (educate) others, grasping and proposing measures for current management issues. and learn together They undertake these activities while exchanging opinions with upper management, external executives, and experts, among others. Through this system, USHIO provides these highly motivated young employees with opportunities to think about their career paths. 37 38 Promotion of Diversity Ushio Inc. is focusing on the promotion of diversity to realize the creation of value by diverse human resources. Promoting Diversity Moreover, Ushio Inc. aims to Create Joy and Wonder and Continue to Grow by means of implementing a variety of initiatives, including promoting a good work-life balance, utilizing global human resources, employing people In July 2017, Ushio Inc. launched the Diversity Promotion Project with the aim of further promoting “management focused on each individual with disabilities, implementing a re-employment system, and encouraging the active participation of women. employee.” For the project, we sought out employees who were interested in diversity in Ushio Inc., and are conducting activities that unify management, HR personnel, and other employees. By engaging employees in diversity promotion, we think we can implement activities that incorporate the opinions of the relevant parties and that possess a sense of the front-lines. This initiative also provides training for management human resources. Specifics of Initiatives Work-style Reforms Supporting Work/Caregiving Balance More flexible work styles Seminar on balancing work and caregiving Basic Policy on Diversity We aim to enhance productivity and bring about innovation An internal survey when we rolled out the Diversity with work styles that are speedy, efficient, and effective, and Promotion Project found that about 80% of employees had work styles that increase diverse thinking and imagination. concerns about balancing work and caregiving. The meaning of diversity at Ushio Inc. is Creating Joy and Wonder (New Value) and Continuing to Grow. We have defined establishing Furthermore, we look to link that to improving employee We held a seminar in hopes of easing the employees’ management that is focused on each individual employee as the basic policy for realizing that. self-management and motivation. We are starting with a anxieties about caregiving and about balancing it with work. We believe it is important for each employee to express their thinking and beliefs and deepen mutual understanding by accepting and trial to examine the introduction of a telecommuting system. A post-seminar survey indicated many employees are respecting others’ views. Moreover, as business and workplace conditions evolve together with the diversity of our employees, we are capable of balancing caregiving and work. We are taking implementing concrete measures and initiatives that reflect our primary consideration for what is ideal for the organization and our employees, various ongoing steps to promote a good work/caregiving rather than simply adhering to uniform rules. balance. Creating Joy and Wonder and Continuing to Grow Increase Competitive Boost Employee Motivation Our Mission in Society Advantage in Business Support for Working Women Promoting the Employment of People with Disabilities • New value created through coopera• Individual creativity is enhanced, enabling • Continue being a company that Round table discussions tion from human resources of diverse employees to reach their full potential coexists with society and has its Sign language workshop Each division held round table discussions to provide values and backgrounds respect • Employees can strive with confidence a forum for employees to share their current concerns An employee with a hearing impairment working at the • Ability to achieve efficient and highly in an environment where people accept and facilitate the creation of future career plans through Harima Division had difficulty communicating with superviproductive operational management differences and respect one another exchanges with women with management experience sors and colleagues using sign language. working in other divisions, Diversity Promotion Project As a part of efforts to promote communication, we held members, and so on. a sign language workshop. Participants said the round table discussions enabled This workshop has spurred us to work to make more them to discuss problems they do not normally have an employees familiar with sign language going forward. opportunity to share and left them feeling positive. We intend to put the feedback we received from round table discussions to use in future initiatives. 39 40 Relationship with Society As a member of the international community and a good corporate citizen, USHIO implements measures to contribute to each local community where it does business. Backing the Building of a New Community in Onagawa Town A Growing Circle of Support through “Images, Music, and Light” Lending a hand by supplying equipment for a projection mapping project by junior high USHIO supports scholarship students in Japan, China and the Philippines. school students Ushio Entertainment Holdings, Inc. (hereinafter “UEH”), Ushio Inc.’s creating posters to draw local residents to the event. The USHIO Foundation wholly owned subsidiary, lent a hand by supplying a high brightVarious images were presented based on the theme of the The USHIO Foundation (the former USHIO Foundation for Culture and ness projector, lighting system, and other equipment for junior “Four Seasons of Onagawa Town,” featuring the students’ homehigh school students at CollaboSchool Onagawa Kougakukan, town where they were born and raised. These included images of Learning) was established in 1994 to commemorate the 30th anniversary helping them to create and put on a projection mapping show. the sea and sky, cherry blossoms, snow crystals, fireworks, and of the founding of Ushio Inc.. As globalization progresses, the foundation The show was held in front of JR Onagawa Station in Onagawa scenes of the area in front of the train station during the daytime. will contribute to society by assisting the development of the next generaTown, Miyagi Prefecture on March 17, 2018. The presentation was received with a tremendous round of tion of human resources, including overseas students, who will be responCollaboSchool Onagawa Kougakukan opened four months applause and cheers from an audience of about 200 people. sible for leading the world in the future, and promote further interaction and after the Great East Japan Earthquake, providing educational UEH’s slogan is “Beyond.” This slogan embodies UEH’s cormutual understanding between Japan and other countries. support and emotional care to students. The school provides a porate message, specifically its aspirations to transcend existing project-based “discovery class” to encourage students to dismodes of expression through light, sound, and images. The junior So far, 580 scholarship students have been supported. In the fiscal cover their interests and think about their futures. This projection high school students of Onagawa Town are strongly determined year ended March 31, 2018, the foundation provided scholarships to 60 mapping event was undertaken as part of this class. to overcome the struggles and hardships caused by the Great graduate students (including overseas students). Seven eighth graders at CollaboSchool Onagawa Kougakukan East Japan Earthquake. Their stance resonated with the spirit of were split into three teams responsible for video production, UEH’s “Beyond” slogan, leading to the company’s cooperation music production and public relations and media. The students with this project. produced all aspects of the event by themselves, including coding Going forward, USHIO will continue to contribute to regional the computer program needed for the projection mapping and development and the education of children. USHIO (SUZHOU) CO., LTD. USHIO (SUZHOU) CO., LTD. signed an agreement in January 2009 with China’s Suzhou University to establish the Suzhou University USHIO Scholarship Fund. Every year, a number of students are awarded scholarships. As of the close of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, a total of 265 students have benefited from the Suzhou University USHIO Scholarship Fund. USHIO PHILIPPINES, INC. In the Philippines, students often have no choice but to discontinue their education, regardless of their academic ability, due to financial reasons. Even if they are fortunate enough to graduate, they often face a very challenging employment environment. As a result, large numbers of graduating Event digest video Roadster HD20K-J VAYA Flood MP RGB students and others go abroad to find work. In light of these conditions, USHIO PHILIPPINES, INC. started a scholarship program in the fiscal • Organizer: CollaboSchool Onagawa Kougakukan operated by the year ended March 31, 2018. In the first year, USHIO provided scholarship approved specified nonprofit corporation Katariba support to three students. • Projection mapping production support: Itnav Ishinomaki Association • Equipment support: Ushio Entertainment Holdings, Inc. • Sponsor: Onagawa Town Board of Education 41 42 Financial Data FY17 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Unit: Thousands of U.S. dollars*1 Net sales (millions of yen) ¥ 148,148 ¥ 120,846 ¥ 119,079 ¥ 145,125 ¥ 150,087 ¥ 143,461 ¥ 157,800 ¥ 159,365 ¥ 179,121 ¥ 172,840 ¥ 173,497 $1,633,072 Cost of sales (millions of yen) 98,020 81,644 82,666 96,962 101,635 95,196 101,809 98,030 110,717 112,383 111,350 1,048,105 Gross profit (millions of yen) 50,127 39,202 36,413 48,163 48,451 48,264 55,991 61,335 68,403 60,456 62,146 584,966 Selling, general and administrative expenses (millions of yen) 30,076 30,238 29,150 34,129 37,755 40,682 43,881 50,977 55,273 51,854 51,995 489,415 Operating income (millions of yen) 20,050 8,963 7,262 14,034 10,696 7,582 12,110 10,357 13,130 8,602 10,151 95,551 Earnings Data Ordinary income (millions of yen) 23,319 9,991 9,290 17,362 13,112 10,539 15,904 13,708 14,633 11,001 12,050 113,429 Profit attributable to owners of parent (millions of yen) 15,486 3,481 7,071 9,577 8,748 7,155 10,770 11,279 11,105 7,042 11,001 103,557 Operating margin (%) 13.5 7.4 6.1 9.7 7.1 5.3 7.7 6.5 7.3 5.0 5.9 Ordinary margin (%) 15.7 8.3 7.8 12.0 8.7 7.3 10.1 8.6 8.2 6.4 6.9 Net margin (%) 10.5 2.9 5.9 6.6 5.8 5.0 6.8 7.1 6.2 4.1 6.3 Net income per share (yen) 112.96 25.76 52.95 71.72 66.26 54.57 82.19 86.40 85.83 55.06 86.11 0.81*2 Net assets per share (yen) 1,177.77 1,083.63 1,162.26 1,169.42 1,211.51 1,324.13 1,440.94 1,653.88 1,621.97 1,664.40 1,683.42 15.85*2 Dividends/Per Share Total dividends (millions of yen) 3,279 2,671 2,670 2,937 2,884 2,884 3,388 3,139 3,353 3,329 3,329 31,340 Data Dividends per share (yen) 24.00 20.00 20.00 22.00 22.00 22.00 26.00 24.00 26.00 26.00 26.00 0.24*2 Payout ratio (%) 21.2 77.7 37.8 30.7 33.2 40.3 31.6 27.8 30.3 47.2 30.2 Ratio of dividends to net assets (%) 2.0 1.8 1.8 1.9 1.8 1.7 1.9 1.5 1.6 1.6 1.6 Total assets (millions of yen) 216,659 184,401 202,119 217,292 224,412 228,657 255,338 294,542 294,525 308,430 307,265 2,892,181 Current assets (millions of yen) 111,914 102,706 112,722 130,730 143,120 140,646 153,004 178,774 170,173 180,334 188,230 1,771,749 Property, plant and equipment, net (millions of yen) 38,227 36,850 36,151 36,457 37,827 36,776 39,126 40,014 42,310 44,809 41,578 391,361 Investments and other assets (millions of yen) 63,522 42,303 50,217 47,064 39,564 48,371 59,048 68,655 71,256 74,062 71,144 669,662 Current liabilities (millions of yen) 38,159 26,744 32,035 41,458 40,634 37,950 39,957 44,886 49,463 54,592 54,793 515,754 Interest-bearing debt (millions of yen) 11,688 11,122 9,122 12,283 12,864 9,427 8,258 14,063 14,512 27,771 26,823 252,485 Net assets (millions of yen) 162,092 145,774 156,685 157,867 162,048 176,784 191,246 218,723 211,296 213,289 215,306 2,026,602 Shareholders’ equity (millions of yen) 148,122 144,250 148,643 155,544 158,341 162,609 169,482 178,891 183,057 185,658 193,332 1,819,770 Balance Sheet Data Total assets turnover ratio (times) 0.65 0.60 0.62 0.69 0.68 0.63 0.65 0.58 0.61 0.57 0.56 Current ratio (%) 293.3 384.0 351.9 315.3 352.2 370.6 382.9 398.3 344.0 330.3 343.5 Equity ratio (%) 74.3 78.5 76.8 71.9 70.8 75.9 73.5 73.3 70.9 68.9 70.0 ROE (%) 9.4 2.3 4.7 6.2 5.6 4.3 6.0 5.6 5.2 3.3 5.1 ROA (%) 6.8 1.7 3.7 4.6 4.0 3.2 4.5 4.1 3.8 2.3 3.6 Interest coverage ratio (times) 41.7 31.7 77.1 39.3 61.1 68.5 48.7 51.0 48.1 41.9 26.5 D/E ratio (%) 7.9 7.7 6.1 7.9 8.1 5.8 4.9 7.9 7.9 15.0 13.9 Fixed assets to long-term capital ratio (%) 63.7 52.3 55.2 49.9 45.1 49.9 52.9 55.2 57.4 56.6 51.6 Cash flows from operating activities (millions of yen) 15,237 11,873 18,999 8,390 12,382 14,443 10,622 9,876 12,031 12,624 15,567 146,529 Depreciation and amortization (millions of yen) 5,834 6,280 6,219 6,476 7,139 6,741 5,021 5,919 6,495 6,587 6,790 63,912 Cash flows from investing activities (millions of yen) (10,041) (3,194) (12,714) (1,679) 1,911 (8,649) (4,476) (3,710) (10,367) (15,254) 4,322 40,684 Cash flows from financing activities (millions of yen) (85) (7,588) (4,760) 1,081 (7,615) (7,092) (6,670) 1,210 (7,849) 6,864 (3,613) (34,011) Cash Flow Data Free cash flow (millions of yen) 5,196 8,679 6,285 6,711 14,293 5,794 6,146 6,166 1,664 (2,630) 19,889 187,213 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (millions of yen) 2,578 (371) 1,265 6,264 6,630 1,676 2,080 11,646 (9,176) 3,161 15,061 141,765 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (millions of yen) 27,700 27,329 28,595 34,954 41,585 43,261 45,342 56,989 47,813 50,974 66,035 621,568 Debt repayment ratio (years) 0.8 0.9 0.5 1.5 1.0 0.7 0.8 1.4 1.2 2.2 1.7 Depreciation to sales ratio (%) 3.9 5.2 5.2 4.5 4.8 4.7 3.2 3.7 3.6 3.8 3.9 Notes: *1 U  .S. dollar amounts are calculated at the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2018 of ¥106.24 to the U.S. dollar. *2 U.S. dollars 43 44 Non-Financial Data Item Scope FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Energy (GJ) Water (m³) Japan Asia (excluding Japan) North America Europe Japan Asia (excluding Japan) North America Europe Japan 359,783 415,928 456,607 483,208 486,231 Asia (excluding Japan) 130,670 131,039 133,406 144,971 153,004 771,830 789,235 Energy (GJ) 736,733 394,691 372,805 North America 117,552 110,142 113,337 108,441 104,934 641,316 687,630 328,358 321,126 Europe 33,311 30,521 33,383 35,210 45,066 272,921 Japan 115,242 179,398 168,338 188,505 224,145 Asia (excluding Japan) 125,811 115,291 119,249 150,493 139,628 Water (m³) North America 27,715 29,440 27,656 28,132 24,667 Europe 4,153 4,229 5,883 5,675 6,251 Japan 517 520 865 679 637 Asia (excluding Japan) 140 127 158 164 125 Total waste output (t) North America 518 457 438 444 396 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Europe 47 46 62 46 69 Japan 1,313 1,851 2,429 2,675 2,884 Asia (excluding Japan) 360 363 363 306 303 Total Waste Output (t) CO2 Emissions (Scope 1+2) (t-CO2) Scope 1 North America 542 499 434 441 566 Japan Asia (excluding Japan) North America Europe Japan Asia (excluding Japan) North America Europe Europe 542 314 317 380 375 1,523 39,900 GHG (CO2) emissions (t-CO2) Japan 15,941 18,372 22,250 22,715 22,429 37,618 38,980 1,333 Asia (excluding Japan) 7,244 7,696 7,574 8,281 8,803 1,222 1,227 Scope 2 1,150 31,949 North America 2,153 1,919 2,943 2,845 2,593 29,135 Europe 1,040 935 1,308 1,337 1,947 Scope 3 Consolidated 343,969 1,521,467 994,618 1,509,281 1,346,960 Japan 2,381 2,460 2,596 2,572 2,463 Asia (excluding Japan) 1,324 1,066 1,127 1,213 1,368 Number of employees North America/ 1,519 1,758 1,886 1,882 1,791 South America 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Europe 246 256 277 296 225 NonMale 8 19 12 7 9 Number of new graduate recruits Number of Employees Statutory Monthly Overtime Hours (hours/employee) consolidated Female 3 6 5 3 6 Three-year retention rate for NonMale 94 97 96 100 95 Japan Asia (excluding Japan) North America Europe new graduate recruits (%) consolidated Female 100 100 88 100 83 5,886 5,963 5,847 NonMale 15.4 16.1 16.7 17.5 17.9 5,470 5,540 Average length of service (years) consolidated Female 16.0 16.9 17.8 18.7 19.2 Statutory monthly overtime hours Non-consolidated 14.9 13.5 15.2 12.0 12.3 (hours/employee) 14.9 15.2 13.5 Percentage of paid vacation days used (%) Non-consolidated 68.5 68.3 72.8 74.0 71.1 12.0 12.3 Number of maternity leaves taken Non-consolidated 29 28 19 22 27 NonMale 4 3 5 6 3 Number of childcare leaves taken consolidated Female 29 25 22 22 27 Number of nursing care leaves taken Non-consolidated 0 0 0 0 2 Ratio of employees returning to work after 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Non-consolidated 100 100 100 95.50 100 taking maternity and childcare leaves (%) Frequency of work-related accidents (%) (Number of work-related injuries or deaths ÷ Non-consolidated 0.00 0.00 0.26 0.00 0.00 Number of Childcare Leaves Taken and Ratio of Employees Number of Patents Held Total number of work hours x 1 million) Returning to Work after Taking Maternity and Childcare Leaves (%) Severity of work-related accidents (%) Number of childcare leaves taken Ratio of employees returning to work after (Number of lost work days ÷ Total number Non-consolidated 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male Female taking maternity and childcare leaves of work hours x 1,000) Number of patents held Non-consolidated 1,374 1,339 1,425 1,514 1,532 100 100 100 95.5 100 1,514 1,532 1,374 1,425 1,339 Notes: ∙ The ‌ scope of aggregation for energy consumed, water used, total waste output, Scope 1, and Scope 2 is the scope of consolidated environmental management formu33 lated by Ushio Inc.. 30 For details, please see the “Environmental Data” section of Ushio Inc.’s corporate website. 28 27 28 https://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/eco/ecodata.html ∙ The scope of aggregation for Scope 3 differs by category. For details, please see the “Global Warming Mitigation” section of Ushio Inc.’s corporate website. https://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/eco/effect.html ∙ The electric power to CO2 conversion factor uses the following: In Japan: Applied separately for each electricity provider based on actual results in FY16; Overseas: “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2013” by the International Energy Agency (IEA) ∙N  o greenhouse gases other than CO2 were emitted. ∙ The three-year retention rate for new graduate recruits represents the number of employees who reach their third year with the Company in April of the relevant fiscal year. (Example: Data in the column for FY13 is based on the number of employees as of April 2013 who had joined the Company in 2010.) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 45 46 Stock Information (As of March 31, 2018) Corporate Data (As of March 31, 2018) Total number of shares issued 139,628,721 Established March 1964 Number of shareholders 10,907 Capital ¥19,556,326,316 Employees Parent company 1,590 Japanese subsidiaries 873 Overseas subsidiaries 3,384 Major Shareholders (Holding 2 million shares or more) Total 5,847 Fiscal year From April 1 to March 31 of the following year Number of Shareholding Name shares Ordinary general shareholders’ meeting Every June ratio (%) (1,000 shares) Shareholder registry administrator Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 9,544 6.83 Resona Bank, Limited 6,319 4.52 NORTHERN TRUST CO. (AVFC) RE SILCHESTER INTERNATIONAL INVESTORS 6,016 4.30 INTERNATIONAL VALUE EQUITY TRUST Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 5,369 3.84 Divisions and Major Group Companies NORTHERN TRUST CO. (AVFC) RE U.S. TAX EXEMPTED PENSION FUNDS 5,366 3.84 Parent company Head Office Chiyoda, Tokyo Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. 4,274 3.06 Harima Division Himeji, Hyogo Prefecture The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 4,248 3.04 Gotemba Division Gotemba, Shizuoka Prefecture Asahi Mutual Life Insurance Co. 3,305 2.36 Yokohama Division Yokohama, Kanagawa Prefecture NORTHERN TRUST CO. (AVFC) RE SSD00 2,906 2.08 Osaka Branch Osaka, Osaka Prefecture Jiro Ushio 2,836 2.03 Kawasaki Bio Lab Kawasaki, Kanagawa Prefecture THE USHIO FOUNDATION 2,400 1.71 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 2,319 1.66 Japanese subsidiaries USHIO LIGHTING, INC. NORTHERN TRUST CO. (AVFC) ACCOUNT NON TREATY 2,318 1.66 XEBEX INC. STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 505103 2,212 1.58 ADTEC Engineering Co., Ltd. STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 505001 2,186 1.56 USHIO OPTO SEMICONDUCTORS, INC. 7 other companies * In addition to the above, Ushio Inc. owns 11,573 thousand shares of treasury stock. These 11,573 thousand shares of treasury stock do not include 292 thousand shares of Ushio Inc.’s stock held in a trust account in connection with a stock remuneration plan for executives. Overseas subsidiaries North America USHIO AMERICA, INC. CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS USA, INC. CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS CANADA INC. 14 other companies Composition of Shareholders Stock Price Movement and Stock Turnover Europe Securities companies (Yen) (Million shares) USHIO EUROPE B.V. 1,750 35.00 0.7% BLV Licht-und Vakuumtechnik GmbH 7 other companies Other Japanese companies 7.9% 1,500 30.00 Asia Treasury stock 1,250 25.00 8.3% USHIO HONG KONG LTD. Individuals and others Foreign investors 1,000 20.00 USHIO TAIWAN, INC. 9.0% 39.7% USHIO PHILIPPINES, INC. 750 15.00 Financial institutions USHIO (SUZHOU) CO., LTD. 34.4% USHIO ASIA PACIFIC PTE. LTD. 500 10.00 USHIO KOREA, INC. 250 5.00 USHIO SHANGHAI, INC. 0 0 USHIO SHENZHEN, INC. 14 other companies 16/4 7 10 17/1 4 7 10 18/1 (y/m) 47 48 Publishing USHIO Report 2018 Third-Party Opinion on the Integrated Report More Detailed Information IR Information (Financial Information) CSR Information (Non-Financial Information) Please refer to “Investor Relations Information” section Please refer to “CSR / Society and the Environment” USHIO has published the USHIO Report for the fiscal year action plan for the future for CSR, ESG and SDGs, stating of the USHIO INC. website. section of the USHIO INC. website. under review for the first time. The report has integrated a strategy that will tie to business growth and resolve USHIO’s financial and non-financial information. I would social issues in the long term. The report provides a like to state my opinion from the standpoint of a thirdbalanced view of diverse stakeholders including corporate party in regard to this report, a publication to showcase governance, human resources and local communities, as the Group’s sustainable growth to various stakeholders, well as has a spread that links to individual materials. including shareholders and investors. There is also significant coverage of final qualitative In explaining USHIO’s value creation model and data that includes past results. Medium-term Management Plan which show the Group’s Looking ahead, I expect further substantiation of core sustainable growth, the report exhibits the Group’s current trends, growth in new businesses, expansion strength of an axis revolving around the unshakable prinof examples of resolving social issues and work toward ciple of “light,” its history and vision for the future speaking enhanced references through links to various CSR, ESG through the Message from the President and schematics and SDG activities to convey to various stakeholders the under the slogan of Lighting Edge Technologies. In Lighting Edge Technologies. particular, the report shows an active approach to new business by making it an independent segment, raising Takeshi Kawana expectations of development in the future. Strategist and Chief Manager of The report covers the implementation framework, the ESG Solutions Team specific results, evaluation of the investment market and FISCO IR Ltd. The following reference materials are available. The following reference materials are available. ∙ Medium-Term Management Plan ∙ Environmental Activities Publishing USHIO Report 2018 ∙ Financial Presentations ∙ Green Procurement ∙ Financial Results ∙ CSR Procurement Policy ∙ Consistency with International Initiatives https://www.ushio.co.jp/en/ir/#library https://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/ USHIO has published this integrated report, unifying what going forward. had previously been the separate Annual Report and This is the Company’s first try at an integrated report Sustainability Report, and creating a single publication and thus there will probably be areas that may not suffice containing information about USHIO’s financial and non-fiin some ways, but we will further strive to obtain the nancial aspects. The USHIO Report has been produced reader’s understanding of USHIO’s story of sustainable with an emphasis on what the Company considers to be growth. We would be delighted to receive your frank “importance,” “conciseness” and “sustainability” to enable thoughts and opinions of the report. it to become a new communication tool for the wide array of stakeholders the USHIO Group encompasses. October 2018 Since its founding in 1964, USHIO has been focusing on the key concept of Lighting Edge Technologies and Disclaimer on the characteristics of “light.” We use light not only as The plans, strategies, and other statements related to the outlook for future results in this USHIO Report reflect the assumptions and beliefs of management based on currently available illumination but also as energy through ultraviolet rays information. However, it should be noted that there is a possibility for actual results to differ significantly owing to such factors as changing social and economic conditions. and infrared rays, contributing to innovative technologies being used widely throughout society. We hope that you The copyright to this USHIO Report is held by USHIO INC. Unauthorized reproduction or conversion is strictly prohibited. can feel the attractiveness of USHIO which has achieved growth through its unique value creation model, the Takafumi Asahi Executive Officer, source of USHIO’s innovative technologies. Moreover, we General Manager of the would be delighted to raise further expectations of USHIO Contact Management Strategy Division Investor Relations, Corporate Planning Department, USHIO INC. Tel: +81-3-5657-1007 Mail: ir@ushio.co.jp 49 50
