Our Commitment regarding the United Nations goals on Sustainable Development Vision To be a leading oil refiner and oil products marketing enterprise in Greece and the wider region. Corporate Mission To conduct our business operations To meet our customers’ needs responsibly To function reliably, swiftly and flexibly so as to increase the company’s corporate and effectively, while expanding our in our relationship with employees, value for the benefit of all stakeholders share in the domestic market. customers, suppliers, and the general -shareholders, personnel, customers, public, by making use of practices that suppliers, associates and partners, as well as demonstrate responsibility and integrity, the local and greater communityapplying as well as respect for people technological and commercial innovations. and the environment. Strategic Goals Maximising the profitability of all Maximisation and optimisation Striving for the highest standards the companies of the Group and overall of sales, by effectively marketing our of Health and Safety, Environmental financial performance. products and exploiting opportunities in protection and Quality, through the our three markets (domestic, aviation-marine application of technical, operational bunkering, and export), for achieving the and organisational innovations and best possible profitability. improvements. Our values 1. Integrity 2. Efficiency 3. Social responsibility • Respect for laws and regulations. • Achieving set targets. • Respect for all stakeholders. • Applying business ethics and • Creating value for shareholders • Respect for the environment and the principles of corporate governance. and society. commitment for sustainable growth. • Honest and open communication. • Servicing customers’ needs. • Priority for Health and Safety. • Credibility and respectability in • Providing a safe, stimulating • Ensuring that the companies of the all kinds of business relations. and reciprocal workplace. Group are active and responsible • Continuous improvement and promotion corporate citizens, respecting the local of learning and innovation. community and society as a whole. Our Principles Respect for our people Respect for the environment We recognise the value of our people and we promote their We recognise the value of our natural environment and the necessity for personal development, while offering competitive terms of sustainable development and commit ourselves to the implementation of employment, within a working environment of respect effective operational procedures and technology for its protection. and mutual trust. Transparency We respect human and labour rights and give priority to We operate professionally and responsibly, strictly implementing the workplace Health and Safety assurance. principles of business ethics and corporate governance. 46 Years MOTOR OIL The growth of MOTOR OIL: Important milestones Increase of the Purchase of 50% of company’s equity the company’s shares capital through public by Saudi Arabian offer of shares and Oil Company (Saudi listing on the Athens Aramco). Stock Exchange. Relocation of the Head Upgrading of the Lubes Office to a modern Vacuum Distillation Unit. Offices Complex in Maroussi. Commissioning of the Construction Catalytic Reformer of a Power Plant, Commissioning Unit for gasoline burning fuel gas. of the refinery. It comprises a Crude production. 2002 Oil Distillation Unit, a base oils production unit and port facilities. 2000 1993 1980 2001 1975 1996 1984 Acquisition 1972 1978 Construction of new units and upgrading of the of 100% of the retail Naphtha Reformer into oil marketing Commissioning of the a continuous 103-octane number company Construction completion Catalytic Cracking Unit ISO 9002 quality catalyst regeneration unit AVIN OIL. of the 100,000 barrels/ (for converting fuel oil certification for the entire for the production of fuels day Crude Distillation to higher added value range of the company’s conforming to EU specifications. Complex. products). commercial and manufacturing activities. New Central Control Room Construction completion and installation of a Distributed of the 1.5 million cubic Control System. metres tank farm. Certification of the Environmental Management System, according to ISO 14001:1996. Completion of the construction of 5th gas turbine in refinery’s power cogeneration plant, which now has a total capacity of 85MW. Construction completion of KORINTHOS POWER S. A power plant, located in the MOTOR OIL refinery premises. 2017 Certification of 2014 Health and Safety Management System, according to OHSAS 18001:2007. Certification 2010 2011 Acquisition of the refinery’s of 100% Chemical Laboratory, 2009 of the retail oil marketing according to company ISO 17025:2005. Cyclon A.B.E.E. Commissioning of the new Truck Loading Terminal 2007 at the refinery. 2008 Commissioning of the new 60,000 barrels/day Crude Distillation Unit, and of two additional Sulphur Recovery Units, of a combined 170 ΜΤ/ 2005 day sulphur production capacity. Completion of the acquisition of the shares of the 2006 companies SHELL HELLAS S.A. (renamed to Coral S.A.), and SHELL GAS A.E.B.E.Y. (renamed to Coral GAS A.E.B.E.Y.), as well as of 49% of the aviation Registration fuels trading company. 2004 of the company in the Hellenic Register of EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme).Issue of the The Hydrocracker Increase of the participation in the share first voluntary Environmental Complex is commissioned, capital of OFC AVIATION FUEL SERVICES Statement, conforming facilitating the production S.A. from 28.0% to 92.06%. with EU Regulation of “clean fuels” conforming EMAS ER 761/2001. Entry into natural gas trading in collaboration to European Union with MYTILINEOS S.A. specifications. Repurchase of Saudi Aramco’s stake in the MOTOR OIL achieves record sales for company. the tenth year in a row (13.8 million MT). Recertification of the Quality Management System according to the new ISO 9001:2015, of the Environmental Management System according to the new ISO 14001:2015 and of the Health and Safety Management System, according to OHSAS 18001:2007. Certification of the MOTOR OIL Refinery according to the ISO 50001:2011 for Energy Management and according to ISO 18788:155 for security. Management Message Our Sustainability Report for 2017 is the sixteenth consecutive Report on our Group’s actions, and outlines our performance relative to sustainable development issues that reaffirm our corporate commitments. The structure of the Sustainability Report is based on the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) model and the new GRI Standards, as well as on the provisions of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In this context, the Sustainability Report serves as our “Communication on Progress” prepared in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact, which we endorse and support. In the last year, the MOTOR OIL Group achieved excellent financial results. Favourable conditions in the oil refining sector and our strategic targeting of markets with satisfactory margins set the stage for achieving historically high profitability. Our subsidiaries in the liquid fuel retail sector also had a very good year, and contributed to boosting overall results. On a consolidated basis, our operational performance (EBITDA) reached 621 million euros and our net earnings 314 million euros. In 2017, our refinery achieved record high sales for the tenth year running, and 82.1% of those sales were made to our customers abroad. As for our commercial companies, we celebrated 40 years of operation for Avin, a company which is developing strongly with a steadily growing presence in the Greek market, while Coral in 2017 expanded its geographical presence to the markets of Cyprus and Serbia, having secured the rights to use the Shell brand there. The main focus of our strategy remains sustainable development and responsible entrepreneurship. We manufacture products and offer high added-value services with an emphasis on safety and efficiency, to the benefit of all of our stakeholders. As a Group, we employ more than 1,900 people, providing a fair and safe work environment that encourages growth and builds on the knowledge and skills of our people. As such, the ongoing training we provide our employees with, is of vital importance, and in this context during 2017 we held about 41,000 man-hours of training programmes. We continued to make investments and adopted best available techniques and technologies to make us more efficient and enhance our market competitiveness. In 2017, the Group spent a total of 113 million euros, 24.9 million euros of which was for investments and operational enhancements in safety at work, and 23.6 million euros was used to reduce our environmental footprint. All of us together both management and staff strive to live up to the role that we wish to play in the social, environmental and entrepreneurial stage: the role of a leading company exercising prudent and responsible management, improving its performance indicators and consolidating its credibility in the eyes of all of its stakeholders. We invest in infrastructure and expand to new markets, accepting the integral challenges of the international business scene, with concern for the environment, for our employees and for our partners, in order to ensure our long-term sustainability. MOTOR OIL Group Management Sustainability Report 2017 Contents 2 The Growth of MOTOR OIL: Important Milestones 5 Management Message 6 Contents 26 Responsibility towards our Employees 28 Human Resources 8 Management System 28 Equal Opportunities and Human Rights 29 Labor Relations and Trade Identity and Corporate Responsibility Unions 29 Basic Employment Data 10 Motor Oil Group Profile 31 Remuneration System and 11 The Refinery Additional Benefits 12 Results 2017 33 Education and Training 14 Corporate Governance 15 Participation in International National Agencies and Networks 16 Awards and Recognition 17 Managing Corporate Responsibility 18 Responsible Growth and Investments 19 Responsibility for the Environment, Health and Safety 20 Responsible Quality Management 21 Product Safety 22 Communication with Stakeholders 24 Identification of Material Issues 6 36 Health and Safety 38 Health and Safety Management 50 Framework 40 Safety Indices 41 Health and Safety Investments 41 Inspections Responsibility for the Environment 42 Procedures 70 44 Planned Shutdowns New Projects 52 Environmental Management 44 REACH and CLP Regulations 54 Environmental Impact Management 44 Emergency Response Plans 55 Environmental Investments and 46 Safety of Port Installations Expenses 46 Safeguarding Workforce Health 56 Best Available Techniques Social Responsibility 47 Training on Safety Issues 58 Energy Saving 72 Economic Benefits to Society 62 Air Quality Management Social Product 65 Liquid Waste Management 73 Customer Service Respect for the 66 Solid Waste Management Recycling Customer 67 Water Management 74 Social Solidarity and Sponsorships 68 Noise Management 69 Protection of the Marine Environment 80 Sustainability Report Framework 80 About the Sustainability Report 81 Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2017 and our Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals 82 GRI Compliance Level 7 Identity and Corporate Responsibility We are an energy group that creates value with consistency and responsibility. During all the years in which the MOTOR OIL Group Also in 2017, company strategy has focused primarily on has been operating as an oil refiner and oil products attaining a high degree of employment at the refinery, on marketing company, it has always functioned with a optimal distribution of products, on the three main markets strong sense of corporate responsibility, aiming at in which it does business (domestic market, exports and sustainable profitability and development in a socially shipping/aviation), and on creating positive cash flows. responsible manner. It implements investment programs As a result of all the above, MOTOR OIL managed to aiming at the continuous development and optimisation of achieve record sales (13.8 million MT) for the tenth year its productive activity, always bearing in mind the Vision running, significantly exceeding the refinery’s annual and the corporate values that form the framework of its production capacity. Production grew as well, climbing to operation and business activity. 12.9 million MT in 2017, from 11.5 million MT in 2016. 2017 was a very positive year for MOTOR OIL with At the same time, overseas sales in 2017 (including exceptional financial results. Conditions in the sector shipping and aviation) accounted for 82.1% of the and international prices of crude oil and petroleum company’s total volume of sales, compared with 77.9% products internationally helped shape the conditions in 2016, owing to the fact that the company exploited to for achieving high refining margins. The consolidated the full its export capacity. financial results attained historically high levels. Aside from parent company MOTOR OIL, whose results were Finally, regarding our financial overview, the creation of also at an all-time high, the Group was bolstered by positive cash flows allowed, on one hand, uninterrupted good performance of its top-quality networks (Shell, funding of the company’s turnover and operating Avin, Cyclon) through which it trades on the domestic activities, while on the other hand reducing its net bank retail liquid fuel market. debt to a historic low. Full advantage of favourable international circumstances Record low net bank debt Improved consolidated results from the operation of our commercial companies 13.8 Motor Oil sales New historic high million tons Of sales are exports Further 82.1% reinforcement of export orientation Identity and Corporate Responsibility 1. MOTOR OIL Group Profile The MOTOR OIL Group on average employs 1,974 people; it had a consolidated turnover in 2017 equivalent to about 4.4% of the Greek GDP and total assets of 2.9 billion euros on a consolidated basis. The Group plays a leading role in the sectors of crude oil refining and marketing of petroleum products in Greece, as well as the greater eastern Mediterranean region, supplying its customers with a wide range of high quality products. The MOTOR OIL parent company was founded in 1970 and Group of Businesses. In 2011, M & M received a license the refinery commenced operations in 1972. The company to supply natural gas from the Ministry of the Environment, has been quoted on the Athens Stock Exchange since 2001. Energy and Climate Change, under which it has the right to It is listed on the index of 25 companies with the highest sell natural gas for the next twenty years. capitalisation (FTSE/ATHEX Large Cap), the General Index • The Group is active in the aviation fuel services sector (ATHEX COMPOSITE INDEX) and on individual sector through OFC AVIATION FUEL SERVICES S.A. in which indices. MOTOR OIL and subsidiary AVIN OIL hold an equal stake of 46.03% each. OFC is the company which constructed • The refining of crude oil and marketing of oil products and operates the existing, automated system for supplying are the main activities of the MOTOR OIL Group, whose aviation fuel to the Eleftherios Venizelos Airport, Athens, as refinery is one of the most technologically sophisticated, well as the fuel storage facilities at the same airport. complex and flexible (in terms of production processes) • MOTOR OIL also maintains a presence in the sector of refineries to be found anywhere in Europe or elsewhere. prospection, exploration and exploitation of oil (upstream), • In the area of trade, the Group has achieved significant through its 65% stake in MOTOR OIL VEGAS UPSTREAM development of its activities and an expansion of its Ltd, based in Cyprus. domestic market share. The basis for this development are • Finally, the Group has a stake in companies providing the liquid fuel retail networks of its subsidiaries AVIN OIL support for its operations, such as MOTOR OIL Finance and Coral (formerly SHELL HELLAS S.A.). Together, the plc, a financial services supplier, IREON INVESTMENTS networks consist of a total of approximately 1,400 service Ltd, a holding company, and the company Building stations selling liquid fuels, accounting for about 35% of Facility Services, which supplies facility management and the domestic market. In 2017, Coral entered Cyprus’ retail operation services. market following the acquisition of Lukoil Cyprus Limited, which was renamed Coral Energy Products Cyprus Limited. The following table sets out the major subsidiary and affiliated The agreement includes the use of the Shell brand on the companies comprising the MOTOR OIL Group, as well as Cypriot market. Similarly, Coral launched operations on the stakes held in them (directly or indirectly) by the parent the Serbian market and opened the first service station company. More detailed information on the companies can under the Shell brand in that country. be found in the Annual Financial Report 2017. • LPC S.A. is active in the lubricant market. The entire lubricants part of AVIN OIL was transferred to this company, with LPC now producing and marketing a range of lubricants, and constituting the core of this activity in the Group. • The Group enjoys a presence in the liquefied gas sector through Coral Gas S.A. The company stores, packages and markets bottled and bulk liquefied gas and liquefied gas for vehicles (autogas), and has a market share of around 27%. In 2017, the company established a subsidiary in Cyprus with a view to expanding its activities abroad. • The Group has laid the foundations for its presence in the electricity generation sector, through a 35% stake acquired by the MOTOR OIL S.A. in KORINTHOS POWER S.A. (the other 65% stake is held by MYTILINAIOS S.A. Group of Businesses). The company has a combined cycle, natural gas fuelled, power station, with a capacity of 436.6 MW, located next to the MOTOR OIL facilities at Ag. Theodoroi, Corinth. • The Group has already established a presence in the natural gas market through M & M NATURAL GAS S.A., in which MOTOR OIL holds an equal stake with MYTILINAIOS S.A. 10 Percentage Share Name Activity Direct Indirect AVIN OIL S.Α. Marketing of petroleum products 100% CORAL S.A. Marketing of petroleum products 100% CORAL GAS S.A. Marketing of liquefied petroleum gas 100% LPC S.A. LUBRICANTS & PETROLEUM Processing and marketing of lubricants and petroleum products 100% PRODUCTS OFC AVIATION FUEL SERVICES S.Α. Aviation Fuel Supply Systems 46.03% 46.03% Μ AND Μ NATURAL GAS S.A. Marketing of natural gas 50% SHELL & MOH S.A. AVIATION FUELS Marketing of aviation fuels 49% KORINTHOS POWER S.A. Production and marketing of electrical energy 35% ATHENS AIRPORT FUEL PIPELINE Supply of aviation fuel via pipeline to E. Venizelos Airport 16% COMPANY S.A. MOTOR OIL VEGAS UPSTREAM LIMITED Prospection, exploration and exploitation of oil 65% IREON INVESTMENTS LIMITED Holding Company 100% MOTOR OIL FINANCE plc Financial services 100% MOTOR OIL MIDDLE EAST DMCC Marketing of crude oil and oil products 100% BUILDING FACILITY SERVICES Provision of facility management and operation services 100% This Report includes results only for parent company MOTOR OIL and for subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and OFC. 2. The Refinery The refinery is located in Agioi Theodoroi, Corinth, about 70 km from the centre of Athens. The refinery with its ancillary plants and fuel distribution facilities forms the largest privately owned industrial complex in Greece, and is considered one of the most modern refineries in Europe. The complexity of Motor Oil’s refinery stands at 11.54 according to Nelson’s Complexity Index. It has the capacity to process various types of crude oil international standards. The technical sophistication of the and manufactures a wide range of oil products. It supplies refinery allows MOTOR OIL to manufacture products with commercial oil companies in Greece, but the bulk of its high added value, adjusting the final product mix to market production is sold abroad. Moreover, it is the only refinery needs, ensuring better distribution prices and achieving that produces base oils in Greece. Refinery products meet the better refining margins than other composite refineries in the European Union specifications, as well as the most stringent Mediterranean. Characteristics of the refinery • Processing capacity 185,000 barrels of crude oil per • It has ISO 9001:2015 certification for Quality, stream day (BSD). ISO 14001:2015 and ΕΜΑS III ER 1221/2009 • The refinery produces all types of fuel and is one certification for the Environment, OHSAS 18001:2007 of the most advanced and complex in Europe, with certification for Health and Safety, ISO 17025:2005 Hydrocracker and Catalytic Cracking units and an certification for its Chemical Labs and CE Marking 11.54 rating on the Nelson Complexity Index. certification for its asphalt products, in accordance • It produces refined fuels (gasoline and automotive with EU Regulation 305/2011 and the requirements diesel) in accordance with the EU specifications. of European standard ΕΝ 12591:2009. This is a 11 Identity and Corporate Responsibility combination of standards found in very few European Institute (API), the European Automobile Manufacturers refineries. Since 2016, MOTOR OIL has been applying Association (ACEA) and the United States Army and the EI/JIG1530 standard in the management and Navy. transportation of Jet Fuel. In the context of reducing • It possesses a power and steam cogeneration unit, which greenhouse gas emissions and the sustainability criteria now has a capacity of 85 MW following the recent laid down by the EU, our company applies a control addition of a fifth gas turbine. system for biofuels and the blending of fossil fuels with • It uses natural gas as a fuel and as a raw material for the biofuels, having been certified with the 2BSvs Certificate production of hydrogen. since October 2016. This certification meets the • It has a storage capacity of 2,500,000 m3 (Crude requirements of the biofuel mass balance and expires in Oil: 1,000,000 m3, Intermediate & Finished Products: 2021. The refinery earned two new certificates in 2017 1,500,000 m3). the ISO 50001:2011 for energy management and the • It has modern port facilities for tanker docking, suitable ISO 18788:2015 for its security system. for tankers of up to 450,000 DWT, which can serve • It is the only refinery in Greece with a unit producing more than 3,000 vessels annually. base oils and finished lubricants, approved by such • It has a modern truck loading terminal, which can serve international agencies as the American Petroleum 220 road tankers per day. The refinery’s requirements in terms of electricity are met by the of hydrogen and as a fuel for its thermal and energy needs. five gas turbines of the Power Cogeneration Plant, which make This grants it valuable flexibility in selecting the optimal mix of it energy self-sufficient. Steam is provided by the four steamraw materials and fuels, while further improving the refinery’s producing boilers, as well as the steam generated by certain environmental performance. units within the refinery. The sea water desalination units provide Liquid waste is collected and treated in the Industrial Waste sufficient water of suitable quality to feed the boilers and fully Water Treatment Plant and the Urban Liquid Waste Treatment meet the needs of the refinery. Plant. The refinery has a modern Truck Loading Terminal, which The refinery is connected to the national natural gas network, significantly strengthens the competitive position of MOTOR OIL allowing it to use natural gas as a raw material for the production in the southern Greek market. 3. Results 2017 2017 was another great year for the refinery sector worldwide, and especially for the Mediterranean region. The great sophistication of our refinery did allow the Group to make continual adjustments to the crude supply mix in order to take advantage as effectively as possible of the circumstances. Conditions in the refinery sector in the Mediterranean Basin and relationships with customers. The quantities supplied to each the broader area developed favourably during 2017, and our of these markets are determined by the relevant demand, but refinery managed to procure crude oil at competitive prices also by the company’s aim of supplying its products to the and particularly favourable terms. This resulted in high refining markets that offer the highest margins. The sales figures show margins for the year overall, which were within the sector’s the company’s steady export orientation, based on which upper range and significantly higher than the benchmark for foreign sales, including shipping/aviation sales, to more the sector. As part of this achievement, MOTOR OIL set a new than 45 countries (the main destinations being Egypt, Saudi record for sales, increased its exports and reduced its net bank Arabia, USA, UK, Lebanon, Italy and Turkey) accounted for loans to a historically low level. 82.1% of all sales, compared to 77.8% in 2016. Exports are also beneficial to the company on an operational level, • It is highly important that MOTOR OIL product sales have allowing it to finance the purchase of crude oil at the current been rising steadily in recent years, reaching 13.98 million price levels and ensure a continuous supply of raw material tons* in 2017 – a new historic record. Its products are to the refinery. delivered to the three markets in which it operates (domestic market, exports and the shipping/aviation sector) through a *13,830 thousand ΜΤ sales and 152 thousand ΜΤ from the powerful sales network and with the help of long-standing sale of crude oil to a third party. 12 MOTOR OIL Sales per market (thousand Μt) MOTOR OIL Sales per product (thousand Mt) 14,000 13,830 14,000 13,830 12,672 12,852 13,042 12,672 12,852 13,042 12,000 11,984 12,000 11,984 10,000 10,000 8,000 8,000 6,000 6,000 4,000 4,000 2,000 2,000 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Asphalt Fuel oil Automotive Diesel – Heating Oil Domestic Market PPC External Market Shipping -Aviation Aviation Fuel Gasoline Liquefied Petroleum Gas Lubricants Etc • The Group’s turnover went up significantly in 2017, amounting to Consolidated Financial Results (million euros) 7.84 billion euros (a 23% increase from 2016). Contributing to this development was the rise in the average price of petroleum 604 621 products (in USD) by about 30%, as well as a 5.6% increase in sales volume, though part of the increase was offset by a slight 9,282 9,050 492 weakening in the dollar/euro rate of 2%. 7,843 • The Group’s EBITDA was also substantial, amounting to 620.5 6,357 million euros in 2017 compared to 603.5 million euros in 2016, 7,060 for an increase of 2.8%. Similarly, the Group’s net results after tax 298 314 205 for 2017 reached 314 million euros compared to 298 million 185 in 2016, recording a 5.4% increase. The above was the result of the high refining margins retained throughout the year, while 52 the contribution of the commercial subsidiaries was also positive. • MOTOR OIL’s total domestic market share came to 27.3% from -5 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 31.4% in 2016 due to zero sales of fuel oil to the PPC and zero sales of aviation fuel (only occasional sales). From a business -83 aspect, the company is focusing on the retail sales of liquid fuels, Turnover EBITDA Net profit after tax with its share at 35%. MOTOR OIL’s DOMESTIC MARKET SHARE 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Fuels 37.5% 38.0% 35.2% 33.5% 28.4% Shipping/Aviation 25.7% 28.7% 26.2% 25.8% 24.9% Lubricants 36.8% 40.4% 40.4% 52.0% 40.6% TOTAL DOMESTIC MARKET 33.9% 35.3% 32.7% 31.4% 27.3% 13 Identity and Corporate Responsibility 4. Corporate Governance The management and control of MOTOR OIL are based on contemporary principles of good corporate governance, as prescribed by legislation and the relevant regulations, and by other international practices and auditing standards. Corporate governance determines the company’s daily operations with regard to issues such as: • the appropriate structure of its Board of Directors, of Directors. The CCG sets out the framework governing the • respect for, equal treatment and protection of the interests and company’s key operating areas, and includes the best practices the rights of all shareholders, customers and suppliers, in corporate governance it has adopted. The Code is revised • compliance with legal and regulatory provisions, as appropriate (amendment of articles of association, changes • transparency in decision-making, in the organisational chart, or in the institutional and regulatory • the reliability and adequacy of all disseminated information, framework, etc.) and is always available in its current form on regarding the Group’s strategy and financial results, or its the company website. The company’s most senior decisionfinancial transactions, taking body is the Board of Directors, which is elected by the • the management of personnel and remuneration matters, and Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and which represents • the identification, reporting and control of all inherent risks. a broad range of knowledge, experience and qualifications, tailored to match the objectives of the company while ensuring, The company has its own Code of Corporate Governance as far as possible, a numerical balance between executive and (CCG), which was prepared and approved by the Board non-executive directors. Composition of Board of Directors Name Board Position Member Identity* Vardis J. Vardinoyannis Chairman and Managing Director Executive Ioannis V. Vardinoyannis Vice Chairman Executive Ioannis Kosmadakis Deputy Managing Director Executive Petros Tzannetakis Deputy Managing Director Executive Nikos Th. Vardinoyannis Member Non-executive George Alexandridis Member Non-executive Theofanis Voutsaras Member Executive Michael Steiakakis Member Executive Niki Stoufi Member Non-executive Anastasios Triantafyllidis Member Non-executive/ Independent Antonios Theoharis Member Non-executive/ Independent * In accordance with Law 3016/2002 Three four-member committees operate within the framework of The members of the Audit Committee are named by the Annual the Board of Directors: Remuneration, Audit, and Organisation General Meeting of Shareholders, in accordance with the & Corporate Governance. provisions of Law 4449/2017. As such, given the increased The Remuneration Committee comprises four members of the Board responsibility of this committee, the Annual General Meeting of Directors, two of whom are executive, one is non-executive of 2017 decided to strengthen the committee by adding and one is independent/non-executive. The chairman of the another member and named the independent member, committee is the non-executive member of the Board of Directors, A. Theoharis, chairman. Other members of the committee G. Alexandridis, and the other members are P. Tzannetakis, T. include non-executive members G. Alexandridis and N. Voutsaras and A. Theoharis. The Remuneration Committee has Stoufi, as well as independent member A. Triantafyllidis. been in existence since 1996 and serves in an advisory capacity The committee members are all well-versed in the sector in to the Board of Directors, in accordance with the powers the Board which the company does business. The Audit Committee has grants it. It deals with staffing issues and recommends policies on also been in existence since 1996, and is of considerable salaries, benefits and incentives for management and staff, also assistance to the Board of Directors in performing its duties, overseeing implementation of the said policies. acting as recipient of all reports on audits carried out by the 14 company’s Internal Audit Department. The statutory auditor basis. Both reports submitted to the administration and or audit firm reports to the committee on all matters relating financial information released to the public contain all the to the progress and results of the regular mandatory audit, necessary information expected from an updated internal submitting a special report on any weaknesses in the internal audit system, featuring analyses of sales, costs and spending, audit system. operating profits and other details. Since 1990, the company has had its own Internal Audit All reports to the administration contain details for the current Department, which reports directly to the Board of Directors period, for purposes of comparison with the corresponding and is overseen by the Audit Committee. The company’s figures in the budget, as approved by the Board of Directors, independent internal audit system aims at ensuring and with the figures for the same period in the previous year. compliance with the company’s procedures for managing All published interim and annual financial statements are financial and operational matters, as well as ensuring that compiled in accordance with the International Financial issues related to the efficient management of business risks Reporting Standards, contain all necessary information and are given proper attention. Lastly, the company’s financial opinions on the financial statements, are reviewed by the statements are also audited by independent chartered Audit Committee and approved in their entirety by the Board auditors, in compliance with its statutory obligations. of Directors. The Organisation & Corporate Governance Committee was formed in June 2017 and is charged with overseeing Policy on Corruption matters related to the company’s organisation which Combating corruption and preventing related incidents include changes in the organisational structure, as well as is a priority for us and for our stakeholders. Corruption issues of complying with the mandates of the regulatory is directly related to environmental degradation, the and institutional framework of corporate governance. The infringement of human and labour rights, and the violation chairman of the committee is I. Kosmadakis, and the other of laws. Our commitment to fight corruption is manifested members are P. Tzannetakis, T. Voutsaras, and non-executive in our adoption of the United Nations Global Compact, member N. Stoufi. which explicitly refers to actively combating corruption (Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of Control and Risk Management Systems corruption, including extortion and bribery) and in the fact In respect of the operation of the company’s Internal Control that we have undertaken all necessary actions to prevent and Risk Management ICRM Systems, in relation to the any such incidents. Just as in 2016, there were no confirmed procedure for compiling financial statements, we should incidents of corruption in 2017 involving our employees or state that the MOTOR OIL financial reports system uses a our associates, nor were we fined or penalised for failure sophisticated software package to produce reports to the to comply with related laws and regulations. To this end, in administration and to external users. 2017 we proceeded to draw up the MOTOR OIL Group’s Financial statements and other analyses are submitted to the General Business Principles, which include those principles administration on a monthly basis, and compiled in simple governing all of our activities and our transactions with and consolidated form, in accordance with the International internal and external stakeholders. Our principles have been Financial Reporting Standards, for submission to the posted on the company website www.moh.gr and have been administration and for general publication, on a quarterly notified to all of our employees and associates. 5. Participation in International – National Agencies and Networks MOTOR OIL and the Group’s other companies support and maintain lasting relationships with international and national bodies, and are members of: • The Global Compact Network Hellas. MOTOR OIL also participates in the following organisations: • The Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility. • CONCAWE (CONservation of Clean Air and Water in • The Hellenic Federation of Enterprises. Europe), providing technical support to European refineries •The Athens Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the on Health, Safety and Environmental Protection issues. Hellenic-American, the Hellenic-British and the Arab-Hellenic • Oil Companies International Marine Forum (OCIMF), Chambers, as well as other regional Chambers. an association of petroleum companies with an interest in • The Hellenic Association of Independent Power Producers. promoting the safe and environmentally friendly marine • The Union of Listed Companies, etc. transportation of crude oil and petroleum products. 15 Identity and Corporate Responsibility • Mediterranean Oil Industry Group (MOIG), the forum of oil the Research Institutes of CERTH in Thessaloniki, UniCRE in companies on issues of prevention and timely response to the Czech Republic, CIEMAT in Spain, LNEG in Portugal, sea pollution. companies IBERCAT in Spain, VUHU in the Czech Republic Moreover, we support the academic community in research and ESTRA in the UK for the realisation of the DIRPIMCOAL exploring refining industry issues relating to health, safety and project. The research project aims at the environmental environmental protection. optimisation of the liquefaction of coal from industrial and urban waste for the production of biofuels. In this context, MOTOR OIL: • Works with the National Technical University of Athens, • Continues to cooperate with the Applied Geochemistry POWER MEDIA PRODUCTIONS and the Municipality Laboratory of the Geology Department, Patras University, of Rafina-Pikermi to implement the European LIFE DIANA for the determination of chemical conditions prevailing in the environmental project. LIFE DIANA involves constructing a refinery’s coastal zone. pilot facility at the MOTOR OIL refinery to exploit petroleum • Cooperates with the Universities of Nottingham and Ulster, sludge in making new adding value materials. 6. Awards and Recognition The Group’s companies have received significant recognition for their work and activities from the international and national business communities. Such recognition highlights the excellent quality of the Group’s products and services and the priority placed on effectively meeting society’s needs. CHRIMA Business Awards 1st prize in the Investor Relations category for MOTOR OIL. For the 7th consecutive year, MOTOR OIL was named the leading company on the ICAP True Leaders basis of specific criteria (profitability, increase in personnel, leadership position in the sector and credit rating). OFC was awarded for the tenth consecutive year with the JIG “Certificate of Joint Inspection Group Excellence”. This is a global first, which none of the 180 companies inspected by JIG has achieved ever before. OFC took 1st prize in a competition held by the Athens International Airport Environmental Excellence Award Environmental Services to name the best company active at Eleftherios Venizelos Airport in terms of procedures and its achievements in environmental protection. Shell & MOH Aviation Fuels S.A. was awarded as one of the most robustly DIAMONDS of the Greek Economy developing companies. 7. Managing Corporate Responsibility The MOTOR OIL Group is engaged in the energy sector, mainly in the oil sector, which is an area requiring special respect for and compliance with the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainable growth. This is because crude oil, from extraction and transportation to refining and use of refined products, has environmental effects that must be effectively managed, utilising available technology. In implementing the principles of corporate responsibility, we We fully acknowledge the importance of these issues and seek: demonstrate our corporate responsibility by our commitment to • to achieve a balanced approach to the economic, social and pursuing our business activities with due respect for people, the environmental impact of the Group’s operations, environment and society. • to create value for our shareholders, while also serving the interests of other stakeholders, • to show concern for our employees and for society at large. 16 Employees • Health and Safety • Equal Opportunities • Competitive Remuneration o Imp f C ro System o ve n m Environment • Training and di e Development tio n • Best Available Techniques n t s • Energy Savings t e en c m an • Reduction of Emissions e ve m o r bl Corporate pr fo si n es Im Per po ic Responsibility o f es ct Management Market f R ra o P • Corporate Governance n cal Model tio i o th • Quality and Reliability m E o nd • Service Pr a • Monitoring and Evaluation • Risk Management o Im f Q pr Society ua ov • Contribution lit em to Culture, Sports and y en o t the Environment fL • Support of socially vulnerable groups ife • Responsible Growth • Responsible Employment MOTOR OIL: With Responsibility towards its Employees, With Responsibility towards Society, adopts the four-fold approach of attracting, identifying, pursues constructive social dialogue with the local communities developing and retaining its human resources by investing in in which it operates, in a climate of trust and respect. It supports their training, securing a work setting where teamwork, respect these communities by participating in programmes that enhance and initiative are key and where Health and Safety are of toptheir economic, social and cultural life, and becomes involved in most priority and ensured by the most advanced infrastructure similar activities that benefit society as a whole. and administrative practices. With Responsibility towards the Market, With Responsibility towards the Environment, respects market rules and produces top quality products; it strives to ensure that its activities have the minimum possible impact focuses on relations of trust with its customers, suppliers and on the environment, by having in place an effective Environmental partners, and strives to ensure the best possible return for its Management System and implementing Best Available Techniques, shareholders without compromising its principles of corporate as well as the most advanced systems for environmental protection, responsibility and sustainable development. energy management and energy saving. Responsible Management of the Supply Chain For us, the proper management of our supply chain is an on the basis not only of their economic viability but also of essential component of our corporate responsibility. We qualitative and environmental criteria. Would-be suppliers recognise that a sustainable supply chain not only minimises are asked to complete questionnaires detailing their ability social and environmental risks, but can also serve as a guide to safeguard the quality of the products and services they aim for values and success at a business and community level. We to provide, as well the environmental impact of their activities thus carry out detailed evaluation of our potential suppliers, and the health and safety systems they employ. 17 Identity and Corporate Responsibility In respect of the contractors working at the refinery are aware that every day dozens of tanker trucks are and our other installations, we follow a comprehensive travelling the roads on our behalf, and are committed programme of safety training, the objective always to minimising the risks inherent in road transport. For this being to achieve GOAL ZERO, i.e. zero accidents. reason, we have developed very detailed programmes For example, in 2017 we continued the programme in which transportation companies are assessed and whereby refinery contractors (580 individuals) given rigorous improvement targets; if they fail to meet underwent training with exams and certification over them, their contracts are not renewed. As a result a total of 4,640 hours. Detailed evaluation and of this ground-breaking programme, by the end of training programs are also implemented in the tanker 2017 the tanker trucks we use had travelled a total of truck companies which meet our transport needs. We 21,500,000 km without a single accident. 8. Responsible Growth and Investments Responsible growth and creation of value for the benefit of all stakeholders is at the core of MOTOR OIL Group’s business model. We therefore adopt an investment program allowing the attainment of a good operating performance in all sectors, with substantial financial results as the final outcome. Responsible Growth of Group Value Objective value creation Strategy Maximising Maximising / Optimising Safety Financial Optimising and Environmental Performance Sales Protection Methods Targeted Effective Cost Effective Dedicated Transparency / Investments Management Marketing Staff Corporate Governance Base CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our vision is the consolidation of MOTOR OIL’s position as a aviation/shipping, and exports), for achieving the best leading refining and oil products marketing company in the possible profitability. broader region in which we operate. In order to succeed in • Striving for the highest standards of Health and Safety, this objective, we focus on the following three key targets: Environmental Protection and Quality, through the • Maximisation of financial returns and the refinery’s profit application of technical and operational adaptations. margins. • Maximisation and optimisation of sales, by effectively marketing the refinery products and exploiting opportunities in our three available markets (domestic, 18 of their exploitation. The most recent major investment was 1,677 million euros the construction of a new Crude Distillation Unit, which was completed in 2010 and cost 200 million euros, including the Total investments for the period peripheral units. This unit has substantially strengthened the 2000-2017 company’s competitive position and improved its profitability, having been in operation already for more than eight years. Moreover, a large investment in the last decade has been Total investment expenditures by the Group in the period 2000the installation of the hydrocracker complex, which made 2017 amounted to 1,677 million euros, not including capital possible the generation of clean fuels to meet European Union used for acquisitions. specifications. The outlay for investments in 2017 amounted to 113.3 million The rest of our investment programme has been designed to euros and, as far as the refinery is concerned, involved upgrades upgrade the technological capacity and efficiency of the to refinery units, construction of new tanks, port expansion refinery, and to introduce vertical integration, automation, and others. Over the last fifteen years we have completed a energy autonomy and environmental protection. The result series of substantial investments for MOTOR OIL concerning has been that the refinery is now regarded as one of the most both organic growth and acquisitions. The company has now efficient and sophisticated installations of its kind anywhere in entered a period of maturing investments and optimisation the world. 9. Responsibility for the Environment, Health and Safety Ensuring health and safety and environmental protection constitutes a fundamental strategic aim. Thus, we strive to conduct our operations without compromising the health and safety of our employees and associates, while maintaining the highest standards of environmental protection and respecting the quality of life of those living in the vicinity of our industrial facilities. The emphasis on management of Health, Safety and 18001:2007 standard since 2008), which translate this Environmental Protection, as well as our commitment to policy into programmes and quantifiable targets. In 2017, continual improvement of specific sectors, is reflected in the company’s Environmental Management System was a comprehensive management system that includes the recertified to ISO 14001, in line with the revised standard Environmental and Energy Management System, and the of 2015. Additionally, the Energy Management System was Health and Safety Management System (certified to OHSAS certified to ISO 50001:2011. Health, Safety and Environmental Protection Policy MOTOR OIL operates with due respect for Health, Safety • Applying a coherent Integrated Management System and the Environment. To achieve this, the company is that takes Health, Safety and Environmental Protection committed to: factors into consideration when business decisions and • Setting aims compatible with the continuous improvement plan are being prepared, and in the operation of its of its Health, Safety and Environmental management facilities. systems. • Offering information and training to its own employees • Complying with, or exceeding, the requirements of and to subcontractors and others working on its relevant legislation or other obligations. behalf, so as to ensure their commitment to and raised • Producing guaranteed quality products in accordance awareness of safe working practices. with, or exceeding, Health and Environmental Protection • Actively and uncompromisingly complying with specifications applicable to each, efficiently making use environmental operating standards that set limits on of raw materials, energy and technology. waste and polluting emissions. • Reporting its performance, good or bad, as a responsible • Cooperating with all stakeholders in developing and corporate citizen. applying balanced Health, Safety and Environmental • Maintaining emergency action plans and systems which Protection programmes that take into account the needs are regularly rehearsed with the appropriate drills. of all parties involved. 19 Identity and Corporate Responsibility 10. Responsible Quality Management Our commitment to quality is a fundamental element of our strategy. MOTOR OIL’s quality policy is summed up in two key principles, to which both management and employees are fully committed: • We produce and sell products that satisfy our customers, System confers the necessary internal coherence and links always taking into consideration all stakeholders’ interests. these management systems with other related processes • As we focus on our customers, we explore and evaluate which affect them, thus maximising their effectiveness. Since their requirements and apply all necessary technologies and 2016, our company has also been certified with the 2BSvs actions, aiming at avoiding compromises in quality matters certificate applying to the control of biofuels and blending and at constantly improving the effectiveness of our Quality of fossil fuels with biofuels, and has met the EI/JIG1530 Management System. standard for management and transport of Jet Fuel. The Quality Control process meets the requirements of the For MOTOR OIL, the Integrated Management System used to ISO 17025:2005 standard, and the Hellenic Accreditation implement our Quality policy is oriented to customers and their System (HAC) has certified the refinery’s Chemical Laboratory needs and systematically includes all quality-related operational as capable of conducting tests in accordance with requirements and organisational processes. The System was re-certified in of the standard, and issuing Quality Certificates endorsed by 2017 by Bureau Veritas, in accordance with the newly HAC for virtually all the company’s products. This certification revised standard ISO 9001:2015, valid until 2020, while the offers us an additional competitive advantage, ensuring that of first relevant certification dates back to 1993. our products is guaranteed. The refinery has also been awarded CE Marking in accordance The incorporation of the, also newly revised, ISO with standard ΕΝ 12591 for asphalt products, the certification 14001:2015 Environmental Management System and remaining valid until 2020. The refinery earned two new certificates the recertified OHSAS 18001:2007 Health and Safety in 2017 ISO 50001:2011 for its energy management, and ISO Management System into the Integrated Management 18788:2015 for its security system. Integrated Management System Quality Management Human Resources ISO 9001:2015 Procurement Management Quality Control Management ISO 17025:2005 MARKETING production Operating System Stock Marketing Sales Management Environmental Management ISO 14001:2015 iso 50001:2011 EMAS III ER 1221:2009 Delivery Health and Safety Management Customer Service of Products OHSAS 18001:2007 Maintenance 20 All Management Systems are subject to bi-annual or annual The appropriate development of these management systems audits, by the certification bodies, in order to confirm their is realised by achieving certification for their updated consistent implementation, in line with the requirements of versions. In addition, customers, if they so wish, and insurance each one, and they are re-certified every three, four or five organisations carry out audits. years, depending on the System. Certified Management Systems of the Group’s Subsidiary Companies • AVIN OIL operates a Quality Management System accordance with the new ISO 9001:2015 quality certified according to ISO 9001:2008 covering fuels standards. and lubricants storage, marketing and distribution, and • OFC has a Quality Management System, certified retail network management. It has also been certified by to standard ISO 9001:2008, an Environmental Bureau Veritas with regard to the quality and quantity of Management System certified under ISO 14001:2004 fuels it delivers through its service stations, in accordance and a Health and Safety Management System certified with the new ISO 9001:2015 quality standards. under OHSAS 18001:2007/ELOT 1801:2008. These • Coral has been certified across all its activities since certifications relate to the main activity of the company 2012. Specifically, ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 which is the delivery, storage and distribution of aviation and OHSAS 18001:2007 certifications were secured for fuel, as well as the provision of technical consultancy Coral’s procedures for taking delivery, storage, mixing, services and training in aspects of the refuelling of aircraft. loading, transportation, service station management and In 2013, a Fire Safety recertification was granted for the delivery to customers of various fuels products, lubricants next five years. and chemicals. • LPC has a Quality Management System in place, certified • Coral Gas operates an Environmental Management to the ISO 9001:2008 standard for the design, production, System, with ISO 14001:2004 certification, and a sale and distribution of base lubricants, antifreeze, greases Health and Safety Management System with OHSAS and chemical products. It has been verified in accordance 18001:2007 certification, for all its facilities and ISO with the EMAS Regulation (EL 00051) and certified to 9001:2008 certification for its Quality Management ISO 14001:2004 for the waste lubricant oil regeneration System. It has also been certified by Bureau Veritas process and lubricant production. It is in the process of with regard to the quality and quantity of autogas (LPG adapting systems to meet the new ISO 9001:2015 and for vehicles) it delivers through its service stations, in 14001:2015 standards. 11. Product Safety All MOTOR OIL Group companies believe that providing safe products and high-quality services is of topmost priority. In this area, lengthy experience and a high level of know-how, together with consistent quality, guarantee that customers always receive the product they need with the appropriate quality and safety specifications. The Refinery Our Commercial Companies The MOTOR OIL refinery adheres to a standing commitment Our commercial companies have developed innovative to deliver to its customers products that are safe to use programs and integrated quality and quantity controls for and always comply with the appropriate specifications their fuels which are implemented at all stages of transport, established by Greek and international legislation. The from the refinery or facility to the service stations. With the custodian of the procedure is our state-of-the-art laboratory support of our specialised laboratories and purpose-designed which is equipped with the latest technology. The lab quality control mobile units (vans) which carry out spot checks supports all of the refinery’s procedures, as well as those of at our service stations, we actively safeguard the quality and the port and tanker loading terminals. It conducts analyses quantity of our products. In 2017, monitoring of Shell, Avin on both incoming products (crude oil, chemicals, additives) and Cyclon service stations was conducted with the state-ofand during the refining process, and naturally on final the-art vans, which carried out intensive quantity and quality products before they are shipped off to customers. To that testing throughout Greece. Such testing mostly takes the form end, it carries out more than 25,000 analyses a month, with of spot checks at all of the companies’ service stations. In the ultimate goal of ensuring safe distribution of products 2017, there were 2,500 inspections at our service stations all until they reach end consumers and the products’ excellent over Greece. Specifically, Avin’s Quality & Quantity Control quality, thus minimising any potential risks to humans and the Department has been certified to the new ISO 9001:2015 environment. quality standard by the independent, internationally 21 Identity and Corporate Responsibility recognised certification body, Bureau Veritas. of being a leader in Greece and continually offers innovative Additionally, the cutting-edge molecular marker technology products to its customers. It has introduced important innovations used in all differentiated Shell fuels and the Smart Ring used and distributes all of its packaged products on the market with in delivering heating fuel to homes and transport fuel to boats, special safety valves (traditional LPG cylinders with FLV, GoGas establish a framework to fully safeguard customers receiving with triple safety, and the new cartridges with an Internal Leak services and guarantee their satisfaction with the quantity and Limiter [ILL] and flow limiter valve), thus substantially raising quality of Shell fuels. safety levels and protecting consumers with the latest LPG In the area of LPG, Coral Gas remains committed to its vision solutions for home or business. Quantity and Quality Control in Autogas In 2017, Coral Gas launched a pioneering and integrated mass flow meter, which is standard equipment for the quality and quantity assurance system for autogas (LPG for Coral Gas mobile units. It is a modern electronic system vehicles). The project is being carried out by Coral Gas that simultaneously measures all variables that affect mobile units, which conduct spot checks at service stations quantity (mass, density, temperature) to verify that the to ensure the quality and quantity of autogas. In this way, LPG dispenser at service stations is working properly. As Coral Gas demonstrates in practice that it is a reliable for quality control, the Coral Gas mobile units check the choice for any driver using LPG to power their car. autogas specifications, particularly the composition of the Coral Gas’ service station quality and quantity control gas blend that ensures the engine’s proper operation and mobile units have been certified to the ISO 9001 quality maximum performance for better mileage. standards by the independent, internationally recognised In this way, Coral Gas is the only company in Greece that certification body, Bureau Veritas. ensures maximum savings, top performance and better Specifically, quantity testing is carried out with a certified engine protection with every fill-up. 12. Communication with Stakeholders The long-standing communication and cooperation we have developed with stakeholders indicates the importance we attach to this issue, and our desire to openly discuss that any arising issues can be handled in mutually acceptable ways. Direct stakeholders and, in summary, their interaction with the Group companies, as well as the communication approach applied to each of them, are shown in the following table: Reference Social KEY ISSUES Identity Dialogue in the partner of Interaction Report Employees 1,974 direct employees, Employees offer their Ongoing, two-way communication Chapter 2 with 52% of them working labour, knowledge and between employees and management in the refinery (see Chapter experience in return for a through corporate announcements, 2). safe working environment, briefings, intranet, working groups and competitive and fair salaries various events. The refinery employees and additional benefits as are represented by their Trade Union well as opportunities for and the Health and Safety Committee. professional advancement Official dialogue is regularly conducted; and personal development. employees are also encouraged to submit their individual proposals for improvements in working conditions. 22 Reference Social KEY ISSUES Identity Dialogue in the partner of Interaction Report Customers The refinery, due to the The refinery is in continuous Long-standing and close relationships Chapters 1, 5 nature of its activity, has communication with its with our customers, based on the quality relatively few customers. customers in order to of our products, the service we offer, The Group’s commercial satisfy their requirements our experience, and our reliability. We companies have an and provide high quality maintain ongoing communication with extensive network of products, and is duly refinery customers, and once a year customers, from industrial rewarded with the income conduct a satisfaction survey. In the facilities and commercial it receives. The Group’s commercial companies, the customer companies to final commercial companies service departments and staff of our consumers. place customer service service stations are the public face of the at the very heart of their company. We organize mystery shopping strategy, offering them programmes for all our service stations products and services of the and market surveys. highest quality. Local Our industrial activities We closely collaborate Continuous communication and interacChapter 5 communities impact the local with the local and regional tion with local communities through local communities in the communities, whose key councils and other agencies such as vicinity of the refinery concern is the creation of private associations and organizations (Ag. Theodoroi, Corinth) jobs and the return of the (see Chapter 5). and the facilities of our so-called social product Our sustained commitment and ongoing commercial companies through the company’s communication allow us to listen to the (Perama, Kalochorisocial contribution. local community’s needs and respond Thessaloniki, Kavala, promptly and meaningfully. Hania, Alexandroupoli). Partners and Suppliers of products We are closely We have long-standing and close Chapters 1, 3 suppliers and providers of contract collaborating with our relationships with our partners and services at the refinery, at partners and suppliers for suppliers. There is a structured the other facilities and at the provision of products communication and training programme at our service stations. and services based on rigid the refinery, as well as all of our facilities, quality and safety criteria. offering them appropriate information Consequently, they are on health, safety and environmental fairly rewarded, without protection issues, for which compliance problems, for the provision requirements are exceptionally strict and of products and services, closely monitored (see Chapters 1 and 3). ultimately resulting in contribution to economic development. Shareholders, The company’s equity is held Shareholders invest capital in The company operates a Shareholder Chapter 1 Investors and by private and institutional MOTOR OIL, as in any other Services Department. Regular Analysts investors, both Greek and company, in the expectation communication with shareholders is foreign. At the end of 2017 that there will be long-term conducted in various ways: roadshows the main shareholder was financial returns, including 7-8 times a year; an Annual Analysts’ Petroventure Holdings dividends and an increase in Briefing once a year; 4 quarterly Ltd, with a stake of 40%. value of their shares. teleconferences with financial analysts; The free float percentage on the company website; press releases was approximately 52%. and announcements; the Annual Financial The business activities of Report and Social Report, and regular MOTOR OIL are monitored attendance at investment conferences. by both Greek and foreign financial analysts. State and public Public authorities at a local We are in close interaction We always operate within the confines Chapters 1, 3, bodies and national level, and with the State and create of the law. There is an open and honest, 4, 5 authorities in other countries revenues through the payment two-way communication and cooperation in which we are active or of taxes and duties. Public with competent Public Authorities, ensuring conduct sales. authorities protect the public the supply of information required by each interest with laws and body, as well as documented discussion on regulations, ensuring their any issues arising. enforcement, issuing operating licences and providing support in emergency situations 23 Identity and Corporate Responsibility 13. Identification of Material Issues The decision as to what should be included in our Report, and the guidelines for our strategy and actions regarding corporate responsibility, is based on the principle of “Materiality”, which is one of the most important and fundamental guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The principle of Materiality states that a company must report Step 3: A materiality survey was conducted using a qualitative on those topics that significantly impact it and its strategy, as questionnaire to define material issues based on the opinions of reflected in the organisation’s significant (either positive or stakeholders and management. A qualitative scale was used for negative) economic, environmental and social impacts; and each question (Very important, Important, Not very important, on topics that substantively influence the assessments and Not familiar with the topic). The company responded to the decisions of both its internal and external stakeholders. During same questionnaire. The answers were used alongside the the process of identifying material issues, an organisation should stakeholder results to identify material issues. actively engage with its stakeholders and review all of the Step 4: A materiality matrix (graph) was created to visualise topics and issues which fall within the boundaries of materiality material issues. The Y-axis represents the opinions of all for inclusion in the report at the given time. This process also stakeholder groups and the X-axis shows the weightier issues helps us to recognise and assess risks and opportunities as assessed by the MOTOR OIL Group. As a result, the issues related to corporate responsibility and our relationships with of greatest importance (“influence”) to stakeholders and/or the our shareholders, as well as formulating and informing our company (“impacts”) were included in the Sustainability Report corporate goals. for 2017. Process for Assessing Material Issues The process for assessing material issues was updated in 2017 and includes the assessment of 29 topics related to corporate responsibility. Of these, 18 were deemed material. Due to the nature of our activities, our Report places priority on issues of safety and environment, financial results, and on matters related to social contribution which are very important for our stakeholders. In selecting and prioritising material issues, we used the GRI STANDARDS guidelines, which are based on two key parameters: “impacts” (assessment of the impact of each issue of our company’s operation) and “influence” (assessment of how each issue influences our stakeholders and their relationship with the Group). The process, which is described below, was based on the principles of relevance, materiality and prioritisation, and included: Step 1: Identification and prioritisation of main stakeholders who were included in assessing material issues. The process included groups of stakeholders such as employees, representatives of local communities, customers and sub-contractors/associates. Step 2: Identification and prioritisation of key corporate responsibility topics (financial, environmental, labour practices, human rights, social, etc.) using the GRI STANDARDS guidelines and additional GRI guidelines for the sector (Oil & Gas Sector Disclosures). Material issues identified in the corporate responsibility reports of other companies in the sector were also taken into account. The applied criteria related to how significant the impacts of the issues were for corporate responsibility, their importance to the Group’s strategy and the achievement of our goals, as well as their importance to our stakeholders. 24 Graph of Material Issues stakeholders Security of Depots/ Waste Installations Management Emergency Response Health and Safety Product Safety Environmental Compliance Materials / Raw Materials Regulatory and Legislative Compliance Environmental Investments Employment Presence in the Local Market Profitability Education and Training Emissions Energy Personal Data Quality of Products and Services Consumption Biodiversity Anti-competitive Behaviour Anti-Corruption Indirect Economic Non Discrimination Impacts Water Consumption Local Communities Procurement Practices Unions Diversity Branding & Marketing Supplier Assesment motor oil group Financial Issues Environmental Issues Social & Labour Issues The following topics emerged from the process as most material: • Profitability • Employment • Presence in the Local Market • Health and Safety • Anti-competitive Behaviour • Education and Training • Materials / Raw Materials • Product Safety • Energy Consumption • Quality of Products and Services • Water Consumption • Regulatory and Legislative Compliance • Emissions • Emergency Response • Waste Management • Security of Depots/ Installations • Environmental Compliance • Procurement Practices • Environmental Investments 25 Responsibility Towards our Employees It is our firm belief at the MOTOR OIL Group, that our people are the most important resource for our success. We recognise that they are our most valuable resource, We are committed to providing the best possible working essential to the achievement of our strategic goals, to the conditions, securing respect for human rights and for the successful implementation of our growth business plans freedom of association, upholding non-discrimination and and in ensuring our long-term competitiveness. providing equal opportunities for learning and personal That is why we have established an organised and modern development. Human Resources Division for the MOTOR OIL Group During 2017, the MOTOR OIL Group had an average aimed at identifying, attracting, developing and retaining workforce of 1,974 employees. qualified employees and executives who can be utilised We continued to renew our workforce through 358 by all companies. recruitments over the last five years, offering an We aim to provide a safe and fair workplace, which extended training programme and continuing the promotes trust, team spirit and respect for people, along provision to our employees of a structured discretionary with effectiveness. benefits package. Employees 1,974 at Group level Training hours 41,300 in 2017 Recruitments over 358 the 2013-2017 period Responsibility Towards our Employees 1. Human Resources Management System The MOTOR OIL Group has grown significantly over the last few years and has adopted a contemporary, fully integrated Human Resources Management System. The System is designed to allow proper management of the Group’s human resources, with ongoing development and advancement of individual employees. This system is founded on the principles and values of the Group and defined by its vision and strategic objectives. The purpose of the Human Resources Management System is to identify and attract the most talented executives on the market, develop them and retain them within the Group. All of the above are implemented by the Group’s HR Division Vision within the following framework: • Compliance with applicable legislation, and universally established principles of human and labour rights. • Fairness and meritocracy in employee relations. Principles Strategic • Attracting competent young people with a professional and Values Objectives approach to work, who share our values: reliability, HUMAN dedication, integrity and personal responsibility. RESOURCES • Providing equal opportunities and possibilities for the MANAGEMENT professional and personal development of employees. SYSTEM • A competitive and fair remuneration system linked to employee performance and consistent with prevailing market conditions. Identification • Offering pay and benefits exceeding those provided for by law and by collective labour agreements. • A programme of targeted education and training, covering Retention Attraction subjects relevant to the Group’s strategic development goals, and aiming at the effective and safe discharge of Development duties. • Fostering corporate culture and corporate values. 2. Equal Opportunities and Human Rights All aspects of human resources management are pursued with transparency and are based on meritocracy. We offer a workplace of no exclusions, in which all are treated fairly and are offered equality of opportunity, and where diversity is valued. Recruitment, transfers, promotions, benefits, education and training, etc., are governed by the principles of our equal opportunities policy, the avoidance of any form of discrimination, and respect for employees’ dignity. In applying the aforementioned, we have ensured: opposed to any practice which might encourage the imposition • That the composition of management reflects the composition of any form of forced or child labour. In all countries where of the workforce. the Group operates, it complies fully with national legislation • That education and training programmes are available to all on child labour; there are no instances of forced or child personnel, in accordance with business needs. labour anywhere in the Group’s activities, nor would they be • Equal pay for men and women. acceptable. In particular, as far as MOTOR OIL’s activities that take place We support attempts to build a society free of exclusion, in which on Greek territory are concerned, it should be noted that these persons with disabilities can be productively integrated into the are carried out in compliance with the current legal framework, community. We ourselves employ 19 people with disabilities, which is aligned with the requirements of the 1998 Declaration who enjoy equal opportunities in employment and education. of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) on Fundamental MOTOR OIL fully respects international principles of human Principles and Rights at Work, and to which reference is made rights, in particular those set out in the United Nations in the Constitution and in labour law. The Greek legal provisions Declaration of Human Rights, and in the UN Global Compact’s include conventions concerning the protection of freedom of ten principles, to which we are signatories. The Group is association and the right to collective bargaining. 28 3. Labour Relations and Trade Unions At MOTOR OIL labour relations are regulated by the Employment Regulation which was drawn up in September of 1974, and is approved by the Ministry of Labour. It is extremely important to our Group – and particularly to the renewed every year and is then submitted to the Corinth Labor refinery due to the complex nature of the work it entails – that Inspection. employees can join unions and professional associations freely and We believe that smooth cooperation between the Company without restraint. Refinery employees are represented through their and the employees’ union is extremely important particularly trade union and the Health and Safety Committee. The union has so in difficult times like the present, when we are experiencing had a Collective Labour Agreement with the Hellenic Federation the effects of the severe economic crisis. We, therefore, hold of Enterprises since 1986. This agreement lays down the terms of regular meetings with union representatives, the common aim employment and pay levels at the refinery. being to ensure harmonious bilateral relations, avoid disputes Since 2006, there has been a Company Collective Labour and preserve labour peace, while continuing to achieve Agreement between the company and the union, which is improvements in working conditions. 4. Basic Employment Data In 2017, the size of the combined human resources of the Group (MOTOR OIL, AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, OFC and LPC) averaged over the year was 1,974 employees. In 96.7 % addition to personnel directly employed by the companies of of Group employees at the end of 2017 the Group, a significant number are indirectly employed through were on open-ended contracts sub-contractors. Workforce (yearly average) 1,983 1,928 1,924 1,925 1,974 1,834 1,800 1,797 1,485 1,507 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 WORKFORCE PER COMPANY 2016 2017 MOTOR OIL 1,193 1,233 AVIN 178 181 CORAL 288 294 CORAL GAS 104 106 OFC 23 23 LPC 139 137 29 Responsibility Towards our Employees MOTOR OIL’s main area of activity is the refinery at Agioi Theodoroi, Corinth, where in 2017 an average of 1,013 persons were employed. Approximately 55% of the refinery personnel and 44% of its managers live in the greater region of Corinth, where MOTOR OIL is the biggest employer. Gender Profile management hierarchy, according to his qualifications, performance We support equal treatment for men and women, with equal and skills, as the main objective is to fill vacant managerial positions opportunities for all, without discrimination. However, owing to from within the Group wherever and whenever possible. In fact, each the nature of the work and the skills required at our refinery, the vacancy is first advertised internally; the position is opened to external percentage of women employees is relatively low. Thus, in 2017, applicants only if no suitable internal candidate can be found. on average, 16% of all employees were female, while at the Group Head Offices, the number of women rises to 35%. In 2016, women Level of Education accounted for the exact same percentage in the total workforce, We attach great importance to the educational level of our whereas at the Group Head Offices they represented 37.4%. personnel, and our aim is to attract, develop and retain suitable Among management, women made up 14% of the total, a and competent employees. All of the employees hired for executive satisfactory reflection of the overall participation of women in positions in 2017 were university graduates. the total workforce, while in other office and technical jobs the In order to further develop the skills of our personnel and to maintain percentage was 16%. Percentages were the same in 2016. a high-output culture in the workplace, various further education and vocational training programmes are organised in new technologies Workforce Breakdown and Professional Advancement and systems, while employees are encouraged to participate in In 2017, managers comprised 11% of the total personnel of the long-term external courses leading to recognised degrees. Group, while technicians-operators and administrative personnel accounted for 89% of the total number of employees. In 2016, Average Age Age Range managers again accounted for 11%, technicians-operators The average age of the Group workforce is around 43.5. It should accounted for 58% and administrative personnel accounted for be noted that, in 2017, 54% of the workforce were under 45. In 31% of the total number of employees. 2016, the average age was 43.4 and 56% of the workforce were Each employee has the opportunity for promotion within the under 45. Distribution by Gender 2017 Workforce Breakdown 2017 16% 32% Women Administrative 11% Management 84% 57% Men Technical staff Level of Education Age Range 2017 59% 57% 46% > 45 years old 28% 28% 12% 14% 53% 1% 1% 25-45 years old 1% <25 years old Secondary Technical College University education education education education 2016 2017 30 Length of Employment and Turnover of Employees candidates are assessed through a thorough and detailed Length of employment with the Group was, on average, 15.7 process that includes behaviour and skills measuring tools, inyears. 65.1% of employees have been with the Group over ten depth interviews and a final selection panel. years, while only 13.9% have less than five years of service. In 2017, staff mobility was 2.6% and is a reflection of the Length of Service 2017 reciprocal trust, loyalty and satisfaction of our employees. 25.1% Long-term employment is rewarded by additional salary 23.0% 21.0% increments. In addition at the refinery, at Coral and at Coral Gas commemorative gifts of value are made to employees completing periods of long service; these gifts vary from company to company and are commensurate with the years of service. In 2017, the permanent staff increased by 130 new employees 9.1% 7.0% 6.9% 7.9% while 51 persons left for various reasons. We ascribe great importance to attracting and hiring new management executives. In the last years, we have embarked upon new collaborations with top universities around the <1 1-5 5-10 10-15 15-20 20-25 >25 year years years years years years years world through which we seek to attract new candidates. These Staff Mobility 2016 2017 RECRUITMENTS 73 130 Men 61 112 Women 12 18 STAFF DEPARTURES (classified by reason) Retirement 20 21 Men 18 17 Women 2 4 RESIGNATION 20 27 Men 18 24 Women 2 3 various 35 3 Men 35 3 Women 0 0 total 75 51 STAFF MOBILITY* 3.9% 2.6% Departures *Staff Mobility = x100 Average number of employees 5. Remuneration System and Additional Benefits One of the Group’s main objectives is to offer its employees competitive remuneration, both to reward their contribution and to maintain a high level of employee satisfaction. The system we implement in order to set, manage and review Negotiations covering collective agreements on salary salary levels is in line with current company and sector-specific adjustments are in line with sector practices that are applied agreements, and is consistent and transparent. at national level. Moreover, the structure of the remuneration system ensures equal pay for men and women doing the same 130.2 million euros work, and rules out any other form of discrimination. The factors determining wage/salary levels are mainly the employee’s total workforce remuneration grade and performance, the responsibilities and accountabilities expenditure in 2017 of the position held, the educational level and the seniority/ length of service. 31 Responsibility Towards our Employees The Group’s total expenditure on wages/salaries in 2017 down in either labour legislation or collective agreements. These amounted to 130.2 million euros. This includes pay for regular and additional, non-statutory allowances are discretionary payments to overtime work, mandatory employer contributions to social security employees intended to reward productivity and acknowledge the funds and other additional allowances over and above those laid contribution of individuals to the Group’s performance. Breakdown of workforce remuneration expenditure (million euros) 24.3 25.6 Employer’s Employer’s Contributions Contributions 28.7 28.9 Additional Additional Remuneration Remuneration 71.8 75.7 Gross pay Gross pay not including not including Additional Remuneration Additional Remuneration 2016 2017 Additional Discretionary Benefits education, Christmas parties for employees’ children, longThe Group introduced, many years ago, a wide range of service awards, support for employees participating in supplementary, discretionary allowances and insurance sporting activities, etc. benefits for employees and their family members. Such Voluntary Blood Donation Blood donations by employees of MOTOR OIL have become 8.3 million euros a tradition, now with a 30-year history. The programmes are run in association with the Corinth General Hospital (for employees the Group’s budget for discretionary at the refinery) and the Metaxa Specialist Cancer Hospital benefits to employees and (for employees at the MOTOR OIL head offices). Overall, their families in 2017 the resulting blood reserves are used to cover the needs of the blood donors themselves, their families or close relatives, employee benefits are: insurance policies providing both and other people, in the event of an emergency. In 2017, we pension and medical treatment coverage for employees, managed to collect 108 blood units, bringing the total collected schemes helping employees with the costs of their children’s over the years to more than 3,700 units. Sports Activities for Staff To promote and improve team spirit and employee ran the 42K Classic Marathon, all finishing in the packed involvement, we encourage their participation in various Panathenaic Stadium. It is worth noting that MOTOR OIL sporting activities. secured 100 of the 185 entries through the “SCHEDIA” Non-Profit Organisation, that supports the integration of the Athens Classic Marathon unemployed, back into society. For the third consecutive year, MOTOR OIL supported employees from the entire Group taking part in the biggest Football and Basketball Teams sports event in Greece the 35th Athens Classic Marathon, In 2017, the MOTOR OIL employees’ football team which took place on November 12th. To help the entrants performed exceptionally well, winning 4rth place in the 20better prepare, training sessions were held a few months team Amateur Athens Corporate Games League. The team before, at OAKA Olympic Stadium, at Andreas Sygros has won a total of 18 titles, including 9 doubles, and has also Park and the municipal track of Corinth with the help of an performed very impressively in foreign fixtures. Meanwhile, experienced trainer. On the day of the race, 80 people the basketball team competed in a corporate league that took part in the 5K, 80 people in the 10K, and 25 people featured 60 company teams and took 25th place in the event. 32 6. Education and Training Investment in ongoing training for our employees is a strategic choice and a key element in the process of aligning our workforce’s skills with the full range of objectives and ambitions of the Group. Therefore, given the critical importance of the issue, the MOTOR and Quality, with an emphasis on the special features of each OIL Group designs and implements, each year, a comprehensive workplace. programme of education and in-house training for employees. • Training of non-technical staff in basic Health and Safety The basic objective served by our programme, is to continually regulations, use of fire-fighting equipment and first aid enrich the vocational knowledge of our employees, expanding provision. their range of skills, while also upgrading their level of technical • Instruction in safe driving techniques and in the procedures for training, allowing them to carry out their everyday and more the safe loading, unloading and transport of fuels. long-term tasks. • Emergency preparedness exercises, including scheduled or unscheduled drills. 6.1 million euros The education and training programmes are implemented either through in-house seminars or by attending seminars run for education and training programmes by internationally recognised educational centres. Also, Group over the period 2013-2017 managers attend conferences both in Greece and abroad, participate in undergraduate and postgraduate courses and are kept up to date through the purchase of books and subscriptions Education and Training Programmes to specialist technical journals and professional associations. The parameters determining the planning and implementation of the education and training programmes are the educational Training in 2017 needs of the workforce, as identified in the working environment In 2017, 41,300 man-hours were devoted to education and each year. vocational training -at an overall cost of 1.3 million eurosinvolving the participation of 1,445 employees (74.7% of the The education and training programmes cover the following total workforce), of which 159 were managers and 1,286 other areas: personnel. The figure of training man-hours includes training • Training in business and administrative skills, computer skills, related to fire safety, use of Personal Protective Equipment and as well as personal development issues. other related subjects throughout the refinery and the other • Introductory training for new operators and maintenance Group facilities. However, it does not include training hours technicians, and for new engineers. associated with emergency preparedness exercises. • Skills training for technical staff in their particular areas of The corresponding figures for 2016 were 21,000 man-hours, employment, as well as in use of personal safety equipment at a cost of 1.1 million euros which were attended by 1,376 and working machinery/equipment. employees, 118 of which were managers and 1,258 other • Training regarding Health, Safety, Environmental Protection personnel. Average number of training hours per trainee Percentage of trainees over the total workforce 72.3% 72.4% 74.1% 74.7% 28.6 61.4% 20.0 16.2 15.2 15.2 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 33 Responsibility Towards our Employees Occupational health and safety, environmental protection Leadership Academy Step 2: The purpose was to further and quality were the principal subjects covered by training develop the skills required of every manager in order to handle activities in 2017. In these areas training was provided to a variety of business challenges that have a direct impact on the cover the relevant management systems, preventing sea and success of their work. air pollution and avoidance of related incidents, process safety, occupational health, fire safety, the use of Personal Protective The following were also held to teach additional skills: Equipment, rescue methods in cooperation with the Disaster Presentation Skills: This session aims at an understanding of key Response Team (EMAK), safe driving and fuel transport, the presentation tools so that participants can present their subject provision of first aid and other more specialised topics. with brevity and clarity. The other education programmes were designed to provide the Negotiation Skills: The goal here was to understand the existing technical staff with further training, in order to develop key structural elements of negotiation and to upgrade the and further improve their skills in various specialised technical negotiating performance of participants. areas, and to instruct staff of the commercial companies in issues Customer Service: The aim was to introduce a new philosophy of insurance law, taxation, management and leadership, internal of service that will lead to satisfied customers. audit, workforce management and assessment, negotiating Conflict Management: This session involved techniques and techniques, presentation skills, IT, creating a safety culture, practical exercises that will enable employees to effectively accounting, procurements, finance, customs policy, customer handle any conflict that arises. service, communication and law. Communication Skills – Assertiveness: The goal here was to The contribution and significant involvement of Group executives reinforce the communication skills of the employees. in the in-house training and education programme was also very important. In 2017, this involvement accounted for about 2,000 hours. Man-hours Devoted to Each Educational Moreover, during 2017, in line with the policy on reimbursement Training Area 2017 (Total Hours = 41,300) of tuition fees, 19 employees were assisted in their efforts to specialise in particular subjects, or achieve postgraduate 14.5% qualifications in areas relevant to the Group’s current operations. Technical matters 25.6% Management and Employee Training in 2017 Management We strive to continually develop our management staff by offering innovative skills development programmes in cooperation with top educational institutions and bodies. The following programmes were held, with certification by 0.7% Harvard University, to teach leadership skills: 57.5% IT Leadership Academy Step 1: The objective of this training was Health, Safety and the Environment 1.7% to develop the skills necessary for all new managers to enable Finance them to lead their teams and cultivate relationships with their colleagues and supervisors. Man-hours of Training per Subject 23,725 14,099 10,570 5,933 3,988 1,941 586 686 327 292 Technical matters Health, Safety and Finance IT Management the Environment 2016 2017 34 Training Subjects at the Refinery in 2017 Training Tools at the Refinery Internal training at the refinery is provided by instructors who Production unit training simulators are used at the refinery to may be refinery managers or highly specialised external train operators of all grades, helping them develop their skills, instructors from Greece or abroad. expand their knowledge and improve performance through The main training areas were as follows: repetition. An important tool is also the Digital Educational • Training of shift workers in the use of fire-fighting equipment Material File, on the company intranet, continuously posting and Personal Protective Equipment, with weekly drills. and updating material like e-books, conference presentations, • Training of rescue teams by the Elefsina Disaster Response training videos and so on. The File is freely available to all, so Team in the rescue of persons at risk in inaccessible parts of that both management and workforce can stay abreast and the refinery, at a great height from the ground. study various areas of interest. • Training of staff of Equipment Inspection Service for Technical Training Manuals prepared entirely by our own certification and re-certification. This staff is trained on all refinery engineers are also available, and are written to inspection methods used (infra-red, ultrasound, magnetic reflect the current structure of the refinery and meet its current materials, etc.). production needs. The manuals, also available now in the form • Extensive training of the safety staff in first aid with relevant e-books, fully cover the training needs of the refinery workforce, certificationin rescue methods in cooperation with the and can also be used in other activities where information on the Disaster Response Team (EMAK) and in safe and fast driving structure and operation of the refinery is required. techniques for cars, motorcycles, ambulances and fire engines. • Theoretical training by the Commander of the Agioi Theodoroi Police Station on security issues of the refinery area. • Theoretical training on scenarios of security breaches at the refinery by the commander of the Special Police Unit (OPKE) of the Hellenic Police. • Training of newly-recruited personnel (engineers, operators, technicians) in the classroom, in the field and with drills. • Participation of refinery engineers in international conferences and seminars and other refineries. 35 Health and Safety Ongoing improvements in the area of Health and Safety are consistently our main priority The nature of the Group’s business operations refining, • Risk assessment of critical tasks, in order to ensure that storage, transportation and marketing of fuels combined the proper precautions are taken before tasks are with our corporate principles and values, make carried out. occupational Health and Safety a matter of exceptional • Introducing an annual safety day across the whole importance, and a priority to which our commitment Group, with presentations of relevant material to the is absolute and permanent. In order to ensure a safe entire workforce. working environment, and achieve ongoing improvement in workplace health and safety conditions, we implement Throughout 2017, the actions and implementation of a rigorously structured Management System, fully aligned systems aiming at reducing risk and eliminating the with European Union Directives and other, additional consequences of any undesirable incidents continued, with measures. the ultimate goal of constantly improving our performance in Health and Safety. In pursuit of our established objective of Zero Accidents, The effort to upgrade the safety culture and raise the we reinforce and safeguard our management system with: awareness on safety-related issues is also ongoing. Lessons • Ongoing training and presentations on safety issues, learnt from international incidents in the refinery sector involving the entire workforce. were presented, focusing in particular on the training of • Regular maintenance of equipment to ensure it functions personnel and new operators hired at the refinery. properly and safely. Moreover, a range of investments were made on projects • Investment in new technology equipment and control that reduce the possibility of an accident and upgrade the measures. fire safety equipment. The Group’s injuries 1.1 frequency index Spent on safety 24.9 in 2017 (investments and million euros operating expenses) Health and Safety 1. Health and Safety Management Framework Health and Safety at work and the prevention of occupational hazard is a moral obligation and a business necessity, which goes beyond the narrow limits of a simple legal obligation. Our primary concern is to take measures, and implement projects and programmes, to ensure we attain our permanent objectives for workplace health and safety, which can be formulated as follows: • To reduce the risk of a major technological accident to the • Active involvement of all employees in finding acceptable lowest possible level. and effective solutions for protection and safety, as well • To eliminate occupational accidents “Goal Zero”. as in establishing regulations, identifying hazards and • Constant monitoring and upgrading of the quality of assessing risk. equipment so as to ensure that conditions conducive to • Frank and open communication between workers and safe work operations are continuously improved. management in health and safety matters. • Effective protection of people (our personnel, contractors’ personnel, our neighbours, associates and site visitors), as At the refinery, delivering on this commitment relies on the well as the environment and our own installations, from effective operation of the integrated Health and Safety the hazards that may arise from the company’s activities. Management System, which is certified compliant -since • Ongoing training of personnel and briefing on health 2008with the internationally recognised Health and Safety and safety issues in order to prevent accidents and standard OHSAS 18001:2007. The same certification has occupational health problems. been secured by OFC (in 2006), Coral and Coral Gas (in • Full compliance with regulatory requirements. 2013). Health and Safety Management System (HSMS) OHSAS 18001:2007 Management Commitment Health Safety and Environmental Policy Ongoing Equipment Planning HSMS Procedures Improvement Integrity Control and Implementation corrective and operation Personnel actions Participation Component Parts of the Health and Safety Management System Policy • Description of MOTOR OIL’s commitment to Health and Safety and arrangements for implementing the policy. • Strict compliance with legislation and international standards, codes and regulations. • Preparation of annual schedules and investment plans for upgrading equipment to ensure optimal performance. Planning • Designation of responsibilities and accountabilities. • Systematic identification and recognition of occupational hazards and assessment of risk across all activities. 38 Component Parts of the Health and Safety Management System • Visible and systematic management at all management levels. • Provision of appropriate and full training to all employees. • Understanding and analysis of operational risks in course of work and appropriate precautions, by all employees, at all levels of management. • Strict application and documentation of procedures for operational safety and efficiency. • Ensuring that all operations are carried out in full compliance with safety rules and regulations. Implementation • Systematic reporting of incidents. • Excellent cooperation with public authorities and other stakeholders, including providing them with all relevant information. • Systematic measurement of results and target setting, using established industry indicators, so as to ensure constant improvement in performance and identification of malfunctions and vulnerabilities. • Carrying out of exercises for the updating of the company’s Emergency Response Plan. • Ongoing inspections of machinery and other equipment to ensure its proper function. Compliance • Regular auditing of safety procedures. monitoring and • Systematic investigation and analysis of all incidents. corrective actions • Measurement, assessment and communication of results. • Rewarding of positive results. • Ongoing review of management system. Ongoing • Recommendations for improvement and revision of current arrangements. improvement • Commitment to implementation of recommendations. • Ongoing personnel training. The operation of the Health and Safety Management System horizontal inspections is that it focuses on human behaviour, is assigned to the MOTOR OIL refinery’s Health, Safety while employees assume an active role through continuous and Environment Section. Moreover, the health and safety observation in the field that provides them with training but also organisation includes in-house safety engineers, occupational enables them to train and guide others. Employees develop a physicians and nursing staff both at the refinery and at MOTOR responsible attitude and are entitled to stop a particular task in OIL’s head office at a level that goes beyond the requirements the event they identify unsafe conditions. of the relevant Greek legislation. 3. A Care Operator Program aimed at employee training. The aim is that all employees will achieve the same level of There are also two statutory committees: knowledge and be able to identify unsafe conditions in order • The Safety and Environment Committee, made up of the to prevent risks that could lead to accidents. refinery section heads and representing the entire workforce. 4. An important tool which was developed to raise employee • The five-member Employee Health and Safety Committee, awareness of safety issues is Time Out for Safety (TOS), which whose elected members are appointed every two years by involves convening ad hoc meetings on safety issues. It is used in the refinery employees. cases where a particular observation has been made or some The above Committees are intended to oversee control of health unsafe condition has been identified in the field. and safety conditions, making recommendations for changes 5. Weekly fire safety drills which take place at the refinery and improvements as necessary. where a scenario is developed and supervisors and facility Similar arrangements operate in the other companies of the personnel hold discussions to encourage employee proposals Group, taking appropriate account of the particular conditions for improvements. of each workplace. 6. The refinery’s General Manager holds safety meetings with employees to provide guidance and exchange views on safety Steps aimed at achieving the Health and Safety targets mainly issues. involved developing a culture of safety and are based on the following actions and tools: 1. Toolbox meetings to strengthen communication among staff on safety issues with the aim of exchanging views and improving working conditions. 2. Safety observations, involving field inspections by all employees with the aim of identifying unsafe behaviours. The difference between this specific action and other vertical or 39 Health and Safety 2. Safety Indices The extent, to which the Health and Safety Management System Lost Time Injuries Severity Index (LTIS) operates successfully, is reflected in trends in the most important for Motor Oil Group1 safety indices, i.e. the number, frequency and severity of losttime injuries. Severity Index = Number of lost work hours per 1,000 man-hours Lost Time Injuries (LTI) for Motor Oil Group1 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.5 11 9 0.2 7 5 5 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The Lost Time Injuries Severity Index (LTIS) recorded a value of 0.2 across the whole Group in 2017, with a value of 0.04 for MOTOR OIL. This also represents a historical low. The LTIS was 1.8 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 at LPC, 0.3 at Coral Gas and 0.03 at Avin. Five lost time injuries were recorded at the facilities of the MOTOR These values, in combination with the constantly increasing refinery OIL Group in 2017. One occurred at the MOTOR OIL refinery, production and the higher volumes handled by our commercial two at LPC, one at Coral Gas and one at Avin. companies, continue the steady downward trend of the last twenty years, demonstrating the ongoing effort to reach our Zero There were no serious safety incidents during the course of our Accident target. In this context, the Group’s management is offering activities. its steady support to programmes aimed at training and informing the workforce and strengthening technical and organizational Lost Time Injuries Frequency Index (LTIF) measures, remaining committed to our ‘Zero accidents’ objective. for Motor Oil Group1 The LTIs have been analysed in depth to identify their causes and establish the most appropriate corrective measures, which were Frequency Index = then communicated to personnel through training sessions and Number of accidents per million man-hours briefings. Recommendations for equipment improvements, arising 2.7 from investigation of LTIs, were implemented immediately. These statistics relate to accidents involving the Group’s own 2.1 employees and do not include lost-time accidents involving 1.8 subcontractors’ employees, the level of which remains very low. 1.2 1.1 Accidents involving subcontractors’ employees amounted to three in 2015, one in 2016 and three in 2017. Finally, we should note that, as in previous years, no case of occupational illness was recorded. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The Lost Time Injuries Frequency Index (LTIF) recorded a particularly low value of 1.1 in 2017. Correspondingly at MOTOR OIL, the LTIF was 0.4, which historically is the lowest value for the company. The index was 6.2 at LPC, 3.9 at Coral Gas and 2.3 at Avin. 1. Note: Includes the companies MOTOR OIL, Avin Oil (since 2006), Coral and Coral Gas (since 2010), OFC (since 2012) and LPC (since 2015). 40 3. Health and Safety Investments Improvements in working conditions and in the safety of the work environment are achieved by making the necessary investments in equipment, through the upgrading of procedures, and by means of Health and Safety inspections. An investment programme is constantly active at the purchased; a new system to identify corrosion, new safer refinery and other facilities to ensure proper maintenance stairways and platforms were installed; and electric cables of electrical, mechanical and electronic equipment and to were reconfigured in specific refinery units. Moreover, the provide technical upgrading and renewal of that equipment installation of the Advanced Process Control system in all to stay abreast of developing technology and to maintain the production processes continued to ensure a more efficient highest possible safety and accident prevention standards. and safer operation.The upgrade of personal protection equipment continued, and new fire extinguishing equipment In 2017, the total cost of the investment programme of all was purchased. Group companies on projects to improve health and safety Additionally, all our commercial companies proceeded to and to procure safety equipment amounted to 17.1 million investments for improvements of the safety systems in service euros, while the cost of operating expenditure of all kinds in stations and their facilities. These included maintenance this area was 7.8 million euros. and upgrade of facility equipment, automation, installation The greatest emphasis was laid on projects to reduce the risk of cameras at services stations, lighting improvement, of accidents and to improve working conditions, as well as maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment and others. projects aimed at upgrading fire safety measures at our facilities. In 2017, regular maintenance was completed on the refinery units and included a variety of tasks. An extensive maintenance Investments and Operating Expenses programme began on the power plant’s 3rd gas turbine and for Health and Safety (million euros) is expected to be completed by mid-2018. The high-pressure amine absorber was replaced. In addition, improvements in the 32.9 alkylation unit’s hydrogen fluoride storage system have begun, along with the upgrade of the neutralisation and wash-down 24.9 sections in the dimerisation unit. The upgrade of the sprinkler system of the alkylation unit continued, along with replacement 19.3 19.0 of safety valves in the production units and in segments of the 15.7 network towards the flares. Works to make significant upgrades to the refinery loading dock also begun. Specifically, an electronic system to monitor ships while berthing and casting off was installed, providing real-time data on ship velocity and weather conditions to ensure safe approach and to record the way ships approach berths. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Additionally, new explosion-proof wireless radios were 4. Inspections It is our standing practice to carry out regular health and safety inspections, which involve scrutiny of production and distribution equipment, working areas and fire safety systems. The inspections allow us to identify hazards and recognise risk. At the refinery, planned Health and Safety inspections are executives and other competent personnel are performed carried out by both internal inspection teams and external according to an annual schedule. safety auditors, including specialist greek and foreign consultants. For example, hot work and work in enclosed Recommendations for improvements in working conditions spaces require strict inspection and control procedures. and safety also arise following meetings of the Safety and The Health, Safety and Environment Section carries out Environment Committee and the Employee Health and Safety an average of six inspections a day, not including those Committee. The findings of the above-mentioned horizontal undertaken during maintenance periods. inspection procedures, and recommendations arising from Projects under construction are subject to daily inspections, meetings of the two committees, after evaluation, lead to while planned horizontal inspections carried out by teams appropriate technical or organizational measures being of different composition and mandate, comprising refinery taken. 41 Health and Safety At the same time, vertical inspections are conducted on inspections are based on the use of computer systems like the a quarterly basis by the section head, the engineers and PCMS (Plant Condition Management Software), designed supervisors of the various sections. to generate optimal safety results and saving of resources. It is self-evident that the technical inspections and monitoring Finally, the company takes special care to ensure the operational of equipment carried out will lead to findings and the taking of readiness of the equipment of the fire safety system. The routine measures which reduce hazard and risk and contribute to the and periodically scheduled checking of this equipment is carried improvement of occupational health and safety conditions. out according to a very carefully planned annual programme The programming and management of these results of under the supervision of the Fire Safety Service. 5. Procedures Technical integrity of equipment, compliance with international standards/regulations and safe working conditions are amongst the primary factors ensuring safety in the workplace. Even more important is how individuals behave (the “human factor”). Refinery employees are able to perform their work safely not only as a result of the strict work procedures they are required to follow and of having been provided with appropriate skills and competencies, but also because they have been trained in safety awareness. Complying with Legislation Whenever changes are made to workplaces or to working The company is fully aware of, and strictly complies with, all practices, these risk assessments are reviewed so as to ensure relevant Greek and European Health and Safety legislation, they are always relevant and up to date. Moreover, in the while it also applies any relevant international standards, codes context of the requirements of OHSAS certification the whole of practice and other operational norms, where these are judged monitoring process of our procedures has become more likely to help achieve even higher standards of protection than systematic. would be achieved by legal compliance alone. An independent Within each refinery section, risks identified are classified into third party certifies full and comprehensive implementation of three categories according to the hazard level: low, medium or legislation in our internal procedures and operations. high. For each category of risk we prepare a timetable for taking We have also developed an intranet database containing action to eliminate or reduce the risk, and appoint a manager to all health and safety provisions of greek law relevant to the be responsible for the necessary action. refinery’s operations. It is constantly updated and made We provide appropriate and adequate training to all our available to all employees on the company intranet. This workers covering: information and instruction relevant to the database is exceptionally important, not only for the legality of hazards arising from their work, measures for the elimination our operations, but also for the wealth of information it contains of hazards or control of risk, correct use of personal protective on a wide range of issues, including hazard identification equipment, safe working practices, appropriate emergency and control, the drafting of emergency preparedness plans, response procedures and first aid provision. maximum acceptable levels of exposure to hazardous We ensure that all operations are carried out in full compliance substances, the use of chemical substances and the relevant with safety rules and regulations by taking all necessary precautions, etc. precautionary measures and by establishing and adhering Besides data on legislation, the database contains other to specific procedures. Of particular importance during significant resources relating to refinery safety, including: all maintenance and repair work is the procedure for issuing of training material; the complete internal safety regulations for Work Permits, within a stringent statutory framework of rules the refinery; hazard and risk assessment reports covering all and procedures. For this reason, the issuing of these permits is individual workplaces; specifications for all safety equipment the subject of continuous training activity, covering both those (e.g. personal protective equipment -PPEand fire-fighting who issue them and those who receive them, both company equipment), and material safety data sheets (MSDS), accidents/ employees and any sub-contractor personnel who may be event/near-misses investigations, etc. involved in work activities on the refinery site. In respect of the need to assess and minimize operational risks, Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Control the HAZOP Hazard and Operability Study is used to analyse We are continuously engaged in establishing best practices for risk and operability in all new units or whenever changes are identification of health and safety hazards in all areas and in made to an existing unit, and a five-year revision programme implementing procedures for immediate response. Across the is implemented. A HAZOP study was initiated in 2017 at the whole range of refinery activities, studies have been conducted catalytic naphtha reforming unit. to assess risk for each work station and task; the necessary Likewise, the studies required by the regulations on fire measures have been taken to eliminate or minimize all risks safety are conducted; other safety studies are prepared and identified. communicated for approval and registration as appropriate 42 with the competent authorities. personal protective equipment at all companies and facilities Special focus is placed on the analysis of near misses, which within the Group. are classified depending on the severity of the consequences In addition, safety equipment specifications are monitored and the probability of their occurrence (RISK= PROBABILITY continuously so that they can be updated in line with the new x SEVERITY). Near misses are discussed with the entire technological developments. In this context, the following took workforce in order to cultivate a culture of safety and to place in 2017: generate proposals for improvement through the exchange • Order of full-face masks with incorporated intracom system of information. for use by firefighting crews. In respect of health and safety equipment (personal protective • Delivery of clothing appropriate for protection against equipment, fire-fighting equipment, etc.) we implement rigorous exposure to thermal radiation (Nomex) for all personnel and specifications based on recognized European standards in order of similar clothing for contractors. order to optimize workforce health and safety precautions. A • Procurement of area delimitation systems. Their placement particular effort has been made to standardise specifications for continues at selected sites. Indicative Activities in 2017 in the area of Procedures • We continued implementation of the programme • The chemical unloading procedure was improved and to monitor and assess contractors in respect of their upgraded. compliance with health and safety rules when working • We continued to update the Safety Data Sheets for in the refinery facilities. refinery products, adding new information, as part of our • We reviewed procedures in the Health and Safety implementation of the provisions of the European REACH Management System. and CLP Regulations. • The procedure for carrying out excavations was enhanced. • Participation continued in international organisations • Training and certification to prevent falls from height were dedicated to exploring and achieving continual conducted. improvement in rules and practices. Reports, Measurements, Indicators All of the Group’s companies regularly report, record, investigate Those of our personnel responsible for this protection are and analyse incidents (fires, accidents, near-misses) using suitably trained, both in security and safety matters, so as to be internationally recognised indices in order to take the appropriate able to effectively and swiftly fulfil their responsibilities, being corrective and preventive measures. We also augment our fully aware of the duties assigned to them, while at the same experience by monitoring investigations of serious accidents at time fully respecting individual freedoms and fundamental comparable facilities abroad and incorporating their findings into human rights. In this context security guards are certified by the our own practices. We systematically record all elements in our National Organisation for the Certification of Qualifications and health and safety performance, for monitoring purposes, and at Vocational Guidance (EOPPEP) in the specialisation «Private the same time we use internationally recognized indices suitably Security Personnel». targeted to provide a basis for checking ongoing improvement and identifying any shortcomings or irregularities. Protection (Security) We take all necessary preventive measures to protect our installations against possible malicious or not security threats. The security system is fully automated and includes an automatic identification system of incoming employees and vehicles with the issue of RFID cards during entry, security cameras in the perimeters of the refinery and the port, a motion detection system at the enclosure and an automatic monitoring and notification system (video analytics) in case of breach of the refinery’s perimeter. 43 Health and Safety 6. Planned Shutdowns New Projects Every year, planned shutdowns of refinery units take place, which are necessary to allow for periodic maintenance to be carried out and thus ensure their reliable operation, both in respect of efficiency and in respect of safe operation, while construction work on new projects is constantly being carried out. To avoid accidents during planned and unplanned shutdowns, a methodical approach is required, with continuous monitoring while work is being carried out. In 2017, planned and unplanned maintenance works took workforce on safety issues. place in various units of the refinery over a total of 51 days. • Meetings with the contractors of all companies participating Before the start of the maintenance works the schedule was in the works, aiming to achieve strict compliance with the examined in detail, in order to identify any critical works and procedures and resolve any safety issues before the start of potential risks and take measures. Awareness raising actions the works. and briefings were also organized, with the participation of all • Daily meetings during the project with the Contractors’ members and contractors to ensure smooth cooperation and safety engineers, for reporting any comments and corrective avoidance of unsafe actions. actions. Safety Engineers and Engineers of the Production The following were held: and Maintenance sections took part in the meeting from the • Meetings between the refinery General Manager and refinery’s side. engineers, section heads and operating personnel, aiming • Daily checks during the works by Managers, Safety Engineers at vigilance in respect of safety issues before the shutdown. and the contractors’ Safety Engineers. • Safety meetings with the purpose of informing the entire • Stocktaking of actions after end of works. 7. REACH and CLP Regulations The REACH Regulation (Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals) is intended to rationalize European legislation on human health safety and environmental protection from the potential effects of various chemical substances. The legal framework introduced by the Regulation affects producers, importers and final users of chemical substances and preparations in the European Union. The objective is to prohibit the import into, or the production The CLP (Classification, Labelling and Packaging) Regulation of within, the EU of any substance at any quantity above one the European Union came into effect in 2009, ensuring that risks ton a year, unless the substance has been registered with the associated with chemical products are clearly communicated European Chemicals Agency. to employees and consumers through proper classification and After successful completion of the first phase of substance labelling of chemical products. The risks which may be posed registration in 2010, MOTOR OIL, through its participation to human health and the environment are labelled using a in various recognized organizations and consortia standard system of declarations and pictograms on packaging (CONCAWE, FERC, MERC), remains ready to respond to and on safety data sheets, so that workers and consumers are any requirements that may arise, is monitoring developments aware of the possible consequences of handling these products. and preparing for the second phase of substance registration MOTOR OIL has completed the above process of labelling its (2018). products on all safety data sheets. 8. Emergency Response Plans The emergency response arrangements at all Group company facilities are based on the Emergency Response Plan, which is regularly reviewed and updated to take account of changing legal requirements and revised “best practices” resulting either from technical advances or experience gained by others in dealing with major or minor accidents. Additionally, we have prepared and submitted studies to the authorities in accordance with the EU SEVESO III Directive which covers the most likely accident scenarios competent, and relative prevention and response measures. The Emergency Response Plans describe, with particular communities, and related advicethat would be put into reference to a major accident situation, the public health effect in the event that the Major Technological Accidents protection measures -including warnings for neighbouring Response Plans were activated; these plans are drafted by 44 the competent authorities and determine how the state might Our commercial companies intervene in emergency situations. Coral and Coral Gas conduct scheduled and unscheduled The purpose of the Emergency Response Plans is to provide drills at their facilities and offices in which all personnel take the personnel involved with a comprehensive response plan part. The Emergency Response Plans are activated during to address emergencies which may arise from the operation the drills. The two-fold aim is to provide ongoing training and of every installation. The plans provide the necessary ensure personnel preparedness, and to verify that fire safety guidelines for taking and executing the correct decisions equipment is up to par. The drills are designed to respond to and actions, providing information for: a variety of potential scenarios and the Fire Brigade takes • the operational organisation for addressing the event / an active part in some of these. Each drill is followed by emergency. an evaluation and the findings are promptly addressed. In • the Action Plans. 2017 in particular, Aspropyrgos held a joint drill with two • communication with the company’s staff and the Public Fire Brigade trucks based on a scenario involving a leak at Authorities and/or other competent services that must be the tanker loading terminal. A joint drill with one fire truck notified in each case. was held at the Coral facility in Perama using the scenario of • the communication actions with the other stakeholders. a leak and fire at loading island 4 of the fuel tanker loading terminal. The drills were successful and both fixed and As regards to the refinery specifically, the plan includes: portable equipment functioned effectively. Fire Safety Team • The Mutual Aid Agreement dating back to 1988, personnel responded in accordance with the Emergency whereby all Greek refineries co-operate in the event of an Response Plan. Evaluations were subsequently conducted emergency. The effectiveness of this collaboration plan is with the Fire Brigade’s participation. A training emergency ensured through joint exercises involving MOTOR OIL, the response drill was held for a customer in Thessaloniki along local fire brigade and the other refineries. with staff training and an evaluation of the customer’s • A Corporate Contingency Plan for reciprocal assistance facilities. between Group companies in the event of an emergency. Avin conducts at least four scheduled and unscheduled fire This has also been integrated into the Emergency Response drills annually at the tanker loading terminal in Ag. Theodori. Plan of each individual company. In this context, MOTOR All personnel and firefighting crews at the terminal and OIL participated in fire safety drills at the facilities of OFC. refinery take part in the drill, during which the Emergency • Drills carried out every week and major industrial accident Response Plans are activated. response drills carried out regularly during the year, during The drills are designed to respond to a variety of potential which the Major Incident Response Procedure is activated. scenarios and the Fire Brigade takes an active part in one of • The fixed and portable equipment for leak detection and these with fire trucks and crews. Each drill is followed by an fire-fighting, which are upgraded according to a regular evaluation and written report, while the evaluation findings annual investment plan. To improve fire protection at are promptly addressed. In 2017 in particular, a joint drill the refinery, two new autonomous and permanent fire was conducted with trucks and crews from the Korinthos extinguishing systems were installed in 2017 at key Fire Brigade based on a scenario involving a fire at loading points of the fuel distribution pumping stations, and fire island 9. The Korinthos Fire Brigade Assistant Fire Chief took extinguishing systems were enhanced at substation SS5A part in the subsequent evaluation. In addition to the drills and at the port section metering station. Also in 2017, above, other drills are run at the terminal for responding to the fire safety network was expanded to meet the needs earthquakes and spills occurring during fuel transfer (using arising from the installation of new tanks and improvements a special vehicle made for this purpose). were made to the existing network. • The availability on the refinery site of six fire trucks and one The LPC facility maintains an emergency response system. The 12,000-litre bulk foam tender, which are available on 24system includes an emergency response study, procedures hour standby. The design and upgrade of fire truck No 5 and plans for various situations (fire, earthquake, terrorist also proceeded in 2017, and will be completed in 2018. act, flood, etc.), team organisation (fire crews, evacuation • The existence of alternative locations for the Incident teams, and others), a training programme and training and Control Room at four different strategic points on the preparedness drills. LPC is not required to have a Response refinery site, and the availability of a state-of-the-art Plan for Large-scale Industrial Accidents (SATAME). automatic call system that enables contact with refinery staff in an emergency. • The introduction of satellite phones at the refinery itself and in the administration offices. These phones make communication possible and allow coordination even in extreme circumstances, such as a natural disaster, when ordinary landlines and mobiles may be rendered useless. 45 Health and Safety 9. Safety of Port Installations Safety measures at port facilities are of great importance, because they ensure the smooth flow of the works in the refinery, as well as the protection of the marine environment from any pollution. It should be noted that MOTOR OIL became the first Greek after passing security checks. The security checks are conducted company to be certified by the Ministry of Mercantile Marine with the permission of the Port Authorities, pursuant to the terms and the Aegean for compliance with the International Ship and laid down in the approved Port Facility Security Plan, which is Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code, which is applied according to based on the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code the requirements of chapter XI-2 of the International Convention (ISPS Code). for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS). The accreditation is reviewed each year, in accordance with the existing legislative The Code requires that drills be held at least every sixteen provisions. months, using security scenarios that are often combined with In all areas of the port facilities, security checks are carried out sea pollution and/or fire scenarios, with the cooperation and on crews and supplies, as well as checks on access. In 2017, participation of the local Port Authorities. 1,576 ships berthed 9,453 people and 1,894 vehicles entered the port facilities, at the quays of our port facilities in 2017. 10. Safeguarding Workforce Health The health of our workers is a key area of care and concern. Therefore, the personnel at the refinery and the facilities undergo regular check-ups, while all Group employees are covered by group hospital care programs. The refinery provides full coverage to personnel and • The restaurant staff undergo medical checks in accordance infrastructures for the provision of medical services and first with the requirements of the law. aid, which includes: • Measurements are taken to establish levels of concentration • Central clinic staffed by two doctors one occupational of chemicals in the workplace, in line with the requirements physician and one GP and nursing personnel. Along of the relevant legislation. Over the last 10 years, the with the services of the GP, the philosophy of preventive company has conducted a special study demonstrating medicine is extended to outside the work environment that concentrations of all chemical substances were below to promote employee health from all aspects, while also the limit values for exposure. A new study was conducted meeting the needs for health services of employees and in 2017 confirming once again that the levels of chemical their families. substances in work areas were almost nil and well below • The clinic is equipped with essential supplies, defibrillators, the limit values. medicinal and other specialised materials (bandages for Measurements were taken in 2017 to determine the burns, neutralising chemicals) to treat emergency cases. inhalable and respirable fractions of airborne particles • Pharmacy. in the atmosphere of the main warehouse, where it was • Fully equipped first-aid station at the Alkylation Unit, with ascertained that average concentrations for an eight-hour nurse on 24-hour call. work day are clearly lower than the statutory exposure limit • Three properly equipped first aid stations (one at the values. N-Methylpyrrolidone (NMP) levels in the work area Main Control Station, one at the laboratory and one at of a lubricant production unit were also measured, and found the hydrocracker unit). to be much lower than the respective occupational exposure • A telematic ECG device that can send data to a specialised limit value. cardiac care centre for prompt diagnosis and treatment A well-equipped doctor’s office also operates at the Head instructions. Office and is staffed by a GP and a cardiologist prepared to • Three fully equipped ambulances. respond to acute cases, manage chronic illnesses, provide In addition: information on health issues, organise blood drives and • Rescue crews (Safety personnel) are also trained in rescue check-ups, and to support the medical clinics at the Group’s practices and in first aid provision. other companies. • Employees are supplied with the necessary personal Finally, occupational physicians and arrangements for protective equipment, which is always kept up to date, in general medical procedures and screening examinations line with technological advances and changes in European are also in place for the benefit of all subsidiary companies specifications. of the Group. • The quality of drinking water is tested through analysis by independent laboratories. 46 11. Training on Safety Issues The continuous training of our employees, their briefing and the creation of a high level of safety awareness, together with the technical and organisational measures, form the essential pillars for accident prevention and the maintenance of a safe work environment. Our commitment is to train the workforce on safety issues regarding the entire spectrum of their work, in order to increase productivity and reduce risks and the frequency of accidents. We also see that our contractors’ employees are kept aware of • Work in confined spaces. health and safety issues, with the emphasis on general principles • Identification of occupational hazards and risk evaluation. of accident prevention and the company’s procedures ensuring • Personal Protective Equipment. safe execution of the work they undertake. Visitors are given • Material Safety Data Sheets. safety instructions in the form of a special leaflet, while a special • Emergency response procedures and participation in relevant briefing film is screened for them on entry to the refinery facilities. drills. The general content of health and safety training includes the • First aid. following subjects: • Presentations analyses of Major Technological Accidents. • Fire safety use of fire extinguishing means. • Safe road transport of fuels (for the Group’s commercial • Work Permits. companies). Figures for Health and Safety training MOTOR OIL Other companies in Group1 2016 2017 2016 2017 Total Workforce 1,190 1,233 732 741 Workers undergoing training 810 1,018 445 617 Man-hours of training 11,132 20,258 2,967 3,733 Contractors undergoing training 2,872 580 768 1,329 Man-hours of training 22,976 4,640 4,761 5,210 1 Avin Oil, Coral, Coral Gas, OFC and LPC Safety Day 2017 Dilemmas-Care-Risk Acceptance In recent years, the Safety Day has been organised on are identified and recorded, and employees themselves an annual basis in the Group. In 2017, Safety Day took propose solutions for addressing such risks. The main place on May 10th with the theme ”Dilemmas-Care-Risk component of these sessions is the open and honest Acceptance”. Safety Day is organised simultaneously discussion about how each individual handles the throughout the Group, in all the companies, the refinery, dilemmas, and how to take steps to protect the people offices, facilities and service stations, and the workers around them and contribute towards the Zero Goal: and associate contractors dedicate more than an hour Zero Accidents and Zero Lost Time. As a result, the from their work to participate in scheduled meetings. participants show great interest and make personal commitments to CHANGE their BEHAVIOUR with safety In 2017 there were more than 157 meetings throughout in mind. These Safety Days have the broad support and the Group with the participation of more than 1,300 the participation of the Group’s leadership, and they workers and associates. At the meetings, videos and play an important role in raising awareness and forming slides related to the topics are shown, on-the-job risks a uniform culture regarding the importance of Safety. Workforce Training recertified in the issuance of work permits, which stipulate As part of encouraging a culture of safety among personnel, the work safety procedures in place at the refinery. In information on various topics is regularly disseminated, while addition, staff were trained in the use of new Volatile Organic safety messages and posters, the results of accident and Compound (VOC) detectors which identify hazardous gas near-miss investigations are posted on Health and Safety leaks, in the safe use of gas fuels and oxy-cutting, the safe use notice boards at all of our facilities. of forklifts, the hazards of chemical substances and essential In 2017, refinery personnel were trained, certified and PPE, fall-prevention methods and rescue in the field. As they 47 Health and Safety do every year, the rescue crews received training at the 1st procedures at the refinery and the particular areas where Search and Rescue Team (EMAK) facilities in techniques for they will be working. rescue from a height in an industrial setting and they carried out related drills. Specialised Hellenic Police personnel Briefing for Contractor’s Employees also conducted training on issues related to security in the In 2017, contractor personnel working at the refinery also refinery area. In addition, the structured efforts to educate received intensive training from an independent organisation the technical staff of our facilities were continued through on safety-related issues. A total of 580 workers received films and presentations/discussions on incidents, analysing training on key safety issues and best international practices causes, effects and the corrective measures taken. Intensive from trainers with extensive experience in the refinery sector. training was also offered in 2017 for 50 new employees At the end of the training the participants sat for examinations, (engineers, technicians and operators) in key topics and only those who successfully completed the course could affecting their area, most of which were related to the safety now receive an entrance card for working at the refinery. Training in Fire Safety In order to improve the readiness of refinery personnel to training in the handling of such scenarios. respond to emergency situations, as well as to rehearse the procedures of the Emergency Response Plan and In addition, in 2017: check the operability of equipment, regular emergency • All shift-workers passed the annual training in the use of preparedness exercises are carried out. In 2017, the Respiratory Protective Equipment. programme in question involved 10 training sessions on • Training of the rescue team continued. the drill field and 42 drills, 21 of which were based on • Introductory training was provided to newly hired Major Accident scenarios. operators and technicians on the use of fire-fighting The pre-scheduled drills took place in various areas of the equipment and fire extinguishing. refinery and the fire crew training field, involving rehearsal • All of Avin’s tanker truck drivers received theoretical and of fire crews in the theoretical and practical aspects of their practical training in the use of fire extinguishers. duties, and their familiarisation with fire-fighting equipment • Training sessions were held to maintain training levels and related Personal Protective Equipment. Theoretical for fire engine drivers and reserve drivers, familiarizing drills were also organised in the section control rooms (for them with access to various areas and the equipment in all shifts) in the presence of the personnel of each area and new units. the fire safety crews. • There were training sessions for new crew leaders, as The refinery engineers also participated in the fire safety well as all the new drivers, to familiarize them with the fire drills from the incident control room to receive further engines and their movement around the refinery. Road Safety • Ongoing training of our own tanker drivers and drivers of the Road safety is a priority for the Group’s commercial companies, transport companies working with us. which every day transport more than 8,000,000 litres of liquid fuel and 560 metric tons of gas across Greece and the Balkans. The Group’s commercial companies, carrying out their activities On an annual basis, they travel more than 25 million kilometres with a keen sense of responsibility, are continually engaged in delivering fuel in Greece and abroad without accident or injury striving to meet the above requirements, in the context of the rules to drivers or others, demonstrating in practice our commitment laid down by the state, the Greek and global petroleum industry, and dedication to road safety, and our contribution to the and their own company policies and procedures. To succeed common good. In 2017, more than 300 drivers of private and in this objective they operate integrated systems for recording public use tank trucks received training in their special skill areas. and monitoring of road tankers carrying fuel on their behalf (company-owned or belonging to partner companies), as well Fuels are a category of hazardous materials and their safe as training programmes for drivers, while also undergoing tests transport requires precautionary measures to be taken at three and certification from external accreditation agencies under levels: the standards ISO 9001 (Quality Management), ISO 14001 • The maintenance of a high technical standard of transport (Environmental Protection) and OHSAS 18001 (Health and equipment, i.e. road tankers. Safety Management). • The promulgation of strict safety procedures and the constant The road tankers undergo a thorough annual safety check monitoring of their implementation. in accordance with the Regulations on Safety of Loading of 48 Tankers with Liquid Fuels at Petroleum Facilities . This check fuel chemistry, handling of customer complaints, vehicle safety extends to the full compliance with the terms included in the equipment, fume recovery, security, etc. European Agreement concerning the Carriage of Dangerous In recent years the programme has also incorporated a Goods by Road (ADR). detailed analysis of the routes taken by our tanker drivers, To comply with the ADR agreement, in 2016 all Group so that the safest route is always taken for each journey. GPS companies prepared the transportation security plan, describing tracking devices have also been fitted to tankers to allow closer the procedures followed in case of any threat to the transport monitoring of driver behaviour (speed, route taken, stops etc.). equipment or the hazardous cargo (terrorist attack, theft, etc.). There is also an ongoing training programme focusing on defensive and safe driving, loading/unloading procedures and fuel handling, anti-skid and anti-roll over manoeuvres, 49 Responsibility for the Environment Protection of the environment and energy-saving are among our primary concerns. Respect and care for the environment is a common In 2017, the Environmental Management System was denominator in all activities of the MOTOR OIL Group. recertified to the revised ISO 14001:2015 standard. This We operate as a responsible corporate organisation and new standard places greater emphasis on management’s espouse the principles of sustainable development, which support and participation in environmental management is based on environmental protection, mutual respect and by including it in the company’s overall strategic planning a sense of duty towards future generations. process, in the environmental performance assessment and in ongoing improvements, as well as in communication For these reasons, we continue with investments aimed and interaction between environmental policy with at the steady improvement of our environmental individuals and organizations who may be impacted by performance. In 2017, we spent 23.6 million euros in the company’s activities. our investment programme with both large and smaller As part of ongoing improvement and review of the scale projects, making a direct or indirect contribution to environmental management system, as certified under the environmental protection. ISO 14001 standard, three communication procedures were revised in 2017, and the annual Environmental Also in 2017, we made further investments, regarding the Statement 2016 was issued in accordance with the EMAS refinery, to upgrade and replace furnaces with the goal of III ER122/2009 regulation. further enhancing our energy savings. We expanded our application of the Advanced Process Control (APC) system Finally, as part of its focus on reducing the environmental to the vacuum distillation units, while APC was also applied footprint of its activities, MOTOR OIL certified the refinery’s to the alkylation unit with the aim of ensuring consistent Energy Management System to ISO 50001:2011 product quality, efficiency and safety. In addition, as part standard. of general equipment maintenance, we completed projects to reduce energy consumption and emissions. In compliance with provisions of Law 4403/2016 requiring corporate groups to publish non-financial information, as Our commitment to continuing to decrease our well as the requirements of Circular 62487/07-06-2017, environmental footprint, as seen in the diagrams we have included data on the environmental performance of the related indicators, remains consistent and of MOTOR OIL and subsidiaries CORAL, CORAL GAS, uncompromising. In 2017, there was a decrease in specific AVIN OIL, LPC and OFC in this report. These data reflect amounts reflecting energy consumption, carbon dioxide energy and fuel consumption, along with greenhouse gas and sulphur dioxide emissions, and water consumption. emissions related to this energy and fuel consumption. 23.6 Investments and operating costs related to million euros the environment in 2017 We use best available techniques and state-of-the-art anti-pollution technology Responsibility for the Environment 1. Environmental Management Our facilities operate in full compliance with the terms and conditions of our environmental licensing and with the requirements of Greek and European legislation. The implementation of projects and actions is based on the best available techniques and methods with the aim of constantly optimising the energy efficiency and environmental performance of our facilities. Selection of the most efficient means and measures to reduce Policy, which is enhanced by the application of an effective environmental impact covers the entire spectrum of our environmental management system that has been certified activities; from the selection of technologies when building new as compliant with the ISO 14001 standard. The systematic processing units, to the practices applied during the refinery’s monitoring and measurement of environmental indicators, daily operation, and from the use of advanced control systems the application of standard methods of measurement and in our facilities to the training provided to employees working analysis of controlled parameters, and ongoing monitoring in them. and recording of operational parameters in combination with monthly reviews of environmental performance all help to Environmental Management System identify activities that require intervention and improvement. The focal commitment of the company to the minimisation of the Thus, the principle of prevention is successfully implemented and environmental impact resulting from its operation is expressed resources are allocated so as to achieve the maximum possible through our Health, Safety and Environmental Protection environmental benefit. Environmental Management System Health, Safety and Environmental Policy Planning Environmental aspects Continuous Legal and other requirements Improvement Purposes and goals Environmental program ISO 14001:2015 ISO 50001:2011 EMAS III ER 1221/2008 Implementation and operation Structure and responsibilities Management Education – awareness raising Review Communication Improvement Proposals Documentation Implementation commitment Document inspection Control Operational control Monitoring and measuring Emergency response Non-compliance Corrective and preventive action Records Inspections 52 Environmental Objectives natural resources, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and The Environmental Management System is an effective helping to alleviate the effects of climate change. management tool for implementing the various environmental protection policy objectives, which are: The Environmental Management System ensures the • Complying fully with all Greek and EU environmental implementation of suitable procedures to identify and evaluate protection legislative requirements. the material environmental impacts of our activities, and • Operating the refinery facilities in accordance with forms the basis for drawing up strategies and implementing approved environmental conditions. technically feasible and financially viable programs to • Distributing products that comply with the European quality protect the environment. Additionally, within the framework and environmental protection norms, by taking steps to of EMAS, the company is required to publish, on an annual upgrade production facilities accordingly. basis, information about its environmental performance in the • Planning and implementing projects with minimised form of an Environmental Statement, allowing it to remain environmental impacts. in the EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme System, by • Implementing Best Available Techniques. decision of the Ministry of the Environment, Energy & Climate • Monitoring and continually minimising the emissions of Change renewed annually. In 2017, MOTOR OIL issued its greenhouse gases, as well as those of other gas pollutants, BV-certified Environmental Statement 2016, its eleventh such and reducing solid and liquid waste as far as technically and annual report. It is available on the website, www.moh.gr. economically feasible. It should be noted that, in the oil refining sector, the triple • Monitoring and, as far as possible, minimising, the combination of certified compliance with ISO 14001:2015 consumption of energy. and EMAS, in respect of environmental performance, and ISO • Pre-empting risks of environmental pollution, minimising 9001:2015 in respect of quality management, is particularly the probability of environmental accidents, and preparing, significant and provides advantages at many levels. Such a implementing and testing the appropriate emergency multiple certification is unusual among European refineries with intervention procedures. such high complexity as MOTOR OIL’s. • Training of, and awareness-raising among, all our personnel and contractors’ employees who work on our premises, on The refinery facilities, which include the principal and auxiliary the implementation of our environmental protection policy. units, operate under the terms and conditions described in •Evaluating our environmental performance and continuously detail in the Decision Approving Environmental Conditions improving our Environmental Management System. for the refinery’s operation. The above decision is governed • Developing communication and dialogue with all by the regulations of Directive 2010/75/EU (the Industrial stakeholders, especially with local communities in areas Emissions Directive) which mandates the implementation of around the company’s facilities. best available techniques to achieve an integrated approach to preventing and controlling emissions into air, water and soil. The company’s Environmental Management System was first The refinery facilities fall under the greenhouse gas emission certified in 2000, in accordance with the ISO 14001:1996 allowance trading scheme within the European Community standard. This was followed by re-certifications, and in 2017, as part of Directive 2003/87/EU aimed at promoting the certification was expanded to include the production, trade efficient and cost-effective reduction of greenhouse gas and delivery of fuels, biofuels, basic lubricants, lubricants, emissions. paraffins, asphalt, sulphur and special petroleum products with the new re-certified ISO 14001:2015 standard. The In 2017, as part of efforts to ensure the ongoing fine-tuning Environmental Management System is part of the company’s and improvement of the Environmental Management System, Integrated Management System, which has also been three communication procedures were reviewed in regard recertified to the revised ISO 9001:2015 standard for quality. to:Handling environmental management programmes, Therefore, the various internal operations and procedures of detecting leaks of organic compounds and hydrogen sulphide the Environmental Management System are themselves subject in refinery equipment, and a procedure for monitoring and to the rigorous documentation imposed by the standard. reporting related to CO 2 emissions from combustion/ Our commitment to publish our environmental performance processing. figures and the impact of the operations at our facilities, as explicitly set out in our Policy on the Environment, led to our Compliance with Environmental Legislation voluntary adoption and implementation of the Community EcoA key element of MOTOR OIL’s environmental policy, Management and Audit Scheme ΕΜAS ΙΙΙ, provided for by which is applied to all company activities, is to comply with European Regulation 1221:2009. environmental legislation. In 2017, MOTOR OIL certified its refinery’s Energy Our commitment to rigorous adherence to Greek and Management System to ISO 50001:2011 standard. The European legislation is reflected in our environmental certification is valid until November 2020 and commits performance indicators, which are reported to the competent MOTOR OIL to use energy efficiently with the aim of conserving authorities and stakeholders. 53 Responsibility for the Environment Prior-period reports are submitted to competent authorities Refinery/facilities communication with local stakeholders annually, outlining: All of our companies maintain open channels of communication • Emissions and plan for monitoring carbon dioxide emissions. with local administration authorities and other stakeholders, • Quantities and type of produced solid waste and its either by sending representatives to conferences and meetings, management. or keeping local organisations informed about its investment • Quantity and quality of liquid waste. plans and its programmes relating to environmental protection. • Results of monitoring and recording environmental quality. Besides briefing local authorities, the company also maintains • Emissions from main combustion plants. open communication lines with refinery neighbours, listening • Annual final report for the European Pollutant Release and and responding to any complaints they may have. Recording, Transfer Register (EPRTR), in compliance with Regulation investigation and evaluation of complaints from local 166/2006/ΕC. residents are all covered by a specific procedure to ensure • Quantities of ship-generated waste offloaded at MOTOR the appropriate immediate or long-term corrective action is OIL’s port facilities. taken, in line with the causes of the nuisance. Also submitted are: The fact that in recent years the number of complaints from • The annual Environmental Statement in accordance with the local community has been kept at low levels demonstrates the requirements of EMAS ER 1221/2009. The company the efficacy of the aforesaid measures. Specifically for 2017, is registered with the European Eco-Management and we received 22 complaints by neighbours, with four of them Audit Scheme (EMAS), and in the corresponding Hellenic concerning nuisance from emissions, nine from noise and nine Register, under number EL 000067. from odours. The number of complaints remained within the same level as in 2016 when we dealt with 21 issues. Of the Similarly, LPC submitted: 22 complaints, 10 were determined to be groundless and no • Annual statements to the Electronic Waste Registry regarding corrective measures were necessary, while 12 were deemed waste collection and transport activities (Reg. No 15-1) and justified, but not significant, as they were related to essential waste generation (Reg. No 15-2) for the years 2015 and processes or matters of unit operation which were promptly 2016 as well. addressed. • Annual statement to the Electronic Waste Producers Registry (EWP Reg. No 616) for 2016 (Hellenic Recycling AgencyNo complaints were received in 2017 from neighbours of the ΕΟΑΝ, alternative management of waste lubricating oils). Coral, Coral Gas and LPC facilities. • Annual final report for the European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (EPRTR), in compliance with Regulation 166/2006/ΕC. • The verified annual Environmental Statement (BV) in accordance with the requirements of EMAS ER 1221/2009. The company is registered with the European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), and in the corresponding Hellenic Register, under number EL 000051. 2. Environmental Impact Management MOTOR OIL, in striving to continuously improve its environmental performance, over and above consistent legal compliance, implements a programme of measures for the prevention and management of the environmental impacts that are unavoidably associated with its operations. An important tool in this endeavour is the measurement, This classification procedure is also carried out whenever regular evaluation of results, and the systematic assessment there are any changes to the refinery’s configuration, reof the environmental impacts at all stages of the production evaluating the classification and characterisation of the process. This assessment is based on a set of criteria impacts. including legislative requirements and stakeholder views which lead to the classification of impacts according to their significance and their characterisation as significant or non-significant. 54 This procedure for classifying the environmental impacts associated with the refinery’s operation, and their significance classification, has Environmental Impact Evaluation Criteria led to the following impacts being classified as significant, therefore constituting the challenges we are called upon to manage: YES • Gas emissions from fixed combustion sources and from the Legal Requirement refinery’s production processes. YES Purpose/Goal • Energy and water consumption. NON-SIGNIFICANT IMPACT • Hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste. YES Objection SIGNIFICANT IMPACT • Liquid industrial effluents and urban liquid waste. ΝΑΙ • Noise. 3 Complaints/Year YES The above environmental impacts are recorded on a regular basis, VALID Stakeholder Opinions and suitable environmental indices are used for their monitoring, YES on the basis of which the appropriate actions are planned and Indirect NO implemented so as to ensure that proper measures are taken, and Irregular Circumstances that there is effective management and continuous improvement of NO Accident the company’s environmental performance. Emergency When new projects are being planned, alternative designs are HIGH LOW evaluated taking account of their respective environmental impacts, Impact Severity with the aim of minimising these impacts as far as practicable, HIGH LOW incorporating Best Available Techniques and choosing the most Frequency of Appearance environmentally friendly. 3. Environmental Investments and Expenditures The company’s investment policy is oriented towards producing products that comply with European quality specifications, using technologies that minimise environmental impacts, and towards capital investments aiming at improving and enhancing the refinery’s environmental performance. Between 2000 and 2017, the Group realised an investment investment related to the environment amounted to 815.1 million programme totalling 1,677 million euros (as shown in the euros, i.e. 50% of the total investment programme. In 2017, relevant table), the major part of which related to the construction total investments amounted to 113.3 million euros, of which of the new Crude Distillation Unit, as well as the Hydrocracker 23.6 million euros concerned projects whose main purpose was Complex, which produces clean fuels. From 2000 to 2017, the improvement and protection of the environment. ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS AND OPERATING EXPENSES 2000 2017 (million euros) 2000Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total 2010 Total level of investment 1.166.3 71.3 67.6 68.7 60.7 42.4 86.4 113.3 1.676.7 Investment relating 624.1 36.1 16.4 18.7 11.0 8.4 18.9 18.7 752.3 to environment Environmental 31.3 4.0 3.3 4.0 4.5 5.7 5.1 4.9 62.8 operating expenses TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS AND 655.4 40.1 19.7 22.7 15.5 14.1 24.0 23.6 815.1 OPERATING EXPENSES 55 Responsibility for the Environment In 2017, the application of the Advanced Process Control making an important contribution to optimising energy efficiency. (APC) system was expanded to cover the vacuum distillation • Energy-Saving units, while the application of APC to the Alkylation unit is The new furnaces incorporate forced draft technology, and use currently underway, with the aim of ensuring optimal control less energy than the older furnaces. and ongoing automated regulation of their operation. There are • Reduction in Point Emissions of Pollutants multiple benefits from the operation of the new system, in terms The enhanced energy efficiency achieved by replacement of of both process and environmental safety, due to the significant the old furnaces has a direct impact on reduction of atmospheric savings of energy and the consequent reduction of the carbon emissions (because of the improved combustion process and footprint in the production process. reduction in use of fuel). The burners in the new furnace are low NΟx burners, which helps reduce the quantity of NΟx emitted Finally, the upgrade of the lubricant vacuum distillation units in the furnace fumes. got underway by replacing the three old furnaces with two new, technologically advanced and more efficient ones which will have a shared system that heats the combustion air, thus increasing thermal performance. Regarding the above project, it is important to note that it is a modernisation project, with 815.1million euros significant environmental benefits, including: environmental investment and operating • Optimisation of Energy Efficiency expenses from 2000 to 2017 The thermal efficiency of the new furnace is as high as 91%, 4. Best Available Techniques Best Available Techniques (BAT) are techniques that can prevent (primary prevention measures that are intrinsic to the production process itself), or control (secondary measures or “end-of-pipe” techniques) in the most efficient manner the pollution caused by an industrial activity, while being economically feasible and technically practicable. Best Available Techniques per sector are described in In order to minimise environmental impacts, MOTOR OIL the corresponding Reference Documents (BREFs), which incorporates the aforesaid BATs either into the original were revised in 2015. The emission levels ensured by plans for a unit, or in cases of modernisation, expansion or using BATs are now mandated by the Industrial Emissions modification of existing units and processes. At the same Directive (IED) for integrated pollution prevention time, the company incorporates automations and control and control.The integrated approach is based on the systems into the operation of the refinery, that contribute to overall environmental performance of a facility and efficient management of raw materials and energy, while covers emissions into the atmosphere, water and subsoil ensuring high levels of reliability and safety in the units. contamination, generation of solid wastes, use of raw A summary of BAT application at the refinery is provided materials and energy, noise, accident prevention and the below: rehabilitation of worksites. A. Management and Automated Control Systems • A p p l i c a t i o n a n d m a i n t e n a n c e o f q u a l i t y, • A Distributed Control System (DCS) to monitor its environmental and energy management systems production process and emissions into air and water, that meet ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and which plays an important role in reducing environmental ISO 50001:2011 standards to ensure ongoing impacts of the production process. improvement of the refinery’s overall environmental • The use of Advanced Process Control systems to minimise performance. operating fluctuations and reduce energy demand. 56 B. Efficient energy use • Optimal use of steam in the stripping process and use of • Use of heat recovery boilers to reduce use of fuel in steam traps. generation of steam. • Promotion of energy integration in production processes, • Optimised combustion. through analysis of optimal energy use. • Balancing generation and consumption of energy using • Promotion of heat and energy recovery at the refinery. automated control systems. C. Minimised gas emissions • Maximised use of refinery gas fuel. • Installation of Low-ΝOx burners. • Use of fuels with low sulphur content. • Use of high thermal efficiency techniques. • Use of good combustion techniques. • Use of steam injection techniques. • Minimised fuel consumption through the installation of • Use of a catalyst which will resist wear caused by friction forced-draft furnaces (increased energy efficiency). in the catalytic pyrolysis unit. D. Anti-Pollution Technology Units • Gas processing and sulphur recovery units. • Electrostatic filter at the Fluid Catalytic Cracking unit. • Sour water stripping units. • Vapour recovery system at the Truck Loading Terminal. • Industrial and municipal wastewater treatment units. • Emergency systems for maintenance work and • Contaminated soil processing unit using bioremediation. response to system disruption (load-shedding systems, • Sludge de-oiling/decanting units to reduce sludge emergency amine systems, multiple wash down volume. systems). E. Ancillary facilities to minimise use of energy and natural resources • Water desalination using reverse osmosis technology • Partial use of cooling tower with desalinated water • Power and steam cogeneration plant. aiming at decreasing the use of sea water. • Recycling of cooling water. F. Prevention and Monitoring Measures • Placement of second-tier seals on floating-roof tanks, organic compounds from equipment. using low-leaking valves and double-seal pumps, • Automated tank cleaning method. implementation of international construction and piping • Heat exchanger maintenance and cleaning programme. codes to minimise fugitive emissions from various sources • Equipment inspection programme. • Implementation of leak detection and repair programme • Solid waste management to reduce generation at source (LDAR) to detect and rectify fugitive emissions of volatile and disposal through specialised companies. 57 Responsibility for the Environment 5. Energy Saving For us, the rational use of energy is an important parameter in conducting responsible business activities and is indicative of our commitment to the principles of sustainable growth. Thus: that contribute to the reduction of emissions. Cooperating with • Measuring and improving, on a continuous basis, our the competent state authorities and other agencies in planning performance with respect to the use of energy and the reduction and implementing technologically feasible and financially viable of carbon dioxide emissions. environmental protection policies. •Investing in the application of economically feasible technologies • Reporting our actions and results to all stakeholders. 5.1. Energy Efficiency Improvement Our “energy footprint” is an important consideration that leads us to actively identify areas with potential for enhancing energy efficiency, and to implement appropriate projects through the use of Best Available Techniques or equivalent technologies. The MOTOR OIL refinery has drawn up and is implementing an Energy Consumption investment programme aimed at improving energy efficiency, primarily in the older units which were less energy-efficient due to their design. Thus, in recent years, one additional 30,825 28,774 29,044 power-steam cogenerator was installed to minimise boiler 27,139 27,298 use; the thermal pyrolysis furnace was upgraded; and the air preheating furnace of the Crude Distillation Unit was replaced, while additional heat recovery exchangers were installed in the Thermal Pyrolysis Unit. Also in 2016, the project to upgrade the furnaces at the Lubricant Vacuum Distillation Unit was begun 2.46 2.49 2.37 and is expected to demonstrate initial positive results in 2018, 2.26 2.15 while the upgrade of the furnace in the Lubricant Extraction Unit is underway. At the same time, the application of the Advanced Process Control (APC) system was extended to the alkylation 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 unit and is expected to be in full operation in 2018. In the past, Energy Consumption(TJ) APC systems had been installed in almost all production units, Specific Energy Consumption (TJ/Thousand MT of raw materials) and this year marks the tenth since natural gas was introduced. As part of optimising operations, in 2017 the catalyst in the diesel desulphurisation unit was replaced. Use of Natural Gas Introducing the use of natural gas to the refinery in 2008 was Energy consumption and the overall performance of the facilities an important step towards reducing its energy footprint, while is systematically monitored with the application of an integrated also improving financial and environmental results, given that Energy Management System. It is noted that energy consumption the use of natural gas usually reduces CO2 emissions and is for for 2017 in absolute numbers showed an increase from 2016; the most part the economically most efficient way of generating however, this is not representative since consumption in 2016 electricity and producing hydrogen. was down due to the extensive maintenance programme at the Natural gas is used: refinery, which kept energy-consuming units out of operation. • As an alternative raw material for the hydrogen production Moreover, per-unit energy consumption showed a slight unit (instead of naphtha or LPG), which allows the quantities decrease and amounted to 2.15 TJ, which was 4.8% less than of carbon dioxide emitted to be reduced by approximately 2016. Our long-standing commitment to continue to reduce 8% and 19%, respectively. energy consumption is depicted in the diagram below showing • As an alternative fuel for the Power Cogeneration Plant gas the decrease in specific energy consumption over time. turbines, instead of either fuel gas or propane, achieving a reduction of carbon dioxide emissions by as much as 16%. • As an alternative or supplementary fuel for the refinery’s pre-heat furnaces and steam boilers, thus both increasing energy efficiency and significantly reducing emissions of air pollutants. 58 Power and Steam Cogeneration Plant production of which would require a different fuel mix. Moreover, The Cogeneration Plant now includes five gas turbines, with a heat recovery and steam generation at the refinery reduce the total active power of 85MW, and three boilers recovering heat use of boilers. The resulting benefit for the environment in terms from the exhaust fumes generated. These boilers generate about of lower CO2 emissions due to own generation of electricity is 140 tons of high and low pressure steam per hour, making the indicated in the following table. refinery self-sufficient in electricity – as it eliminates the need to draw power from the Public Power Corporation grid – and In addition, the Power Management System (Best Available meeting most of its need for steam. Technique), which was upgraded in 2011, protects the refinery from partial or complete shutdown owing to a failure of the The operation of the plant also contributes to the reduction of internal or external power network, significantly increasing greenhouse gas emissions on a national level by drastically the level of safety and reliability and thereby improving reducing electricity consumption from the national grid, the environmental efficiency. Avoiding CO2 emissions (tons) by cogeneration of electricity and steam 2016 2017 328,000 346,000 Upgrading of Preheating Furnaces and Boilers Monitoring and Daily Practice The upgrading of the furnaces is intended to ensure more The energy performance of production units is constantly effective use of the heat from the exhaust fumes, thereby monitored, so as to correct any malfunctions that come to light. reducing consumption of fuel, CO2 emissions and emissions The Advanced Process Control system, through continuous of other atmospheric pollutants. A rolling programme is monitoring, achieves the optimisation of energy use in the units underway to upgrade the refinery furnaces, introducing forced where it has been installed. The APC system is fully operational draft technology – which increases the efficiency of a furnace for the crude distillation units, the Vacuum Distillation units, the by more than 6% – and replacing the existing boilers with Hydrocracker and Hydrogen Production units and the Diesel new, more energy-efficient boilers emitting fewer NOx. For Hydrodesulphurisation units, making a significant contribution example, upgrading the crude oil preheating furnace in 2007 to optimising operations and providing direct control of their increased thermal efficiency from 80% to 87%. In 2014, with most important operational parameters. Automated sulphur and the completion of upgrading of the visbreaker unit, a new distillation analysers have also been installed and are used by improved-efficiency pre-heating furnace was installed, allowing the APC to accurately adjust the processes and minimise energy a savings of up to 30% in fuel use compared with previous years. consumption. Moreover, the project to replace the furnaces of the vacuum distillation unit got underway in 2016, with initial results of the With the same aim, the refinery’s preventive maintenance anticipated decrease in fuel consumption expected soon. programme provides for: • The systematic re-tubing, repair and cleaning of heat Recovery of Gases and Condensates exchangers and air coolers in order to maximise heat The recovery of condensates, which are then used in the steam recovery and reduce consumption. boilers to produce steam, was maintained at high levels. Using • Replacing, through annual programmes, of pipeline the energy content of the condensates means reducing the gas and equipment insulation, thus minimizing losses to the and liquid fuel required to generate steam in the steam boilers. environment. Continual care is also taken to maximise recovery of gases, so • The maintenance and/or replacement of rotating equipment, that they can be used as fuel and their combustion in the flare whose energy performance has fallen below specified levels, minimised. as a result of length of use. • Repairing and/or replacing of the refractory material, burners Desalination and tubes of pre-heat furnaces. Desalination of seawater using reverse osmosis technology is the most energy-efficient method. Extensive use is made of this technique, with four units in operation. A new production unit is under construction and existing ones are being improved, with the aim of achieving complete independence from the use of thermal desalination units. 59 Responsibility for the Environment Our commercial companies Energy consumption and related emissions by the subsidiaries are not considered substantial for us, since the greatest environmental impact derives from the operation of the refinery. That is where we focus the majority of actions as part of our strategy. Nevertheless, we commenced documenting our performance to meet the requirements to publish environmental data of Law 4403/2016, which was adopted to incorporate European Directive 2014/95/EU into national legislation. Energy consumption for buildings and facilities of our commercial companies 2017 Company Type of energy MWh MJ Electrical power (Aspropyrgos, Kalohori) 1,157 4,165,200 CORAL GAS LPG (Kalohori) 144 518,000 Electrical power (Perama, Ikonio, Hania, Kalohori, Kavala, 2,975 10,747,901 Alexandroupoli) CORAL Heating oil (Perama, Kavala, Alexandroupoli) 4,923 17,723,885 Electrical power (Agioi Theodoroi, Kavala) 329 1,186,114 AVIN OIL Heating oil (Kavala) 26 92,700 Electrical power 5,946 21,405,600 LPC Natural gas 41,843 150,634,800 Fuel for own use 20,640 74,304,000 Electrical power 564.8 2,033,280 OFC Heating oil 111 399,110 Automotive diesel 71 255,146 Energy consumption by privately owned fleet of our commercial companies 2017 Company Type of energy Lt MWh/lt MWh MJ CORAL GAS Automotive diesel 106,931 0.0119 1,272 4,579,200 CORAL Automotive diesel 419,212 0.0119 4,989 17,958,960 AVIN OIL Automotive diesel 414,958 0.0119 4,938 17,776,800 LPC Automotive diesel 108,650 0.0119 1,293 4,654,600 Automotive diesel 5,629 0.0119 67 241,146 OFC Petrol 1,293 0.0097 13 45,151 5.2. CΟ2 Emissions The year 2017 was the fifth year of implementing the new system to monitor greenhouse gas emissions for the period 2013-2020. Apart from the need to reduce CO2 emissions, this phase of application will also be subject to rigorous specifications relating to accuracy of measurements and assessment of their relative uncertainty. 60 In order to comply with these requirements, MOTOR OIL: CO2 Emissions • Uses the appropriate methodology to monitor CO 2 emissions from its facilities, the methodology resting on methods of calculation based on flow analysis 2,111 2,216 2,164 2,158 measurements and analyses of fuel quality 1,968 • Calculates at the refinery chemistry laboratory – certified to ΕΝ 17025:2005 standards – the quantity of carbon contained in the refinery gas fuel using the gas chromatography method. • Submits to the competent ministry annual reports on CO2 emissions, which are verified as to their reliability and 0.178 0.178 0.179 0.174 validity by a certified external agency. 0.159 Total CO2 emissions for 2017 were 2,158 thousand tons. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 There was a slight drop in overall emissions in 2017 over Annual Emissions (thousand MT) 2016, when there was a general shut-down for maintenance. Specific Annual Emissions (MT CO2 per MT of raw material) The specific value was 11% down from 2016. Our commercial companies Here is our documented performance in accordance with the requirements to publish environmental data under Law 4403/2016. Emissions of CO2 in MT from energy consumption for buildings and facilities of our commercial companies 2017 Company Type of energy tn CO2 eq Electrical power (Aspropyrgos, Kalohori) 673 CORAL GAS LPG (Kalohori) 37 Electrical power (Perama, Ikonio, Hania, Kalohori, Kavala, Alexandroupoli) 1,731 CORAL Heating oil (Perama, Kavala, Alexandroupoli) 12,401 Electrical power (Agioi Theodoroi, Kavala) 191 AVIN OIL Heating oil (Kavala) 65 Electrical power 3,460 LPC Natural gas 9,916 Fuel for own use 6,295 Electrical power 329 OFC Heating oil 27 Automotive diesel 17.7 Emissions of CO2 in MT from energy consumption by privately owned fleet of our commercial companies 2017 Company Type of energy Lt tn CO2 eq / 1.000 lt tn CO2 eq CORAL GAS Automotive diesel 106,931 2.6 278 CORAL Automotive diesel 419,212 2.6 1,090 AVIN OIL Automotive diesel 414,958 2.6 1,079 LPC Automotive diesel 108,650 2.6 282 Automotive diesel 5,629 2.6 15 OFC Petrol 1,293 2.27 2.9 The data relating to our commercial companies appear only for 2017, since there are insufficient data for prior years. 61 Responsibility for the Environment 6. Air Quality Management It is a fundamental duty of our company to assure air quality at and around our facilities. The achievement of ongoing improvement in this area is not just a response to legal requirements; it is also due to our commitment to the principles of Corporate Responsibility, according to which we regard air quality as an important issue. • Furnaces CO2, NOX, SO2 Suspended particles. • Boilers – Burners Gas emissions from focal combustion sources. • Gas Wash down Unit • Sulphur Recovery Units (Catalytic SO2, H2S conversion of hydrogen sulphide H2S gas emissions are very low due to their complete into sulphur and then burning of conversion into solid sulphur. the flue gases) • Fuel storage VOCS emissions • API oil separators Emissions of organic volatile compounds come • Loading-unloading of raw materials from fuel storage tanks, the operation of the API oil and products separators as well as the leaks there may be from the • Leaks from distribution network distribution of the fuel within the refinery. Emissions Monitoring and particulate matter PM 10 and PM2.5 (particulates To protect and improve air quality, state ofthe-art metering with an aerodynamic diameter of <10 μm and <2.5 μm equipment is employed. The measurement programme, respectively). including continuous as well as intermittent readings, covers both point and diffused emission sources. Within the refinery, flue gases from the stacks of the main combustion plants (point emissions) of the Fuel, In the peripheral zone of the refinery, air quality is monitored Hydrocracking and Lubricant complexes and the electric at four stations which are equipped with contemporary, generation units are continuously monitored by online automated tools with multiple measuring and monitoring analysers, which are certified to the EN14181 standard. abilities. In addition to pollutant concentrations, the oxygen • Three fixed monitoring stations are capable of continuously concentration and temperature, flow and pressure of flue measuring the concentration of hydrogen sulphide (H2S) gases are also monitored. Moreover, in conformance with and sulphur dioxide (SO2). the refinery’s environmental terms, the supply of gases to • A mobile station equipped with automated state-of thethe flares in the Combustion, Lubricant and Hydrocracking art measuring and recording devices, which can perform units is also constantly monitored. At the Catalytic Cracking a wide range of measurements, including meteorological Unit there is continuous monitoring of the flow, humidity, parameters (wind speed and direction, air temperature pressure and temperature of the flue gases, the concentration and relative humidity), and the concentrations of of oxygen and carbon monoxide, of sulphur dioxide, of nitrogen oxides (ΝΟ, ΝΟ 2 and NOx), sulphur dioxide nitrogen oxides and of suspended particles. (SO 2 ), hydrogen sulphide (H 2 S), carbon monoxide (CO), methane, hydrocarbons excluding methane and total hydrocarbons, (CH 4 , NMHC, THC), benzene, 62 It should be noted that all analysers are connected to the for the production of sulphuric acid and fertilisers. The whole refinery’s Distributed Control System (DCS), a configuration process is carried out in a completely closed circuit, thus that allows for the complete control of the units’ function with avoiding the dispersing of sulphur particles in the air, and the aim of minimising air pollution. minimising entirely any environmental impacts. Emissions from the refinery’s other stacks are monitored every three months by a suitably accredited external organisation. Minimizing Emissions Apart from the measures to control concentrations of airborne An automated performance control system operates at the pollutants, a range of measures has been taken within the Sulphur Recovery units, which continuously monitors and refinery to limit atmospheric pollution, such as: records H 2S concentrations at the entry points, and H 2S • Installation of an electrostatic filter on the outlet of the and SΟ2 concentrations at the exit points of these units. The Catalytic Pyrolysis unit, intended to reduce emissions of H 2S/SΟ 2 ratio is also continuously measured, recorded suspended particles from the catalyst. This reduces total and adjusted to ensure maximised recovery performance emissions of suspended particles to levels far below the (which is >99.5% in the case of the new SCOT-type units). permitted limits. The smooth operation of the afterburners (incinerators) • Desulphurisation of gases used as fuel in the refinery associated with these units is achieved through continuous before they enter the gas fuel system, reducing emissions monitoring of SΟ 2 and Ο 2 at the exit points, and of the of sulphur dioxide. temperature at the radiant section of the furnaces. Operation • Installation of burners with low NOx emissions, both in the of both the Sulphur Recovery units, and the afterburners, is design of new furnaces and in the upgrading of old ones, automatically controlled via the refinery’s Distributed Control in order to reduce their emissions. System (DCS). • Furnace cleaning while in operation, aiming at increasing heat induction, saving fuel and decreasing flue gas Clean Fuels temperature. Integrated Sulphur Management System • Installation of closed circuits in the gas processes, relieving Refineries face the following challenge: the amount of pressure of gases by safety valves to the flares, placing of sulphur in the available crude oil types is increasing over second-tier seals on floating-roof tanks, placing of floating time, while the specifications for allowable sulphur content in tops on the oil separators and installation of a steam the fuels produced have reached extremely low levels (e.g. recovery system at the Tanker Loading Terminal, as well for petrol and automotive diesel, the 2009 specification for as measures to reduce emissions of hydrocarbon gases, in sulphur content is a maximum of 10 ppm or the equivalent tandem with the implementation of the system of bottomof 0.001%). Moreover, the maximum acceptable level of loading tankers. sulphur emissions is also low, since the content of sulphur • Installation of steam recovery units for loading of petrol dioxide in the atmosphere around a refinery, on an hourly at all AVIN OIL and Coral facilities, as provided for in basis, should not exceed 350 μg/m³. In this context, the legislation, and at all service stations for use in unloading removal of sulphur coming into the refinery with crude oil at of petrol from tankers to tanks (in accordance with the a concentration which in 2017 ranged between 0.25% and provisions of Directive 94/63 [Stage I]). 4.0% is a significant challenge. • Bottom-loading of tankers. MOTOR OIL, as a responsible corporate citizen with respect for the environment, has in place a particularly effective system which incorporates Best Available Techniques, in order to achieve the best results, both in terms of maximising the degree of sulphur removal and minimising the amount of energy consumed. In this way, and through the Hydrocracker Complex, MOTOR OIL produces and markets petrol and automotive diesel with a sulphur content below 10 ppm. This results in reduced sulphur emissions from the refinery, while the overall rate of hydrogen sulphide conversion into elemental sulphur in the new SCOT-type Sulphur Recovery units is in the order of 99.95%. Elemental sulphur is initially produced in liquid form, which by cooling and appropriate processing, is converted to a solid granular form, stored in silos for sale as a raw material 63 Responsibility for the Environment Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) A modern refinery comprises many different types of pumps, flanges and other related equipment installed installed equipment, through which large quantities of on pipelines, pressure vessels, reactors or storage tanks. raw materials circulate, as well as intermediates and final products. In such a system, it is to be expected In 2017, 6,171 points were inspected as part of the that there will be particular points with a higher risk LDAR programme at the MOTOR OIL refinery, covering of hydrocarbons being accidentally released into the all production units, the truck loading terminals, port atmosphere. In order to limit fugitive emissions from facilities, storage tanks and oil separators. The various the equipment, a programme has been implemented points are checked by refinery staff at least once a featuring regular controls at selected points (better year, using portable equipment to measure volatile known as LDAR – Leak Detection and Repair) in order carbon concentration. In the event that concentrations to identify and repair possible leaks. are found to exceed 5,000 ppm, a repair request for the equipment checked is issued. In 2017, there were Fugitive emissions may arise from leaks in valves, 17,370 checks. In Numbers As far as air quality during 2017 is concerned, the processing The diagram below shows total annual emissions of sulphur of the recordings at the four air quality monitoring stations, dioxide, as well as emissions per ton of raw material. In 2017, in the context of the emissions monitoring programme, has there was a decrease (14.8%) in the total emissions and the shown, as in previous years, that air quality in the vicinity of emitted SO2 value per ton of raw material from 2016. the refinery remains highly satisfactory. Detailed figures for The specific SO2 amount has also dropped in recent years due the last five years show that there has been no exceeding to favourable economic factors that prevailed in the oil refining of the hourly limit values and daily levels permitted by sector in 2017 which allowed for the use of environmentally legislation, and the recorded values are much lower than friendly fuels instead of other traditional ones (fuel oil). the limit values allowed. The following diagrams show the average annual values Sulphur Dioxide Emissions of the last seven years for SO2, NO2 and suspended PM10 particles. It is noted that no exceedances were observed in 2017 in accordance with the applicable legislation. 3.4 3.5 3.3 3.2 3.1 Average Annual Concentration SO2 140 Daily limit value 120 0.31 0.28 100 0.27 0.27 0.23 80 μg/m3 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 60 Annual Emissions (thousand MT) Specific Annual Emissons (kg SO2 per MT of raw material) 40 20 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 64 Average Annual Concentration ΝO2 Average Annual Concentration of Suspended Particles PM10 250 70 Hourly limit value 60 200 Daily limit value 50 150 40 μg/m3 μg/m3 30 100 20 50 10 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Further information on MOTOR OIL results for 2017 is available Similarly, more information about LPC is available at the in the Environmental Statement 2017, which presents diagrams following link: relating to all air pollutants. See the following link: http://lpc.gr/perivallongr/perivallontikes-diloseis/ http://www.moh.gr/Default.aspx?a_id=10492 7. Liquid Waste Management Liquid waste produced by the refinery’s various processes fall into two categories: industrial waste and urban waste. The management and processing of liquid waste is a material The effective operation of the Industrial Waste Water issue for the company, which incorporates Best Available Treatment Plant is evidenced by the fact that concentrations Techniques, while due to their different pollutant load, the of various pollutant substances at the plant outlet are clearly industrial and urban waste streams undergo different types of below relevant limit values. In the case of some substances processing prior to their final disposal. Industrial liquid waste (including benzene, toluene, ethyl benzene, xylene and a is pre-processed and then taken to the Liquid Industrial Waste number of heavy metals), their concentrations are very much Treatment Plant, while urban waste is removed to the Urban below corresponding limit values, approaching the limit of Waste Treatment Plant. detection in some cases. Supply and concentrations of pollutant parameters at outlet of Liquid Industrial Waste Treatment Plant (average annual values) Average value Limit Parameter value 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Supply (m3/day) 9,485 9,817 10,070 9,592 8,323 pH 7.4 7.5 7.6 7.1 7.4 6-9 Temperature ( C) ο 25.4 25.4 27.5 30.2 29.8 35 Hydrocarbons (mg/l) 2.2 2.5 2.1 1.6 1.4 10 BOD5 (mg/l) 24.5 24.5 23.8 24.6 24.4 40 COD (mg/l) 104.9 106.0 105.3 106.0 106.3 150 65 Responsibility for the Environment Supply and concentrations of pollutant parameters at outlet of Liquid Industrial Waste Treatment Plant (average annual values) Average value Limit Parameter value 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 NH3 (mg/l) 13.4 13.5 13.4 13.5 13.5 15 Phenols (mg/l) 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.5 Sulphurs (mg/l) 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 2 Suspended solids (mg/l) 16.7 17.7 19.0 19.6 20.1 40 • Monitoring and control of subsoil and aquifer quality, based heavy metals and hydrocarbons, the results of which were on hydro-geological studies submitted to the Ministry of the found to meet legislative requirements. Environment, Energy and Climate Change, takes place at • Sampling and measurements continued in 2017, to monitor ten boreholes. According to the approved environmental conditions in the seawater of the coastal area near the terms, during 2017, two sets of samples were taken at these refinery. The study was conducted by the Geochemistry boreholes – one every six monthsin order to determine the section of the Faculty of Geology and Geoenvironment at value of a number of parameters, such as concentrations of the University of Athens. 8. Solid Waste Management Recycling Solid waste management is a material issue for the company. Waste management is based on an integrated process covering all stages in the life cycle of the waste and includes the following methods: processing and re-use, recycling, recovery and final disposal. The main aims of the solid waste management programme are: • Reduction of quantities produced, at source, Specifically, as part of the integrated solid waste management • Separation into hazardous and non-hazardous waste at programme, the MOTOR OIL refinery has already implemented source, biopiling technology for processing contaminated soil and • Maximum exploitation prior to final disposal, through installed a bioremediation facility. The company electronically recycling or re-use or recovery of useful components or submits an annual report to the competent departments of the regeneration, and finally, Ministry of the Environment and Energy which lists all types of • Safe transportation and final disposal without putting at risk solid waste generated by its operations and outlines how solid human health or the environment. waste is handled and who the recipients are. Solid waste management is handled by appropriately As far as used lubricants and their packaging is concerned, licensed, specialised companies. Spent catalysts, which, contracts are in place with a firm specialised in used depending on the particular case may be classified as mineral oil recycling and with a firm specialised in handling hazardous solid waste, are disposed of in a number of ways packaging materials. These two contracts provide for (either exported, or regenerated for re-use by specialised recycling of used lubricants and their packaging, thus firms abroad, or used in cement manufacture). Empty contributing to the protection of the environment and the hazardous substance containers are also disposed of by rational use of raw materials. We also collaborate with licensed companies. accredited firms for recycling other categories of solid waste. Recycling solid waste disposal (Mt/year) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Batteries 4.5 11.1 1.04 5.32 9.12 Tyres 4.0 2.9 0.7 5.0 9.0 Lubricants1 192.1 27.5 1.4 82.8 201.0 66 Recycling solid waste disposal (Mt/year) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Wooden packaging 88.7 98.4 115.7 130.1 107.3 Paper and paper packaging 2, 3 156.6 171.8 203.0 167.2 88.6 Plastic and plastic packaging 228.2 233.4 214.8 215.7 41.6 Metal (scrap) 1,431 1,597 2,198 2,205 2,352 Electrical/electronic equipment 0.9 5.7 1.9 1.2 10.2 Contaminated soil 0 0 403.4 567.0 446.0 Contaminated packaging 20.6 13.8 8.7 16.8 27.0 Asbestos-containing materials 0 0 12.7 17.8 0 Printer cartridge packaging (units) 369 825 712 494 472 Spent catalysts for recycling 1,133 2,818 2,747 2,129 2,767 Mixed packaging 256 263 393 220 919.5 1. These quantities refer to the refinery alone, since corresponding reliable figures for the AVIN OIL and CORAL retail networks are not available. 2. Recycled and non-chemically bleached paper is being used by all the companies of the Group. 3. Money raised from paper and toner cartridge recycling at the Group Head Office is donated to the “ELPIDA” Foundation. Recovery and reprocessing of raw materials The main product traded by Group companies is fuel burned Our commercial companies work with the Alternative Management in various types of combustion engines in industry or by our of Waste Lubricating Oil company (ENDIALE S.A.) to collect used final customers/consumers. Nevertheless, in view of our internal combustion engine lubricants. Waste lubricating oils are a acute environmental consciouness, we endeavour to recover particularly hazardous type of waste because they contain heavy whatever is feasible at the various stages of our activity. metals, chlorinated compounds and sulphur and must not escape At the refinery, the stages of refining create by-products with into the air or into aquifers. In 2017, through this management specifications that deviate significantly from the desirable ones, programme, 69,120 litres were collected from Coral service making reprocessing necessary. The effort made is towards the stations and 15,300 litres from Avin’s. direction of utilising them, as much as possible in later stages of Coral Gas participated in a programme to recover and recycle refining, in order to minimise the consumption of energy and the gas cartridges. capacity that is committed for reprocessing. The goal is to restrict the overall reprocessing to the crude oil units. The quantities that were reprocessed are presented below: Recovery of raw materials (Mt) 2016 2017 109,300 107,300 67 Responsibility for the Environment 9. Water Management MOTOR OIL views water resource management as a material issue and has consistently implemented measures to reduce and rationally manage water consumption at its refinery. The water used in the various parts of the refinery originates Annual Water Consumption 100% from sea water processed at desalination units. The desalination is effected using both Multi-Stage Flashing and Reverse Osmosis techniques, the latter being the preferred method from an environmental and economic perspective. 0.304 0.303 0.290 0.289 Installation of a new osmosis unit and upgrades of existing units 0.285 are underway, and will lead to zero use of thermal units. The refinery’s desalination system has three MSF units and four RO units. This system allows full coverage of the refinery’s water needs, eliminating the need to purchase additional fresh water 3,355 3,462 3,576 3,658 3,932 on the open market. 3,355 3,462 3,576 3,658 3,932 The steady increase of production at the refinery in recent years 0 0 0 0 0 has resulted in a subsequent increase in total water use. On 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 the other hand, the quantity of water consumed per ton of raw Incoming Water (thousand M3) Desalination (thousand M3) material has been decreasing, and at the end of 2017 was Total Consumption (thousand M3) 0.290 m3, representing a drop of 4.3% from 2016. Specific Water Consumption (M3/ΜΤ raw material) The effort to reduce the quantity of water used per ton of raw material is part of our primary goals and a number of actions and investments have been made in this regard with projects of the acid water flows generated in different phases of the to improve energy efficiency at the refinery (reduced steam production process. About 46% of this water flow is recycled to consumption, operational improvements, etc.). feed the crude oil desalinators, while the rest is channelled to the Industrial Waste Water Treatment Plant, allowing a proportional Re-use and Recycling of Water reduction in consumption of fresh water and in the volume of One of the important processes at the refinery is the processing wastes needing treatment. 10. Noise Management Every feasible effort is made at both the refinery and all Group facilities to keep environmental noise at low levels. Regular measurements are made at set points on the refinery’s perimeter and appropriate measures are taken. Results of measurements for 2017 are set out in the table limits laid down in the environmental operating conditions below and show that noise levels are lower than the legal of the refinery. AVERAGE MEASUREMENT (DBA) LEGAL LIMITS JANUARY JANUARY JULY JULY OCTOBER OCTOBER (DBA) 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Perimeter of 54.5 54.8 54.0 55.0 55.2 55.4 65.0 refinery facility Southern Refinery 52.7 52.3 52.4 52.7 52.3 52.6 55.0 Perimeter 68 Noise levels are also measured in the work areas (platform, out. In the design of each new project (e.g. construction of new loading stations, etc.) at our commercial companies’ facilities tanks, regular unit maintenance) special measures are taken, and found to be below established allowable limits. The same is such as the installation of silencers, the placing of sound curtains true at the borders of our facilities where noise levels are below and the procurement of equipment with low noise emissions, in legal limits. order to add as little as possible to the overall noise pollution Particular care is also taken with the new projects being carried caused by the refinery or the facility. 11. Protection of the Marine Environment Due to its location, the operation of MOTOR OIL’s refinery and several of the facilities of our commercial companies are fully integrated with the marine environment. Owing to the impacts of a potential pollution incident, extensive prior planning and preparation is imperative, particularly to prevent but also to effectively respond to such events. It should be noted that no parts of the refinery or of our other used only with the consent of the Port Authorities. facilities abut on natural habitats or protected areas which might • Check the readiness for implementation of the existing antibe affected by their operation. contamination plans and maintain a high degree of readiness In this area, MOTOR OIL and our commercial companies: among staff to use the equipment involved, with an annual • Implement all necessary active and passive protection programme of drills. It should be noted that the scenario in measures to minimise the risk of oil spills within the boundaries the above drills involves more general refinery/facility safety of the refinery. In 2017, not a single leak was reported. issues as well as security issues for the port and vessels. • Implement all necessary measures and provide all equipment • Have in place a reception and handling plan for shipfor the safe sail in and sail out of tankers at their port facilities, generated waste and cargo residues. as well as for their safe loading/unloading. • Are members of international and regional organisations • Keep on hand all necessary equipment for response to a small whose aim is the prevention and timely response to oil spill or medium-scale local contamination incident (Τier-1/2). They incidents (see Participations Collaborations section in also keep on hand a stock of oil slick dispersant, which can be chapter 1). 69 Social Responsibility We stand side by side with the community, offering consistent and long-lasting support. Our standing objective is to follow a course of constant designed to help improve quality of life, protect the growth and creation of value for all stakeholders, environment and foster a healthy social and cultural life effectively playing our social role, and increasing our in local communities and across the country as a whole. In contribution to society. this context, in 2017 we spent 4.4 million euros in projects Our sense of responsibility to society is expressed, first of Social Solidarity and various sponsorships. and foremost, through our contribution to the general It is one of the Group’s strategic objectives to bring recovery and consolidation of our nation’s economy. It is prosperity to the communities around or in the general of vital importance to us that our activities should benefit area of its refinery and the facilities of its commercial the society in general, by way of direct and indirect job companies through job creation, support for the local creation, fostering local entrepreneurial activity and market and general social care. purchasing goods and services from the domestic and Finally, according to the supplementary indices of the local suppliers. Oil & Gas Sector, our Group does not operate in areas Moreover, we wish to see all our business activities interact where there are native populations, or where such positively and productively with the social environment in populations might be affected by our activities, nor were which we operate. It is for these reasons that the Motor there any significant disputes, involuntary movements of Oil Group implements a program of donations and personnel or other impacts on local communities or native sponsorships, addressed directly to local communities, populations in 2017. 755 million euros The social product Social solidarity projects 37 million euros and sponsorships in the past 10 years 4.4 million euros In 2017 Social Responsibility 1. Economic Benefits to Society Social Product The scale of the Group’s operations, combined with its consistent focus on steady growth, result in a very significant contribution to the country’s economic development. This contribution, based on our successful activities, is made through the generation of value for our shareholders and other stakeholders, the creation of jobs and our contribution to the broader social progress. Our operations in the critical energy sector reduce our well as society at large (donations and sponsorships). It country’s dependence on foreign sources of petroleum also encompasses the cost of securing operations, including products. Moreover, our interaction with stakeholders expenditure for Health, Safety and the Environment, creates primary value for their benefit and secondary value insurance of facilities, repairs and preventive maintenance. too, in that it contributes to the value they in turn generate for the economy and the society as a whole. Allocation of Social Product 2017 (Total: 755 million euros) In 2017, the Group’s total revenues from economic activities 26.4% amounted to 7,964.2 million euros. Out of these, 6,366.7 Public Sector 18.4% million euros were used to purchase crude oil, other raw Staff: Gross 14.7% materials and finished products. This represents 80% of remuneration, Shareholders revenues, a justifiable amount given the nature of Group other fees, activities. insurance 10% contributions Banks (own and 755 million euros employer’s) 0.6% Sponsorships/ the social product Donations 21.7% 8.2% in 2017 Other purchases Assurance costs (Health & Safety, Environment, Maintenance, Premiums) The Social Product is that part of our income allocated to selected stakeholders, i.e. the workforce, the state, Based on the above, the Social Product returned to shareholders, banks, suppliers (not including suppliers of stakeholders in 2017 amounts to 755 million euros, over crude oil, other raw materials and finished products), as 662.4 million euros in 2016. SOCIAL PRODUCT (million euros) TOTAL STAKEHOLDERS balance INCOME 6,957.8 1,006.4 TO BE SUPPLIERS RAW MATERIALS DISTRIBUTED 6,202.9 7,964.2 STAFF: Gross remuneration, other fees, insurance INVESTMENTS FOR DEVELOPMENT, contributions (own and employer’s) 138.6 HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT SOCIETY: Donations Sponsorships 4.4 PUBLIC SECTOR: Taxes and Duties 199.8 113.3 SHAREHOLDERS: Dividends 110.9 PAYMENT OF DEBT LIABILITIES OTHER PURCHASES 163.8 BANKS: Interest 75.8 179.1 CASH ASSURANCE: Health & Safety, Environment, Maintenance, Premiums 61.6 714 72 Support of Local Entrepreneurship We have a policy of preferring local businesses when it comes As the largest enterprise and employer in the Prefecture of to supplying the refinery with services, consumables, food, Corinth, MOTOR OIL makes a direct or indirect financial etc. even when there are financially more advantageous contribution to a large number of businesses and families offers from outside the area. In 2017, we spent 16.4 million in the region (approximately 600 refinery employees live euros, thereby providing further support to the economy of in neighbouring municipalities). Moreover, the company Corinth and the surrounding region. We further paid roughly supports local initiatives to encourage entrepreneurship. 1.2 million euros in municipal and property taxes. 2. Customer Service Respect for the Customer All the Motor Oil Group companies operate having customer service as a top priority. The Group’s long experience in combination with a high level of expertise, and its rigorous insistence on high quality, guarantee comprehensive, integrated service and ongoing development of relations of trust with customers and associates. The Refinery areas as efficiency, service, cleanliness and speed of MOTOR OIL conducts quantitative and qualitative customer transactions. In 2017, some 2,800 secret visits were carried satisfaction surveys covering the full spectrum of its clientele. out at Shell service stations and 900 visits at Avin service Survey data are evaluated with a view to building on the stations. The results of these are presented to the Retail Sales company’s strengths, detecting, in particular, the company’s Departments of the companies, which in turn discuss them weaknesses and taking appropriate corrective action, with the retail station managers and take corrective measures thereby demonstrating the customer-focused nature of the where necessary. company’s strategy. Over time this process has led to a Shell retail station customers can now express their opinion reduction in the number of complaints about the refinery; in through Voice of Customer, an innovative online consumer 2017, there were just 4 complaints, all of which on delayed survey application, through PC and mobile phone, where delivery. All complaints were successfully resolved. customers can give their opinions after a visit to a retail station. This platform generates more than 12,500 filledOur Commercial Companies in questionnaires each month, giving us the opportunity to The Group’s commercial companies have integrated systems quickly analyse the results and resolve any problems our for serving the thousands of customers who place their trust customers may encounter. in them every day. Finally, in 2017, significant steps were taken to improve More specifically, a number of market researches are carried service of our final consumers and corporate customers. out, collecting and evaluating data on levels of service, fuel Avin made use of the new state-of-the-art call centre, and quality, customer selection criteria, etc. established procedures and monitoring systems to further Our service stations are also subject to inspection by automation and quick response to customer requests. At unannounced visitors in the Mystery Motorist programme. the same time, the Coral NET, Avin Portal and Cyclon Portal The scheme allows evaluation of the level of service and online platforms are used by the majority of our corporate customer satisfaction using a questionnaire covering such customers providing faster and better service. Avin launches a new pioneering loyalty program “AVIN WIN” Avin, wishing to reward customers for their trust, launched 250 points, they automatically win a 3-euro coupon, the new “AVIN Win” loyalty program in 2017. which they can redeem the next time they buy something Through this program, customers can collect points each at the gas station. This is a pioneering loyalty program time they purchase fuel, lubricants and heating oil, by that offers customers an immediate benefit from their using their “AVIN Win” card or app. Once they reach purchases. 73 Social Responsibility 3. Social Solidarity and Sponsorships Through our social responsibility projects we seek to demonstrate a steady, consistent support for the community, providing support for those pillars that improve the life of the community in education, health care, culture, sports and entrepreneurship. In 2017, as in previous years, our Group’s social action focused Allocation of Social on the financing and promotion of social solidarity programs Responsibility Funds 2017 across the country, though our primary focus was placed on organisations and agencies based mainly in municipalities in the vicinity of our facilities. 14.2% Our main objective was to relieve poverty among the most 29.1% Culture vulnerable social groups and to help them meet their basic Youth (education, needs. To this end, we have promoted actions designed to sports) bring relief to our fellow citizens, while also supporting cultural agencies, educational institutions, organisations engaged in charitable and humanitarian work, as well as local government agencies. 4.4% Heating Oil The actions we supported are structured along the following key axes: 52.3% Social • Social solidarity Solidarity • Culture • Youth education Allocation of Social Solidarity Funds (thousand €) 2016 2017 Social Solidarity 2,009 2,313 Culture 615 626 Youth (education, sports) 945 1,284 Heating oil 173 194 Total 3,742 4,417 3.1 Social Solidarity Our company’s objective is to promote and support actions designed to relieve the needs of less advantaged social groups. As we have been doing through the years, in 2017, with the financial crisis continuing to affect our country, we provided support for many community actions, provided food for the indigent through municipal and church organisations, supported the work of charitable organisations and foundations, supported actions for health and supplied large quantities of heating oil to the municipalities bordering on our refinery facilities and other selected areas across the country. Fighting Poverty The economic crisis affecting Greece over the last few Actions have focused mainly on the Prefecture of Corinth, years has had as a direct result a dramatic increase in the final recipients including the Municipality of Loutrakicases of poverty. In response to this need, our company has Agioi Theodoroi, the Municipality of Corinth and bordering undertaken to support the most vulnerable social groups, communities, members of poor families, associations, and both by supplying the neediest with staple goods, and by societies providing support services, and so on. specific grants of money. 74 The Food Bank The Motor Oil Group has supported the food bank helping to ensure the continued operation of an institution operating in the Municipalities of Loutraki, Corinth, Perama responding to the difficult social and economic challenges and in the Municipal Ward of Agioi Theodoroi, playing of the present day. an active role in meeting the basic needs of families in The donation by the Motor Oil Group has helped the financial difficulty. endeavour, through which more than 1,700 families in Among other things, our company has provided foodstuffs, financial difficulty have found relief. Additionally, in an effort to help families facing financial • We have supported the activities of the Marianna V. difficulties in Corinth and the surrounding region during Vardinoyannis Foundation. Set up by its President, Christmas and Easter holidays, MOTOR OIL distributed UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador Mrs Marianna V. 1,240 food stamps to help them meet nutritional needs and Vardinoyannis, the Foundation seeks to promote issues put food on the holiday table. During the holiday period related to protection of children’s rights while improving the company financially supported, through donations, the living conditions for children in all areas. region of Peloponnesus, the municipality of Corinth, the • We supported through a sponsorship the model camp municipality of Loutraki, the “Kivotos tou Paidiou” children’s for children with cancer organised by Elpida Youth, the charity, churches, etc. It also made a donation to the youth committee of Association of Friends of Children with Financial Assistance Fund of the Holy Archdiocese of Athens, Cancer ELPIDA. which offers its substantial support through the distribution • We supported the work of the Hellenic Initiative, an of meals to young people, students and unemployed organisation whose mission is to address the effects of individuals in need across Greece. The company has also the economic crisis in Greece, by providing grants and supplied foodstuffs to the food and clothing bank set up by fostering entrepreneurship. the Metropolitan Church of Corinth and has also helped • We supported the vital work of the Club for UNESCO of the Special Vocational Education and Training Workshop of Piraeus & Islands that focuses on meeting basic needs, Corinth which provides meals to its students. with soup kitchens, a social pharmacy, an open centre and a dormitory for the homeless. This happens to be the Donation of Heating Oil and Lubricants only social dormitory in Peloponnesus, which is the reason During the winter of 2017, the company made available we chose to offer our financial assistance and cover its around 207,000 litres of free heating oil, worth more than operating expenses. 194,000 euros. • We have supported the humanitarian agency “Lifeline This programme is intended to help with the cost of heating Hellas”, helping with the organisation of an event, the orphanages, kindergartens, municipal childcare centres, revenues of which will be used to support neonatal units secondary schools, elderly people’s homes, churches and of state hospitals. church foundations located in municipalities bordering on • We have provided financial support to associations and our facilities, as well as other recipients in other parts of the agencies involved in community work, such as the “Child’s country. Among the recipients were the “Amalieion” Girls Heart” Panhellenic Association for the Protection & Help Boarding Home, the “Megalohari” Day Care Centre for of Children with Congenital Heart Disease, the Women’s Autistic Children, the “Annousakeio Institution” of KasteliAssociation of Agioi Theodoroi, the Association of kidney Kissamos, the Foundation of Thracian Art and Tradition, many patients of Corinth “I Elpida“, the Association of Cancer monasteries, all schools in the Municipalities of Corinth and Patients, etc. Loutraki and the municipal communities of Agioi Theodoroi, • In the area of health care, we also supported the Hellenic Isthmia, Saronikos and Solygeia, more than 20 schools in Institute of Cardiology, we offered dialysis equipment to the Municipality of Perama, etc. We have also supplied the General Hospital of Lakonia-Medical treatment unit lubricant oils to various government services, such as the of Molai, we supported the PEDY Health Unit of Corinth Hellenic Fire Academy in Kifissia, the Hellenic Coast Guard with IT equipment and we offered financial support to the Headquarters, etc. Agioi Theodoroi regional section of the Greek Red Cross. Supporting Charitable Organisations and Institutions Our objective is to make a contribution to improve living conditions for people with problems, helping organisations and foundations which offer high-quality services assist them in their rehabilitation and reintegration into the community. Specifically: 75 Social Responsibility Support for the Elderly For more than ten years, MOTOR OIL has been day, 365 days a year. The food is prepared at the refinery continually engaged in a very important social initiative canteen, and is the same meal that is enjoyed by the in collaboration with the elderly Day Care Centres of refinery workforce. the Municipalities of Corinth and Agioi Theodoroi. The In 2017, the refinery canteen provided meals for 107 initiative involves the provision to elderly people of a full elderly people at the Corinth, Agioi Theodoroi and lunch and milk and yoghurt for supper – supplied every Examilia elderly people’s Day Care Centres. Support for Local Authorities and Other Agencies The Environment The Group has traditionally supported the local communities We support activities and programmes, which make an active it operates in. To this end, we do our best to provide effective contribution to improving infrastructures and raising public assistance, meeting the needs of local authorities and actively awareness of environmental protection and sustainable helping them in their work. development issues. Among other actions, in 2017, the MOTOR OIL Group MOTOR OIL provides support to many environmental donated to the Fire Brigade a firefighting helicopter bucket associations and organisations, such as MEDASSET to meet its needs and supplement its equipment in the highly (Mediterranean Association to Save the Sea Turtles), critical service it performs. It further offered diving gear to the etc., making an active contribution to policies promoting Coast Guard as well as an anaesthesia machine to the General environmental protection. Hospital of Corinth. MOTOR OIL has also provided consistent support over the In 2017, our company also provided financial assistance to years to the “Agioi Theodoroi” Forest Protection Society, various agencies, including the Federation of Local Improvement which plays an important role in forest protection, safekeeping Societies of Agioi Theodoroi, the Local Improvement Societies and firefighting within and beyond the Municipality of Agioi “Glykia Zoi”, “Klara Elias” of Sousaki, Corinth, the improvement Theodoroi. society of Ano Sousaki, the “Psiloritis” Cretan Society of Corinth, etc. In respect of water supplies, the company this year met the The financial aid we provided consisted in donations for water needs of about 190 homes near the refinery. The water, functional needs, indoor and outdoor spatial reconfiguration produced at the refinery by reverse osmosis, is used to water projects, building maintenance, road completion and clearing, gardens and for cleaning purposes. The supply of water to these road surfacing, lighting, water supplies and rainwater houses, not provided by the Agioi Theodoroi water system, drainage pipes, cement laying, covering fixed expenditure, relies on the network of pipes laid and maintained by MOTOR advertisements, safety and creation of children’s recreation OIL. In 2017, 85,000 cubic metres of water, worth more than grounds, and so on. 76,000 euros, were supplied free of charge. 3.2. Culture We believe in the role of the arts, culture and history as main components of a healthy social development. We strive to offer support to activities which highlight and promote our cultural and historical heritage. Specifically the Group: 2nd Mediterranean Photography Festival. • Sponsored, for yet another year, the “Botsis Foundation” • Supported the Pancretan Association covering the for the Promotion of Journalism, providing financial support expenses of its children’s festival. for its invaluable social, cultural and educational work. • Supported, for a second year running, the”Friends of • Supported the Mikis Theodorakis Orchestra in the Music” Association of the Municipality of Loutraki organisation of a concert. Perahora, which organised the Loutraki Festival 2017, with • Financially supported the publication of the book titled the participation of many young musicians. “WEATHER BASIC MARITIME METEOROLOGY” of • Supported via donations the cultural work of organisations retired Rear-admiral of the Hellenic Navy and former such as the Loutraki Cultural Association, the Isthmia Professor of the Hellenic Naval Academy, Ioannis Cultural Association, the “Agios Pavlos” Cultural Oikonomopoulos. Association of Kechries, etc. • Supported KOLECTIV 8, a cultural organisation, to host the • It also supported the journal “Periplous Naftikis Istorias“ 76 [A Voyage through Maritime History] published each The MOTOR OIL Group has provided financial support for quarter by the Greek Maritime Museum, and assisted cultural associations and agencies not just in communities the Hellenic Maritime Association in publishing its journal near its facilities, but elsewhere in Greece as well. “Naftiki Ellas“ [Maritime Greece], a traditional maritime magazine published every month by the Naval Print Shop since 1928. 3.3. Education and Youth We provide consistent support in the sphere of education, support which reflects our belief in the power of knowledge to cultivate our minds and characters and to turn us into active citizens heeding the call of conscience. It is for these reasons that we take such a keen interest in assisting and promoting the work of education, research and technology. In 2017, the Motor Oil Group: • Financially supported the Athikia Primary School, the Isthmia • Supported the 2nd children’s day care of Mandra, Attica, Primary School and Kindergarten, the 2nd Vocational Senior by repairing all the damages, replacing the electrical and High School of Loutraki, the Special Vocational and Training mechanical equipment and equipping the school’s meal Workshop of Isthmia, the General Senior High School of Ermioni, preparation and eating area, which had all been destroyed by as well as the National Technical University of Athens. the catastrophic floods of November. • Financially supported the school trip program of the Episkopi 6th • Provided assistance to the 1 st Primary School of Agioi Primary School, the Rethymno 14th Primary School, the Kranidi Theodoroi, the children’s day care centre and the 2 nd General Senior High School, the Spili General Senior High Kindergarten of Kranidi, the 1 st Kindergarten of Ermioni, School and the Rethymno General Senior High School. and the Special Vocational Junior High School of Rethymno, • Helped through purchase of games, invitations and lottery helping all the schools meet their operational needs. tickets the Special School and Special Vocational and Training Moreover, it provided computers, interactive boards, Workshop of Corinth and schools of Agioi Theodoroi. projectors and printers to the Primary School of Stavromenos, • Financially supported and offered toys for the school yard of the Rethymno, the 3rd General Senior High School of Rethymno, 1st Kindergarten of Kranidi, to improve the school’s operation. the 2nd Primary School of Kranidi, the 2nd Primary School of • Provided heating oil to dozens of schools in Corinth, Perama, Atsipopoulo and the Primary School of Agia in Mylopotamos, Loutraki, Ermioni and Skiathos, as well as other areas in Attica and Rethymno, helping the schools provide more effective across Greece, helping schools to run smoothly and providing teaching for their students. better conditions for learning. Scholarship Program in Association with the Athens School of Fine Arts In 2012, Motor Oil embarked on a strategic candidate is chosen by a five-member panel, and the collaboration with the Athens School of Fine Arts, in award-winning work becomes the property of Motor an effort to support education and the arts and to help Oil, the hope being that over time a permanent young people wishing to continue their studies abroad. collection of works can be built up for display around The collaboration involves the granting of a 12,000 the company’s premises. euros scholarship each year to a graduate of the School At the same time, along with their portfolios, the to allow him or her to pursue postgraduate studies in candidates submit 1-2 original works to be shown in an the visual arts at a foreign university and 2 additional exhibition to be staged at the head offices of the Group awards of 2,000 and 1,000 euros each. The successful over a six-month period. Vardinoyanneion Foundation Greece or abroad. Vardinoyanneion Foundation was established in 1989 The areas of study and the scholarships available are not and is administered by a seven-member Board of Trustees. fixed, but change each academic year, by decision of the Its purpose is tο bestow scholarships, awards and grants to Board of Trustees. candidates who have distinguished themselves academically In the academic year 2017-2018, support was given to or who are in need of financial support to do undergraduate 62 students in the following areas (by way of example): or postgraduate studies at colleges and universities in economics, psychology, law, chemistry, mathematics and 77 Social Responsibility medicine. Pre-graduate scholarships were also given to 2 Student Internships students in the area of Information Technology, 1 in Chemical Every year the company takes on a number of students for Engineering and 2 in Naval Architecture and Marine paid summer internship, lasting from one to two months. The Engineering. Since the Foundation began its scholarship students fill various positions in the refinery, the facilities and program, 172 scholarships and 1,850 bursaries have been head offices. granted. In addition to this, we give a number of students the opportunity of a sixmonth internship, when this forms part of Educational Visits to the Refinery the degree course they are taking. We also provide positions Every year we arrange visits to the refinery and our for foreign students to gain work experience, in collaboration facilities for students at universities and technical colleges, with the International Association for the Exchange of Armed Forces schools and ordinary secondary schools. Students for Technical Experience (IAESTE). Through presentations and a guided tour of the production As part of this activity, in 2017 we filled 88 trainee positions facilities and workplaces, the idea is to provide visitors with of 1-2 months, and 33 positions of over two months, at a total information on the environmental protection programs run by cost of more than 200,000 euros. the company, as well as on its program of community work both in local communities and in society as a whole. During the 2017 program, around 636 persons visited the refinery and the facilities of our operating companies. Shell Eco-Marathon Coral, owner of the Shell trademarks in Greece, actively of the Piraeus University, took part in the competition for the supports the Shell Eco Marathon, a global initiative, sixth consecutive year with their vehicle “Triiris”. It was entered whose main aim is to promote sustainability in transport, in the Prototype (Βattery Electric) category and won 9th place, innovation and energy efficiency. Coral invites students achieving a rate of 412km/kWh, significantly improving last from Greece to compete in this leading educational year’s performance. Moreover, the team won the Vehicle programme organised by Shell, with teams from Europe Design Award for the exceptional aerodynamic design and and beyond, constructing energy-efficient vehicles. extreme precision in the construction of its vehicle. The vehicle The winning team will be that which travels the greatest was made of recycled materials, and was both visually distance with the equivalent of one litre of fuel of its own attractive and very safe. choice: Traditional internal combustion engines running on The “TUC Eco Racing” team of the Production Engineering petrol or diesel, biofuel engines, electric motors, hydrogen and Management School of the Crete Polytechnic, which cells or solar panels are concealed beneath the exterior entered in the Urban Concept (Hydrogen) category, in its of modern, futuristic vehicles which cut a striking figure on tenth year of participation in the Marathon, achieved a the race track. performance of 138km/m3 with its advanced city vehicle Greek teams from leading universities and technical “Spyros Louis”, securing 4th place. The team also managed colleges in Greece, as well as schools all over the to win one of the most important off-track awards, the country, have been participating since 2004 in the Shell Safety Award, for the fourth time in its history, since the Eco Marathon. In 2017, the Greek teams took home a emphasis on the safety of the vehicle and the driver, and significant number of awards once again, managing to the general organisation and operation of the team in this rank high in the track categories they participated in, and area once again impressed the contest judges. also win two of the five off-track awards. The “Prometheus” Team from the National Technical The “Poseidon” Team from the Mechanical Engineering, University of Athens took part for the ninth year running. Electrical Engineering, Automation Engineering Departments It was entered in the Prototype (Βattery Electric) category of the Piraeus Technical Educational Institute and the with the prototype electric vehicle “Pyrphoros” and won Departments of the School of Administration and Economy 25th place, achieving a rate of 225 km/kWh. 78 Sports Koronis Sporting Club of Koilada, the Corinth Tennis Club, the We have offered our support to sports and are also happy Isthmia Sporting Club, etc. to offer substantial assistance to smaller clubs and sporting Every year MOTOR OIL makes a doctor and fully equipped associations in the amateur sector. During 2017, our Group ambulance available for the famous “Spartathlon” long-distance supported the Episkopi Sports Club, Rethymno, and the women’s race, also supporting the Control and Aid Centre located in front team of the Rethymno Volleyball Club (ΟPER). It also provided of the refinery. assistance to the Kymi Gymnastics Association KAE, the «Ermis» Finally, AVIN OIL was the great sponsor of the Rethymno KAE Sports Club of Zoniana, the Spili Sports Club, the «Poseidon» basketball team, once again supporting it during the 2016Sports Club of Loutraki, the «Corinth» Pan-Corinthian club, the 2017 season. 79 6. Sustainability Report Framework 6.Sustainability Report Framework The Report underlines the Group’s commitment to a responsible and sustainable growth. As an active member of the community, the MOTOR OIL Group strives to achieve sustainable development by responding to the environmental challenges deriving from its operations while at the same time tries to meet the needs of the local and wider society. 1. About the Sustainability Report This Sustainability Report of 2017 is the sixteenth such record of the annual activities of the MOTOR OIL Group (1 January 2017 31 December 2017). The primary goal of the Report is to provide comprehensive information for all stakeholders in the Group: workforce, customers, suppliers, shareholders, investors, creditors and local communities. The structure of the Sustainability Report 2017 complies with Supplementary data for the Group’s activities can be found the totality of aspects of corporate responsibility. It focuses, in the Annual Financial Report 2017 and the Environmental therefore, on actions that demonstrate respect for human values Statement 2017, as well as at the companies’ websites, www. and the environment, the implementation of an effective health moh.gr, www.lpc.gr, www.avinoil.gr, www.coralenergy.gr, and safety policy and support for efforts to achieve sustainable www.coralgas.gr. social development. The various sections of the Report describe in detail the Group’s activities, with presentations of the latest Communication quantitative figures and data. The MOTOR OIL Sustainability Report 2017 has been edited and compiled by the Group’s Communications, Corporate The terms ‘Group’ and ‘MOTOR OIL Group’ refer to the Affairs and Corporate Social Responsibility Department. We MOTOR OIL Group and its constituent subsidiary Groups and wish to extend our heartfelt thanks to all other Divisions and companies, AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and OFC. The Departments whose contributions of data have allowed us to term ‘company’ refers to the parent company ‘MOTOR OIL’; produce a comprehensive Report. the terms ‘other companies’ and ‘remaining companies’ refer We welcome all views and observations on the structure and to the aforesaid set of companies, while the term ‘commercial content of the report your input will help us to keep improving companies’ refers, once again, to the aforesaid set of its quality. companies, not however including OFC. Please contact us on +30 210 8094004, or send your comments to csr@moh.gr. UN Global CompactGlobal Reporting Initiative Sustainable Development Goals The selection of topics for the Sustainability Report 2017 was based on the new “GRI STANDARDS” guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), on the Oil & Gas sector supplement and on the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. At the end of the Report there is a summary table matching the contents of the current Report to the GRI indicators and Global Compact principles. In this sense, the Sustainability Report 2017 also serves as a “Communication on Progress” for the Global Compact, setting out the way in which its ten principles have been implemented. Furthermore, through this Report we testify our commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals for 2030 by noting the specific Goals which are relevant to us and to which we contribute through our corporate responsibility strategy. At the end of the Report we present a detailed link of our programs, actions and material issues with the Goals relevant to our operations. 80 2. Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2017 and our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals MOTOR OIL participates in the United Nations Global Compact, which constitutes the biggest Corporate Responsibility initiative in the world. In year 2008, MOTOR OIL became a signatory of the UN Global Compact; at the same time the company became a member of the Global Compact Network Hellas. The Global Compact incorporates ten fundamental practices and the outcomes thereof, which underline principles relating to human rights, labor rights, our commitment to the Global Compact. The following environmental protection and anti-corruption. We chart lists the compliance of MOTOR OIL with the are committed to these principles, which we have ten Global Compact Principles, by making reference integrated in the policies and processes of the company. to the relevant chapters of the Sustainability Report MOTOR OIL’s Sustainability Report 2017 contains 2017, and to the GRI indicators taken into account in information relating to our social and environmental compiling the Report. Reference in the Sustainable GRI Sustainability Report The ten Principles Material Development STANDARDS or Description of of the Global Compact Issues Goals Indicators the Implementation Approach HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should Health and Safety of GRI 102-8 Chapters 2 and 3 support and respect the protection of employees GRI 102-41 Full compliance with internationally proclaimed human rights. GRI 403-2 relevant Greek legislation Human Rights GRI 403-3 and international GRI403-4 conventions. GRI 407-1 Principle 2: Businesses should make Human Rights GRI 407-1 Chapter 2 sure that they are not complicit in human Full compliance with relerights abuses. vant Greek legislation and international conventions. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold GRI 102-41 Chapter 2 the freedom of association and the GRI 407-1 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold Full compliance with GRI 419-1 Chapter 2 the elimination of all forms of forced and relevant legislation Full compliance with relecompulsory labor. and conventions vant Greek legislation and (Social-economic international conventions. compliance) Cases of forced, compulsory or child labor do not Principle 5: Businesses should uphold exist and are not accepted the effective abolition of child labor. in any way. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold Presence in the local GRI 202-2 Chapter 2 the elimination of discrimination in respect marketplace GRI 401-2 to employment and occupation. GRI 403-1 Labor GRI 403-4 GRI 404-1 Health & Safety of GRI 404-2 employees Education and Training 81 6. Sustainability Report Framework Reference in the Sustainable GRI Sustainability Report The ten Principles Material Development STANDARDS or Description of of the Global Compact Issues Goals Indicators the Implementation Approach ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should Materials and GRI 301-1 Chapters 1 and 4. support a precautionary approach to Resources GRI 301-2 MOTOR OIL Environmental environmental challenges. GRI 301-3 Report 2017 and LPC Water Consumption GRI 302-1 Environmental Report GRI 302-2 2017. Energy Consumption GRI 302-3 GRI 302-4 Emissions GRI 303-1 GRI 303-2 Principle8: Businesses should Effluents and Waste GRI 303-3 undertake initiatives to promote greater GRI 305-1 environmental responsibility. Compliance with GRI 305-2 the Environmental GRI 305-4 Legislation GRI 305-5 GRI 305-6 Safety and Security of GRI 305-7 depots and installations GRI 306-1 GRI 306-2 Principle 9: Businesses should Emergency GRI 306-3 encourage the development and diffusion ResponsePlans GRI 306-4 of environmentally friendly technologies. GRI 306-5 GRI 307-1 OG13 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should Anti-corruption GRI 205-3 Chapter 1 and work against corruption in all its forms, mechanisms www.moh.gr including extortion and bribery. 3. GRI Compliance Level The MOTOR OIL Sustainability Report, which has been published every year since 2002, is the main tool available for communicating with our stakeholders about the Group’s efforts and performance in achieving sustainable development through the application of the principles and objectives of Corporate Social Responsibility. It contains the most important facts and data relating to the previous year’s financial, social and environmental performance. The Sustainability Report 2017 has a similar structure to The Sustainability Report 2017 is not certified by an external previous editions, so as to facilitate comparisons of performance certification authority. The Center for Sustainability and over time. The compilation of the Sustainability Report 2017 Excellence (CSE) evaluated the present Report, according to the is based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-STANDARDS), and assures that just as in the six previous editions, and specifically of the new the content is compliant with GRI-STANDARDS “in-accordance GRI STANDARDS edition. The GRI guidelines have provided Core”. a sound basis for the selection of the material issues that had to be covered by the Report, for an effective communication with stakeholders. 82 BOUNDARIES AND LIMITATIONS OF MATERIAL ISSUES Boundaries Limitations Material Issues Within the Outside the Within the Organization Outside the Organization Organization Organization Financial Performance MOTOR OIL GROUP Shareholders, investors, analysts, (Profitability) partners, suppliers, customers. Presence in the local MOTOR OIL GROUP Partners and Suppliers. marketplace Anti-Corruption MOTOR OIL GROUP Shareholders, investors, analysts, partners, suppliers, customers, public authorities. Materials and Resources MOTOR OIL GROUP Local Communities, Suppliers, Public authorities. Energy Consumption MOTOR OIL GROUP Local Communities Water Consumption MOTOR OIL GROUP Local Communities. Waste Management MOTOR OIL GROUP Local communities and public authorities. Emissions MOTOR OIL GROUP Local communities and public authorities. Environmental Compliance MOTOR OIL GROUP Shareholders, investors, analysts, public authorities. The management of Environmental Investments MOTOR OIL GROUP Shareholders, investors, analysts, material issues and the local communities, public authorities. selected performance Employment MOTOR OIL GROUP Local Communities. indices concern the parent Employees company MOTOR OIL and Health and Safety MOTOR OIL GROUP Partners and suppliers, its subsidiaries Avin Oil, Employees Contractors’ staff and tank lorry Coral, Coral Gas, LPC and drivers. OFC which are controlled by MOTOR OIL except Training and Education MOTOR OIL GROUP Partners and suppliers, Employees Contractors’ staff and tank lorry is otherwise indicated in drivers. specific indices. Product Safety MOTOR OIL GROUP Local communities , Employees Public authorities, Customers. Service and Product Quality MOTOR OIL GROUP Local communities, Employees Public authorities, Customers. Compliance with laws and MOTOR OIL GROUP Investors, Shareholders, legislations Local communities, Public authorities,Partners and suppliers, Customers. Emergency Response Plans MOTOR OIL GROUP Local communities, Employees Public authorities, Partners and suppliers, Contractors’ staff and tank lorry drivers. Safety and Security of depots MOTOR OIL GROUP Local communities, and installations Employees Public authorities, Partners and suppliers, Contractors’ staff and tank lorry drivers. 83 6. Sustainability Report Framework Overall in the Sustainability Report, where numerical data column headed “Reference” the source of information relating or performance indicators are presented, the method of to each indicator is given. data collection and calculation of results is also stated. The Environmental and Health and Safety performance indicators The symbols used in the table are: are specifically calculated according to internationally p.: indicates the page(s) of the Sustainability Report 2017 that accepted procedures. include information on the indicator. : indicates reference to the Annual Financial Report 2017. The following table records the GRI Indicators, and in the : indicates reference to the company’s website GRI INDEX GRI STANDARD FOR “IN ACCORDANCE” – CORE GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Disclosure Description Reference ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102-1 Name of the organization. Back Cover GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services. p. 8-12, p. 11-13, 21-33, GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters. Back Cover GRI 102-4 Location of operations. p. 10 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form. p. 10-11, 14-15, 23, p. 34, 43-47, GRI 102-6 Markets served. p. 10-13, p. 11-12 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization. p. 8-13, 17-19, 29-34, 72-73, , p. 9-20 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers. p. 29-31 GRI 102-9 Supply chain. p. 17-18 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain. p. 2-3, 10-11, 18-19, p. 18-20 GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach. p. 15, 19-22, 38-39, 44-49, 52-54 GRI 102-12 External initiatives. p. 15-16, 75-79, 80-81 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations. p. 15-16 STRATEGY GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker. p. 5 GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities. p. 5, 26-27, 36-37, 50-51, 7071, p. 34-37 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior. Inside cover page, p. 5, 16 18 GOVERNANCE GRI 102-18 Governance structure. p. 14-15, p. 43-47, STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups. p. 22-23 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements. p. 29 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders. p. 22-23 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement. p. 22-23 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised. p. 22-23 84 Disclosure Description Reference REPORTING PRACTICE GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements. p. 10-11, p. 21-33 GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries. p. 24-25, 82 GRI 102-47 List of material topics. p. 24-25 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information. p. 24-25, 80 GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting. p. 24-25, 80 GRI 102-50 Reporting period. 1/1/2017– 31/12/2017 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report. p. 88 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle. Annual GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report. p. 80 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards. p. 82 GRI 102-55 GRI content index. p. 84-87 GRI 102-56 External assurance. p. 82 GRI INDEX GRI STANDARD FOR “IN ACCORDANCE” – CORE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material Topic Indicator Description Reference ECONOMY Economic Performance GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 12-13, 18-22, p. 43-47, (Profitability) GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. p. 12-13, p. 72-73, p. 9-10 GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Climate change impacts regarding due to climate change. the possible financial implications, risks or opportunities, constitute parameters thoroughly taken into account in the process of analysing, evaluating, approving and planning for investments or other initiatives. GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from the government. MOTOR OIL has not received financial assistance from the government. Market Presence GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 14-15, 70, 73 GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender p. 31-32 compared to local minimum wage. GRI 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired form the local p. 14-15, 30 community. Procurement Practices GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 17-18, 72 GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers. p. 73 Anti-corruption GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 15 GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. No such incidents. Anti-competitive GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 14 Behavior Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and No such incidents. monopoly practices. 85 6. Sustainability Report Framework GRI INDEX GRI STANDARD FOR “IN ACCORDANCE” – CORE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material Topic Indicator Description Reference ENVIRONMENT Materials GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 66-67 GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume. p. 11-12 GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used. p. 66-67 GRI301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials. p. 67 Energy GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 58 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization. p. 58-60 GRI 302-2 Indirect energy consumption. p. 58-60, 14.425 MWh from the Electricity Market. GRI 302-3 Energy intensity. p. 58-60 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption. p. 58-60 Water GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 68 GRI 303-1 Total water usage. p. 68 GRI 303-2 Impacts from withdrawal of water. p. 68 GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused. p. 68 Emissions GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 52-57, 60-65 GRI 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions. p. 60-61 GRI 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions. p. 60-61 GRI 305-4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity. p. 60-61 GRΙ 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse emissions. p. 60-61 GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone depleting substances. Non existent. GRI 305-7 Emissions of NOx, SOx etc. p. 62-65 Effluents and Waste GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 65-67 GRI 306-1 Water discharge. p. 65-66 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method. p. 66-67 GRI 306-3 Significant spills. There were no significant spills. GRI 306-4 Hazardous waste. p. 66-67 GRI 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or p. 69 runoff. Environmental GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 50-69 Compliance GRI 307-1 Significant fines and sanction for non-compliance with No such fines. environmental laws and regulations. 86 Material Topic Indicator Description Reference SOCIETY EMPLOYEES Employment GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 26-29 GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover. p. 31 GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full time employees. p. 31-32 Occupational Health GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 36-39 and Safety GRI 403-1 Employee representation in formal joint managementp. 39 employee health and safety committees. GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational p. 40 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism. GRI 403-3 Employees with high incidence or high risk of diseases p. 40 related to their occupation. GRI 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements p. 29, 38-39, 46-49 with trade unions. Training and Education GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 33, 47-49 GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee. p. 33-34, 47 GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills. p. 33-35, 47-49 Human Rights GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 28 GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom No such operation, p. 29 of association and collective bargaining may be at risk. Product Safety GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 21-22, 44 GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of the p. 21-22, 44 organizations products and services. GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and No such incidents. safety impacts of products and services. Product Labelling GRI 103 Management Approach. Σελ. 20, 44 GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning laws and No such incidents. regulations about product labelling. Socioeconomic GRI 103 Management Approach. p.14-15, 16-22, 42, 81, Compliance p. 43-47, GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social No such fines. and economic area. Emergency GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 36-39 Preparedness Mechanisms used to involve local communities in the p. 38-49 development of emergency plans for existing and new operations (e.g. risk communication, preparation, rehearsal, regular review and modification, arrangements for the management of crises, timely and transparent incident communication). Safety of Processes’ GRI 103 Management Approach. p. 38-49 and Facilities OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity. p. 38-40 87 Sustainability Reports of Previous Years ALL THE MATERIALS USED FOR PRINTING THE MOTOR OIL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ARE FRIENDLY TO THE ENVIRONMENT
