18 December 2018 António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 United States of America Dear Secretary-General UN Global Compact Communication of Progress I am pleased to reaffirm Lendlease’s continued support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (‘UNGC’) on environment, anti-corruption, human rights and labour. This year, Lendlease continued support of the UNGC through direct representation, as a business member, on the Global Compact Network Australia’s (GCNA) Board. Lendlease also actively supported the 6-month secondment (January – June) of our current Acting Group Head of Sustainability, Cate Harris, as the Acting Executive Director of the GCNA, backfilling the maternity leave position for Alice Cope. Since our last updated Communication on Progress, Lendlease has made headways in driving the UNGC principals across all our work. Highlights from the last year, aligned to the UNGC principals are outlined below: Human Rights (Principles 1 -2) • Over 4,000 employees volunteered on 400 community projects, with projects ranging from tutoring children with special needs, restoring green spaces and building refuges for the homeless • Over 5,400 Australia-based employees have received cultural awareness training, elevating Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander culture. • Marking the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Lendlease’s Australian Engineering business announced the first 3-year CareerSeekers Partnership, an event formalising our corporate partnership and commitment to employ refugees and asylum seekers. • Lendlease continues to report against the United Kingdom’s Modern Slavery requirements for its UK / Europe operations, and observes the UK construction industry’s “Achilles Building Confidence” standard for health, safety and quality audits. Modern slavery awareness is embedded in induction and annual training updates, for employees and suppliers. Lendlease Corporation Limited ABN 32 000 226 228; and Lendlease Responsible Entity Limited ABN 72 122 883 185 AFS Licence 308983 as responsible entity for Lendlease Trust ABN 39 944 184 773 ARSN 128 052 595 Level 14, Tower Three, International Towers Sydney, Exchange Place 300 Barangaroo Avenue, Barangaroo NSW 2000, Australia www.lendlease.com Labour (Principles 3-6) • Lendlease becomes Australia’s first property and infrastructure company to be named a Platinum employer for the LGBTI community by the Australian Workplace Equity Index. Environmental (Principles 7-9) • Lendlease continues to make meaningful progress towards our nominated 2020 environmental targets. In FY18 we avoided the generation of 31,000 tonnes of carbon emissions, improved water efficiency and saved approximately 380,000 kL of potable water, and diverted 39,000 tonnes of waste from landfill. • We publicly endorsed the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosure, recognising our role in addressing the impacts of climate change today and into the future. • Announced a 10-year, $5 million (AUD) partnership with the Great Barrier Reef Foundation. This partnership will support a range of programmes to protect and build resilience in the Great Barrier Reef. Anti-Corruption (Principle 10) • Lendlease prohibits all forms of bribery and corruption. A public policy is maintained and sets strict conditions for how Lendlease and its employees conduct business. The examples above showcase Lendlease’s ongoing work in parallel with the UNGC principles, but do not extensively list all efforts made in the last year. Details on other efforts taken in the last year can be found in our 2018 Annual Report here. Yours sincerely Steve McCann Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Lendlease cc: Cate Harris, Group Head of Sustainability (Acting), Lendlease 2
