WOORI BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Together for Tomorrow A Leading Bank Shaping the Future WOORI BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Woori Overview 006 Message from the CEO 010 Board of Directors 012 Corporate Governance 014 Company Structure 015 Woori Bank Awards 2017 016 News Highlights 020 Financial Highlights Business Operations 024 Retail Banking 026 Wealth Management 028 Trust & Pension Business 030 Corporate Banking 032 SME Banking 034 Institutional Banking 036 Real Estate Finance 037 Global Business 040 International Trade Business 042 Financial Market Business 044 Investment Banking 045 Digital Banking 046 Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility 050 Ethical Management 052 Consumer Protection 054 Employee Satisfaction 056 Social Contribution Activities 058 Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review 061 Management's Discussion and Analysis 072 Independent Auditors' Report 180 Organizational Chart 182 Global Network In 2018, change and innovation will give new life to Woori Bank. All of us will strive to become the number one comprehensive financial group. At Woori Bank, we build a better tomorrow, working together as one team. Together for Tomorrow A Leading Bank Shaping the Future We communicate and grow under an innovative and open corporate culture. We Change 1 c h a ng e We Harmonize We build trust and harmony together with our customers and our society. 2 3 We share common values H a r m on y S h a r e that encourage caring and empathy for all We Share All T o g e t h e r with Woori Bank Together we can take a powerful step to grow and become an all new bank. We will realize the dream of becoming the number one comprehensive financial group together with our customers through change, harmony and sharing. To gain the We build trust of our a strong foundation customers to generate steady profits and sustainable growth. We localize our business further W e c r e at e and promote global business competencies. a better tomorrow for our customers We become a holdings We grow to company and become a bank the number one capable of leading comprehensive the digital era. financial group. We fulfill our responsibility as a corporate citizen. For To m o r r o w with Woori Bank To build a wealthier future for our customers, we will implement inclusive banking and be a financial services company that creates a sustainable future. WOORI BANK 006 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 006 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights First of all, I would like to extend my warmest Financial Highlights gratitude to our valued shareholders and Business Operations customers for their continued support of Retail Banking Wealth Management Woori Bank. Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking First of all, I would like to extend my warmest In October 2017, Woori Bank beat all of its rivals Institutional Banking gratitude to our valued shareholders and cusin a competitive bid to select the primary bank Real Estate Finance Global Business tomers for their continued support of Woori for Korea’s National Pension Service (NPS). In International Trade Business Bank. January 2018, we were re-appointed as the Financial Market Business Investment Banking managing custodian bank of the National HousDigital Banking Risk Management In 2017, we saw uncertainty increase around ing & Urban Fund. These successes also helped the world. The United States hiked interest expand Woori Bank’s brand recognition. Corporate Social Responsibility rates and extended trade protectionism, while Ethical Management political controversies over the issue of the TerI am deeply grateful to the shareholders for the Consumer Protection minal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) systrust and support they have shown under such Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities tem affected Korea in various ways. We then severe internal and external conditions, thus Woori Smile Microcredit witnessed the emergence of the fourth indusempowering Woori Bank to progress and attain Financial Review trial revolution leading to the launch of Interstable growth. To repay the continued kindManagement's Discussion net-only banks and the more immediate possiness demonstrated by our shareholders, we and Analysis bility of the technology sector offering financial are committed to doing our best in every step Independent Auditors' Report services. These circumstances have made the we take. Organizational Chart market conditions under which we operate extremely tough. As a part of such efforts, Woori Bank recently Global Network came up with its 2018 operating slogan, “Woori Coporate Fact Book In the face of such challenges, employees at All Together, All New Woori.” The tagline sigWoori Bank overview Woori Bank have pooled their combined efforts nifies our unified commitment to revamp the Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History to increase the Bank’s corporate value. We have bank and build a whole new organization with Corporate Governance Financial Highlights been rewarded with impressive achievements the help of all employees acting as one based Global Networks for our efforts in all areas including profitabilon communication and harmony. Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy ity, growth, and integrity, which in turn have A Trust-worthy Partner brought us one step closer to our shareholders and customers. WOORI BANK 007 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 007 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Employees at Woori Bank Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance have pooled their combined Global Business International Trade Business efforts to increase our Financial Market Business corporate value. Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 008 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 008 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social Woori Bank has come up with the following Responsibility five management strategies in order to ensure Ethical Management more substantial growth, and to bring greater Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction satisfaction and happiness to our shareholders Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit and customers. Financial Review First, we will build a strong foundation to generSecond, we will localize our business further to Management's Discussion and Analysis ate steady profits and sustainable growth. We promote global business competence. FocusIndependent Auditors' will achieve balanced growth in interest-bearing mostly on Southeast Asia, where we enjoy Report ing assets, while pursuing a constant increase high profitability, we will expand the proporin non-interest income, especially in the area of tion of loans in the region. At the same time, Organizational Chart Global Network asset management. we will strengthen our network management Coporate Fact Book capabilities so that we can achieve the two goals of profitability and stability. Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values Management strategies 119 Years of History in order to ensure more Third, we will grow to become a bank that is capaCorporate Governance Financial Highlights substantial growth, and to ble of leading the digital era. Digital transformaGlobal Networks Global Networks Strategy bring greater satisfaction and tion is the undisputed trend now, and Woori Bank Digital Strategy happiness to our shareholders will fully use the know-how and skills we have A Trust-worthy Partner accumulated over the years to transform the and customers. bank into a leader in digital banking. WOORI BANK 009 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 009 Fourth, we will fulfill our responsibility as a corWoori Overview porate citizen. By implementing what we call Message from the CEO bigger banking, which is mainly focused on Board of Directors Corporate Governance inclusive, productive and trustworthy bankCompany Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 ing, we will fulfill the banking sector’s collective News Highlights social responsibility and be a bank that grows The year 2018 marks the 119th anniversary of Financial Highlights together with society. Woori Bank. We have maintained a history of Business Operations over one hundred years, and we intend to grow Retail Banking Lastly, we will successfully change into a holdfor another century and beyond to become a Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business ings company to establish ourselves as Korea’s financial brand that will be there for you always. Corporate Banking number-one comprehensive financial group. To We appreciate the generous support and interSME Banking Institutional Banking make this happen, our employees will work as est from our shareholders and customers as we Real Estate Finance Global Business one team with the same purpose and drive as seek to realize this goal. International Trade Business they seek to enhance Woori Bank’s corporate Financial Market Business Investment Banking value to the fullest and reward the unchanging On a final note, from the bottom of my heart, I Digital Banking Risk Management support provided by shareholders. wish all our shareholders and customers continued health and happiness. Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Thank you. Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Sohn Tae-Seung Woori Smile Microcredit President and CEO, Woori Bank Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 010 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 010 Woori Overview Board of Directors Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report President & Standing Director Outside Director Chief Executive Officer Organizational Chart Global Network Sohn, Tae Seung Oh, Jung Sik Ro, Sung Tae Shin, Sang Hoon Coporate Fact Book ·E xecutive Vice President & Head, ·CEO, KB Capital ·President, Hanwha Economic ·President & CEO, Woori Bank overview Global Business Group, Research Institute Shinhan Financial Group Vision & Core Values Woori Bank ·Vice President, Commercial Business Division, Citibank ·President, Korea Economic ·President, Shinhan Bank 119 Years of History ·Head, Global Business Unit, Research Institute Corporate Governance Woori Bank ·Managing Director, Risk & ·MBA, Yonsei University Financial Highlights Planning Group, Citibank ·Ph.D. in Economics, Harvard ·LLM, Seoul National University University ·B.A. in Business Administration, Global Networks ·B.A. in International Economics, Sungkyunkwan University Global Networks Strategy ·LLB, Sungkyunkwan University Seoul National University ·B.A. in Economics, Seoul National Digital Strategy University A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 011 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 011 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Outside Director Non-Standing Director Organizational Chart Global Network Park, Sang Yong Tian, Zhiping Chang, Dong Woo Bae, Chang Sik Coporate Fact Book ·(Current) Honorary Professor, ·(Current) Vice Managing Director, ·(Current) CEO, IMM Investment ·(Current) Head of Human Woori Bank overview Yonsei University Beijing FUPU DAOHE Investment Resources Development, KDIC Vision & Core Values Management Ltd. ·Chief Partner, IMM Investment ·Civilian Chair, Public Fund ·Head of Settlement and Recovery 119 Years of History ·Managing Director and Director ·LLB, Hanyang University Oversight Committee Planning 2, KDIC Corporate Governance of ICBC (London) plc. and ICBC’s Financial Highlights ·Dean, School of Business, Middle East Division ·Completed, Program in Asian Global Networks Yonsei University ·Managing Director, Sichuan Security Studies, Duke University Global Networks Strategy ·Ph.D. in Business Administration, Sub-branch, Industrial and ·BA in Trade, Hankuk University of Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) Digital Strategy New York University Foreign Studies A Trust-worthy Partner ·MBA, Southwestern University of ·B.A. in Business Administration, Finance and Economics Yonsei University ·IMBA, University of Hong Kong ·B.A. in Economics & Governmental Administration, Shanxi University of Finance & Economics WOORI BANK 012 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 012 Woori Overview Corporate Governance Message from the CEO Board of Directors As of the end of March 2018, Woori Bank’s Board As experts in the fields of economics, business Corporate Governance of Directors (BOD) consists of eight executive administration, accounting and law, directors conCompany Structure directors: two standing directors, one non-standtribute their expertise and information gathered Woori Bank Awards 2017 ing director and five outside directors who were from years of experience in the field to enhance the News Highlights appointed to increase the relevant expertise and management efficiency of the bank and increase Financial Highlights independence of the BOD. The five outside direcshareholder value. tors and one non-standing director were selected During regular quarterly meetings in 2017, the Business Operations based on their experience in the fields of finance, BOD was informed of quarterly business results, Retail Banking management, law, accounting and public relations. Wealth Management reviewed current issues, and deliberated on the Many of them are also well-known public figures. In Trust & Pension Business bank’s management plans. Major agenda items their respective capacities, they support and moniCorporate Banking of discussion included comprehensive briefings tor Woori Bank’s strategic decision-making process SME Banking regarding major loans; briefings on NPLs; progress Institutional Banking and overall business affairs on a regular basis. reviews and reports on review results concerning Real Estate Finance the implementation of orders handed down by the Global Business 2017 Performance BOD; and a rundown of activities at all the commitInternational Trade Business The BOD held 17 meetings in 2017 to discuss a total tees that fall under the BOD. Financial Market Business Investment Banking of 44 agenda issues and 42 briefings, all of which At the December meeting, the Board of Directors Digital Banking required decisions to be made. also held in-depth discussions about major issues Risk Management Directors in a variety of fields collected information facing Woori Bank amid continued market changes, from internal and external research activities, and then as well as giving final approval to the bank’s 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility offered real-world advice by utilizing their expertise draft management plan. to contribute significantly to improving management. Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Board of Directors Woori Smile Microcredit ① Sohn, Tae Seung President & Chief Executive Officer ② Oh, Jung Sik Standing Director Financial Review ③ Ro, Sung Tae Outside Director ④ Shin, Sang Hoon Outside Director Management's Discussion ⑤ Park, Sang Yong Outside Director and Analysis ⑥ Tian, Zhiping Outside Director Independent Auditors' ⑦ Chang, Dong Woo Outside Director Report ⑧ Bae, Chang Sik Non-Standing Director Organizational Chart ④ ⑤ ⑥ ⑦ ⑧ Global Network Coporate Fact Book ② ① ③ Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values Executive Vice Presidents 119 Years of History Jang, An Ho Retail Banking Business Group Kim, Yeong Bae International Trade Business Group Hong, Hyun Poong Digital Banking Business Group Corporate Governance Cho, Woon Haeng Business Support Unit / Human Heo, Jeong Jin Institutional Banking Business Group Cheong, Chai Pong Investment Banking Business Group Financial Highlights Resources Group / Information Security Division Lee, Chang Jae Real Estate Finance Business Group Global Networks Park, Seong Il Compliance Officer Lee, Dong Yeun Domestic Business Unit / Retail Banking BusiKim, Jeong Ki Corporate Banking Business Group Global Networks Strategy Kim, Sun Kyu Credit Support Group ness Group, Small & Medium Corporate Banking Business Group Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner Managing Directors Ha, Tae Joong Corporate Restructuring Division Cho, Su Hyeong Consumer & Brand Group Jeong, Jong Suk Wealth Management Group Lee, Jong In Risk Management Group Park, Hwa Jae Operation & Support Group Park, Kyong Hoon Global Business Group Lee, Won Duk Management & Finance Planning Group Shin, Myung Hyuk Trust & Pension Business Group Kim, Jong Deuk Financial Market Business Group Choi, Hong Sik Next Generation ICT System Building Division Choi, Dong Su Future Strategy Division WOORI BANK 013 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 013 Woori Overview Committees under the Board of Message from the CEO Directors Board of Directors In order to ensure the efficient operation of the Compensation Committee Corporate Governance Board of Directors, Woori Bank has established a The Compensation Committee monitors the design Company Structure Board of Directors Management Committee, an and operation of the bank’s performance-based Woori Bank Awards 2017 Audit Committee, a Risk Management Committee, compensation systems and is in charge of indeNews Highlights Financial Highlights a Compensation Committee, and an Officer Candipendently establishing compensation policies. date Recommendation Committee. Business Operations Officer Candidate Recommendation Governance Award Board of Directors Management Committee Committee Retail Banking Best Company in Governance The Board of Directors Management CommitThe Officer Candidate Recommendation CommitWealth Management tee actively supports the activities of the BOD by tee recommends candidates for the positions of (Board of Directors) Trust & Pension Business The Maeil Business Newspaper, studying and reviewing its overall function and President & CEO, outside directors, and members Corporate Banking Daishin Economic operation, while also establishing and reviewing of the Audit Committee. SME Banking Research Institute Institutional Banking succession and training plans relating to the manReal Estate Finance agement team, including those of directors. Global Business International Trade Business Audit Committee 2018 Plans Financial Market Business The Audit Committee establishes and executes In 2018, Woori Bank will make significant improveInvestment Banking internal audit plans, makes outcome evaluations, ments to its management by discussing major Digital Banking carries out follow-up measures, and provides agenda items at BOD meetings. Risk Management improvement plans to evaluate and enhance the appropriateness of the internal control systems The quarterly BOD meetings will continue to focus on agenda items such as carrying out an analysis of Corporate Social Responsibility and management performance evaluations. management performance results and reviewing Ethical Management Risk Management Committee the draft of the 2018 management plan, with ad hoc Consumer Protection The Risk Management Committee makes decimeetings also being held whenever needed to deal Employee Satisfaction with agenda items related to diverse matters such sions about risk-related policies and strategies in Social Contribution Activities as management goals, organization and financing. response to changes in the financial environment. Woori Smile Microcredit It meets at least once every quarter, or on an ad hoc In 2018, Woori Bank will maintain its position as basis, to deliberate on risk management strategies a reliable banking partner that excels and grows Financial Review and policies, risk tolerance levels and exposure, through transparent and efficient management Management's Discussion allowing it to predict, measure, and monitor overand Analysis innovation. all risks arising from the bank’s management and Independent Auditors' transactions in a timely manner. Report Organizational Chart Global Network Type of Meeting No. of Agenda Issues No. of Briefings Major Issues Coporate Fact Book Shareholders’ Meeting, BOD and 12 2 General shareholders’ meetings; corporate governance issues; Corporate Governance, etc. management plans and strategies (establishment and implementation) Woori Bank overview Accounting/ Financial 8 4 Approval and revision of closing financial statements; reporting and Vision & Core Values Management planning of financial results; bond issuance planning (including bonds in 119 Years of History foreign currency) and limit controls Corporate Governance Portfolio & Risk Management/ 3 18 Integrated report on major loans; status report on bad loans; audit and Financial Highlights Investment/Audit & Inspection/ internal control issues Global Networks Gov. Regulation Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy HR/Organizational Management 3 1 Appointment and dismissal of Compliance Officers; appointment and A Trust-worthy Partner dismissal of persons responsible for major responsibilities; appointment and dismissal of executive vice presidents and managing directors Others 18 17 Total 44 42 WOORI BANK 014 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 014 Woori Overview Company Structure Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Privatization of Woori Bank Woori Bank Awards 2017 On August 22, 2016, the Public Fund Oversight Committee (PFOC) of Korea announced a plan to sell Woori News Highlights Bank to oligopolistic shareholders. At the time, the state-run Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation (KDIC) Financial Highlights owned 51.06% of the bank’s stake, and the plan was to sell 30% of the KDIC stake (a bidding volume of 4~8% Business Operations per bidder) through bidding in Competitive Auction Scheme. In principle, the shares were sold to the highest bidders, but, the PFOC also took into account factors other than bidding price considering the winning shareRetail Banking holders’ potential influence on Woori Bank’s management. The KDIC launched this auction process of selling Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business its Woori Bank stake, starting with a public note of sale on August 24th, 2016. On September 23th, 2016, a total Corporate Banking of 18 investors submitted letters of intent with bidding volumes far exceeding the range from 82% to 119% out SME Banking of the KDIC’s target 30% stake. As the auction closed on November 11th, 2016, 8 potential investors submitted Institutional Banking bid letters for a total bidding volume of 33.7%. The PFOC successfully resolved to sell 29.7% stake to 7 selected Real Estate Finance bidders. The PFOC’s long years of utmost effort to privatize became a reality, and it was necessary to guaranGlobal Business International Trade Business tee autonomous management by the private parties. As a result, on December 16th, 2016, the PFOC decided to Financial Market Business terminate the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between KDIC and Woori Bank, and actively encourage Investment Banking market-driven autonomous management led by oligopolistic shareholders. Digital Banking Risk Management Meanwhile, out of 2.97% of the KDIC’s stake exempted from the sale and spared for call options for minority Corporate Social stakeholders selected in 2014, 2.94% was exercised by the deadline of December 8th, 2017. Responsibility Accordingly, the remaining equity stake held by the KDIC decreased to 18.43% as of the end of 2017. Given the Ethical Management need to recover public funds invested, the Korean government intends to continue in selling the remaining Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction stake as early as possible. Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Present Status of Woori Bank’s Subsidiaries Financial Review Domestic Management's Discussion and Analysis Woori Woori Finance Woori Private Woori Credit Woori Fund Independent Auditors' Woori Card Investment Woori FIS Research Information Service Co., Equity Asset Report Co., Ltd. Bank Co., Institute Co., Co., Ltd. Ltd. Management Ltd. Ltd. Co., Ltd. Organizational Chart 100% 59.83% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Global Network Coporate Fact Book International Woori Bank overview Woori Woori Global Woori Banco Woori Woori PT Bank AO Woori Vision & Core Values America Markets Asia Bank do Finance Woori Bank China Bank Saudara 119 Years of History Bank Limited Limited (Russia) Brazil S.A. Cambodia Plc Indonesia (Hong Kong) (China) (Brazil) Corporate Governance (U.S.A.) (Cambodia) (Indonesia) Financial Highlights Global Networks 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 79.88% Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy Woori Woori Wealth Woori Bank A Trust-worthy Partner Finance Development Vietnam Myanmar Bank Limited Co., Ltd. (Philippines) (Vietnam) (Myanmar) 100% 51% 100% WOORI BANK 015 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 015 Woori Overview Woori Bank Awards Message from the CEO 2017 Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 The Bank of the Year 2017 Asia-Pacific The Banker News Highlights Financial Highlights Best Transaction Bank Award, The Future of Finance Summit Asian Banker Business Operations Best Cash Management Bank, The Future of Finance Summit Asian Banker Ministry of Employment and Labor Retail Banking 2017 Presidential Commendation for Services in Social Enterprise Incubation Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Best Bank in Preventing Voice Phishing Damages, 2017 First Half Financial Supervisory Service Corporate Banking SME Banking 11th National Sustainable Management Award Ministry of Strategy and Finance Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Consumer’s Choice Star Brand Grand Prize in Integrated Maekyung Media Group Global Business Financial Membership International Trade Business Maeil Business Newspaper, Financial Market Business Minister’s Prize in Service, the 4th Korea Big Data Awards Ministry of Science and ICT Investment Banking Digital Banking Governance Award, Best Company in Governance The Maeil Business Newspaper, Risk Management (Board of Directors) Daishin Economic Research Institute Corporate Social Excellence in Banking Sector, the 4th Korea Retirement Mercer Korea Responsibility Pension Award Ethical Management Commendation by Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Consumer Protection (for Promotion of Expert) Employee Satisfaction The Seoul Economic Daily Social Contribution Activities Grand Prize, Korea’s Best Banker Woori Smile Microcredit 2017 Business Supporting the Employment of Multicultural Families Seoul Metropolitan Government Financial Review Best Bank in Cutting Edge Banking, 2017 Asia Today Financial Asia Today Grand Prize Management's Discussion and Analysis Grand Prize, 2017 Risk Manager Awards Money Today thebell Independent Auditors' (FSS [Financial Supervisory Service] Chairman’s Award, Report awarded to one company out of all categories) Chairman’s Award of the Korea Commission for Corporate The Korean Academic Society of Organizational Chart Partnership, the 4th CSV Awards Business Administration Global Network Excellence Prize, HK Wow TV Global Financial Grand Prize HK Wow TV Coporate Fact Book 2017 Customer Satisfaction + Awards (Hall of Fame in Banking) The Korean Economic Daily Woori Bank overview Chief Information Security Officer(CISO) of the Year Korea Forum of Chief Information Vision & Core Values Officers, the Federation of Korean 119 Years of History Information Industries Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 016 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 016 Woori Overview News Highlights 1 Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Selected as the rank gives a bank the power to choose the asset Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Primary/Custodian Bank for the category it will manage, be it securities, bonds or Financial Highlights National Pension Service alternative assets. The usual order of preference is securitiesbondsalternative assets, and Woori Business Operations Woori Bank was selected as the primary and Bank was thus able to continue with its existing cuscustodian bank for securities assets by the todian business. The position of custodian bank is Retail Banking Wealth Management NPS, the world’s third-largest pension fund in as attractive as that of primary bank. In this bidTrust & Pension Business size with a total of KRW 600 trillion in funds ding, Woori Bank was highly rated for its decadeCorporate Banking long zero defect performance and experience in SME Banking Woori Bank was selected as the primary and cushandling business for securities, bonds, and alterInstitutional Banking todian bank of the National Pension Service (NPS) Real Estate Finance native assets. The selection helped Woori Bank to that manages KRW 600 trillion, the world’s third Global Business maintain its custodian banking market share and largest pension fund in size. On October 16, 2017, International Trade Business become Korea’s number one bank. Financial Market Business the NPS announced that it had selected Woori Investment Banking Bank as the preferred bidder to become the priDigital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social mary bank for the NPS banking business, which includes pension premium collection, pension payment, and operational funds settlement. Korea’s 2 Woori Bank’s WiBee Women’s ProResponsibility four major commercial banks competed in this crucial bidding, and Woori Bank focused all its compefessional Basketball Team Achieves Ethical Management V9Its 9th Championship and 5th Consumer Protection tencies on becoming the successful bidder with an Employee Satisfaction exclusive team to handle the NPS business. Woori Consecutive Title Social Contribution Activities made thorough preparations not only in the priThe team broke new ground by winning the chamWoori Smile Microcredit mary banking business but also in information pionship match for the fifth consecutive season in projects and its midand long-term strategy. the Women’s Korean Basketball League Financial Review Management's Discussion These efforts paid off, and Woori Bank became the The WiBee women’s professional basketball team, and Analysis primary bank of the NPS, a position held by another dubbed the ‘absolute power’ of the Korean womIndependent Auditors' bank for the past ten years. Becoming the primary en’s basketball, emerged victorious in the 2016Report bank of the world’s third-largest pension fund pro2017 Women’s Korean Basketball League (WKBL). Organizational Chart moted Woori’s profile and brand image in and outOn March 20, the team played its third and final side Korea. Woori Bank was also selected as the championship match against the Samsung Life Global Network most preferred bidder to become the NPS cusInsurance team at the Yongin Gymnasium and todian bank to maintain and manage the investscored a thrilling come-from-behind victory, winCoporate Fact Book ment assets of the NPS funds. The preferred bidder ning in overtime with a score of 83-72 against its Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 017 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 017 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure opponent. The committed drive of all players to by expanding entry into Southeast Asian markets that Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights win the team’s fifth consecutive title at the chamoffer high growth and profitability as well as by diverFinancial Highlights pionship could be seen in their overwhelming skills sifying the bank’s business based on models customand solid team synergy. With a record of 33-2 with a ized for the local environment, such as through the success rate of 0.943 percent in the regular season, savings bank and credit finance models. Meanwhile, Business Operations Retail Banking the team achieved the highest winning rate among existing local operations (in Indonesia, Myanmar, Wealth Management all professional sports teams in Korea. In January Cambodia and other countries) are scaling up their Trust & Pension Business 2017, the team was already crowned the chamrespective businesses, enlarging sales coverage with Corporate Banking pion of the season with a record of 24-1, yet its connew networks. Woori Bank also opened a local operSME Banking Institutional Banking trol over games did not falter—it still managed to ation in Vietnam in January 2017 and acquired Wealth Real Estate Finance achieve a 9-1 record in the remaining ten games. Development Bank in the Philippines, increasing local Global Business The WiBee team has never stopped improving itself business growth at a rapid pace. International Trade Business season after season, although it has already been Financial Market Business In terms of the bank’s inorganic growth strategy crowned the most powerful team in the league. Investment Banking through mergers and acquisitions, Woori Bank has Digital Banking Our cheers go out to the players who are still workachieved outstanding results. The bank accumulated Risk Management ing as hard as ever to make history with a V10 – the know-how and useful experience in the process of team’s 10th victory in the championship. Corporate Social acquiring Saudara Bank in Indonesia in 2014. Taking Responsibility advantage of the knowledge gained, we pushing forEthical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities 3 Expanding Our Global Presence, ward with our entry into the Southeast Asian region. The bank’s push into Europe also remains active, with a new representative office opened in Katowice, Maintaining the Bank’s No. 1 PosiPoland in February 2017 and a local operation schedWoori Smile Microcredit tion in Global Networks uled to open soon in Germany. Woori Bank is thus Financial Review building its European Financial Belt. The bank also Enlarging the foundation for global and overplans to further expand in Southeast Asia, which has Management's Discussion seas business through entry into new markets, and Analysis high growth potential, and to increase the number of localization, and network expansion its global networks to over 500. We will launch new Independent Auditors' Report businesses in these markets using best-selling prodIn 2017, Woori Bank cemented its position as a leading ucts from Korea and our credit card business. We have Organizational Chart global bank. By the end of the year, we have 301 overhigh hopes for the bank’s global business as it impleseas networks in 25 countries, including the newly ments growth in volume and quality to realize its goal Global Network opened regional headquarters in Mumbai, India. of becoming one of Asia’s Top 10 and a Global Top 50 Woori Bank now has the largest overseas network Coporate Fact Book bank. among Korean commercial banks. This was achieved Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner the No. 1 Position in the Global Network WOORI BANK 018 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 018 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors 4Woori Bank, Named the Bank of 5 Over 5-Million Subscribers to the Corporate Governance the Year 2017 in the Asia-Pacific WiBee Platform Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Region by The Banker WiBee Talk, a financial platform leading the News Highlights Financial Highlights Woori Bank saw its position and credibility in digital market, now has more than five million the global arena go up as The Banker magasubscribers Business Operations zine named it the Bank of the Year 2017 in the WiBee Talk, the first mobile messenger in the Asia-Pacific Region Korean banking sector, has over five million subRetail Banking Wealth Management scribers now, only 600 days since its launch in 2016. On November 30th, 2017, Woori Bank was named the Trust & Pension Business This means that the platform acquired an averBank of the Year in the Asia-Pacific region at The Banker Corporate Banking age of 5.3 new subscribers per minute and that its SME Banking Awards 2017 hosted by the world-renowned The diverse services catered to the daily needs of cusInstitutional Banking Banker magazine. The Banker evaluated almost 1,000 tomers. However, WiBee Talk is only one part of the Real Estate Finance banks from 120 countries from around the world and Global Business entire WiBee platform. There is also mobile WiBee selected the best bank from each country and region. International Trade Business Bank, the first digital bank of its kind launched in In 2016, Woori Bank, after having been named the Best Financial Market Business Korea in 2015; WiBee Members, an integrated platBank of the Year in Korea, has now been selected as the Investment Banking form for membership management; and WiBee Bank of the Year in the Asia Pacific region. The Banker is Digital Banking Market, an open market online shopping mall. Risk Management an international financial affairs publication founded in Woori Bank successfully built the WiBee platform 1926, owned by the Financial Times. It is a highly prestiin only about a year, stirring the digital scene in Corporate Social gious magazine in the banking sector, which publishes the market. The bank has led digital innovation in Responsibility the list of the Top 1,000 World Banks every year, a list the financial sector, successively launching various most frequently quoted in the financial markets. Ethical Management services and content such as WiBee Cam, WiBee Consumer Protection Honey Partner, real-time foreign language translaWoori Bank was well recognized for its global expanEmployee Satisfaction sion strategy to overcome the limited growth potention services, as well as SORi, and AI voice recogSocial Contribution Activities tial in the Korean market. Other aspects highly rated nition banking functionality for WiBee Talk. Woori Woori Smile Microcredit included: intensive qualitative growth in each busiBank has integrated the WiBee platform within its Financial Review ness area; the mobile WiBee Bank that demonstrated 278 overseas network customer contact points as the bank’s competitive edge within a radically changwell, enhancing its retail finance reputation in each Management's Discussion local market. The creation of value in business is ing financial environment; WiBee Talk, another mobile and Analysis platform pioneering the fin-tech market in Korea; and moving rapidly onto the digital platform; a digital Independent Auditors' Report continued enhancement of management performance platform now correlates to the competitiveness of based on improvements in financial services, profita business. Accordingly, Woori Bank will lead the Organizational Chart ability, and integrity. This designation is the pinnacle of digital market by creating an ecosystem within the global recognition for Woori Bank’s strategy for proacWiBee platform in which people can start and end Global Network tive overseas expansion and digital banking to secure their day using WiBee Talk. new growth engines. This award has provided another Coporate Fact Book firm foundation for the bank to secure its credibility and Woori Bank overview status as a global bank. Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 019 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 019 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors 6 Designated as the Best Bank in 7 Presidential Commendation for Corporate Governance Preventing Voice Phishing Losses by Services in Social Enterprise Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 the Financial Supervisory Service Incubation: Exclusive Recipient in News Highlights Preventive actions against voice phishing prothe Financial Sector Financial Highlights mote our corporate value as a bank taking the Woori Bank was the exclusive recipient in the Business Operations initiative in protecting customer assets Korean financial sector of this commendation awarded by the Ministry of Employment and Labor On September 9, 2017, Woori Bank received a letter Retail Banking Wealth Management of recognition from the Financial Supervisory SerIn the 2017 Ceremony for the 10th Anniversary of Social Trust & Pension Business vice (FSS) of Korea, having been designated as the Enterprises hosted by the Ministry of Employment and Corporate Banking Best Bank in Preventing Voice Phishing Losses. The Labor, Woori Bank received the Presidential CommenSME Banking FSS considered the scale of prevented voice phishdation for Services in Social Enterprise Incubation. This Institutional Banking ing scams, the number of arrests made against government commendation is an award given biannuReal Estate Finance offenders in charge of fund withdrawals, the extent ally since 2008 to promote awareness of social enterGlobal Business of the contribution made by bank employees and prises as well as develop and spread best practices International Trade Business Financial Market Business many other factors during the first half of 2017 and in this area. Those eligible for this award are the best Investment Banking eventually sent out letters of appreciation to 23 social enterprises that have contributed to improvDigital Banking employees at 21 financial companies. To prevent ing social cohesion and the quality of people’s lives, Risk Management financial fraud, Woori Bank has constantly refined its employers and officers who have contributed to incumonitoring system and opened a new direct reportbating social enterprises, and organizations or individing channel so that our employees can quickly comuals who have contributed to promoting social enterCorporate Social Responsibility municate with the monitoring officer in the event of a prises by way of financial support or management Ethical Management large withdrawal. As a result, as of the end of Novemconsulting. Woori Bank received this commendation Consumer Protection ber 2017, the bank has prevented 2,761 voice phishin recognition of the financial support and manageEmployee Satisfaction ing scams and prevented associated losses of KRW ment consulting offered to social enterprises. Woori Social Contribution Activities 15 billion. Woori Bank prevented assets amounting Bank was the sole recipient of this commendation from Woori Smile Microcredit to KRW 10 billion from being misappropriated in the the Korean financial sector. Since 2005, Woori Bank shortest period (as of August) in the whole financial has been offering consulting free-of-charge for social Financial Review sector and contributed to arresting about 200 voice enterprises and supports customized loan products Management's Discussion phishing offenders who tried to withdraw money, for developed specifically for them. In 2013, we concluded and Analysis which a total of 67 branch employees received a leta Business Agreement to Support the Ecosystem of Independent Auditors' ter of appreciation from the police. As many of these Social Enterprises with the Ministry of Employment Report cases were covered by the media, our image as a and Labor. The bank still strives to assist and promote bank striving to protect customer assets received social enterprises through business support and purOrganizational Chart both internal and external media exposure, significhases. The role of social enterprises is increasingly Global Network cantly promoting our corporate value. Woori Bank is important today, and national interest in them has committed to exerting its best efforts to respond to been heightened. Woori Bank is committed to helpCoporate Fact Book increasingly sophisticated voice phishing scams and ing social enterprises through diverse channels so that to protect the precious assets of our customers. they can improve social cohesion and the quality of Woori Bank overview people’s lives in Korea. Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 020 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 020 Woori Overview Financial Highlights Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Net Income 2017 News Highlights [ Wbn, U$mn in( ) ] Financial Highlights 2016 2015 1,512 Business Operations 1,261 (1,411) 1,059 (1,177) (988) Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Interest Income Non Interest Income Real Estate Finance [ Wbn, U$mn in( ) ] [ Wbn, U$mn in( ) ] Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business 5,221 1,252 Investment Banking 5,019 (4,873) (1,169) (4,685) Digital Banking Risk Management 4,762 + 867 4,493 (4,445) 4.0% (809) Corporate Social (4,194) + 706 5.4% (659) + Responsibility + 44.4% 6.0% 461 + Ethical Management (430) 22.8% Consumer Protection + Employee Satisfaction 53.1% Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 Financial Review * Consolidated Basis, Based on exchange rate of KRW1,071.4/USD as of Dec. 29 2017 Net Income(Continuing Operations) attributable to owners Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Assets Funding Organizational Chart [ Wtn, U$bn in( ) ] [ Wtn, U$bn in( ) ] Global Network Loan in Local Currency Deposit Total Assets Total Funding Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview 200 (187) 235(219) Vision & Core Values 2017 356(332) 2017 296(276) 119 Years of History 191(178) 221(206) Corporate Governance Financial Highlights 2016 343(320) 2016 290(271) Global Networks 209(195) 185(272) Global Networks Strategy 2015 2015 273(255) Digital Strategy 318(297) A Trust-worthy Partner 189(176) 167(156) 2014 297(272) 2014 252(235) * Consolidated Basis, Total Assets include Trust Account Based on exchange rate of KRW1,071.4/USD as of Dec. 29 2017 WOORI BANK 021 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 021 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Profitability (ROA & ROE) Dividend Woori Bank Awards 2017 [ Unit : % ] [ Unit : % ] News Highlights 7.42 Financial Highlights ROA ROE 6.36 5.69 Business Operations 2016 2017 Retail Banking Dividend per 0.48 Share (KRW) 400 600 Wealth Management 3.55 Trust & Pension Business 0.37 0.41 Corporate Banking 0.21 Payout Ratio 21.35 26.71 (%) SME Banking Institutional Banking * 2017 : including the interim dividend 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 100(KRW) Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business * Consolidated basis * 2014: excluding one-off factors related to the sale and the spin-off subsidiaries Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social Asset Quality (NPL Ratio) [ Unit : % ] Capital Adequacy [ Unit : % ] Responsibility NPL Ratio (Bank) BIS Ratio Tier1 Ratio CET1 Ratio NPL Ratio (excl. 4 shipbuilders*) Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction 2.10 Social Contribution Activities 15.29 15.40 Woori Smile Microcredit 1.47 13.66 0.98 12.68 13.03 Financial Review 1.62 0.83 Management's Discussion 1.24 10.43 10.50 10.95 and Analysis 0.91 0.80 8.47 Independent Auditors' Report 2014 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Organizational Chart * 4 Shipbuilders : Sungdong, SPP, Daesun, STX Global Network Coporate Fact Book Credit Cost Ratio [ Unit : % ] Credit-to-Income-Ratio [ Unit : % ] Cost-to-Income Ratio Woori Bank overview Cost-to-Income Ratio(excluding ERP Expense) Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance 59.1 Financial Highlights 57.6 0.52 Global Networks 0.45 54.6 Global Networks Strategy 0.37 0.34 56.1 Digital Strategy 53.9 A Trust-worthy Partner 49.9 2014 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 * Consolidated basis * Cost-to-income ratio = Credit Cost Ratio = Credit cost/average Total Credit balance SG&A expense / (Interest Income + Non-Interest Income) 01 Business Operations With the 4th industrial revolution underway, the market conditions are changing and evolving rapidly. Woori Bank will lead this new era, turning challenges into opportunities, diversifying our bases for revenue, and achieving stable growth. As we take our business to the next level based on the trust of our customers and shareholders, we will make sure to repay their trust with bigger profits and enhanced levels of satisfaction. Reliable Financial Services through Balanced Growth 1.48 No. of SOHO & SME Clients 1,032 [unit : million] 876 Branches No. of foreign Customers [unit : thousand people] 22.56 Total Customers of Retail Banking [unit : million people] Loans in Local Currency +3.3% +4.7% 2015 2016 2017 185 191 200 [Unit : KRW trillion] Deposits +5.7% +6.2% 209 221 235 Note) Consolidated Basis Leaping Forward to Become a Leading Global Asset Management Bank WM Distribution Channels PB&FA Bancassurance Sales/Income 707 Managing WM distribution 721 Delivering comprehensive No.1 Enhancing Our position as the channels nationwide asset management and leading bancassurance provider consulting services. Growing Our Financial Services through a Global Network With its 301 customer contact points internationally—the largest global network among Korean banks—Woori Bank is making its globalization push the core competency in its drive to become a leading global financial institution No.1 in the Expansion of Fintech (in 7 Countries) 301 19 Head Office Total Networks Overseas Branches 143 4Representative 10 Overseas Subsidiaries Woori Global Net Profit of Global Business Office (278 Contact Points) [unit:USD million] Leading the 4th Big Data + AI + Block-chain Industrial Revolution Digital Financial Platform 2017 Feb. Mar. May Sep. Oct. WiBee SORi Woori Wibee Bot Pepper Talk AI banking Robo-Alpha Chatbot First humanoid Real-time service AI-based service robot used translation with voice financial adviser, in financial service recognition providing financial services in 16+ function consultation to languages customers 024 Retail Banking 037 Global Business 026 Wealth Management 040 International Trade Business 028 Trust & Pension Business 042 Financial Market Business 030 Corporate Banking 044 Investment Banking 032 SME Banking 045 Digital Banking 034 Institutional Banking 046 Risk Management 036 Real Estate Finance WOORI BANK 024 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 024 2017 Performance Woori Overview Retail In 2017, the number of Woori Bank retail customers is approximately 22.6 million, a number that drives us to do our best in developing innovative and differMessage from the CEO Board of Directors Banking entiated products. Woori Bank has implemented projects to ensure a broader retail customer base including the Baby Project, the School Project, and the Teens Future Dream Project, presenting diverse financial products and services Corporate Governance by life stage: products designed for infants, students, employees, homemakers Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 and senior citizens presented using targeted marketing by customer segment. News Highlights In addition to the launch of life-stage branded products, we aim to secure more Financial Highlights customers who use Woori Bank as their primary bank. This is why we have concluded new prime power loan (PPL) agreements for the employees of businesses Business Operations with prime credit ratings and also handled loans related to employee stock ownRetail Banking The Retail Banking Business Group ership plans (ESOP) for companies going public with initial public offerings (IPO). Wealth Management We have measures in place to enable customers to handle banking transacoversees marketing strategies for retail Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking consumers, new market penetration, tions without the constraints of time or place: the Tablet Branch as a tool for SME Banking retail marketing organization management, out-bounding banking services to reach out to customers, and the WiBee Smart Institutional Banking and strategy-building for marketing Branch allows automated WiBee Smart Kiosks to handle transactions. All of Real Estate Finance channels for university and hospital clients. these services are part of our commitment to put customer satisfaction first. Global Business New Product Lineup by Life Stage Brand Strategy, Aiming to In our constant effort to develop new markets International Trade Business Financial Market Business Attract New Customers and Make Woori the Primary Banking and manage customer relationships at the Investment Banking Partner for Existing Customers highest level, our prime concern remains Digital Banking providing customized financial products Risk Management In 2017, we launched new products and renovated our existing product line up under our life-stage brand strategy so that we can attract new customers and and services to our clients. Corporate Social encourage existing customers to make Woori Bank their primary banking partner. Responsibility Our products are designed for target groups such as teenagers, college stuEthical Management dents, employees, and senior citizens at retirement age. All our products are taiConsumer Protection lored to match the generational needs and benefits preferred by each group. Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities The WiBee Friends Account and the School Card linked to it are offered to the Woori Smile Microcredit bank’s younger customers. As School Card usage increases, customers will be eligible for account fee exemptions. If they refer a friend or buy a group prodFinancial Review uct, they will also be eligible for special interest rates. College students who are interested in employment, credentials, and language learning may open a Management's Discussion and Analysis WiBee Honey Youth Account and receive additional services as they earn certiIndependent Auditors' fications, go to the movies, and travel. They can also enjoy free-of-charge transReport fers when they pay their credit card or mobile phone bills. Organizational Chart The WiBee Super Primary Account is designed chiefly for full-time employees. When customers use it as a primary account to transfer their salary, pension, Global Network utility and credit card bills, transfer charges are waived (for all transfers to other Woori Bank accounts; up to five transfers per month to accounts at other banks). Coporate Fact Book We also launched products for seniors who want to enjoy life after retirement. In Woori Bank overview partnership with a Korean travel agency, Mode Tour, we released an installment Vision & Core Values deposit product with high interest rates. The Woori Well-Rich 100 Plus Package is 119 Years of History a product that offers healthcare, spa, and other services when customers receive Corporate Governance pension benefits from any one of the four public Korean pension schemes. Financial Highlights Global Networks We worked in collaboration with businesses from other industries such as G Global Networks Strategy Market, Auction, and Samsung Digital Plaza, as we take diverse customer needs Digital Strategy into account and offer useful financial services for everyday life. A Trust-worthy Partner Branch-in-Branch for Comprehensive Financial Services To satisfy changing customer needs, Woori Bank concluded a partnership agreement in March 2015 with Samsung Securities, Korea’s number one secuWOORI BANK 025 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 025 rities firm and started branch-in-branch (BIB) operations. As of 2017, the bank Total Customers of Woori Overview runs a total of seven BIB outlets. Message from the CEO Retail Banking [Unit : 1,000 people] +2.7% The BIB is not just a financial transaction window; it plays the role of a sales and Board of Directors services channel, which provides Woori Bank customers with additional conCorporate Governance 2017 sulting and sales capabilities. In 2018, we plan to develop products in partnerCompany Structure ship with Samsung Securities and establish more BIB operations to start mar2016 Woori Bank Awards 2017 keting activities for high net worth customers and sustain the synergy between News Highlights 22,561 our banking and securities businesses. Financial Highlights 21,973 Optimized and Efficient Distribution Channel Networks Responding to the changing financial environment, Woori Bank quickly entered Business Operations Retail Banking into areas with new growth potential and established branches in newly develWealth Management oped or major commercial zones. The bank also merged or relocated branches Trust & Pension Business suffering from low profitability, those with overlapping geographical coverCorporate Banking age, and strategically weak locations. While six new branches opened, 24 were SME Banking Total Loans of merged, and 16 were relocated; as of the end of 2017, a total of 876 branches are Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Retail Banking [Unit : KRW trillion] +3.8% in operation. Establishing an effective branch network improved our profitability. Global Business To boost competitiveness in our sales organization through a highly effective International Trade Business channel, the bank operates Exclusive Branches for Retail Banking. This special2017 Financial Market Business ized retail distribution channel strengthened our sales competencies in indiInvestment Banking 2016 vidual retail business. With this move, we also built a distribution system under Digital Banking Risk Management 109.0 which financial centers can concentrate on corporate business, and exclusive 105.0 branches can focus on retail. We also wanted to reinforce the efficiency of workforce management and Corporate Social Responsibility improve the skills of all our employees. To that end, we reorganized our existing Ethical Management windows, from the system of four basic windows to a two-team system comConsumer Protection posed of a Deposit Team and a Total Consulting Team. The integration of teams Employee Satisfaction added efficiency to our human resources, and after this reorganization, we have Social Contribution Activities been able to use some of our people to take charge of outbound operations, Woori Smile Microcredit ultimately bolstering customer management and acquisition. Financial Review We now have a new kind of branch called the WiBee Smart Branch that makes use of the WiBee Smart Kiosk, our new non-face-to-face digital channel. This Management's Discussion and Analysis branch allows customers to handle banking transactions outside of business Independent Auditors' Total Deposits of Retail Banking hours, subscribe to savings or deposit products, handle a variety of registration [Unit : KRW trillion] Report forms, pay utility bills, and use ATM functions. 2016 2017 Organizational Chart 2018 Plans Global Network +0.6% +3.2% In 2018, the Retail Banking Business Group plans to carry out a project to expand the scope of its target customers so that we can broaden our customer base amid Coporate Fact Book 96.8 a slow-growth market and cut-throat sales environment. We will liaise with govern88.5 ment subsidy projects and partner with industries that are a part of everyday life. Woori Bank overview 88.0 93.8 Furthermore, we plan to launch marketing strategies targeted to appeal to customVision & Core Values ers in their 50s and 60s, in the face of very low birth rates and a quickly aging pop119 Years of History Corporate Governance ulation. To make the plan more effective, we will extend our loyalty programs for Financial Highlights pension recipients and launch exclusive packages for customers in this age group. Global Networks While we aim to optimize branches based on the scale of local financial assets, Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy characteristics and customer base, we also plan to set up financial service chanA Trust-worthy Partner nels in places where our customers require greater accessibility. For instance, there are regions where financial services are few and far between as well as Deposits in KRW Deposits in KRW new housing development project zones. By assigning our channels efficiently (existing) (including trust) to such locations, we will stand by our customers and fulfill our role as a responsible banking institution. WOORI BANK 026 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 026 2017 Performance Woori Overview Wealth Outstanding Performance in Affiliate Products: Funds and Bancassurance Message from the CEO Board of Directors Management In 2017, Woori Bank achieved growth in volume, ranking first in market share measured by net fund value increase and number one in bancassurance sales/ Corporate Governance income. Total fund value went up by KRW 1.7 trillion, showing the strongest Company Structure upturn among all competitors. As we held seminars for large companies and Woori Bank Awards 2017 institutional customers and released tailored products by customer segment, News Highlights private equity fund assets amounted to KRW 6.7 trillion in total. In the bancasFinancial Highlights surance sector, Woori Bank accounted for 32.9 percent of the total market share, Business Operations thus defending its undisputable number one status and enhancing its position as the leading bancassurance provider. Retail Banking The Wealth Management (WM) Group oversees Wealth Management private banking (PB) services, focusing on Achieving the Highest Yield in Discretionary Individual Savings Trust & Pension Business Accounts (ISA) in the Banking Sector; Yield-Oriented Sales for Customers high-net-worth (HNW) customers and the Corporate Banking SME Banking bank-wide asset management business. The ISA is a leading wealth accumulation scheme in which Woori Bank has shown Institutional Banking WM Group consists of 11 teams under three Real Estate Finance remarkable performance. We launched a discretionary ISA scheme in April 2016 departments (the WM Strategy Department, Global Business and maintained the top position among all Korean commercial banks in terms of nine-month cumulative yield (as of the end of 2017). While the market condiWM Business Department, and WM Advisory International Trade Business Financial Market Business tions were rather unfavorable as other competitors collaborate with an affiliate Center). As of the end of 2017, the WM Group Investment Banking manages a total of 707 WM distribution securities firm under the same holdings company, Woori Bank showcased excelDigital Banking channels nationwide. 721 private bankers, lent asset management capabilities. Risk Management financial advisors (FAs), and sales professionals We also hosted an in-house Fund Returns Challenge to create a sales environdeliver comprehensive asset management and Corporate Social ment where our employees can take the initiative in developing good products Responsibility consulting services to around 179,000 HNW and consider customer profits a priority. We also added a portfolio evaluation criterion to the fund returns index for customers and focused on generating stacustomers. Our specialists work together Ethical Management ble profits through asset allocation. through an independent PB brand called Two Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Chairs as they offer best-in-class services. Social Contribution Activities Launch of AI-Based Robot Advisor, Woori Robo-Alpha Woori Smile Microcredit In May 2017, Woori Bank officially launched a robot advisor program called Woori Robo-Alpha. The Woori Robo-Alpha employs artificial intelligence (AI) to Financial Review suggest the best asset allocation portfolio based on customer information and Management's Discussion tendencies. Every three to four months, it reevaluates the portfolio and decides and Analysis whether or not rebalancing is necessary. The decision is sent out to customers Independent Auditors' either by the bank’s in-house WiBee Talk messenger or via text messenger serReport vices. The minimum subscription amount is set at KRW 100,000 so that anyone take advantage of wealth management at an affordable price. The new program Organizational Chart is playing a big part in boosting our non-face-to-face digital channel growth. Sales Cooperation Between SME RM and PB/FA Global Network WM Group Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank has established a system of cooperation between small and medium enterprise (SME) relationship managers (RMs) and PBs Woori Bank overview WM Strategy WM Business WM Advisory Department Department Center The system is mainly about how to provide asset consulting to SMEs with loans Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Fund Business Asset from the bank, and how to induce PB customers with loans at other banks to WM Affairs Team Corporate Governance Team Management Consulting switch to Woori Bank. We motivated our employees by including cooperation Financial Highlights Future Planning Bancassurance Center as a criterion in performance appraisals as well as by offering joint awards/ Global Networks Team Business Team Tax Consulting rewards. Their efforts have turned many SME CEOs into Woori Bank customers, Global Networks Strategy WM Platform Investment Center Digital Strategy Team Product who in turn played a huge role in increasing the number of PB customers. Development Real Estate A Trust-worthy Partner Investment Team Investment Thanks to such enthusiastic sales efforts and management of designated Strategy Team Support Center human resources, the number of PB customers (those who have more than KRW ISA Trading Team 100,000,000 in deposits) has gone up by approximately 13,000 in 2017. WOORI BANK 027 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 027 Total Number of WAMU: Woori Asset Management University: The First In-house Woori Overview WM Customers Training Institute in the Korean Banking Sector to Foster Experts Message from the CEO [Unit : 1,000 trillion] +13.1 Woori Bank has taken the initiative in recruiting and fostering asset management specialists. The Woori Asset Management University (WAMU), the first Board of Directors in-house asset management training institute in the Korean banking sector, Corporate Governance 2017 Company Structure offers a diverse asset management curriculum that covers everything from basic 2016 theories to intensive coursework. Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights 179.2 In 2017, we recruited 300 next-generation PBs and FAs. Having been trained through Financial Highlights 166.1 WAMU programs to become field specialists as early as possible, they were soon Business Operations assigned to branches. WAMU also conducted customized training for 645 existing PBs and FAs according to individual skill level. This is an example of how Woori Bank Retail Banking is using its differentiated training system and fostering asset management experts. Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking 2018 Plans Total Deposits of Wealth SME Banking Our 2018 vision is “Growth Based on Four Foundations; Leaping Forward to Management Banking Institutional Banking Become a Leading Asset Management Bank.” Our four foundations are sustainReal Estate Finance Global Business [Unit : KRW trillion] +5.7 able growth, customers, profit, and digital/caring finance, based on which we International Trade Business will carry out customer-centric sales. 2017 Financial Market Business First, we will build up our competencies focusing on channels and people so Investment Banking 2016 Digital Banking that we can offer quality asset management services to customers. New excluRisk Management 53.3 sive asset management branches will open to provide differentiated services. 47.6 At the same time, we will implement various asset management training proCorporate Social grams to foster professional PBs, increase our PB pool, and establish a career development program (CDP). We also offer an entirely new Master PB program. Responsibility Ethical Management Master PBs are the bank’s most competent employees who have demonstrated Consumer Protection the best possible performance in each field. They will be encouraged to transfer Employee Satisfaction their individual sales skills and know-how to boost the asset management comSocial Contribution Activities petencies of all our employees. Woori Smile Microcredit Second, our goal is to pass the 200,000 mark in the number of registered PB cusFinancial Review tomers and acquire 50,000 pension recipients from any of Korea’s four public pension schemes as customers. We will also launch special services and exclusive Management's Discussion products targeting SME CEOs, the families of our existing PB customers, and cusand Analysis tomers in their 50s and 60s. Since Woori Bank is the primary banking partner of Independent Auditors' Report the National Pension Service of Korea, we will pursue a partnership in order to add Fund Sales Balance more pension recipients to our clientele pool. We will strive to increase the number [Unit : KRW trillion] Organizational Chart of PB customers through retirement planning seminars and consulting services. FY16 FY17 Global Network Third, we aim at quality growth in the partnership business, bolstering growth in both volume and profitability. We have raised our profit goal by more than Coporate Fact Book +8.2% KRW10 billion since 2017, and we will work with SMEs, global groups, and IB groups to achieve this goal. Not only in bancassurance but also in the fund busiWoori Bank overview 16,701 ness, our sales have a very strong profitability focus, and we will rank first in Vision & Core Values market share in both sectors. We also plan to start a real estate consulting busi119 Years of History 15,439 Corporate Governance Financial Highlights +14.5% ness to find new sources of profit. Finally, we will expand our non-face-to-face channel and contribute to wealth Global Networks 79 Global Networks Strategy accumulation and asset management for middle and lower-income customers. Digital Strategy 69 The AI-based Woori Robo-Alpha will help all of our customers access and use A Trust-worthy Partner our asset management system with ease. By integrating the newest digital techniques such as scrapping and big data, we will enable customized asset management for everyone on a 1:1 basis. Finally, we will introduce funds that provide Fund Sales Fund Sales Fee for community donations or funds for a cause and lead the ‘inclusive finance’ iniBalance Revenue tiative included as part of the Korean government’s 100 Agenda Project. WOORI BANK 028 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 028 Woori Overview Trust & Message from the CEO Board of Directors Pension 2017 Performance Trust Department Corporate Governance Company Structure Business The Trust Department’s goal is to be “No. 1 in Generating Yield for Customers, No. 1 Growth Rate and Creating a Cash Cow,” and has grown with a strategy Woori Bank Awards 2017 based on customization. To gain a competitive edge in the fast growing trust News Highlights business, we have built the “Trust Operation Platform” (a trust asset manageFinancial Highlights ment system), which allows our employees to upgrade their professional comBusiness Operations petencies in asset management and investment portfolio planning. Retail Banking The Trust and Pension Business Group is As a result, we have promoted ELT, and ETF as core trust products. To expand Wealth Management our business in the future, we have developed customer-focused investment leading the market with successful business Trust & Pension Business strategies by launching new products with timely market insight, and building models that continually meets customer asset Corporate Banking up our product line-up. With ELT, our sales result in 2017 reached KRW 8,569 bilSME Banking management needs, keeping up with a radically lion, or 286% of our annual target. We then developed new products and diverInstitutional Banking sified underlying assets across diverse portfolios so that we can manage assets changing market environment. As the sales of Real Estate Finance according to market conditions and individual customer needs. trust products such as equity-linked trust (ELT) Global Business and the exchange-traded fund (ETF) grow, International Trade Business Financial Market Business the Trust and Pension Business Group plays a Retirement Pension Business Department Investment Banking leading role in pushing the bank’s overall nonSince retirement pension schemes were introduced to the market, Woori Bank Digital Banking interest income upward. implemented a customer-centric strategy with a long-term perspective to help Risk Management customers enjoy a stable retirement and to cope with labor market changes such as Korea’s rapidly aging society. There are experienced investment experts Corporate Social utilizing advanced methods at Woori Bank, Responsibility based on which we can offer comprehensive We publish a monthly ‘Happy Life Retirement Pension Newsletter’ which covers major retirement pension issues, recent trends, asset management information, Ethical Management consulting services to customers; this is what and everyday life tips. For retirement pension customers who are still employed, Consumer Protection allows us to offer customized comprehensive Employee Satisfaction we provide information on retirement savings and asset management perforfinancial services in a growing retirement Social Contribution Activities mance through the Internet or mobile banking via the Happy Life Retirement Pension Lifetime Account. These services enable our customers to manage the pension market, including retirement planning Woori Smile Microcredit retirement savings in their accounts with ease. according to personal investment profiles Financial Review and efficient corporate retirement pension management. We have launched more aggressive marketing campaigns since July 2017 when Management's Discussion the eligibility for the Individual Retirement Pension (IRP) was expanded. As a and Analysis We have a broad range of experience in the result, our IRP asset value has grown to KRW 1,594 billion as of the end of 2017. Independent Auditors' Report custody agent business gained from transactions Including this increase, our total retirement pension asset value has reached with our diverse clientele consisting of 120 KRW 15,003.5 billion, a KRW 2,012.5 billion increase from the previous year. The Organizational Chart entities or so, including major institutional number of companies for which we manage retirement pensions is 27,151 as of clients in Korea’s securities custody services the end of 2017. In the unbundled contract with the Korean Workers’ CompensaGlobal Network market as well as asset management companies. tion and Welfare Services (KWCWS), the KWCWS is in charge of operations, and Taking advantage of our experience, we will Woori Bank is in charge of asset management. In 2017, we saw an increase of Coporate Fact Book provide custodian asset management services 6,284 in the number of subscribed companies, with a total of 34,653 subscribers. Woori Bank overview Custody Agent Department Successful Pension Fund Bidding, that allow us to take preemptive action in the Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History face of market changes. Relationship with Lager Asset Managers Corporate Governance We have participated in two bids to select a custodian bank for the National PenFinancial Highlights sion Service and the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport. In both bids, Global Networks we analyzed the institution’s needs proactively and presented differentiated Global Networks Strategy and customized proposals. In the end, Woori Bank was re-appointed as the cusDigital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner todian bank for the two institutions, achieving a sweeping victory in both cases. Our marketing targeted at insurance companies also turned two large insurers into new customers. These achievements ensure we will see a steady increase in our assets in custody. WOORI BANK 029 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 029 Woori Overview 2018 Plans Message from the CEO Board of Directors Trust Department Corporate Governance The 2018 business goal for the Trust & Pension Business Group is to ‘Dominate Company Structure Money in Trust the Trust & Pension Market.’ This goal means that we intend to become the numWoori Bank Awards 2017 [Unit: KRW Trillion] ber one bank in terms of increased trust market share. Accordingly, we plan to News Highlights Financial Highlights +10.9% differentiate marketing support and continue to improve and further develop our core products. 14,119 With ELT, our core product, we will generate profits through balanced growth Business Operations 15,651 Retail Banking between high-yield products and low-yield products, based on stable structure.. Wealth Management We also plan to promote ETFs as a key asset management product for customers. Trust & Pension Business To achieve our goals, we plan to have asset management functions in place to Corporate Banking SME Banking Retirement Pension cope with a variety of fluctuations in the financial market while making our prodInstitutional Banking Assets ucts globally relevant. Hence, we will upgrade our trust asset management sys[Unit: KRW Trillion] Real Estate Finance tem and risk management system. Global Business International Trade Business 12.99 +15.5% Retirement Pension Department Financial Market Business As Korea becomes a super-aged society, the importance of the retirement marInvestment Banking 15.00 ket is increasingly highlighted in the banking industry. That is why Woori Bank Digital Banking has selected retirement pensions as a core growth business and has decided Risk Management to carry out active marketing campaigns to secure a stable customer and profit Corporate Social Assets under Custody base over the long-term. Responsibility [Unit: KRW Trillion] In 2018, the Retirement Pension Department will establish a foundation for Ethical Management Consumer Protection +11.12% growth through distinctive marketing campaigns tailored for each target customer group and become a leading retirement pension provider. We will reinEmployee Satisfaction 129.54 force our product management competence to enhance yield for our customSocial Contribution Activities 143.94 ers and promote efficiency in distribution channels. We will continue to lead the Woori Smile Microcredit retirement pension market using our expert human resource pool, training sup2016 2017 port system, diverse products, professional asset management competencies, Financial Review and a unique retirement planning service platform. Management's Discussion and Analysis Custody Agent Department Increase in Asset Value by Independent Auditors' Diversifying Customer Segments Report Woori Bank has been in charge of the custody agency business for large pubOrganizational Chart lic funds. Based on such experience, we will launch marketing campaigns to appeal to institutional customers that need to manage large-volume assets, Global Network such as insurance companies and mutual aid associations. We will upgrade our securities custody system and grow our expert human resource pool in order to Coporate Fact Book become a leader in the securities custody market. Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Retirement Pension Trust Sales by Bank [Unit: KRW Billion] Corporate Governance [Unit: Number of Subscribers] Financial Highlights ELT Sales Volume +324.2% Trust Fee Revenue +75.2% Global Networks (Balance) (+215.7%) Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy Category 2016 2017 Charge(%) 2017 2017 A Trust-worthy Partner 2016 2016 Companies 55,640 61,804 11.1% 8,569 150.5 2020 Employees 1,391,492 1,590,643 14.3% (4,388) 85.9 (1,390) *Including the number of subscribers liaised through the KWCWS WOORI BANK 030 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 030 Woori Overview Corporate Message from the CEO Board of Directors Banking Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Retail Banking Wealth Management The Corporate Banking Business Group 2017 Performance oversees services for corporate customers Trust & Pension Business In 2017, the Corporate Banking Business Group maintained its number one market including some of the biggest Korean corporate Corporate Banking share in loans as the main creditor, producing results worthy of the title of Korea’s SME Banking groups such as Samsung, LG, and POSCO. As strongest corporate banking service provider. Woori Bank also hosts the Woori DiaInstitutional Banking of the end of 2017, Woori Bank has primary Real Estate Finance mond Club, a social gathering where the CEOs of our large corporate customers banking partnerships with the largest number Global Business meet. It serves as an effective channel for us to figure out different market needs in advance and strengthen customer relations. As great emphasis is being placed on of corporate clients among all Korean banks. International Trade Business Financial Market Business corporate social responsibility today, we strive to develop products that will help The two major forces driving the Corporate Investment Banking Banking Business Group are our general companies survive and prosper together and to build a financial culture through Digital Banking managers of corporate banking branch and which we can help each other. Risk Management banking center. The general managers of As of the end of 2017, the Corporate Banking Business Group (including Corporate corporate banking branch have driven Woori Corporate Social Finance Centers) is managing a total of KRW 24.5 trillion in assets, with an operating Responsibility Bank to become the best in class in Korea, income of KRW 739.9 billion, and an export/import volume of USD 282.4 billion. the general managers of corporate banking Ethical Management Consumer Protection center have supported the affiliate and partner Strengthening Relationship on a Continual Basis Employee Satisfaction companies of our corporate customers while As our corporate customers turn into major global players, their financial needs Social Contribution Activities taking care of retail banking targeting officers are changing in a rapid and diverse manner. In 2003, Woori Bank started the Woori Smile Microcredit and employees at associated firms. Thanks Woori Diamond Club as a social gathering for the CEOs of our corporate custo these competent managers, the Corporate tomers. Celebrating its 15th anniversary this year, the club acts as a channel for Financial Review Banking Business Group can satisfy the varying us to strengthen customer relationships and understand the financial needs of Management's Discussion needs of our corporate clientele. our customers at the right time so that we can respond in advance to the rapidly and Analysis changing environment for financial services. Independent Auditors' Our corporate customers have grown into Report major global players over the past 119 years, Supporting ‘Sangsaeng’ for Large Companies and SMEs and we are very proud to have been their chosen The Korean word ‘sangsaeng’ refers to mutual life-giving symbiosis, as well as helping and sharing prosperity with each other. As the emphasis on corporate Organizational Chart financial service provider. Today, we are doing our best to offer the expertise we have gained social responsibility grows, Woori Bank is committed to fulfilling its role as a corGlobal Network over the years to a wider customer base. porate citizen, offering sangsaeng product packages in which we enter into busiCoporate Fact Book ness agreements with large corporate customers and provide loans with low interest rates to SMEs. In 2008, we launched the Sangsaeng Loan for Partners of Woori Bank overview Large Companies; as of the end of 2017, we have extended a total of KRW 570.8 Vision & Core Values billion in loans to 1,402 firms through this product. In 2013, we developed the 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Woori Sangsaeng Partner Loan, a loan package for settlements, and upgraded Financial Highlights the relevant system later in 2015; as of the end of 2017, we offered a total of KRW Global Networks 815.6 billion in loans to 5,010 companies. Woori Bank has the largest number of Global Networks Strategy big corporate customers in Korea, and this wide client network enables us to Digital Strategy manage a system of sangsaeng financing to encourage mutual aid, for examA Trust-worthy Partner ple by reducing financial costs for SMEs. We thus contribute to the co-prosperity and growth of big companies and SMEs using our comprehensive network. WOORI BANK 031 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 031 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Business Partnership with Different Industries Woori Bank Awards 2017 To move beyond the traditional banking sector and develop a new business News Highlights Financial Highlights model, we pursue diverse business partnerships with players from different sectors. In 2017, Woori Bank used the WiBee mobile platform to promote joint marBusiness Operations keting campaigns with companies in diverse fields such as communications, dining, distribution logistics, and leisure. These efforts led to mutually benefiRetail Banking cial relationships, resulting in increased sales for our partners and prospective Wealth Management opportunities for Woori Bank. Such partnerships are now a new and exceptional Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking Total Assets of source of future profits. SME Banking Corporate Banking Institutional Banking 2018 Plans Real Estate Finance Global Business The Corporate Banking Business Group’s business goal of ‘2018, the Four Ups for BigInternational Trade Business ger Corporate Banking’ will build stronger growth in corporate banking by establishKRW Financial Market Business ing a new sales culture. Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management 24.5 Trillion The first goal is to ramp up margins. To enhance margins, we will diversify our sources of profit by developing new products and new markets. Our sales will be income-centric, with appropriate interest rates and fees. Corporate Social Responsibility The second is to ramp up volumes. We will pursue a balanced loan business, increasing loans to major, profitable companies and applying suitable risk management Ethical Management strategies. Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction The third is to ramp up partnerships. We will use our network of major corporate Total Credit Exposure Social Contribution Activities clients and promote transactions with their partners, officers and employees, ultiWoori Smile Microcredit to Main Debtor Groups mately to further expand our all-in margin business strategy. Financial Review The last is to ramp up innovation. We will continue to seek out partnerships and joint marketing efforts with players from different sectors to generate new and innovative Management's Discussion profit sources. KRW and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report 25,839 Billion Organizational Chart Global Network Woori Bank is the main creditor bank of 13 of Korea’s largest enterprises (2017) Coporate Fact Book Total number of large enterprises under main creditor bank management: 36 Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 032 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 032 Woori Overview SME Banking 2017 Performance We saw an increase of approximately 100,000 individual entrepreneurs, SMEs Message from the CEO and high-potential enterprises amongst our clientele in 2017. Potentially Board of Directors non-performing assets decreased by KRW 2.5 trillion, raising the performing Corporate Governance Company Structure asset rate to 80.2% and drastically improving asset soundness. Woori Bank Awards 2017 Our marketing strategy concentrated on the acquisition of strong SMEs and News Highlights Financial Highlights retention. In 2017, we followed up on our 2016 strategic targets such as technology financing, policy financing, and guaranteed loans. Simultaneously, we Business Operations stressed cross-selling in order to lock in customers and maximize profits. We also implemented various loyalty programs in order to offer better services and Retail Banking The Small and Medium Corporate Banking increase SME customer satisfaction. Another area of focus for us included trainWealth Management (SME Banking) Business Group oversees ing and fostering in-house SME experts. Trust & Pension Business financial services for SME clients. As of the Corporate Banking Marketing Activities Targeting High-Yield SME Clients SME Banking end of 2017, it manages KRW 80.4 trillion in Institutional Banking loans and KRW 49.5 trillion in deposits for In 2017, we maintained our focus from the previous year to provide marketing Real Estate Finance 1.48 million customers consisting of individual information to help branches appeal to high-yield SME clients such as by proGlobal Business entrepreneurs, SMEs, and high-potential viding them with information on targets by product and customer and informaInternational Trade Business tion on the corporate partners of large companies. In April 2017, we launched Financial Market Business enterprises. To maintain satisfaction levels Woori CUBE Loan, which offers special benefits for growing businesses, includInvestment Banking among SME banking customers, we provide ing preferential interest rates, fees, and credit lines. Product sales reached KRW Digital Banking competitive products and various financial Risk Management 8.1 trillion as of the end of 2017. As the SME Banking Business Group pursued a marketing strategy to promote high-yield assets, the size of loans to high-yield and non-financial services. Moreover, we foster corporate clients rated BBB and above grew by KRW 8.8 trillion by the end of 2017. and manage SME relationship managers Corporate Social Responsibility (RMs), SOHO RMs and next-generation SME RMs. These experts in SME financing and Concentration on Technology Financing & Reinforcing Growth Ethical Management asset management deliver top-notch financial Potential Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction services and content to our clients. To acquire high-yield assets with a focus on technology financing, we pursued Social Contribution Activities marketing that targets companies that utilize advanced technology with a stratWoori Smile Microcredit egy of preemptive sales by allowing pre-approved credit lines. The Woori R&D Plus Loan is a new product developed for companies that integrated advanced Financial Review technology, and this product allowed us to help companies with excellent R&D performance endorsed by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Energy. To Management's Discussion and Analysis offer technology financing to more businesses, we improved our tech credit Independent Auditors' bureau (TCB) system and offered competitive interest rates. These efforts Report resulted in an increase in both value and the number of borrowers compared to the previous year (as of the end of 2017) by around KRW 3.5 trillion and 3,500 borrowers, respectively. In 2017, we also saw an increase of 100,000 customers Organizational Chart and KRW 2.3 trillion in low-cost deposits, which reinforced our profitability and Global Network loan growth potential. Coporate Fact Book Productive Financing and Inclusive Financing in Action Woori Bank overview To put productive financing in action, we broadened support for companies Vision & Core Values with advanced technology (such as leaders of the fourth industrial revolution), 119 Years of History companies that create jobs, and start-up or venture companies. Our partnership Corporate Governance Financial Highlights with credit guarantee organizations, local governments, and public institutions Global Networks continued throughout the year. Also, we strengthened interest rate competiGlobal Networks Strategy tiveness through policy financing and provided diverse job training programs Digital Strategy to salespeople. Meanwhile, we increased our special contribution to the Korea A Trust-worthy Partner Credit Guarantee Fund and the Korea Technology Finance Corporation and extended KRW 2.9 trillion in loans for letters of guarantee to new and promising SMEs, companies that create jobs, and other SMEs. Our policy financing went to not only our corporate accounts but also individual entrepreneurs: we offered WOORI BANK 033 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 033 Woori Overview customized policy financing for the latter with special contributions to and conMessage from the CEO tracts with the Seoul Credit Guarantee Foundation and other regional credit Board of Directors guarantee foundations. We also worked with Yellow Umbrella Mutual Aid to proCorporate Governance Company Structure vide a stable social safety network and enter into contracts to provide inclusive Woori Bank Awards 2017 financing for small business owners and social enterprises. News Highlights Financial Highlights SME Key Figures Diversified Special Products Our new Woori CUBE Loan is a product with special benefits for growing SOHO Business Operations and SME businesses. The main purpose of this product is to expand loans to individual entrepreneurs, SMEs, and enterprises with high potential. We then Retail Banking remodeled our Woori Franchise Power Account Loan to create a more tailored Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business special product. The Woori R&D Plus Loan is a product released in line with the Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking 100,000 government policy to support companies with good R&D performance based on highly advanced technological competencies. Another product, the Woori People CUBE Account, was released together with bundled products, and we expect it Real Estate Finance to bolster our sales competitiveness in the form of partnership marketing with a Global Business range of associations and organizations. Our diverse product line-up provided International Trade Business Number of SOHO and SME Clients Financial Market Business us with a good foundation for balanced asset growth between corporate and Increasing in 2017 Investment Banking individual businesses. Digital Banking Risk Management Retaining Customers & Offering Top Notch Consulting Services Amid the fierce competition among all banks, Woori Bank maintains customer Corporate Social loyalty programs and supportive consulting services to meet the varying needs 2.5 Responsibility of customers with a competitive leadership stance in the corporate consulting Ethical Management area. Our loyalty programs offer benefits for member companies and long-term Consumer Protection customers, including support for family events (weddings, funerals, etc.) and KRW Trillion Employee Satisfaction staff training. With these programs, Woori Bank is doing its best to fulfill its duty Social Contribution Activities as a true financial partner. Woori Smile Microcredit Reduction in Non-performing Assets The corporate consulting services offered by Woori Bank are the ultimate culFinancial Review mination of experience and expertise gained in the Korean banking sector. We have assorted programs for companies that do business with us, covering manManagement's Discussion and Analysis agement consulting, CFO consulting, family business succession consulting, Independent Auditors' operations consulting, tax consulting, and many more. In 2017 alone, we comReport Organizational Chart 80.2 pleted a total of 110 consulting projects, demonstrating our competitive edge in this area. Percent 2018 Plans Global Network In 2018, the SME Banking Business Group plans to conduct marketing campaigns Percentage of Performing Assets Coporate Fact Book to increase its proportion of high-yield assets. The basis of this plan is productive financing, with a focus on manufacturers utilizing advanced technology Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values and companies in new growth industries. Most importantly, we will broaden the 119 Years of History special benefits provided to clients according to financial assets and industry Corporate Governance so that we can acquire new corporate accounts and clients in the start-up/venFinancial Highlights ture sector. We will launch new special products make inclusive financing a priGlobal Networks ority, allowing customers and the bank to live and prosper together in the spirit Global Networks Strategy of sangsaeng. We plan to acquire additional high-yield customers and improve Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner the skills of our sales professionals, thus intensively expanding our foundation for profit generation by providing comprehensive financial services. Finally, we will take preemptive measures to manage potentially non-performing assets and become the number one trusted bank in the SME banking sector. WOORI BANK 034 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 034 Woori Overview Institutional Message from the CEO Board of Directors Banking Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Retail Banking Wealth Management The Institutional Banking Business Group 2017 Performance consists of three departments. The Institutional Trust & Pension Business Banking Product & Marketing Department The Institutional Banking Business Group has a strong foundation built on Woori Corporate Banking Bank’s expertise gained from 102 years of managing the Seoul Metropolitan SME Banking caters to the needs of the central government, Government’s treasury. Based on such management know-how, we are broadInstitutional Banking local governments, and public institutions. The ening our transactions with government institutions, local governments, and Real Estate Finance major public agencies. Wherever our client institutions may be, we have reached Public Fund Sales Department manages the Global Business out to the local community through various corporate social responsibility promunicipal and provincial treasuries of local International Trade Business Financial Market Business grams and established Woori Bank as a financial institution that stands by local governments and the courts. Finally, the newly Investment Banking established National Pension Department communities. Digital Banking will take over and carry out business related Risk Management In 2017, Woori Bank was selected as the primary banking partner by the National to Korea’s largest public pension, since Woori Pension Service, the world’s third largest pension fund in size, and will be manBank was selected as the primary bank for the Corporate Social aging a total of KRW 600 trillion of funds for three years starting in March 2018. In Responsibility 2017, Woori Bank acted as the primary bank for 105 public institutions out of 330 National Pension Service (NPS) that manages Korean public institutions designated by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance. the world’s third-largest pension scheme. Ethical Management Consumer Protection The Institutional Banking Business Group As of the end of 2017, the Institutional Banking Business Group is managing a Employee Satisfaction is the first in the Korean banking sector to total of KRW 27.5 trillion in deposits and KRW 0.8 trillion in loans as part of its Social Contribution Activities institutional business. In addition, we have built banking relationships with establish an institutional banking specialist Woori Smile Microcredit 4,500 institutions. pool (institutional customer RMs), providing Financial Review first-class financial services to institutional Supporting New Government and Public Agency Projects customers. As of 2017, our institutional In order to effectively support government policy and public projects, we Management's Discussion and Analysis customers include the Seoul Metropolitan established the System Sales Team within the Institutional Banking Products Independent Auditors' Government, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure & Marketing Department to facilitate direct transactions and payment clearing Report and Transport, the Korea Land & Housing between the buyers and sellers of renewable energy. As a result, Woori Bank is in Corporation, the NPS, the Korea Railroad charge of upgrading the Korea Power Exchange (KPX)’s REC Trading System and is serving as the KPX’s dedicated settlement bank. We are also the designated Organizational Chart Corporation, and many more. Our clientele list positions us as the primary bank for the bank for managing the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy’s R&D funds. In this Global Network largest number of public institutions in Korea. function, we not only manage and disperse the R&D funds including the operaCoporate Fact Book tion of a Real-time Cash Management System (RCMS) but also provide comprehensive financial services for successful R&D firms. In addition, Woori Bank is Woori Bank overview solely in charge of international contracts and foreign exchange transactions for Vision & Core Values the Defense Acquisition Program Administration (DAPA), and we offer various 119 Years of History financial services when settling the international purchase of goods for DAPA. Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 035 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 035 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Maximizing Synergy with New Business Total Deposits Financial Highlights The Institutional Banking Business Group does not only provide direct finan+2.8 [Unit : KRW trillion] cial services to institutional customers but also discovers and offers business Business Operations opportunities to liaise with SMEs and individuals associated with the projects undertaken by diverse institutions. In 2017, Woori Bank was selected as the priRetail Banking 2017 Wealth Management mary banking partner for the Korea Environmental Preservation Association Trust & Pension Business 2016 (KEPA) and had the opportunity to provide financial services to local associaCorporate Banking tions and KEPA member companies. We also worked with the Seoul MetropolSME Banking 27.5 itan Government, the Ministry of Environment, and other parties in our Clean Institutional Banking 24.7 Woori Campaign to promote the use of electric vehicles. In this campaign, we Real Estate Finance presented financial products specially designed for electric vehicles including Global Business International Trade Business loans and a credit card, and had another opportunity to acquire new customers Financial Market Business through our efforts. Investment Banking Digital Banking 2018 Plans Risk Management Number of Institutional Customers We intend to provide a system for effective cash management for government Corporate Social and public agencies and develop partnership services related to various budResponsibility get activities so that we can provide upgraded financial services on a different level as a preferred banking partner for institutional customers. Furthermore, Ethical Management Consumer Protection as the primary bank for the largest number of institutions in Korea, we will seek Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit 4,500 to broaden the range of our financial services so that more employees of public agencies can do business with Woori Bank. Institutions Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Major Public Agencies Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values National Pension Service Korea Land & Housing Korea Housing Finance Ministry of Land, Infrastructure Defense Acquisition Program Corporation (LH) Corporation (HF) and Transport Administration 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Korea Railroad Corporation Korea Electric Power Korea Post National Health Insurance Korea Creative Content Agency Digital Strategy Corporation(KEPCO) Service A Trust-worthy Partner Korea Evaluation Institute of Korea Institute of Energy Korea Institute of Startup & Korea Institute for Agency for Defense Industrial Technology(KEIT) Technology Evaluation & Planning Entrepreneurship Development Advancement of Technology Development WOORI BANK 036 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 036 2017 Performance Woori Overview Real Estate In 2017, the Real Estate Finance Business Group once again became the undisputed leader in NHUF market share. Woori Bank has been the managing cusMessage from the CEO Board of Directors Finance todian bank of the NHUF for the past ten years, and a wide range of housing finance product offers showcased the Bank’s distinguished business performance. Consequently, Woori Bank was selected again as the managing custoCorporate Governance dian bank for the NHUF in January 2018, as the bank in charge of business delCompany Structure egated by the NHUF for the next five years. We took preemptive steps to cope Woori Bank Awards 2017 with market fluctuations caused by government policy changes. We also took News Highlights Financial Highlights the initiative to create demand for domestic housing finance products by developing new markets. Business Operations Increased Customer Base as the Managing Custodian Bank Retail Banking In 2013, for the systematic and professional for the NHUF Wealth Management management of real estate financing, Woori The NHUF business is critical to broadening financing options for the demandTrust & Pension Business Bank enlarged the Housing Finance Division side of housing finance, including for low-income individuals and families. As the Corporate Banking managing custodian bank, Woori Bank is in charge of financing and dispersing SME Banking into the Real Estate Finance Business Unit, Institutional Banking which was later renamed the Real Estate funds. As of the end of 2017, the bank accounted for a market share of 40.9 perReal Estate Finance Finance Business Group. The Group also cent in loans to the demand-side and a market share of 27 percent in housing Global Business subscription savings plans. Throughout the year, one million new customers manages the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure International Trade Business subscribed to the housing subscription savings plan designed to enable them to Financial Market Business and Transport’s National Housing and Urban own a new house in the future. We will work hard to build a solid foundation for Investment Banking this business so that a greater number of customers will be able to utilize NHUF Fund (NHUF) as the managing custodian Digital Banking products through Woori Bank. (formerly general treasury) bank. Our goal is Risk Management to satisfy the diverse needs of our customers— hence we provide not only products that Leading Korea’s Housing Finance Market with a Total Real Estate Information Platform Corporate Social Responsibility build on Woori Bank accounts but also NHUF products available for low-income individuals In 2017, the Real Estate Finance Business Group developed products for both Ethical Management face-to-face and non-face-to-face channels and a comprehensive real estate and families. Consumer Protection information platform to proactively respond to changes in the financial environEmployee Satisfaction ment. We also took the initiative in reforming regulations. Woori Bank focuses Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit on developing non-face-to-face real estate finance products for customer convenience. In January 2018, we launched WiBee Homes, our real estate information platform that offers property information and loan consulting services. This Financial Review Demand-side Housing Subscription Loans [Unit : %] platform will enable us to continue leading the mobile real estate market. Management's Discussion 44.7 43.1 and Analysis 40.9 Independent Auditors' No. 1 2018 Plans Report Market We intend to maintain our number one position in terms of NHUF market share 2015 2016 2017 Share in 2018, and we will do our best as the managing custodian bank for the NHUF so Organizational Chart that customers can enjoy the funds’ benefits with greater ease. We will focus on Global Network loan plans for the demand-side, which has shown a recent increase, including the Housing Subscription Savings Plans [Unit : %] Jeonse (Key Money) Deposits, Monthly Rental Loan Plans and the Beotimmok Coporate Fact Book (Support) Jeonse Deposit Loan Plan. At the same time, we will focus on attract28.0 27.0 26.0 No. 1 ing more customers to our housing subscription savings plans. Building on our Woori Bank overview experiences, expertise, and IT system in financing and managing funds, we will Vision & Core Values Market 2015 2016 2017 Share actively support housing welfare projects for low-income individuals and fami119 Years of History lies and take action to revitalize Korea’s national housing market and help make Corporate Governance Financial Highlights it more transparent. We will also participate in government measures to support Real Estate Finance Group [End of 2017] Global Networks housing funds for consumers with real demand and establish asset portfolios that will ensure balanced asset growth, optimal profitability, and minimum risk. Market Global Networks Strategy Category Results share Rank Digital Strategy To that end, we will expand mortgage loans by KRW 1.5 trillion in 2018 to serve as Mortgage Loans 83,398.2 26.2% 2 A Trust-worthy Partner [Unit: KRW billion] a solid rock protecting the assets of Woori Bank customers. 2017 was the year of Loans to the Demand-side 302,195 40.9% 1 building a stepping stone to dominate the real estate platform market. 2018 will [Unit: No. of subscription] be the year in which we utilize our diverse and customized services to lead the real estate finance market. Housing Subscription Savings 5,447,597 26.0% 1 Plan [Unit: No. of subscription] WOORI BANK 037 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 037 Woori Overview Global Message from the CEO Board of Directors Business Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Retail Banking Wealth Management In 2017, Woori Bank expanded its network 2017 Performance focusing on the Southeast Asian region, which Trust & Pension Business has high growth potential and profitability, Expanding Our Overseas Network (Channels) Corporate Banking SME Banking implemented a sales strategy tailored to local Woori Bank started to go global by opening its first overseas branch in November 1968 in Tokyo, becoming the first Korean commercial bank to do so. Since markets, and built a unique financial platform. Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance this first step, our interest in international markets has never faltered. In 2014, As a result, Woori became the number one Global Business player in the Korean banking sector in terms we became the first Korean bank to acquire a foreign bank in Indonesia, subInternational Trade Business sequently launching the Woori-Saudara Bank. In 2016, we became the first forof global network, net profit growth, and Financial Market Business eign bank in the Philippines to acquire a local bank when we acquired a stake the expansion of fintech services (in seven Investment Banking countries). Based on these results, Woori Digital Banking in a local Philippine savings bank, and we are expanding it with our partner, the Bank now proudly represents innovation Risk Management Vicsal Group, adding synergy to the business. In 2017, Woori Bank pursued a and growth in the global business sector. The strategy of organic growth in Southeast Asia where growth potential and profbank’s network increased particularly in such itability are high and expanded its business coverage in Indonesia, Cambodia, Corporate Social Responsibility footholds as Indonesia and Vietnam, completing its retail business infrastructure optimized Myanmar, and the Philippines. Ethical Management for Southeast Asia. With a new representative Woori Bank also opened a representative office in Poland, branches in Gurgaon Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction office in Poland and regional headquarters in and Mumbai, and the new Indian regional headquarters. The Bank’s outstandSocial Contribution Activities India, we have established the largest global ing performance reached new heights with 301 overseas networks in 25 counWoori Smile Microcredit network among all Korean banks, with a total tries, forming the largest international network of a Korean bank. In 2018, Woori Bank will establish a new subsidiary in Germany to expand its global network of 301 networks in 25 countries, preparing a Financial Review further and bolster business performance in the EU area. We also plan to enter foundation for global growth. Management's Discussion In addition, based on a localized business Mexico, a country where many Korean companies are doing business. and Analysis strategy in all overseas business units, we have Independent Auditors' pursued growth both in volume and quality, Strengthening Competitiveness of Overseas Products and Report resulting in a net profit of USD 143 million, a Cross-sector Partnerships (Business Implementation) 58.5 percent increase against the previous year. Woori Bank is planning and launching strategic products tailored to each local Organizational Chart We established a global smart banking platform market, based on financial market trends by country. We also intend to promote Global Network on a non-face-to-face basis to attract retail product competitiveness for overseas units by using cross-sector strategic partcustomers. We also transcended the borders nerships (MOUs). Coporate Fact Book between sectors and partnered with firms In 2017, we launched and sold various products exclusively designed for overthat offer digital wallets, telecommunications, Woori Bank overview seas markets, including bills bought without recourse, global confirmation, and and other services to offer simple settlements, Vision & Core Values payment guarantees for global mutual aid societies. We pursued strategic partsimple overseas remittances, payment 119 Years of History nerships with China’s An Bang Insurance, Vietnam Post Insurance Corporation, Corporate Governance gateways and other services. By doing so, we local Indonesian insurers, as well as Korean insurers such as Hanhwa Life and Financial Highlights overcame the constraints of the face-to-face Global Networks channel and created a business model based on Seoul Guarantee Insurance. These alliances contributed to the growth of our Global Networks Strategy digital convergence. bancassurance business, product development, and the distribution of credit Digital Strategy guarantee loans, resulting in positive synergy for all parties. A Trust-worthy Partner In 2018, we plan to reinforce strategic cooperation not only with Korean institutions but also with local financial and government institutions in the countries where we do business. Our goal is to become a Korean bank that offers the best global financial services. WOORI BANK 038 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 038 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Expanding Business with Overseas Banks (F.I.) Board of Directors Woori Bank is stepping up business partnerships and cooperation with leadCorporate Governance Company Structure ing global banks and provides support for Korean companies so that they can Woori Bank Awards 2017 become established as quickly as possible when they enter overseas markets. News Highlights By strengthening relationships with global banks, we secure stable credit lines, Financial Highlights support financing at international offices, and ultimately ensure financing for promising Korean and local companies in overseas markets. We intend to move Business Operations a step ahead in terms of compliance control, which is becoming increasingly Retail Banking rigorous all over the world, which is why we are implementing reinforced antiWealth Management money laundering checks and customer verification processes with other banks Trust & Pension Business in foreign exchange transactions. Corporate Banking Net Profit [Unit : USD million] SME Banking Strengthening Global Digital Competitiveness (Digital) Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance +58.5% Woori Bank is promoting retail banking using the digital banking services comGlobal Business posed of our Internet banking, mobile banking, and consulting services. In 2017, 2017 International Trade Business we extended our digital banking coverage by launching mobile banking ser2016 Financial Market Business vices for overseas branches as well as our subsidiaries in Vietnam and Indone143 Investment Banking sia. We also utilized the consulting services in our mobile banking platform to Digital Banking 90 bolster non-face-to-face marketing and sales functions. Our business strategy Risk Management is based on localization, overcoming the limitations of the face-to-face chanCorporate Social nel and expanding the foundation for retail finance. Simultaneously, we have Responsibility entered partnerships with fintech companies in order to provide services customized for Southeast Asian markets. In Vietnam and Indonesia, we expanded Ethical Management Consumer Protection customer contact points through diverse offerings within digital banking, startEmployee Satisfaction ing with pre-paid recharge functions for mobile phones and payment gateway NPL Ratio Social Contribution Activities services, as well as account deposits/withdrawals using partner platforms and Woori Smile Microcredit [Unit : %] -0.16%p affiliated businesses. Improvement Financial Review 2016 2018 Plans Management's Discussion 2017 In 2018, the Global Business Group will pursue balanced growth both in volume and Analysis Independent Auditors' 0.92 and quality based on risk management. Report 0.76 First of all, we will rebalance our asset portfolio, focusing on high-yield assets. We will make active use of our IB Desk, introduce G-CMS, broaden the line-up Organizational Chart for global products, and reinforce localized business to accelerate qualitative growth. By doing so, we will secure new global growth engines. We will expand Global Network cross-sector partnerships with such parties as Seoul Guarantee Insurance Coporate Fact Book and seek more linked business opportunities between Korean and overseas Liquidity Ratio branches, ultimately enhancing profitability and growing our customer base. Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History [Unit : %] +3.8%p Corporate Governance 2017 Financial Highlights Global Networks 2016 121.1 Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy 117.3 A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 039 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 039 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Woori Bank’s strategic gateway to going global is in Southeast Asia, namely Board of Directors Global Networks Indonesia, Vietnam and the Philippines. We will pursue a strategy of organic Corporate Governance growth in these markets and secure 500 networks in our global network. We will Company Structure Total Overseas also build a financial belt in Europe and America by developing new markets in Woori Bank Awards 2017 Networks Branches News Highlights Germany and Mexico. We are preparing to enter these markets in various forms, such as through microcredit and savings banks, based on the extent of developFinancial Highlights Business Operations 301 19 ment and needs in the local financial sector. Since many Southeast Asian countries are undergoing a radical digital transforRetail Banking mation, we plan to build tablet branches, expand our agent banking business, Wealth Management and introduce a biometrics-based mobile one-time password (OTP) to build up Trust & Pension Business Representative Overseas our digital competitiveness. We will foster global loan screening specialists and Corporate Banking Office Subsidiaries operate a regional screening center in Asia to manage risk preemptively, and SME Banking reinforce compliance by refining our anti-money laundering system. Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business 4 10 In 2018, the Global Business Group will achieve quality growth, secure 500 networks in our global network, offer digital services to lead the fourth industrial International Trade Business revolution, and manage risks while staying one step ahead. By doing so, we will Financial Market Business Investment Banking 278 Contact Points become a leading bank in all the markets in which we do business, bolster our Digital Banking sales channels both online and offline, and localize our major subsidiaries. Our Risk Management short-term goal is to become the undisputed number one Korean bank in the countries where we have a presence; our longer-term goal is to grow into a leadCorporate Social ing Asian and global bank that can compete against other prominent players in Responsibility the world’s banking sector. Ethical Management Consumer Protection New Global Market Development Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Representative Office in Poland opened as a bridgehead to enter the Eastern European market. (February 2017) Financial Review In an aggressive move to enter Management's Discussion the Indian market, the Gurgaon Branch and Analysis was opened (January 2017) Independent Auditors' Report Woori Bank Russia Poland Organizational Chart London Germany Woori Bank China New York Global Network Turkey Woori America Bank Tokyo Iran Los Angeles Mumbai Dhaka Woori Global Markets Asia Bahrain Mexico Coporate Fact Book Qatar Hong Kong Gurgaon Dubai Woori Bank Vietnam India Regional Headquarters Chennai Wealth Development Bank Philippines Woori Bank overview Kuala Lumpur Vision & Core Values Singapore 119 Years of History Woori Finance Myanmar Yangon Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia Corporate Governance Woori Finance Cambodia Financial Highlights Woori Bank Brazil Global Networks South Africa Sydney Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner Followed by the Mumbai Branch and Woori Bank subsidiary opened in Vietnam. A second branch in Brazil opened in the Regional Headquarters. (July 2017). (January 2017) Bom Retiro to enhance coverage of the Brazilian retail market. (May 2017) WOORI BANK 040 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 040 2017 Performance Woori Overview International In 2017, Woori Bank reported outstanding performance in export/import financing, FX, and international remittances, clearly overshadowing its competitors by taking advantage of competitive FX products, services, and the superior FX Message from the CEO Board of Directors Trade competencies of our employees. We handled USD 339.3 billion in export/import financing, USD 4.1 billion in FX Corporate Governance Company Structure Business (cash basis), and USD 145.5 billion in international remittances. These results ensured Woori Bank enjoyed the highest FX market share in all areas among Woori Bank Awards 2017 major commercial Korean banks. In terms of income, we achieved the highest News Highlights FX non-interest profits ever, amounting to KRW 323.9 billion or an increase of Financial Highlights KRW 2.8 billion compared to 2016. Business Operations In the new market of banking for foreign nationals, we have acquired over one million customers already, having the largest number of foreign national cusRetail Banking The International Trade Business Group is in tomers among all Korean commercial banks, which led to the first year of buildWealth Management charge of establishing the marketing strategy ing a sustainable FX business model. Trust & Pension Business for foreign exchange (FX) services, supporting Woori Bank provides rapid money brokerage services by operating the Woori Corporate Banking Clearing System (WCS), which is our FX settlement system with leading domesSME Banking branch offices, and developing products across Institutional Banking Woori Bank. To offer speedy and efficient tic and international financial institutions as its members. Using our superior Real Estate Finance support for FX operations, we manage the settlement infrastructure, we have served as the exclusive FX treasury bank for Global Business the NPS, the world’s third-largest pension fund, since 2014. We have also acted International Trade Service Center, which is a International Trade Business as the primary bank in charge of FX transactions for more than 120 public instiFinancial Market Business business process reengineering (BPR) center, tutions, including Korean central and local governments, the Defense AcquisiInvestment Banking tion Program Administration, and the Public Procurement Service. In April 2016, and the Global Investment Center, which is Digital Banking Woori Bank was selected as the first South Korean bank to offer won currency responsible for foreign direct investment (FDI), Risk Management escrow, capital transactions and other services. clearance services in China, handling the clearance and settlement in Korean Corporate Social Recently, we established the Foreign Customer won, performing the job of a market maker, and eventually establishing ourResponsibility Banking Business Department to serve the 2 selves as the global transaction banking leader for the Korean won. million foreign nationals in Korea, in order to The International Trade Business Group’s outstanding business performance in Ethical Management reinforce our targeted marketing efforts. 2017 is the result of implementing a successful business model geared toward Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction FX 4.0, which is about strengthening profitability and synergy according to our four business goals of enhancing profitability, promoting employee competenThe International Trade Business Group has Social Contribution Activities cies, securing product competitiveness, and expanding strategic partnerships. outstanding human resources who specialize Woori Smile Microcredit in FX as well as expertise gained from doing The Group will continue to concentrate on developing new growth engines and Financial Review business with the largest number of major improving business infrastructure. Korean companies and their subsidiaries. Management's Discussion Business Aimed at Foreign Customers and Analysis Based on our expertise and people, we excel in In 2017, the International Trade Business Group implemented a strategic gateIndependent Auditors' a wide range of businesses including domestic Report way channel and foreign customer-friendly marketing to boost business related and international export/import financing, to foreign nationals. As a result, we attracted 127,000 new foreign customers, a consulting for overseas investment, and retail. Organizational Chart big increase against the 107,000 we gained in 2016. By doing what we do, we generate non-interest income for Woori Bank and enhance our bank’s 1. Channel Expansion Global Network image as a global player. The Foreign Customer Banking Business Department opened Foreign Customer Coporate Fact Book Banking Centers in Ansan and Gimhae to focus on marketing for foreign customers, and the most recent addition was made in Uijeongbu in June 2017. These Woori Bank overview three centers are specialized branches for foreigners. Vision & Core Values The Foreign Banking Centers hired foreign staff to make our customers feel 119 Years of History more comfortable, and also offer religious and cultural facilities including Corporate Governance prayer rooms. We also boosted convenience and banking accessibility for Financial Highlights Global Networks foreign customers, for instance by expanding the operation of Sunday Banking Global Networks Strategy Branches (special branches that open on weekends) in some major residential Digital Strategy zones with a large foreign population. A Trust-worthy Partner 2. Marketing for International Students Studying in Korea through Strategic Partnership Woori Bank made agreements with several associations of international students studying in Korea and related organizations to strengthen our business WOORI BANK 041 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 041 competitiveness in terms of foreign customers. Since Chinese and Vietnamese students represent the majority of international students studying in Korea, we entered into a group agreement with their respective student associations. We Results Of Business Performance Woori Overview also partnered with the Korean Immigration Service Foundation that takes care [Unit: USD billion, 10,000 people, %] [Among the four major Korean banks] of civil affairs on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and acquired some students Message from the CEO as customers through this partnership. By doing so, we reinforced partnerships Board of Directors Category Results Market share with organizations that serve foreign nationals in Korea and laid the foundation Corporate Governance Export financing 190.2 37.2 for becoming a more foreign-friendly bank. Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Import financing 149.1 35.8 Expanded Capital Transactions News Highlights Export/Import financing 339.3 36.6 Financial Highlights FX (cash) 4.1 28.7 Despite the adverse external conditions in 2017, the International Trade BusiInternational remittances 145.5 24.6 ness Group relied on the Global Investment Center in charge of capital transBusiness Operations No. of foreign customers 103.2 25.0 actions marketing. The Center successfully managed to reinforce the Group’s deal-sourcing channels and strategize channel expansion, resulting in investRetail Banking ments of USD 2,987 million, the amount increasing more than 9 percent comWealth Management pared to 2016. Trust & Pension Business (FX) Non-Interest Income Corporate Banking We also operate 30 FDI Desks and special offices to handle capital transactions. [Unit : KRW mrillion] SME Banking We liaise with major organizations such as law firms, PEFs and free economic Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance +28,059 zone administrations to strengthen our deal-sourcing channels. In addition to the Jeju and Yeoksam Offices under the Global Investment Center, we plan to Global Business open a strategic gateway office in the Gyeongin (Seoul-Incheon) area in order to 2017 International Trade Business expand our start-up network of promising foreign investments in the future. Financial Market Business 2016 The International Trade Business Group will enhance the competencies of the Investment Banking Digital Banking 323,894 Global Investment Center in charge of capital transactions and consulting serRisk Management 295,835 vices while expanding its deal-sourcing channels and gateway branches. Our final goal is to secure maximum competitive edge in the capital transactions Corporate Social market. Responsibility Ethical Management 2018 Plans Consumer Protection In 2018, the International Trade Business Group will actively use AI, blockchains, Employee Satisfaction IoT and other new technologies of the fourth industrial revolution to develop Social Contribution Activities products and improve our internal processes. We will also move one step furWoori Smile Microcredit ther to achieve a digital transformation. By doing so, we will attain a dominant Major Successful FDI Cases position over our competitors in all areas including product and channel com[Unit : USD million] petitiveness, cost, and risk management, while also enhancing customer satFinancial Review Management's Discussion isfaction and work efficiency. We will do our best to become a leading FX bank and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report 1,250 680 that can keep up with the radically changing environment. Our products, services, and systems will be improved to offer convenient and appropriate products to our customers, and the number of dedicated branches Acquisition of Acquisition of cosmetics company C IT company S for foreign customers will also be expanded. We will provide the right products in FDI and for our foreign customers, and we will pursue new growth engines. We Organizational Chart intend to become a bank that specializes in handling foreign customers. Global Network Coporate Fact Book 360 180 In line with our efforts since 2017, we will strengthen partnerships with organizations that serve foreign nationals. We plan to maintain our active support for PEF A acquisition of PEF Q acquisition the financial voucher project for multicultural families. Our goal is to become Woori Bank overview a Korean company of company K a trusted and friendly financial partner for foreign customers residing in Korea. Vision & Core Values We plan to attract more capital transactions by expanding the designated 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights 180 80 workforce for inbound capital transactions such as FDI as well as reinforcing employee training and branch support. We will partner with branches and Global Networks establish professional consulting services to provide the best solutions for our customers. Capital for listing of Capital increase for Global Networks Strategy a biotech company T Korean company Q Digital Strategy In 2018, the International Trade Business Group will quickly adapt to the changA Trust-worthy Partner ing environment, provide optimal FX services based on new technologies of the fourth industrial revolution, and continue to do our best to boost customer satisfaction. WOORI BANK 042 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 042 Woori Overview Financial Message from the CEO Board of Directors Market 2017 Performance In charge of major funding and capital management for Woori Bank, the FinanCorporate Governance Company Structure Business cial Market Business Group focused on improving profitability and maintaining stable liquidity through efficient funding and capital management. We contribWoori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights uted to enhancing the Bank’s profitability by maintaining an optimal loan-to Financial Highlights deposit ratio (LDR), diversifying Korean wonand foreign currency-denominated financing, and managing our bond portfolio. We also promoted our capital adeBusiness Operations quacy and stability in financing by issuing perpetual foreign currency-denominated contingent convertible bonds (CoCos) in the first half and won-denomiRetail Banking The Financial Market Business Group consists nated CoCos (TierⅡ) in the second half. Wealth Management of the Treasury Department, which manages Trust & Pension Business Consequently, we complied with the Korean regulatory guidelines on liquidity in Woori Bank’s liquidity, the Trading Department, Corporate Banking 2017 at a level well above the liquidity coverage ratio(LCR) (minimum 90%), the SME Banking which handles FX trading, marketable foreign currency LCR (minimum 60%), and the midand long-term foreign curInstitutional Banking securities, and financial derivatives, and Real Estate Finance rency financing ratio (minimum 100%). These results contributed to a 0.49 perthe Settlement Support Department, which Global Business cent increase in the bank-wide BIS ratio. We strengthened our competitiveness performs back office duties. Woori Bank is the International Trade Business in FX and derivatives trading by diversifying trading currencies and managing Financial Market Business most competitive of all Korean commercial positions. We also provide equity derivative services that are available through Investment Banking all global trading hours so that our customers can be prepared for risks arising banks in trading derivatives. We lead the Digital Banking from time zone differences. market, handling forwards, swaps and options Risk Management based on a wide range of underlying assets including interest rates, foreign exchange, Implementing Optimal Funds Management Corporate Social Issuance of Senior Debt and CoCos in Won and Foreign Currencies Responsibility equities, and commodities. Ethical Management In 2017, the Financial Market Business Group established proactive financing Consumer Protection plans to issue KRW 8.34 trillion in won-denominated senior debt, KRW 0.25 Employee Satisfaction trillion in won-denominated CoCos, and USD 700 million in foreign currency Social Contribution Activities senior debt, and USD 500 million in foreign currency-denominated CoCos, all Woori Smile Microcredit with competitive interest rates. Most notably, we took preemptive action and expanded the issuing of midand long-term won-denominated senior bonds to Financial Review prepare for interest rate hikes. We successfully issued wonand foreign currenManagement's Discussion cy-denominated CoCos, boosting the bank-wide BIS ratio by around 0.49 perand Analysis cent and building a stable foundation for business. Independent Auditors' Report Successful Response to Tougher LCR Standards in July The Treasury Department decided to take preemptive action to prevent the Organizational Chart potential decrease in the LCR due to tougher standards (minimum LCR of 90%) implemented in July 2017. The Department increased retail deposits received Global Network from individuals and SMEs that tend to show low run-off rate and issued bank Coporate Fact Book bonds, increasing high-quality liquid assets. As a result, we maintain the LCR at 102.07 and continued to manage liquidity in a stable fashion, at a higher ratio Woori Bank overview than the regulatory guidelines, even after the standard was strengthened. Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Enhancing Stability with Diversified Financing of Foreign Currency Corporate Governance In December 2017, we set up a global certificate of deposit (CD) program that can Financial Highlights issue Yankee and Euro CDs at the same time. The new program diversified our Global Networks Global Networks Strategy platforms for foreign currency financing and included overseas gateway offices Digital Strategy as well as our head office as the issuer, assisting in our global business growth. A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 043 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 043 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Complying with Korean Regulatory Guidelines Corporate Governance Liquidity As of December 2017, we have complied with Korean regulatory guidelines Company Structure Coverage Ratio by maintaining 101.23% in the LCR, 103.77% in the foreign currency LCR, and Woori Bank Awards 2017 [Unit : %] News Highlights 214.35% in the midand long-term foreign currency financing ratio. Financial Highlights Liquidity Coverage Ratio (All currencies including KRW) Strengthening Competitiveness in FX and Derivatives Business Business Operations Liquidity Coverage Ratio In 2017, the Financial Market Business Group strengthened its competencies to (Foreign Currencies) proactively respond to the volatility of the financial market and strove to build Retail Banking competitiveness through various measures, including creating profits from new Wealth Management sources. Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking 112.57 FX Dealing Mar. SME Banking 2017 In foreign currency dealing, we bolstered our currency forecast capability for Institutional Banking 79.3 Real Estate Finance both domestic and international markets and realized outstanding trading profGlobal Business its by taking anticipatory and proactive action in response to the fluctuations International Trade Business in international financial markets. In 2017, we accounted for a higher portion of Financial Market Business market share (8.23% in USD/KRW, 17.01% in CNY/KRW), playing the role of a leadInvestment Banking 121.33 Jun. ing market maker in Korea. Digital Banking 2017 Risk Management 94.15 Derivatives In the derivatives market, we forecast the trend of market variables such as Korean and international financial policies and changes in demand and supply, Corporate Social Responsibility which helped us manage our positions one step ahead and establish a secure 102.29 Ethical Management Sep. foundation for derivatives trading. We also offer FX/interest rate risk manageConsumer Protection 2017 ment consulting and customized 1:1 solutions for SMEs that suffer from a lack of Employee Satisfaction 108.79 experience and expertise in risk management. Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Securities In securities, we analyzed domestic and international monetary policies and bond markets and efficiently managed bonds and bond-type beneficiary certifFinancial Review 101.23 Dec. Management's Discussion 2017 icates, increasing both interest and non-interest income. We also diversified our and Analysis 103.77 sources of non-interest income by varying and increasing bond lending transacIndependent Auditors' tions that receive risk-free charges. Report Organizational Chart 2018 Plans In 2018, the Financial Market Business Group plans to steadily manage bankGlobal Network wide liquidity based on thorough monitoring of money markets. In trading, we will broaden both our FX and derivatives income by diversifying strategies, Coporate Fact Book such as arbitrage in FX/derivatives and foreign currency/interest rate hedging Woori Bank overview in trading. The demand for risk hedging is expected to increase with growing Vision & Core Values global volatility, and we intend to broaden FX/derivatives trading further by 119 Years of History offering the right product at the right time for all of our customers. We also have Corporate Governance a dedicated sales team of specialists for securities firms, insurers, government Financial Highlights agencies and other financial and public institutions. With the work of our dediGlobal Networks cated team, we will continue to acquire exceptional customers and increase our Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy non-interest income. A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 044 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 044 2017 Performance Woori Overview Investment 2017 saw us building a stepping stone to expand into quality overseas IB markets, taking advantage of Woori Bank’s international network and the new IB Message from the CEO Board of Directors Banking Desks. At the same time, we steadily increased our income and realized sales-related profits of over KRW 200 billion for the third consecutive year. Corporate Governance We used our strong ties with high-performing PEs and companies to consistently Company Structure secure rights to arrange acquisition finance deals. We also increased high-qualWoori Bank Awards 2017 ity assets by handling large-scale structured finance deals for blue-chip busiNews Highlights nesses and expanding aircraft financing. In securities investment, we recorded Financial Highlights impressive results as we recovered existing investments to realize large profits on dividends and sales. Business Operations Retail Banking Woori Bank’s Investment Banking (IB) 2018 Plans Wealth Management In 2018, the IB Business Group will focus on core business areas such as acquiBusiness Group is in charge of diverse areas of Trust & Pension Business sition finance, securities investment, infrastructure finance, and structured investment, including acquisition finance (M&A), Corporate Banking SME Banking securities investments (securities, mezzanine finance to achieve growth in quality and volume. To prepare a foundation to Institutional Banking securities, collective investment securities, generate future profits, we will continue to invest in growing domestic and interReal Estate Finance foreign currency bonds), corporate finance, national PEFs and participate in overseas projects through our global network, Global Business aircraft finance, project finance (infrastructure overcoming the limitations of the Korean market. Above all, we will do our best International Trade Business Financial Market Business projects, power generation energy projects), to reinforce asset soundness and effectively . Investment Banking and structured finance (asset-backed securities, Digital Banking real estate structured finance). The IB Business Risk Management Group has the Investment Banking Department and the Project Finance Department under its Corporate Social Responsibility umbrella to actively implement its business Total Assets of Investment strategies. In M&A, we provide customized Banking Operations in 2017 Ethical Management acquisition finance through a strong network we Consumer Protection [Unit: KRW trillion] Employee Satisfaction have built with sound private equitys (PEs) and Social Contribution Activities leading companies both in and outside Korea. In Woori Smile Microcredit Balance Sheet Assets 9.9 securities investment, we offer a combination of 3.3 (34%) 6.1 3.8 Loans Total Assets investments and loans related to various projects (100%) Financial Review in real estate and infrastructure. In October Securities 2.8 (28%) (38 ) % Management's Discussion (62%) Off-balance Sheet Assets and Analysis 2006, we opened Woori Global Markets Asia Ltd. Independent Auditors' in Hong Kong and became Korea’s first financial Loan Agreements 0.4 (4%) Report institution to establish a unit to specialize in Payment Guarantees 3.4 (34%) overseas IB investment. Since June 2017, we have Organizational Chart opened IB Desks in Singapore and Sydney using Global Network Woori Bank’s overseas branch network. We are tapping into new opportunities overseas as well Investment Banking Organization Coporate Fact Book as in domestic IB markets. IB Business Group Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Investment Banking Project Finance Woori Global Markets Asia Corporate Governance Department Department Ltd. (Hong Kong) Financial Highlights IB Control & Management Structured Finance Global Networks Business Unit Team Team Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy M&A & Global Finance Infrastructure Finance Business Support Unit Team Team A Trust-worthy Partner Principal Investment Power & Energy Team Team Corporate Finance /Shipping & Aviation Team WOORI BANK 045 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 045 2017 Performance Woori Overview Digital In 2017, the Digital Banking Business Group developed financial services with new technologies and reinforced the WiBee Platform to respond to developMessage from the CEO Board of Directors Banking ments associated with the fourth industrial revolution, providing convenient smart banking services for our customers. Corporate Governance Financial Services with New Digital Technologies Company Structure Under the umbrella of the Digital Banking Business Group, we have newly estabWoori Bank Awards 2017 lished the Digital Banking Strategy Department in April 2017 in the face of the News Highlights fourth industrial revolution. It is continuing to develop new business opportuFinancial Highlights nities using new technologies through cross-sector technological partnerships Business Operations with ICT companies. As a result, we launched the Woori Home IoT Banking services in alliance with Retail Banking The Digital Banking Business Group is in Wealth Management Samsung Electronics’ Family Hub and KT’s GiGAGenie. Then there came the charge of establishing Woori Bank’s digital Trust & Pension Business pilot launch of Pepper, a humanoid robot with AI capabilities that was rolled out at several branches for the first time in the financial sector. banking strategy and developing new markets. Corporate Banking SME Banking In order to respond to the exponentially Institutional Banking growing smart banking markets ahead of WiBee Talk now has real-time translation services for 16 languages, and we also Real Estate Finance launched voice translation services that allow both text-to-speech and speechtime and dominate them in alliance with ICT Global Business to-text translations. We also started an AI-based consulting system called companies, we operate a Digital Banking International Trade Business WiBee Bot to provide real-time banking consulting services for our customers. Financial Market Business Strategy Department, a Digital Banking Investment Banking Business Department, a Platform Business The Digital Banking Business Group strives to develop business models using Digital Banking Department, and an ICT Support Center. As new technologies, build a big data platform, and develop financial services Risk Management of the end of 2017, 16.55 million Woori Bank based on blockchain technology. Corporate Social customers are using our Internet banking Developing Financial Services for Customer Convenience Responsibility and smart banking services. We provide Using Biometrics Ethical Management approximately 6,000 ATMs, utilize cuttingWe introduced SORi, a banking service using voice-recognition technology for Consumer Protection edge technology (including smartphones and the first time in the financial sector, and embedded the function into our smart Employee Satisfaction the Internet) and networks to quickly identify banking services. We then expanded the application to WiBee Talk, WiBee Bank, Social Contribution Activities customer needs, provide products and services and Woori-Samsung Pay Services. We also applied biometric verification serWoori Smile Microcredit accordingly, and stand by our customers. vices using fingerprints and offered a simple face verification login function using facial recognition technology. By using these biometric technologies, we took the initiative in providing convenient services for customers ahead of our Financial Review Management's Discussion competitors. and Analysis Independent Auditors' Offering Omni-Channel Financial Services Report We expanded omni-channel financial services, including a non-face-to-face smart loan roll-over process, pre-registration of passcodes, a smart business Organizational Chart card, and other services to allow the continuation of financial services in both online and offline environments. We also broadened the scope of services availGlobal Network able via the online channel including our non-face-to-face identification verifiCoporate Fact Book cation service, non-face-to-face reservation service, and the issuing of important financial documents via Internet banking. Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 2018 Plans 119 Years of History Corporate Governance In 2018, the Digital Banking Business Group will present innovative financial Financial Highlights services based on new technologies and be ready for the fourth industrial revGlobal Networks olution as we implement Open Innovation through partnerships with ICT and Global Networks Strategy platform companies. We will strengthen our life-sharing platform through the Digital Strategy real estate platform WiBee Homes and the WiBee Talk Ver. 3.0. We plan to offer A Trust-worthy Partner convenient financial services by expanding the scope of our online banking services. These customer-centric banking services and the expansion of platform networks will establish Woori Bank as a leader in smart banking and a leader of the digital banking market in the future. WOORI BANK 046 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 046 2017 Performance Woori Overview Risk Summary Woori Bank intends to prepare a foundation and become a stronger bank by Message from the CEO Board of Directors Management improving risk management. Aiming to achieve advanced risk management and make Woori Bank more robust, we have succeeded in taking risk management to Corporate Governance the next level by improving the relevant systems with cutting-edge technology. Company Structure We have rebuilt the asset liability management (ALM) system and completed the Woori Bank Awards 2017 development of a system for investment bank (IB) asset monitoring. Currently, News Highlights some of the work in progress includes developing a corporate diagnosis system, Financial Highlights improving the loss given default (LGD) estimation system, and improving the credit scoring system for retail loans. In addition, we have continually enhanced Business Operations the quality of the bank’s assets through optimal portfolio management as well Retail Banking Risk management is now essential for any as reinforced global risk management and prevention of potential insolvency. Wealth Management Advanced Risk Management System Using State-of-the-Art financial institution to survive and increase its Trust & Pension Business Technology competitiveness. Woori Bank has gained a great Corporate Banking SME Banking deal of know-how by overcoming a range of In 2017, we focused on developing and improving the bank’s risk management Institutional Banking system with cutting-edge technology to promote advanced risk management crises in the past, based on which it introduced Real Estate Finance practices. the Risk Adjusted Performance Measurement Global Business (RAPM) system in 2002, a first among Korean International Trade Business First, we have rebuilt our ALM system in response to reforms related to interest Financial Market Business banks. The bank also successfully implemented rates and liquidity-related regulations. In system development, we have made Investment Banking the Basel II and the Basel III protocols to sure to integrate the ability to react immediately to potential changes in risk facDigital Banking establish an advanced risk management system. Risk Management tors by establishing a daily calculation system of major indicators and adding a range of simulation functions. The newly built IB asset monitoring system has Keenly recognizing that “risk management linked the front, middle and back offices, enabling highly detailed monitoring is the source of profits,” Woori Bank will Corporate Social Responsibility continue to reinforce its position as a leading of IB assets. bank through effective risk management in the Ethical Management We are currently building a corporate diagnosis system (Big-Eye), integrating the future. Consumer Protection latest digital techniques of big data analysis into the bank’s risk management Employee Satisfaction system. This application of such advanced technology is unprecedented in the Social Contribution Activities Korean banking sector. The corporate diagnosis system will provide compreWoori Smile Microcredit hensive information on corporate and default pattern analysis, which will, in Financial Review turn, make it easier to evaluate corporate credit risk and respond to solvency issues at an earlier stage. This corporate diagnosis system is expected to be Management's Discussion completed within the first half of 2018 after a pilot test run and the addition of and Analysis any necessary improvements. Independent Auditors' Report In our credit scoring system, we have improved the credit scoring system for retail loans. In the initial phase for this improvement, we reviewed existing cateOrganizational Chart gories, checked whether new categories reflect new trends, and analyzed nonface-to-face customer characteristics. This year, we will use the analysis results Global Network of this initial preparatory stage and develop an additional credit scoring system Coporate Fact Book for loans with mid-range interest rates and pursue overall improvements to the credit scoring system for retail loans. Woori Bank overview Lastly, we have improved the LGD estimation system as a stepping stone for Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History improving risk management. Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Improvement to the Asset Management Process in 2017 Global Networks In 2017, gradual economic growth continued domestically. However, since there Global Networks Strategy were expectations about interest rate increases in Korea following the interDigital Strategy est rate hike in the United States, managing “marginal” firms and household A Trust-worthy Partner debts became even more important. Accordingly, Woori Bank concentrated on risk management through portfolio rebalancing and prevention of potential loan insolvency. We applied the return on risk weighted assets (RORWA) theory in examining loans and allowed preferential treatment for businesses with WOORI BANK 047 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 047 a good outlook to ensure the bank’s quality growth in consideration of capital Woori Overview adequacy. We also have done our best in terms of prevention by implementing themed reviews for businesses sensitive to economic conditions and exports, Message from the CEO corporate groups that share credit risks, companies with large loans, and other Board of Directors debtors that require intensive risk management. As a result, our loan grade Corporate Governance structure improved each year, and high-quality assets accounted for over 80 Company Structure percent of total loans by the end of 2017. Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Simultaneously, in global risk management, the bank has actively offered supFinancial Highlights port to strengthen internal risk management competence in overseas branches so that they can back up the bank’s overall strategy to proactively expand its Business Operations global sales platform. For this purpose, the bank has conducted on-site reviews Retail Banking of the local operations in Vietnam, China and Russia. We have also invited risk Wealth Management management officers from the bank’s Indonesia operation to learn about the Trust & Pension Business bank’s advanced risk management techniques. We have produced and distribCorporate Banking uted training material for risk management officers in international branches as SME Banking part of continued efforts to boost understanding of risk management. Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business Prime assets of BBB0* 2018 Plans International Trade Business This year’s goal for the Risk Management Group is to establish a stepping stone and above Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking [Unit : KRW trillion] +5.9 %p for a new leap forward in risk management, and gradually build an efficient risk management system to achieve this goal. Risk Management 71.9 First, we will pursue balanced growth through portfolio improvement. We will maintain capital adequacy and continue focusing on quality asset growth by (81.3%) Corporate Social Responsibility 62.9 providing support for decision-making on loans and risk management strate(75.7%) gies that integrate RORWA. Despite the economic recovery in Korea, we expect Ethical Management different levels of performance in each business area. Hence, we will strive to 59.8 Consumer Protection (69.5%) achieve balanced growth: we will differentiate risk management by using a difEmployee Satisfaction ferential asset growth strategy in each business area and reinforce the manageSocial Contribution Activities ment of large loans with concentration risks. Woori Smile Microcredit As the bank’s global business grows in volume, we will also seek quality growth by re-establishing the global risk management system and strengthening risk Financial Review management capabilities according to the type of local operation. To cope with Management's Discussion and Analysis 2015 2016 2017 the expansion of non-banking corporations, especially in Southeast Asia, we will Independent Auditors' * Standard targets for calculation of BRR set up a customized risk management system for non-banking operations. As Report diversification of our overseas operations continues, we plan to enhance our risk management expertise accordingly: we will expand the risk management system for derivative businesses at international branches and reinforce folOrganizational Chart low-up management of assets traded by international branches in liaison with Global Network the IB group. Coporate Fact Book To ensure the soundness of assets is improved, we will prevent loans from becoming insolvent to the maximum degree possible: we will conduct a pre-inWoori Bank overview Vision & Core Values spection of marginal companies and those showing symptoms of insolvency, 119 Years of History diversify the targets subject to review, and intensively manage businesses sensiCorporate Governance tive to economic conditions and exports. Financial Highlights Lastly, we plan to improve the bank’s risk management system in a range of Global Networks Global Networks Strategy ways. We will upgrade our corporate diagnosis (Big-Eye) system and other manDigital Strategy agement systems based on big-data, develop an credit scoring system for smallA Trust-worthy Partner loan financing to offer more financial support, proactively respond to regulations by improving the LGD estimation system and using the new ALM system, reinforce our expertise in stress testing, draw up a pilot recovery plan to institute a crisis response system, and further strengthen the bank’s crisis response capabilities. 02 Corporate Social Responsibility Woori Bank strives to fulfill its responsibility as a corporate citizen to create a world in which everyone is happy and a tomorrow in which everyone’s hopes and dreams come true. We will manage our business based on sharing, service, and sangsaeng (thriving together) and become a bank that achieves sustainable growth together with our society. Social Contribution in Action Vision Mission Sharing Love and (3H) Building Hopes and Dreams Happiness through Finance Humanity Hopefulness Implementation Strategy 1 2 3 4 Fulfilling our corporate Implementing marketing Strengthening local Expanding the Woori social responsibility by activities for the public social contributions Care Fund and further supporting SMEs and interest by reinforcing through volunteer work supporting social microfinance cooperation with nonwith our employees welfare facilities profit organizations Woori Smile Woori Volunteers Microcredit’s Cumula[Unit: No. of volunteers] tive Performance [Unit:KRW billion] +30,013 people 48,846 130.8 112.7 48,419 +427 An increase over the last 95 10 years 18,833 +159% 2015 2016 2017 2008 2016 2017 *annual cumulative basis Woori Bank will achieve sustainable growth as a global company through fair and clean management. Woori Bank Code of Ethics 1 We will provide our customers with joy and happiness. 2 We will offer the best value for our shareholders. 3 We will protect the dreams and the future of our employees. 4 W e will fulfill our social responsibility and role as a corporate citizen. 5 W e will act based on honesty, integrity, and fairness, and build a sound corporate culture. Business Principles and Philosophy Woori Bank 2017 CSR Awards 2017 Presidential Best Bank in Preventing 11th National Commendation for Voice Phishing Damages, Sustainable Management Services in Social 2017 First Half Award Enterprise Incubation [Ministry of Employment and Labor] [Financial Supervisory Service] [Ministry of Strategy and Finance] 2017 Business 2017 Customer Chief Information Supporting the EmploySatisfaction +Awards Security Officer ment of Multicultural (Hall of Fame in Families Banking) [Korea Forum of Chief Information Officers, the Federation of Korean [Seoul Metropolitan Government] [The Korean Economic Daily] Information Industries] 050 Ethical Management 052 Consumer Protection 054 Employee Satisfaction 056 Social Contribution Activities 058 Woori Smile Microcredit WOORI BANK 050 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 050 Ethical Management Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 To survive in an era of global competition and achieve sustainable development, Woori Bank has the Woori Code of News Highlights Ethics and the Woori Code of Conduct in place so that employees can refer to these standards and understand the Financial Highlights importance of corporate social responsibility and ethical management as they perform their day-to-day responsibilities. Business Operations We continuously operate various ‘action programs’ to help our officers and employees recognize the importance of Retail Banking ethical management. For Woori Bank, our employees and society as a whole, as well as our customers and shareholders, Wealth Management are important stakeholders. Based on the high level of ethical finance implemented through the Woori Code of Ethics, Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking we will fulfill our social responsibilities for all stakeholders and contribute to the advancement of society. SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart 2017 Performance Reinforcing Ethics and Compliance Training Global Network In 2017, Woori Bank launched various ethics and compliance training programs so that all our Coporate Fact Book employees are able to understand and put the ideals of ethical management into practice. Woori Bank overview First, we implement a bimonthly Ethics/Compliance Self-Check Test so that the employees can Vision & Core Values develop a detailed understanding of the Code of Ethics. Second, on We-Check Day, all officers and 119 Years of History employees must participate and participate in a voluntary ‘cyber pledge’ to examine the behavCorporate Governance Financial Highlights ioral standards applicable to each job rank. Third, we utilize the ‘Ethics and Compliance at Work’ Global Networks section on the bank intranet to publish training materials on ethics and internal control online, Global Networks Strategy which our employees can use for their monthly compliance training and in the field. Finally, we Digital Strategy post a quarterly Ethics and Compliance Case Study on the intranet as a commentary on the Code A Trust-worthy Partner of Ethics and other regulations related to internal control. WOORI BANK 051 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 051 Woori Overview Action Programs for Ethical Management Message from the CEO Board of Directors Woori Bank offers many programs to promote ethical management. The first is the Woori Hotline, Corporate Governance a channel through excellent practices can be commended and violations of the Code of Ethics by Company Structure employees can be reported. The Woori Hotline is a channel for receiving complaints from employWoori Bank Awards 2017 ees, partners, and other stakeholders. This is a program that encourages employees to comply News Highlights with laws, regulations, and the Code of Ethics. Financial Highlights Second, the Ethical Management Support Council serves as a meeting group to spread the idea Business Operations of ethical management and the practice of compliance. The Council holds meetings twice a year chaired by the Compliance Officer. It discusses various agenda items, including how to uphold the Retail Banking Code of Ethics and how to improve ethical management, and makes necessary decisions in this Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business regard. The Council coordinates the implementation of specific policies related to ethical manCorporate Banking agement such as ‘action programs’ and training. SME Banking Institutional Banking Third, Woori Bank has a Whistleblowing Program in place to report foul play by any of our employReal Estate Finance ees as well as the Clean Contract System to encourage transparent and honorable agreements for Global Business all providers and businesses participating in contracts and purchases. The Bank has various meaInternational Trade Business sures in place to make our goal of Clean Woori Bank a reality. Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management In 2018, Woori Bank aims to implement preemptive internal control measures and improve our 2018 Plans compliance monitoring system in order to eliminate fraud and other incidents. For a culture built Corporate Social on transparent and ethical management, we will prepare a wide variety of training and programs. Responsibility First, we will make it mandatory for all employees to take an action pledge regarding the Code of Ethical Management Ethics twice a year. This pledge will cover the crucial parts of our Code of Ethics including the proConsumer Protection hibition on improper solicitation and influence peddling, and it will serve to encourage the spirit of Employee Satisfaction integrity and fairness as part of ethical management. Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Second, we will offer diverse ethics training for all executives and employees. While continuing existing ethics and compliance training programs, we will also produce online educational proFinancial Review grams on ethics and have our employees complete easy-to-understand programs based on difManagement's Discussion ferent case studies. and Analysis Woori Bank is committed to pursuing sustainable development based on trusted and ethical Independent Auditors' Report management in 2018, based on which we will further enhance our position as the leading bank in Korea. Organizational Chart Global Network Woori Bank Code of Ethics 1 We will provide our customers with joy and happiness. Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 2 We will offer the best value for our shareholders. 119 Years of History 3 We will protect the dreams and the future of our employees. Corporate Governance Financial Highlights 4 We will fulfill our social responsibility and role as a corporate citizen. Global Networks Global Networks Strategy 5 W e will act based on honesty, integrity, and fairness, and build a sound Digital Strategy corporate culture. A Trust-worthy Partner Employee Behavior Principle WOORI BANK 052 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 052 Consumer Protection Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Woori Bank has made Put Customers First in On-Site Management its bank-wide management principle. News Highlights Our core values are: customer happiness; future innovation; honesty and trust; and people first. Financial Highlights The most important of these is customer happiness. Based on this management philosophy, Woori Bank became Business Operations the first Korean bank to establish a consumer protection division. We take consumer protection seriously Retail Banking and always put our customers first, thereby strengthening our position as a leader in this field. Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' 2017 Performance The Consumer Protection Center incorporated relevant policy trends and customer voices to Report enhance complaint prevention and implement related action plans. We do our best to resolve any problems and promote the rights and interests of consumers by identifying unsound pracOrganizational Chart tices and constantly improving bank-wide systems. We process any cases of inconvenience Global Network or damage suffered by our customers in a speedy and fair manner. We conduct independent research about our complaint handling process in order to make necessary changes. We also Coporate Fact Book implement proactive anti-fraud measures to protect the valuable assets of customers. Woori Bank overview Continued Decrease in Complaints Vision & Core Values The Consumer Protection Center implemented various projects to prevent and reduce com119 Years of History plaints. To come up with customized complaint reduction plans, we organized a team with staff Corporate Governance in charge of consumer protection from each regional headquarters and provided them with supFinancial Highlights Global Networks port to implement autonomous complaint prevention plans. Global Networks Strategy Before the development and launch of a product, we have a proactive verification process in place Digital Strategy in all relevant departments. As the process allows us to conduct a thorough inspection in advance, A Trust-worthy Partner we can remove any elements that may result in complaints and ensure that the interests of our customers are not compromised. As a result, we saw a decrease in customer complaints for the fifth consecutive year, and were rated ‘good’ in eight criteria in the Evaluation of Financial Consumer Protection Practices conducted by the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS) of Korea. WOORI BANK 053 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 053 Woori Overview Implementing Customer-Oriented Consumer 2018 Plans Message from the CEO Protection Projects Board of Directors The Consumer Protection Center has two goals for 2018: to concenCorporate Governance To reinforce consumer protection, we continually listen to the opintrate on our bank-wide competencies and establish a clean conCompany Structure ions of our customers on-site and organize contests to gather new sumer protection system, and to build a stepping stone towards Woori Bank Awards 2017 ideas related to consumer protection ideas from our branch employWoori Bank becoming a new comprehensive financial group. News Highlights ees. We use various channels to listen to the voices of customers and Financial Highlights use the results to improve or add to our business processes so that To achieve these goals, we will take preemptive action to reduce complaints of the same kind will not recur in the future. complaints, based on policies established by the financial authorBusiness Operations The No. 1 Bank in Preventing Financial Crimes ities and enhance employee training to further promote the rights Retail Banking We used our various publicity channels to educate customers on and interests of our consumers. Wealth Management the prevention of voice phishing that involves the impersonation As branch offices serve as contact points for our customers, we will Trust & Pension Business of public officials or loan scams. We also offered continuous trainreinforce support for complaint prevention on-site. In the event of Corporate Banking ing and education programs for employees to strengthen banka product launch, we will thoroughly verify whether there are any SME Banking Institutional Banking wide competencies in responding to fraud. We then launched a new product elements that may be disadvantageous to our customers. Real Estate Finance Voice Phishing Direct Report Channel to provide immediate support Finally, we will take the initiative in protecting the valuable assets Global Business from the head office to networks. Thanks to these efforts, we were of customers by upgrading our anti-fraud system in a sophisticated International Trade Business selected by the FSS as the Best Bank in Preventing Voice Phishing and powerful manner. Financial Market Business Damages in the first half of 2017. The award significantly enhanced Investment Banking Woori Bank’s image as a financial company that is serious about proDigital Banking tecting its customers’ assets. Risk Management Corporate Social Information Security at Woori Bank Responsibility Woori Bank continually strengthens its information security orgaWhen we are required to consign customer information for busiEthical Management nization and enhances administrative and technical security meaness purposes, we disclose the scope of responsibilities and the Consumer Protection sures to prevent any leakage of customer information. consignee information on our website. We conduct a regular inspecEmployee Satisfaction tion of the handling of information and information protection trainSocial Contribution Activities Reinforcing the Information Security Organization ing. Our management and supervision of consignees are always Woori Smile Microcredit The Head of the Information Security Division bears the responsibilithorough to ensure that customer information is not lost, stolen, Financial Review ties of the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) and Chief Privacy leaked, forged, falsified or damaged. Officer (CPO), managing all the teams in charge of privacy (credit Management's Discussion information) protection. We regularly hold Information Security Technical Security Measures and Analysis Committee meetings, which are chaired by our CISO and attended Independent Auditors' In July 2017, Woori Bank obtained ISMS (Information Security Manby 15 department heads of Woori Bank who are in charge of inforReport agement System) designation from the Financial Security Institute mation security, IT operation and development, customer informaunder the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning, and we tion handling and other relevant responsibilities. The Committee Organizational Chart renew our certification every year by passing strict standards. In discusses agenda items that cover IT security issues, internal control 2017, Woori Bank applied cutting-edge security technology using a and process improvement for privacy protection, and other matters. dynamic app tampering prevention and obfuscation system, which Global Network We also have an ICT security diagnosis team with information secuwas a first among Korean banks. The new technological innovation Coporate Fact Book rity experts who serve as white hat hackers. This team analyzes and bolstered the security of our mobile app services against increasevaluates vulnerabilities, conducts mock hacking, and conducts an Woori Bank overview ingly intelligent and sophisticated external cyber violations. internal security review for newly launched services to ensure their Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History safety and security. 2018 Plans Corporate Governance The Information Security Division plans to build an integrated informaFinancial Highlights Taking Administrative Protection Measures tion security management system that can ensure real-time integration, Global Networks To prevent the potential abuse and misuse of private information, we analysis, and action against both internal and external cyber violation Global Networks Strategy allow only minimal access for employees so that they can only retrieve threats. The Division will also introduce AI-based detection functionality Digital Strategy information required to perform their jobs. We also reinforced internal A Trust-worthy Partner to strengthen and enhance the Fraud Detection System (FDS). We will also control for both the head office and branches through regular monitorconduct mock hacking drills to enable Woori Bank to be thoroughly ready ing. In addition, all our employees must attend bank-wide information for any potential cyber-attacks and protect customer information. We will security training at least twice a year. We also make on-site visits to proalways do our best in managing our systems and reinforcing security so mote privacy information awareness and prevent security breaches. that our customers will find a trustworthy partner in Woori Bank. WOORI BANK 054 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 054 Employee Satisfaction Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Woori Bank believes that a workplace where employees are happy is a necessary foundation to be able to provide the best services to News Highlights our customers. This led to the setup of the Employee Satisfaction Center in 2007, and since then, the Center has been developing and Financial Highlights implementing diverse programs to improve employee satisfaction. We are expanding our programs to improve employee satisfaction Business Operations because we believe that satisfied employees feel a strong sense of ownership and voluntarily strive to make customers happy. Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis 2017 Performance Implementing Programs for Greater Employee Satisfaction Independent Auditors' Woori Bank offers original and interesting programs to boost employee satisfaction. In 2017, Report we offered various programs to help employees meet their cultural needs and build networks. Health for Mind & Body 365 is a program to help our employees take care of their physical and Organizational Chart mental health, and another offered program is the Special Lectures on Culture, which encourages them to discover and enjoy new hobbies. Among our existing programs, we continue to Global Network offer those that have been the most popular among our employees, including the family getCoporate Fact Book away initiative Oh! Happy Woori and the psychological counseling program to help employees deal with feelings of insecurity or with family issues. Through these efforts, we strive to not only Woori Bank overview encourage communication and fun but also support our employees in resolving any personal Vision & Core Values problems. We are doing our best to implement Woori Bank’s core belief, that the happiness of 119 Years of History our employees and their families is the core foundation of the bank’s competitiveness. Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Oh! Happy Woori Global Networks Oh! Happy Woori is a family getaway program that began in July 2011 based on the idea that Global Networks Strategy happy families are the very source of employee satisfaction. Employees and their families can Digital Strategy participate in our seasonal experience programs to spend time with their families and refresh A Trust-worthy Partner themselves physically and mentally. Last year, the program offered such experiences as Understanding Constellations, visiting Pocheon Herb Island, Korea Job World, My Mother’s Family, and Korea Job World & a Taekwondo Program at the Kukkiwon. For seasonal trrips, we offered the programs Together for Spring Flowers and Together in Autumn, designed to offer happy expeWOORI BANK 055 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 055 Woori Overview riences for our employees and their spouses, reinforcing employee A Day When Woori Meets Culture Message from the CEO loyalty. Oh! Happy Woori events are held every month with a high This is a support program to encourage participation of cultural Board of Directors participation rate from our employees, and this has become the activities by our employees and their families. Be it musicals, opera, Corporate Governance most preferred and sought after program among all our offers. The or classical music, the program responds to the cultural interests of Company Structure program allows our employees an opportunity to have a great time our staff and enriches their leisure time. First launched in 2012, the Woori Bank Awards 2017 with family and be reminded of how important family is—something program made a group purchase for performances like the Little News Highlights Financial Highlights that can be easily neglected when people are too focused on work. Prince (an opera), Wicked, Dream Girls, and 42nd Street (musicals). Using the Head Office Auditorium as a Free Wedding Venue In 2017, in order to further boost employee satisfaction, we continBusiness Operations ued to group ticket purchases for musical performances such as Woori Bank rents out the auditorium at its head office building as a The Bodyguard and Rebecca. We thus provided efficient and satisRetail Banking wedding venue for employees, free of charge. The location has been fying forms of support to allow our employees to return to work with Wealth Management praised by our employees for its spaciousness, the ample amount greater energy and in better spirits. Trust & Pension Business of time allowed for the ceremony, and its refined decorations. The Corporate Banking venue features a gorgeous bridal room, a separate room to perform Improving ‘PC-Off’ Policies for Work-Life Balance SME Banking the traditional Korean wedding ceremony known as pyebaek, and a The Banking industry has characteristically imposed a work environInstitutional Banking newly renovated cafeteria for the wedding banquet. The CEO’s offiment that entailed overtime work at night. To improve such condiReal Estate Finance Global Business cial vehicle is also made available as the wedding getaway car. A total tions, we introduced a work-life balance policy in 2013, which then International Trade Business of 533 newlywed couples walked down the aisle in this auditorium became established as a part of corporate culture at Woori Bank Financial Market Business between 2012 and 2015. Its popularity continued in 2016 and 2017, as most offices and branches came to comply with the policy. The Investment Banking with an additional 160 pairs and 180 couples getting married there so-called ‘PC-Off’ deadline is at 19:00 to ensure employees have time Digital Banking in each year respectively. The benefit of this free wedding venue offer for leisure activities and family life. It also increased efficiency and Risk Management is twofold: it not only helps our employees save on wedding costs focus at work, reducing unnecessary overtime where possible. In the but also boosts the sense of pride our employees feel in Woori Bank. first half of 2017, we introduced flexible work hours, and in the secCorporate Social ond half, we improved the existing PC-Off policy for work-life balance Responsibility Benefits Offered in 2017 by introducing a PC-Shut-Down function. We will take the initiative Ethical Management There are cases of employees who struggle psychologically due to in realizing work and life balance for all our employees. We will conConsumer Protection family issues. Woori Bank supports struggling employees and their tinue our efforts to increase employee satisfaction with constant Employee Satisfaction families by making reservations and paying for psychological and on-site monitoring, feedback, and consequent improvement. Social Contribution Activities legal counseling services so that our staff are able to focus on their Woori Smile Microcredit work with renewed energy. In addition to external counseling serBuilding a Healthy and Vibrant Work Culture vices, we have an in-house counselor who offers, upon request, psyWoori Bank offers annual medical check-ups and blood tests in order Financial Review chological tests, counseling visits, and lectures at branches. We also to continually and systematically manage the health of our employManagement's Discussion have experience programs to help employees manage stress and ees. If any symptoms should be identified after a check-up, we supand Analysis recover mentally, such as one-day meditation courses, temple stays, port affected employees with our group accident insurance and the Independent Auditors' and healing herbal programs. bank’s medical fee subsidy scheme to create a healthy and active Report work culture. Meanwhile, our employees and their families are entiBranch Workshop Support tled to book and use the shared condominiums Woori Bank owns all Organizational Chart We offer team-building workshops for employees outside the head over the country. We also improved our rest and recreation center office through outdoor activities, including zip-line rides, glampoperations, extending the business hours and opening on weekends Global Network ing, yacht rides, all-terrain vehicle (ATV) racing, and outdoor surso that employees can use the center anytime. These benefits help vival games. The high employee participation rate proves the popCoporate Fact Book our employees build a vibrant work culture. ularity of these programs. By taking part in the workshops together, Woori Bank overview employees create synergy as they get the opportunity to communiWoori Daycare Center Vision & Core Values cate with each other freely and hence cooperate better at work after As part of the government’s policy to address the country’s low birth 119 Years of History the experience. rate and actively support working parents, Woori Bank runs a corCorporate Governance porate daycare centers in Seoul at Mapo-gu (Happiness Center), Financial Highlights In 2016, we hosted the Woori Pop Star event, a talent show in which Seongdong-gu (Love Center), and Jung-gu (Dodam Center, opened Global Networks employees could show off their talents and passion. In 2017, we orgaat the Woori Bank head office building in August 2016). In addition Global Networks Strategy nized the Woori Family Talk! Healing Concert in five cities (Daejon, to the three existing centers, we opened the fourth center at BunDigital Strategy Changwon, Daegu, Gwangju, Busan) and created an atmosphere A Trust-worthy Partner dang, Gyeonggi Province (Saesol Center) in March 2018. We will conof harmony for our employees. The Employee Satisfaction Center tinue to open new daycare centers to promote a corporate culture thus launched various programs to make our employees happy and that encourages raising families and do our best to help working parboost sales competencies through communication. ents cope with childcare challenges. Woori Bank would like to ensure that all of our employees are happy and that our happy employees, in turn, will make our customers happy. WOORI BANK 056 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 056 Social Contribution Activities Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Woori Bank has its root in the Daehan Cheonil Bank, a bank founded in 1899 by Emperor Kojong who used the imperial News Highlights family’s funds to protect the Korean economy. Proud of its roots as a bank built on national capital, Woori Bank has fulfilled Financial Highlights its responsibilities to contribute to national development for the past 119 years. Today, as great emphasis is placed on Business Operations the social roles and responsibilities of finance, we strive to realize our three core values of Humanity, Happiness, and Retail Banking Hopefulness by serving and sharing with local communities. We also implement various corporate social responsibility Wealth Management (CSR) programs including support for small business owners and financing for low-income individuals and families. Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report 2017 Performance Humanity: Humanity in Action with Local Communities Organizational Chart Woori[we] Love Sharing Program: Woori Bank’s Signature CSR Program Global Network Since launching the Woori Bank Volunteer Corps in July 2007, we have been engaged in a number of social contribution activities through our nationwide branch network. The Woori [We] Love Coporate Fact Book Sharing Program is our signature CSR program involving welfare facilities that have sisterhood Woori Bank overview ties with 33 regional business headquarters. Our partners are mainly welfare institutions supVision & Core Values porting elderly citizens, infants, and the disabled, as well as local children’s centers. Woori Bank 119 Years of History employees regularly visit these facilities and do volunteer work. Corporate Governance Financial Highlights At the end of each year, our support extends not only to the institutions under the Woori Love Global Networks Sharing program but also to other welfare facilities, supporting people who need help through Global Networks Strategy our year-end CSR Campaign. We share the best CSR practices put in place by offices and Digital Strategy branches to make our CSR activities dynamic and spread a heart-warming corporate culture. A Trust-worthy Partner Do-Touch: A CSR Program Using a Non-Face-to-Face Channel Woori Bank is the first Korean bank to perform CSR activities using a non-face-to-face channel. In this new project that was held between May and August 2017, our customers had the chance to WOORI BANK 057 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 057 Woori Overview visit the Sweet Donations section on the WiBee Talk messenger app, Hopefulness: Inspiring Hope Through Communication Message from the CEO read the descriptions of our partner NGOs, and choose to donate KRW and Mutual Prosperity Board of Directors 1,000. Any customer using WiBee Talk could take part in this, and if Corporate Governance Global CSR Activities our customers added their own Honey-Money to the donation, Woori Company Structure Bank offered a matching grant. The donations were used to support Using more than 300 contact points around the globe, Woori Bank Woori Bank Awards 2017 conducts a variety of CSR activities and fulfills its social responsifamilies going through financial crises and the children of low-income News Highlights bilities as a global financial company. In December 2017, our newFinancial Highlights families. Woori Bank is dedicated to launching various CSR programs to enable hassle-free donations for all participants. est recruits participated in the Campaign to Share Hope with help children who became climate refugees. There are children from Sharing Daily Necessities for the Underprivileged Business Operations underdeveloped countries who have lost their homes due to climate Retail Banking Woori Bank sends practical warm-hearted wishes to marginalized change and natural disasters. We sent these children t-shirts with Wealth Management neighborhoods so that they can enjoy holidays and the winter seahand-drawn messages of hope as well as fortified food designed Trust & Pension Business son comfortably. For the Chuseok (Korean Thanksgiving) holidays, to prevent malnutrition. We also funded mangrove planting in BanCorporate Banking we provided daily necessities for 3,730 elderly citizens in Seoul gladesh, where forests are rapidly being destroyed due to climate SME Banking through the Seoul Association of Senior Welfare Centers in Mapo-gu. change. Local students and residents worked with us to plant trees, Institutional Banking In November 2017, we worked with the Korean Association of Social and it was an opportunity to once again understand the importance Real Estate Finance Global Business Welfare Centers to make kimchi for the winter and distribute it to of forests as a crucial source of oxygen. International Trade Business about 2,300 low-income households. Woori Bank will keep working Woori Multicultural Scholarship Foundation: Financial Market Business to build a society where we live together with our neighbors on the A Reliable Partner for Multicultural Families Investment Banking periphery. Digital Banking The Woori Multicultural Scholarship Foundation is a non-profit corRisk Management Happiness: Pursuing Happiness Through Sharing poration funded by Woori Bank and other affiliates of the Woori Financial Group that was established in 2012. Its diverse projects Corporate Social Woori Care Fund and Woori Children’s Care Fund help multicultural families in Korea to overcome cultural and linguisWoori Bank strives to create a culture that encourages employees to donate Responsibility tic differences and comfortably integrate themselves into society. Ethical Management voluntarily to good causes. The Woori Care Fund and the Woori Children’s Since its foundation, a total of 2,910 children from multicultural Consumer Protection Care Fund are the result of these efforts, and they allow employees to directly families and immigrant spouses received around KRW 1.97 billion Employee Satisfaction donate a regular amount from their monthly payroll. Social Contribution Activities in scholarships. In 2017, the Foundation aimed to expand Woori’s Woori Smile Microcredit The Woori Care Fund is used for our Woori Together in Love and Support responsibilities and contribution as a corporate citizen and radically scheme, which develops and funds 120 worthy CSR programs every year. increased the number of beneficiaries and the amount of scholarFinancial Review The Woori Children’s Care Fund is spent to help CSR activities for chilship money compared to the previous year by 36 percent and 250 dren suffering from hunger and other hardships. Woori Bank thus actively percent respectively. In addition to tuition support, the Foundation Management's Discussion builds a culture of sharing among our employees. offered educational programs on various subjects including financial and Analysis information, culture, and taekwondo. These programs are designed Independent Auditors' We are committed to implementing sharing programs not as a one-off Report to aid in the healthy upbringing of multicultural children and compromotion but as a contribution that has continual as well as immediate fortable settlement of their families in Korean society. effects. We intend to firmly establish a corporate culture based on sharing and service, thus fulfilling our responsibilities as a good corporate citizen. Organizational Chart The Foundation also hosted Woori Wedding Day, a joint ceremony for ten multicultural couples who could not afford a wedding cereGlobal Network Sponsoring Children mony. It also provided subsidies related to furniture purchases for The Woori Bank Woori Arts Contest boasts a long history and tradimulticultural children so that they can study more efficiently, and tion, having been hosted 22 times so far. Preschool to high school Coporate Fact Book subsidized medical costs and cultural activities. The Foundation Woori Bank overview students can participate in this contest while their families can take intends to remain active in enhancing the quality of life and sense of Vision & Core Values part in various other programs prepared for the day. The whole happiness enjoyed by multicultural families. 119 Years of History event is designed to allow participants to have fun and make great Corporate Governance memories together. Financial Highlights Global Networks In addition, the Woori Together Scholarships for Youth are given to Global Networks Strategy local children’s centers twice a year. 164 children received scholarDigital Strategy ships in 2017 through this program. The Special Event for Children A Trust-worthy Partner from Islands and Remote Areas is a program that invites children to Seoul from rural or fishing villages where social and cultural resources may be relatively scarce. The event offers diverse experience programs including visits to the Gyeongbok Palace and museums. WOORI BANK 058 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 058 Woori Smile Microcredit Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Woori Bank is engaged in microcredit to spearhead efforts in practicing socially responsible banking by supporting financially News Highlights struggling, socially vulnerable, and underbanked customers. In 2009, Woori Bank led the launch of the Woori Smile Financial Highlights Microcredit Bank as a foundation, agreeing with the Woori Financial Group and its affiliates to raise a total of Business Operations KRW 50 billion in funds over a five-year period, contributing KRW 10 billion a year. The Smile Microcredit Bank appointed Retail Banking well-known people from religious, academic, and social welfare circles as outside directors, ensuring fairness in all processes. Wealth Management Ten branches are working with 22 employees across the nation to support low-income families and individuals. Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Active Major Performance Milestones by Smile Microcredit Bank Organizational Chart Implementation of Woori Bank has been leading socially responsible banking by offering microcredit loans worth Social Responsibility KRW 483.5 billion in 2017 for the financially struggling, socially vulnerable, and underbanked Global Network people of our society. We support low-to-middle class people with our products. Woori Seed Finance of New Hope 2 is a product designed for low-income individuals with low credit rating scores. Coporate Fact Book Switch Loan is a product that allows low-income individuals struggling with debt on high interest Woori Bank overview rates to switch to bank loans on lower interest rates. Vision & Core Values Through the Smile Microcredit Bank business, Woori Bank made a total of 11,151 microcredit 119 Years of History loans worth KRW 130.8 billion by the end of 2017. The 2017 business objective was to have “Woori Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Smile Microcredit Foundation support the financial independence of the people.” We strove to Global Networks radically increase microcredit performance by actively visiting the field and identifying potential Global Networks Strategy beneficiaries of our projects. Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner As a result, in 2017 we provided a total of 1,813 microcredit loans worth KRW 18.2 billion (cumulatively 11,151 loans or KRW 130.8 billion since its launch). Our projects are not just about giving out money—they are about helping our beneficiaries realize the dream of financial independence. That is why we offer on-site consulting and microcredit services, microcredit events at traditional markets, and volunteer work by Smile Volunteer Corps. WOORI BANK 059 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 059 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Key Products of Smile Microcredit Bank Board of Directors Loans for Startup Leasing: A smallor micro-business owner who has a business registration Corporate Governance can get a loan when renting a premise to start up their business. Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Loans for Operating Capital: A sole proprietor who has been running a place of business for News Highlights more than six months is eligible to get this loan to purchase products, raw materials and other Financial Highlights items. Loans for Facility Improvement: A sole proprietor who has been running a place of business Business Operations for more than six months is eligible to get this loan to improve business facilities. Emergency Loan for Youth and College Students: Youth and college students aged 29 or under (31 in Retail Banking case of men who have completed their mandatory military service) can apply for this emergency loan. Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking Smile Microcredit Making Your Dream of Financial Independence Come True SME Banking We plan to conclude agreements with merchant societies at traditional markets, various associInstitutional Banking Real Estate Finance ations, and other business-owner related organizations to identify vulnerable small businesses Global Business and expand the scope of our support. To broaden the scope of financing for low-income indiInternational Trade Business viduals and families, we will further help local governments through their centers for compreFinancial Market Business hensive financial support and the centers for employment and welfare. We will also identify Investment Banking and spread good microcredit practices so that beneficiaries can feel confident and realize their Digital Banking dream of independence. By doing so, we will take the initiative in sharing and promoting the true Risk Management role of microcredit and how it can help people. Corporate Social Woori Bank will enthusiastically continue these microcredit projects to help individuals and Responsibility families suffering from low credit ratings and low incomes. The ultimate goal is to help them Ethical Management become financially independent and contribute to improving their security and welfare. Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Woori Smile Microcredit’s Cumulative Performance Financial Review [Unit:KRW billion] [Unit:cases] Management's Discussion and Analysis 2017 130.8 2017 11,151 Independent Auditors' Report 2016 112.7 2016 9,338 Organizational Chart 2015 95 2015 7,560 Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 060 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 060 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights FinanCial Financial Highlights 03 Business Operations Review Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report 061 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Organizational Chart 072 Independent Auditors’ Report Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 061 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 061 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS Woori Overview 1. Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors In 2017, uncertainty around the world increased. The United States hiked interest rates and took up a hardened protectionist stance in trade, Corporate Governance while political controversies over the issue of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) affected us in multiple ways. Then there was Company Structure the emergence of the fourth industrial revolution leading to the launch of Internet-only banks as well as the more immediate possibility of the Woori Bank Awards 2017 technology sector offering financial services. In other words, the market conditions have been extremely challenging this year. Amid such conNews Highlights ditions, Woori Bank has enhanced its financial performance over the past three years. As financial soundness indicators including our non-perFinancial Highlights forming loans (NPL) ratio and delinquency ratio radically improved each year, asset quality and capital adequacy indicators also demonstrated a strong trend for the better, with the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio reaching 10.95%. This overall improvement enhanced our risk management Business Operations ability, which allowed us to exhibit outstanding business performance under the low-growth and low-interest-rate environment of the past few Retail Banking years. Continuing our streak of great results from 2016, Woori Bank managed to surpass the previous year’s net income figures in 2017 after only Wealth Management nine months. Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Key Management Indicators Institutional Banking (Unit: %) Real Estate Finance Global Business Category 2017 2016 2015 (184th term) (183rd term) (182nd term) International Trade Business Financial Market Business Profitability Return on Assets (ROA) 1) 0.48 0.41 0.37 Investment Banking Return on Equity (ROE) 1) 7.42 6.36 5.69 Digital Banking Net Interest Margin (NIM) 2) 1.47 1.41 1.41 Risk Management Capital Adequacy Total Equity Ratio (BIS Ratio) 1) 15.40 15.29 13.66 Corporate Social Common Equity Tier 1Ratio 1) 10.95 10.50 8.47 Responsibility Asset Quality NPL Ratio (Bank) 2) 0.83 0.98 1.47 Delinquency Ratio 2) 0.34 0.46 0.82 Ethical Management Consumer Protection 1) Based on consolidated financial statements Employee Satisfaction 2) Based on separate financial statements Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit In response to more rigorous regulations on household loans, we have pursued a balanced growth of assets involving household, SMEs, and Financial Review large companies, while we have continuously enhanced non-interest profits by reinforcing asset management competencies to meet customer needs. In October 2017, Woori Bank beat rival banks and was selected as the primary bank for the National Pension Service (NPS). In January Management's Discussion 2018, Woori Bank was also re-appointed as the managing custodian bank for the National Housing and Urban Funds (NHUF). Both results show and Analysis how Woori Bank’s business competencies are recognized and trusted. Independent Auditors' Report As growth in the Korean financial market has remained stagnant, many domestic banks are accelerating entry into global markets. As of the end of 2017, Woori Bank has over 300 contact points in its global network, the largest in scale among Korean commercial banks. In an effort to Organizational Chart add quality to growth in quantity, the bank is providing more loans in Southeast Asia and establishing new business models in consideration of the characteristics of each region. We are currently reinforcing our global management competencies and building a global risk management Global Network system through bank-wide cooperation so that we can efficiently manage our extensive network. Coporate Fact Book Through the development of digital financial technology such as big data, blockchain, and artificial intelligence (AI), it has become an immediate possibility for the technology sector to offer financial services. The emergence of Internet-only banks including K Bank and Kakao Bank is Woori Bank overview posing a threat to traditional banking business methods. Under these circumstances, Woori Bank is enhancing its financial service environment Vision & Core Values to be more user-centric, expanding banking product development based on new digital technologies, and making systematic efforts to adapt 119 Years of History Corporate Governance to the fourth industrial revolution. In line with such efforts, the Digital Banking Business Group and the Digital Strategy Department were estabFinancial Highlights lished to develop and implement new digital technology-related businesses. Starting in 2017, Woori Bank plans to extend its digital ecosystem Global Networks to the global arena and strengthen bank-wide digital competencies by fostering expertise and ensuring systematic management. Global Networks Strategy Since Woori Bank declared an era of ‘bigger banking’ in 2017 to fulfill its social responsibility as a corporate citizen, its efforts to support financDigital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner ing for low-income customers and investment in innovative companies have continued to make its banking efforts inclusive, productive and trustworthy. The bank is also pursuing various measures to expand business portfolios in the non-banking sector and establish a comprehensive financial services group. WOORI BANK 062 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 062 2. Financial Position & Business Performance Results A. Financial Position & Business Performance Results Woori Overview (1) Growth Message from the CEO (Unit: KRW billion) Board of Directors Account 2017 2016 Change Change Corporate Governance (184th term) (183rd term) (amount) (percentage) Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Total Assets 316,295 310,683 5,612 1.8% News Highlights Loans in KRW 200,213 191,309 8,904 4.7% Financial Highlights Corporate loans 89,666 84,502 5,164 6.1% Household loans 106,814 102,570 4,244 4.1% Business Operations Public and other loans 3,733 4,237 (504) (11.9%) Retail Banking * Based on consolidated financial statements Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business As of the end of 2017, Woori Bank’s total assets (consolidated basis) stands at KRW 316.3 trillion, a KRW 5.3 trillion (1.8%) increase from the preCorporate Banking vious year. The increase was mainly due to the year-on-year increase of loans in Korean won by KRW 8.9 trillion (4.7%), the bank’s key assets. SME Banking Institutional Banking Corporate loans increased by KRW 5.2 trillion, and household loans increased by KRW 4.2 trillion, illustrating the portfolio’s balanced growth. In Real Estate Finance 2018, Woori Bank will keep pursuing a strategy of balanced asset growth in consideration of risk management and profitability. Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business (2) Profitability Investment Banking (Unit: KRW billion) Digital Banking Risk Management Account 2017 2016 Change (184th term) (183rd term) Corporate Social I.Operating profit 2,157 1,574 583 Net interest income 5,221 5,020 201 Responsibility Non-interest income 1,252 867 385 Ethical Management Consumer Protection Net fees & commissions income 1,070 937 133 Employee Satisfaction Dividend income 125 185 (60) Social Contribution Activities Net gain (loss) on available-for-sale (AFS) financial assets 193 (1) 194 Woori Smile Microcredit Other operating income (136) (254) 118 General and administrative expenses (3,531) (3,478) (53) Financial Review Impairment losses due to credit loss (785) (834) 49 Management's Discussion II.Non-operating gain (loss) (207) (21) (186) and Analysis III. Net income before income tax expense 1,950 1,553 397 Independent Auditors' IV.Income tax expense 419 276 143 Report V.Net income 1,530 1,278 252 (1) Net income attributable to owners 1,512 1,261 251 Organizational Chart (2) Net income attributable to non-controlling interests 18 16 2 Global Network * Based on consolidated financial statements In 2017, Woori Bank’s net income reached KRW 1,512.1 billion (consolidated basis, controlling interests), achieving an increase of 19.9 percent Coporate Fact Book or KRW 250.8 billion in annual growth compared to its 2016 net income of KRW 1,261.3 billion. This means an increase of net income of nearly Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 20 percent for two consecutive years (19.1% in 2016, 19.9% in 2017). The increase resulted largely from 1) a stable increase in both interest and 119 Years of History non-interest income; 2) a continued decrease in bad debt expenses by businesses focused on sound assets; 3) appropriate sales and adminisCorporate Governance trative expenses. Financial Highlights Net interest income reached KRW 5,221 billion for a four-percent increase over the previous year. Contributing factors included the first base Global Networks Global Networks Strategy rate increase in six and a half years by the Bank of Korea (in November 2017), market rate increases based on expectations of the former, the Digital Strategy positive impact of our low-expense deposit increase (annual 9.9% growth) on NIM, and strong growth in loan focused on SMEs. Thanks to A Trust-worthy Partner impressive results in asset management products and foreign currency derivatives, our non-interest income showed notable growth, with an increase of KRW 385 billion or a 44 percent increase from the previous year. Income from net fees and commissions, a main form of non-interest income, increased by KRW 133 billion (14.2%) year-on-year. This is largely due to impressive performance from asset management products, including the 82.9 percent year-on-year increase in trusts based on increased ELT sales. Although dividend income decreased by KRW 60 billion, WOORI BANK 063 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 063 gains on AFS financial assets increased by KRW 194 billion year-on-year. The increase in foreign currency derivatives and other factors caused other operating income to increase by KRW 118 billion over the previous year. Woori Overview General and administrative expenses including personnel and non-personnel expenses were KRW 3,531 billion or an increase of KRW 53 billion year-on-year. Although Woori Bank implemented a large-scale voluntary early retirement program (ERP, covering a total of 1,012 persons Message from the CEO at a cost of KRW 299.6 billion) to improve its midand long-term expenses, its impact on general and administrative expenses was a 1.5 perBoard of Directors cent increase over the previous year. If the impact of ERP were excluded, the equivalent figures would show a slight decrease. The general and Corporate Governance administrative expenses were adequately managed by reducing the number of branches and enhancing channel efficiency, as well as through Company Structure efficient human resources management. Impairment losses due to credit loss reached KRW 785 billion in 2017 (KRW 834 billion in 2016 and KRW Woori Bank Awards 2017 967 billion in 2015), a decrease of KRW 49 billion from the previous year. Despite the reserve of a large-scale allowance regarding Kumho Tire News Highlights Financial Highlights Co., Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2017, our bad debt expenses decreased by 5.9 percent over the previous year, thanks to the continued improvement of asset quality. Woori Bank has managed bad debt expenses by increasing quality credit assets and through continued monitoring and Business Operations preemptive control of industries under our watch category, such as shipbuilding, construction and marine transport, as well as through rigorous risk management. In 2017, our annual bad debt expenses stood at around 34bp. Non-operating income in 2017 showed a loss of KRW 207 Retail Banking billion. This loss was a result of impairment losses due to the credit loss regarding Kumho Tire and the contribution of issuance costs for an outWealth Management standing cashier’s check to the Korea Inclusive Finance Agency under the revised Microfinance Support Act. Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking 2018 is expected to be another year in which the bank operates under a challenging financial environment, with a potential base interest rate SME Banking increase and intensifying trade wars around the world. Woori Bank plans to maintain a strategy of growth, keeping pace with national ecoInstitutional Banking nomic growth, and focus on enhancing soundness and capital adequacy by reducing potentially delinquent assets in addition to pursuing Real Estate Finance growth based on quality assets. Since current economic conditions make it difficult to increase net interest income, we will focus our compeGlobal Business tencies on non-interest income and endeavor to reduce costs by making human resources and channels more efficient, managing general and International Trade Business Financial Market Business administrative expenses on a stable level. Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management (3) Asset Quality (Unit: KRW 100 million, %, %p) Corporate Social Category 2017 2016 2015 Responsibility (184th term) (183rd term) (182nd term) Indicators Change Indicators Change Indicators Ethical Management Consumer Protection Non-performing loans (NPL) 18,542 (2,579) 21,121 (9,888) 31,009 Employee Satisfaction NPL ratio 0.83 (0.15) 0.98 (0.49) 1.47 Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit NPL coverage ratio * 87.7 3.2 84.5 14.3 70.2 Delinquency ratio 0.34 (0.12) 0.46 (0.36) 0.82 Financial Review * The amendment of the Detailed Enforcement Rules for the Regulations on Supervision of Banking Business (Schedule 7, as of December 14, 2016) and the Standards for Integrated Management Disclosure for Financial Business (as of January 26, 2017) recognized bad debts reserve as capital, therefore excluding bad debt reserve from the total of allowances. The Management's Discussion calculation has been done based on the amended regulations. Before the amendment, the amount including the bad debt reserve would have been 165.0% (2016) and 183.8% (2017). and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Woori Bank has shown outstanding increases in asset quality each year through preemptive risk management and continued back-door-locking. The NPL ratio has been reduced continually, from 1.47% in 2015 to 0.98% in 2016 and 0.83% in 2017. The NPL coverage ratio is increasing Organizational Chart annually, from 70.2% in 2015 to 84.5% in 2016 and 87.7% in 2017. With these results, the bank is thoroughly preparing for any additional losses that it may incur. Corporate loans in 2017 reached KRW 112 trillion with an NPL ratio of 1.40 percent, against the 2016 results of KRW 110 trillion and 1.62 percent. Despite the increase in the total loan amount, the NPL ratio decreased due to the inflow of sound businesses and strict Global Network portfolio management. Household loans reached KRW 107 trillion in total with an NPL ratio of 0.24 percent, against the 2016 results of KRW 103 Coporate Fact Book trillion and 0.28 percent. The same trend resurfaces: an increase in total loans and a decrease in the NPL ratio (NPL as defined by FSS). The manWoori Bank overview agement of asset quality led to a radical reduction in the bank-wide delinquency ratio, from 0.82% in 2015 to 0.46% in 2017 and 0.34% in 2017. Vision & Core Values Since sufficient allowances have been reserved for debtors of debt restructuring in work-outs and corporate rehabilitation, the likelihood of 119 Years of History additional losses in NPL is very low. For these debts, normalization efforts continue while we will consider sales in case normalization is imposCorporate Governance sible. Regarding industries with high risk, such as shipbuilding, construction, marine transportation, steel, and petrochemicals, our exposure Financial Highlights continues to decrease each year, and we monitor individual debtors in these industries. The situation is being managed so that we can take preGlobal Networks Global Networks Strategy emptive action amid the uncertain financial conditions in and outside Korea. Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 064 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 064 (4) Capital Adequacy (Unit: KRW billion) Category 2017 2016 Change Woori Overview (184th term) (183rd term) Message from the CEO Common equity Tier 1 capital 16,075 15,715 +361 Board of Directors Other Tier 1 capital 3,042 3,276 (234) Corporate Governance Tier 2 capital 3,487 3,911 (424) Company Structure Total risk-adjusted capital 22,603 22,901 (297) Woori Bank Awards 2017 Risk-weighted assets 146,762 149,728 (2,966) News Highlights Financial Highlights Common equity Tier 1 ratio 10.95% 10.50% +0.45%p Tier 1 capital ratio 13.03% 12.68% +0.35%p Business Operations Total capital ratio 15.40% 15.29% +0.11%p Retail Banking Wealth Management In 2017, the Common Equity Tier 1 capital of Woori Bank (on a consolidated basis) reached KRW 16,075 billion, an increase of KRW 361 billion or Trust & Pension Business 2.3 percent from the previous year. The Tier 2 capital was KRW 3,042 billion, an increase of KRW 234 billion year-on-year, which resulted from Corporate Banking the repayment of hybrid securities issued before the implementation of Basel III. Considering the issuance cost, Woori Bank plans to reduce the SME Banking scale of its hybrid securities on a continual basis. The Tier 2 capital amounted to KRW 3,487 billion or a decrease of KRW 424 billion year-on-year, Institutional Banking affected by such factors as the decrease in recognized subordinated debt issued before the implementation of Basel III and the falling exchange Real Estate Finance rate over the previous year. Global Business International Trade Business As of the end of 2017, the total risk-adjusted capital of Woori Bank reached KRW 22,603 billion, a decrease of KRW 297 billion from the previous year. Financial Market Business As of the end of 2017, risk-weighted assets (consolidated basis) amounted to 146,762 billion, a decrease of KRW 2,966 billion from the previous Investment Banking year. This reduction is an outcome of the bank’s proactive efforts to enhance capital adequacy by expanding sound assets and reducing potenDigital Banking Risk Management tially delinquent assets. In 2017, Woori Bank achieved a common equity Tier 1 ratio of 10.95 percent, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 13.03 percent, and a total capital ratio of 15.40 percent, which translates into an increase of 0.45%p, 0.35%p, and 0.11%p respectively. Capital adequacy continues to improve, and Corporate Social Responsibility Woori Bank is committed to maintaining this trend by realizing profits and securing an adequate level of capital. Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction B. New Businesses & Suspended Businesses Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Woori Bank implemented a new business venture in joining the bid for the banking and currency exchange business license at the new Terminal 2 of Incheon International Airport. The number of passengers going through the new terminal annually is expected to top 18 million, which Financial Review will ensure a boost in publicity and profits from remittances and transfers. In May 2017, the bank’s board of directors decided that Woori Bank would participate in the bidding for the banking/currency exchange business license in the new terminal. In June, the Incheon International Management's Discussion Airport Corporation made its selection, and we secured business rights at Terminal 2 until 2023 (with a 185㎡ branch, four currency exchange and Analysis Independent Auditors' booths, and four ATMs). The new Woori Bank branch opened for business with the official launch of Terminal 2 on January 18, 2018. Report Organizational Chart C. Business Rationalization Global Network (1) Alteration and Reorganization of Business Groups Woori Bank established a cooperative system among its business groups to create synergy, reorganized its organizational structure to reinCoporate Fact Book force competitiveness in digital banking, and established new exclusive units to acquire future customers and implement bank-wide initiatives to pursue innovation. Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values First, we introduced a ‘business unit’ for cross-business collaboration. To take active action within a changing financial environment, we have 119 Years of History regrouped closely related groups and units into domestic, global, and sales support business units for maximum organizational synergy. Corporate Governance Second, the Digital Banking Business Group and the Digital Strategy Department have been established to ensure a systematic response to Financial Highlights Global Networks the fourth industrial revolution. They develop and implement businesses related to new digital technologies such as big data and blockchain. Global Networks Strategy The National Pension Department was added as an exclusive unit to ensure the provision of high-quality services as Woori Bank serves as the Digital Strategy primary bank for the NPS. Finally, the Management Innovation Department was established to bring innovation to the bank’s organizational A Trust-worthy Partner culture and change management. WOORI BANK 065 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 065 (2) The Voluntary Early Retirement Program and Other Matters Since 2005, Woori Bank has implemented a Job Change Support Program that serves as our amended and upgraded ERP program. The Job Change Woori Overview Support Program aims to resolve the bottleneck in promotions and improve the bank’s human resource structure while allowing employees to find new opportunities in the second chapter of their lives. In particular, the bank operates a center and various programs for employees who plan Message from the CEO to change jobs to provide systematic support for a new life after retirement. As of July 2017, job change support was given to a total of 1,012 employBoard of Directors ees, offering reemployment opportunities through job sharing and other programs and improving the bank-wide human resource structure. Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 D. Asset Impairment Losses News Highlights Woori Bank recognized impairment losses whenever the book value of AFS securities and securities in equity method decreased by over 30 Financial Highlights percent against their acquired values. Business Operations (Unit: KRW million) Category Item Loss amount Cause of loss Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business AFS securities Hyundai Merchant Marine 8,987 The book value Corporate Banking AFS securities Hyundai Cement 6,787 of these assets SME Banking decreased by over AFS securities STX Heavy Industries 4,289 Institutional Banking 30% against their AFS securities Dongbu Steel 1,306 acquired values. Real Estate Finance Global Business AFS securities Oriental Precision & Engineering 1,176 International Trade Business Securities in equity method Kumho Tire 76,720 Financial Market Business Securities in equity method Chinhung International 37,551 Investment Banking Securities in equity method STX 7,525 Digital Banking Securities in equity method Saman 7,267 Risk Management Securities in equity method Poonglim Industrial 4,250 Corporate Social Securities in equity method STX (unlisted) 635 Responsibility * Based on separate standards of the bank Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction 3. Liquidity, Sources & Applications of Fund Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit A. Liquidity (Unit: KRW billion, USD million) Financial Review Category 2017 2016 2015 (184th term) (183rd term) (182nd term) Management's Discussion and Analysis Integrated LCR 1) High liquidity assets 40,067 39,835 35,591 Independent Auditors' Net cash outflows 39,581 36,344 33,365 Report Liquidity coverage ratio 101.23% 109.61% 106.67% Foreign currency LCR 2) High liquidity assets 3,193 Organizational Chart Net cash outflows 3,077 Liquidity coverage ratio 103.77% Global Network 1) Consolidated basis. The figures are calculated based on the average balance of December for the 184th term; based on the balance as of the end of December for the 183rd and 182nd terms. Coporate Fact Book 2) Consolidated basis implemented from 2017 (as of 2017, the supervisory standard is 60%; it is expected to increase by 10%p annually, and hence will be 80% or more by 2019). The figures are calculated based on the average balance of December for the 184th term. Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Woori Bank has managed liquidity in compliance with regulatory standards (80% in 2015, 85% in 2016, 90% in 2017, 95% in 2018, 100% or more Corporate Governance in 2019) under the new liquidity index or integrated LCR introduced in 2015. The December 2017 average balance stood at 101.23 percent, Financial Highlights over the regulatory standard (90%), with the ratio remaining stable. For foreign currency LCR applied since 2017, Woori Bank secured high liqGlobal Networks uid assets including U.S. Treasury bonds, comfortably meeting the regulatory standards at 103.77 percent in December 2017 (the standards Global Networks Strategy are 60% for 2017, 70% for 2018, and 80% from 2019 onwards). To secure a stable structure of sourcing funds and properly manage a potential Digital Strategy asset-liability maturity mismatch, we have analyzed liquidity crisis scenarios and used the results to establish and implement bank-wide liquidA Trust-worthy Partner ity risk management plans to control emergency funding, liquidity asset scale, balancing in sources of fund, and other relevant matters. WOORI BANK 066 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 066 B. Sources of Fund (Unit: KRW million, %) Woori Overview Item Fund 2017(184th term) 2016(183rd term) 2015(182nd term) Average Interest % Average Interest % Average Interest % Message from the CEO balance rate balance rate balance rate Board of Directors Funds in Deposits, installments 187,332,008 1.26 66.02 183,440,285 1.38 65.35 169,919,620 1.70 64.76 Corporate Governance KRW Certificates of deposit 4,500,100 1.66 1.59 3,466,223 1.70 1.23 1,879,832 1.92 0.72 Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Borrowings in KRW 6,213,903 1.32 2.19 6,709,080 1.45 2.39 6,689,135 1.77 2.55 News Highlights Call money in KRW 1,254,623 1.23 0.44 1,159,188 1.32 0.41 1,370,253 1.62 0.52 Financial Highlights Others 20,168,307 2.29 7.11 18,532,241 2.60 6.60 18,944,493 2.95 7.22 Subtotal 219,468,941 1.37 77.34 213,307,017 1.50 75.98 198,803,334 1.82 75.77 Business Operations Funds in Deposits in foreign currencies 14,338,927 0.51 5.05 14,838,684 0.47 5.29 11,568,322 0.44 4.41 foreign Borrowings in foreign currencies 7,267,096 1.38 2.56 8,595,575 0.86 3.06 9,245,073 0.53 3.52 Retail Banking Wealth Management currencies Call money in foreign currencies 980,001 1.14 0.35 1,401,294 0.70 0.50 1,199,484 0.53 0.46 Trust & Pension Business Debentures in foreign currencies 3,649,805 3.11 1.29 3,950,614 2.54 1.41 4,851,289 2.72 1.85 Corporate Banking Others 574,786 0.14 0.20 531,877 0.29 0.19 650,409 0.66 0.25 SME Banking Subtotal 26,810,615 1.12 9.45 29,318,044 0.87 10.44 27,514,577 0.88 10.49 Institutional Banking Others Total capital 20,134,843 7.10 19,617,484 6.99 18,501,137 7.05 Real Estate Finance Provisions 351,750 0.12 412,553 0.15 640,666 0.24 Global Business International Trade Business Others 16,993,430 5.99 18,070,427 6.44 16,907,843 6.44 Financial Market Business Subtotal 37,480,023 13.21 38,100,463 13.57 36,049,647 13.74 Investment Banking Total 283,759,580 1.16 100.00 280,725,524 1.23 100.00 262,367,557 1.47 100.00 Digital Banking 1) Deposits in KRW = Deposits in KRW – Deposit checks & bills in the process of collection – reverse deposits with BOK – inter-bank adjustment funds (call loans) Risk Management * Deposit checks & bills in the process of collection = total checks and bills in the process of collection – checks & bills on clearing for overdrafts – inter-bank adjustment funds (call money) Corporate Social * Interest for calculating interest rates is the sum of interest on deposits and installment deposits and deposit insurance premiums. Responsibility 2) Deposits in foreign currencies = Deposits in foreign currencies + off-shore deposits in foreign currencies 3) Borrowings in foreign currencies = Borrowings in foreign currencies + dues to BOK in foreign currencies + off-shore borrowings in foreign currencies Ethical Management 4) Debentures in foreign currencies = Debentures issued in foreign currencies + offshore debentures in foreign currencies Consumer Protection 5) Based on K-IFRS financial statements Employee Satisfaction 6) Excluding merchant banking accounts Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit The average fund balance sourced by Woori Bank in 2017 stood at KRW 284 trillion, an increase of KRW 3 trillion over the previous year. The average funds in Korean won were KRW 219 trillion, mainly sourced by deposits from customers for the stable management of the loan-to-deFinancial Review posit ratio. As a result, deposits increased by KRW 4 trillion over the previous year, mainly in core liquidity deposits. To respond to increasingly rigorous LCR standards, we expanded the issuance of senior debts, and other capital including debentures increased by KRW 2 trillion over the Management's Discussion and Analysis previous year. In order to minimize the impact from the changed formula to calculate the loan-to-deposit ratio, the Bank plans to adjust fundIndependent Auditors' ing and management portfolios according to market conditions and control profitability and the loan-to-deposit ratio at the same time. The Report average balance of funds in foreign currencies (converted into KRW) decreased by KRW 2.5 trillion against the previous term due to the fall in the exchange rate. In funding, we have reduced financing from the market (borrowings and debentures) and gradually increased deposits in Organizational Chart foreign currencies for stability. Global Network Maturity of Major Financial Debts (Unit: KRW million) Coporate Fact Book Category 3 months or less 4 to 6 months 7 to 9 months 10 to 12 months 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values Financial liabilities at 160,057 154,475 314,532 119 Years of History fair value through profit Corporate Governance and loss Financial Highlights Deposits from 143,085,964 28,776,407 17,749,883 29,951,466 6,723,926 644,187 226,931,833 Global Networks customers Global Networks Strategy Borrowings 5,339,315 1,700,358 1,488,848 1,132,055 3,799,707 479,140 13,939,423 Digital Strategy Debentures 1,570,513 2,069,703 678,054 1,512,183 14,614,016 2,843,612 23,288,081 A Trust-worthy Partner Other financial 6,531,004 2,704,197 9,235,201 liabilities Total 156,686,853 32,700,943 19,916,785 32,595,704 25,137,649 6,671,136 273,709,070 * Derivative financial liabilities and off-balance accounts (payment guarantees and commitments) are excluded. WOORI BANK 067 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 067 C. Applications of Fund (Unit: KRW million, % ) Item Applications 2017(184 term) th 2016(183 term) rd 2015(182nd term) Woori Overview Average Interest % Average Interest % Average Interest % balance rate balance rate balance rate Message from the CEO Funds in Deposits in KRW 3,424,567 1.28 1.21 3,171,599 1.34 1.13 2,580,842 1.72 0.98 Board of Directors Corporate Governance KRW Marketable securities in in KRW 35,186,537 1.95 12.40 33,880,119 2.58 12.07 32,994,958 2.79 12.58 Company Structure Loans in KRW 194,161,817 3.05 68.42 189,079,324 3.10 67.35 176,631,188 3.42 67.32 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Advance payments on acceptance 26,639 3.14 0.01 51,254 0.89 0.02 64,533 1.89 0.02 News Highlights and guarantees Financial Highlights Call loans in KRW 2,275,748 1.33 0.80 3,581,382 1.41 1.28 2,083,053 1.64 0.79 Privately placed bonds 185,092 5.94 0.07 247,292 5.19 0.09 280,702 5.98 0.11 Business Operations Credit card receivables 28 0.00 24 0.00 Retail Banking Others 4,235,478 1.99 1.49 4,580,215 2.04 1.63 4,313,781 2.61 1.64 Wealth Management Allowance for doubtful accounts in KRW (-) (1,284,188) (0.45) (1,925,177) (0.69) (2,482,955) (0.95) Trust & Pension Business Subtotal 238,211,718 2.85 83.95 232,666,033 2.98 82.88 216,466,103 3.31 82.50 Corporate Banking Funds in Deposits in foreign currencies 3,791,184 0.67 1.34 3,761,286 0.43 1.34 2,872,735 0.28 1.09 SME Banking foreign Marketable securities in foreign currencies 2,735,707 1.07 0.96 1,752,884 1.13 0.62 1,375,146 1.51 0.52 Institutional Banking currencies Loans in foreign currencies 10,790,442 2.51 3.80 13,371,873 1.95 4.76 14,206,736 1.65 5.41 Real Estate Finance Global Business Call loans in foreign currencies 2,506,588 1.33 0.88 2,940,858 0.85 1.05 2,040,819 0.59 0.78 International Trade Business Bills bought in foreign currencies 7,417,500 1.88 2.61 7,110,164 1.53 2.53 6,899,811 1.38 2.63 Financial Market Business Others 48,472 2.50 0.02 13,829 9.72 0.00 17,047 6.96 0.01 Investment Banking Allowance for doubtful accounts in (332,301) (0.12) (312,211) (0.11) (191,224) (0.07) Digital Banking foreign currencies (-) Risk Management Subtotal 26,957,590 1.85 9.50 28,638,685 1.51 10.20 27,221,069 1.37 10.38 Others Cash 1,201,343 0.42 1,169,566 0.42 1,116,715 0.43 Corporate Social Responsibility Property, plant and equipment 2,352,466 0.83 2,325,893 0.83 2,328,130 0.89 for business Ethical Management Others 15,036,463 5.30 15,925,347 5.67 15,235,540 5.81 Consumer Protection Subtotal 18,590,272 6.55 19,420,807 6.92 18,680,385 7.12 Employee Satisfaction Total 283,759,580 2.57 100.00 280,725,524 2.62 100.00 262,367,557 2.87 100.00 Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit 1) Deposits in KRW = Deposits in KRW – Reverse deposits with BOK 2) Marketable securities in KRW = Marketable securities in KRW + Loaned securities in KRW Financial Review * Interest for calculating interest rates = Securities interest (including dividend received) + Evaluation profit (net) + Gain on redemption of securities (net) + Portion excluding the gain from stock transactions (net) out of gains on sales of securities 3) Loans in KRW = Loans in KRW + Checks & bills on clearing for overdrafts Management's Discussion * Interest for calculating interest rates = Interest on loans in KRW – Contribution to the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund and Analysis 4) Deposits in foreign currencies = Deposits in foreign currencies + Offshore deposits in foreign currencies Independent Auditors' 5) Interest on securities in foreign currencies = Interest on securities in foreign currency + Loaned securities in foreign currencies Report * Interest for calculating interest rates = Securities interests (including dividend received) + Evaluation profit (net) + Gain on redemption of securities (net) + Portion excluding the gain from stock transactions (net) out of gains on sales of securities Organizational Chart 6) Loans in foreign currencies = Loans in foreign currencies + Offshore loans in foreign currencies + Inter-bank loans in foreign currencies + Loans from foreign borrowings + Domestic import issuance bills 7) Cash = Cash – Total checks & bills in the process of collection Global Network 8) Property, plant and equipment for business = Property, plant, and equipment for business – Accumulated depreciation 9) Based on K-IFRS financial statements Coporate Fact Book 10) Excluding merchant banking accounts Woori Bank overview The average fund balance managed by Woori Bank in 2017 stood at KRW 238.2 trillion, an increase of KRW 5.5 trillion over the previous year. This Vision & Core Values result was due to an increase of loans in Korean won (KRW 5.1 trillion) and marketable securities in Korean won (KRW 1.3 trillion). Out of all loans 119 Years of History in Korean won, household loans increased by KRW 6.3 trillion, while corporate loans decreased by KRW 1.2 trillion. Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Since the Bank of Korea decreased the base rate by 25bp, the interest rates for loans in KRW had decreased, but with the high expectations Global Networks for the base rate increase in the second half of 2017, the interest rate bounced back, decreasing profits from loans in Korean won by 5bp. MarGlobal Networks Strategy ketable securities in Korean won increased by KRW 1.3 trillion as high liquidity assets such as public and government bonds increased due to Digital Strategy toughened regulations by the supervisory authority. The LCD guidelines introduced in 2015 are 85 percent for 2016, 90 percent for 2017, and A Trust-worthy Partner 95 percent for 2018. Assets in foreign currencies stood at KRW 27.0 trillion, a decrease of KRW 1.6 trillion since the previous year. This was due to the decrease of loans in foreign currencies (KRW 2.6 trillion) and the increase of marketable securities in foreign currencies (KRW 1.0 trillion). Woori Bank will control the applications of funds effectively so that the liquidity guidelines (for loan-to-deposit ratio, LCR, etc.) can be followed properly. WOORI BANK 068 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 068 4. Transactions out of Books (Unit: KRW million) Category 2017 2016 Woori Overview (184th term) (183rd term) Message from the CEO Payment guarantees Confirmed guarantees 6,875,021 8,270,187 Board of Directors Unconfirmed guarantees 4,526,593 5,101,701 Corporate Governance CP purchase commitments and others 1,458,101 1,389,896 Company Structure Commitments Loan agreements 80,760,325 83,795,496 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Other agreements 4,546,090 4,840,593 News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations 5. Other Issues Required for Informed Investment Decisions Retail Banking A. Environmental Impact and Employees Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business (1) Environmental Impact Corporate Banking As a financial service provider, Woori Bank’s banking and trusts businesses do not have an environmentally destructive impact. Therefore, the SME Banking bank is neither currently paying nor is likely to have to pay any environmental restoration (“remediation”) or damage compensation expenses Institutional Banking in the future. It has not been and is not likely to be subject to administrative measures by the government or environmental authorities. Woori Real Estate Finance Bank, however, has been designated as a company subject to premise control under Paragraph 5, Article 42 of the Framework Act on Low-CarGlobal Business bon, Green Growth. Accordingly, the Bank has reported to the government its greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption as below. International Trade Business Financial Market Business (Unit: KRW million) Investment Banking Digital Banking Category 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Risk Management Greenhouse gas emissions (ton CO2) 95,574 93,676 91,322 88,470 88,121 Corporate Social Energy consumption (TJ) 1,463 1,421 1,360 1,315 1,349 Responsibility Ethical Management (2) Employees and Other Matters Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Woori Bank draws up a human resources plan based on changes in the management environment and bank-wide strategic directions. We preSocial Contribution Activities emptively respond to expected midand long-term personnel shifts. While our continued recruitment and CDP control secure experts in corWoori Smile Microcredit porate business, our in-house training of human resources will help us become leaders in the global and fintech businesses. This is how Woori Bank has built up the best human resource pool in the financial sector. Meanwhile, as of the end of 2017, our regular employees consist of busiFinancial Review ness unit and group heads (25%), managers (29%), and clerks or lower-level employees (46%), maintaining a pyramid HR structure. To build a culture that pursues work-life-balance, we introduced flexible work hours in May 2017, which has helped us boost productivity and efficiency as Management's Discussion and Analysis employees are able to work more flexible hours. Independent Auditors' Report B. Derivatives and Risk Management Policy Organizational Chart (1) Derivatives Global Network Woori Bank trades derivatives mainly for corporate clients. Our corporate clients are exposed to risks including rises in interest rates and fluctuations in the stock market and exchange rates. Accordingly, there is a need to hedge against any of these risks. While we offer diverse derivative Coporate Fact Book products to satisfy the hedging needs of corporate clients, we also offer products to hedge against the interest rate and foreign currency risks incurring from our assets and liabilities. The trading balance of our derivatives transactions was KRW 200,645 billion in 2015, KRW 232,663 bilWoori Bank overview lion in 2016, and KRW 267,430 billion in 2017. Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History The following are Woori Bank’s major derivative instruments: Corporate Governance Interest rate swaps, options, and futures related to interest rate risks Financial Highlights Index futures and options related to stock market fluctuations Global Networks Currency forwards, swaps, options, and futures related to currency risks Global Networks Strategy Derivatives offered to clients who would like to avoid the price risks associated with raw materials Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 069 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 069 (2) Risk Management Policy 1) Overview Woori Overview (A) Objective The objective of risk management is to identify the sources of risks and measure the scale and adequacy of the bank’s response to make and Message from the CEO implement decisions to avert or mitigate the risks, thereby enhancing the soundness of the bank’s investments and holdings. Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure (B) Risk Management Organization Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Board of Directors Financial Highlights President & CEO Risk Management Committee Business Operations Business Support Unit Risk Management Council Retail Banking Wealth Management Risk Management Group Trust & Pension Business Risk Management Department Corporate Banking SME Banking Loan Review Department Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business ① Risk Management Committee ② Risk Management Council International Trade Business 〮 Top decision-making body for risk management 〮O rganization: Head of the Business Support Unit (chair), six heads of Financial Market Business business groups 〮 Organization: Three outside directors and one non-standing director Investment Banking 〮 Major items for resolution 〮 Major items for resolution Digital Banking Deliberation of risks regarding new products Risk Management Establishment of the basic risk management strategy Decisions regarding the bank’s interest rate standards Credit line approval and capital allocation Sourcing plan for funds (liquidity management) Corporate Social 〮 Meeting cycle: Quarterly 〮 Meeting cycle: Monthly and when necessary Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection (C) Risk Management Strategy & Procedures Employee Satisfaction ① Strategy Social Contribution Activities While eliminating excess risks and managing an adequate level of risk, we maximize our profit to risk ratio, pursuing asset soundness and profWoori Smile Microcredit itability at the same time. Financial Review ② Procedures 〮 Risk recognition: We analyze various sources of risks possibly associated with the bank’s business activities Management's Discussion and Analysis 〮 Risk measurement/assessment: We determine risk measurement methods by risk type and measure the scale of risks using our measuring system, assessing the adequacy of the scale afterward. Independent Auditors' Report 〮 Risk control: We control risks in our daily, monthly and quarterly reports to avert/mitigate risks or maintain risks at adequate levels. 〮 Risk monitoring & reports: We continuously monitor risk levels and define the channels, content, and cycles of reporting to respond to risk sitOrganizational Chart uations properly. Global Network 2) Credit Risks Coporate Fact Book (A) Definition Credit risk represents ‘the potential financial losses that can incur to the Bank when the counterparty becomes insolvent or rejects transacWoori Bank overview tions within the period provided in the contract.’ The goal of credit risk management is to maintain the bank’s credit risk exposure to a permisVision & Core Values sible degree and to optimize its rate of return considering such credit risk. 119 Years of History Corporate Governance (B) Management Methods Financial Highlights Global Networks We manage credit lines, aggregation, total exposure, and portfolios so that we can calculate and control adequate credit lines by aggregation, Global Networks Strategy company, and industry as we handle loans. Digital Strategy ① Aggregation management: We aggregate the exposures of borrowers who share credit risks and put them under a single credit risk aggregaA Trust-worthy Partner tion management system to control the bank’s potential exposure to credit risks. ② Total exposure management: To prevent a concentration of loans, we calculate corporate value based on future cash flow and set the ceilings per borrower within the borrower’s repayment capacity from operating revenues. WOORI BANK 070 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 070 (3) Operational Risks (A) Definition Woori Overview We define operational risks as the potential risks of loss that can result from inadequate internal processes, personnel and systematic factors, as well as external factors. Message from the CEO Board of Directors (B) Operational Risk Management Method Corporate Governance To reinforce competitiveness, reduce the amount of risk capital, enhance operational risk management competencies, and prevent any unexCompany Structure pected incidents, Woori Bank has established an operational risk management system developed under Basel II since December 2005. The Woori Bank Awards 2017 objectiveness of our operational risk management system has been tested internally and by an independent third party. The advanced meaNews Highlights surement approach was submitted to the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS) and obtained FSS approval in June 2009, coming into effect on Financial Highlights June 30. Business Operations ① Operational Risk Management Tools Risk Self-Assessment (RSA): RSA refers to a series of risk management activities that allow self-identification and self-assessment of material Retail Banking operational risks and related control activities, to enable the bank to respond with measures to eliminate or improve such risks. Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Key Risk Indicators (KRI): KRIs are used for identifying and monitoring risks and tracking operational risk trends. Corporate Banking Loss data: Woori Bank has built a systemic framework for collecting and managing internal loss data on a bank-wide level under the operaSME Banking tional risk management system. It also receives external loss data from SAS Global Data and the Korea Operational Risk Data Exchange ComInstitutional Banking mittee for scenario analysis and risk identification. Real Estate Finance Global Business Scenario analysis: Operating risks characteristically lack accumulated loss data, making it difficult to take a statistical approach. To measure International Trade Business such operational risks, we forecast potential loss amounts and the annual frequency of operational risk events based on diverse information Financial Market Business sources such as internal data, external data, and the opinions of our experts working at each department and branch. Investment Banking Digital Banking Business Continuity Plan (BCP): Woori Bank has a set of business continuity plans in place for its organizational structure, risk assessment, Risk Management business impact analysis, an alternate location for continued business operations, and drills so that it can restore and continue core business operations in the event of cessation of operations due to unexpected factors like disasters and calamities. Corporate Social Responsibility ② Operational Risk Measurement While Woori Bank applies an advanced method of measuring operational risk capital levels, its consolidated subsidiaries take a basic indicator Ethical Management approach for measurement. Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction The basic indicator approach sets 15 percent of the Bank’s total income as operational risk capital. Social Contribution Activities The advanced measurement approach takes a 99.9 percentile value of annual total loss distribution induced from the integrated loss distriWoori Smile Microcredit bution approach that combines loss data and scenarios to calculate operational risk capital. Based on the eight business domains and seven Financial Review event types under Basel II, we added a back-office ‘support’ sector that is a common bank-wide function, setting a 9X7 matrix as the measuring unit for operational risk capital. We calculate the operational risk capital in consideration of all four basic factors (internal data, external Management's Discussion data, scenarios, business environment, and internal control factors). and Analysis Independent Auditors' Woori Bank does not rely on insurance to mitigate its operational risk capital. Report Organizational Chart 4) Market Risk (A) Definition Global Network Market risks refer to potential losses that can incur from trading positions of a financial institution according to changes in market factors, such Coporate Fact Book as interest rates, stock prices, and exchange rates. Market risks arise from changes in interest rates and exchange rates on unsettled financial instruments. Thus, all contracts are exposed to a certain level of volatility according to interest rates, credit spread, exchange rates, and equity Woori Bank overview securities prices. Vision & Core Values Market risks can be classified as general market risks and individual risks. General market risks represent losses arising from price volatility 119 Years of History Corporate Governance related to events that have an impact on all markets, such as interest rates, stock prices, and exchange rates. Individual risks are losses from Financial Highlights price volatility related to individual events by the issuer of bonds, stocks, and other securities. Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy (B) Market Risk Management A Trust-worthy Partner Market risk management refers to the entire process of identifying the sources of risks by risk factor on the trading sector, measuring the scale of market risks, and assessing the adequacy of the scale in order to make decisions to avert, take or mitigate risks. We use both a standard approach and an internal model to measure market risks. The standard approach is used for calculating individual risks of market risk capital charge, while the internal model is for calculating the general market risks of capital charge and for managing internal risks. WOORI BANK 071 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 071 Relying on an internal model approved by the FSS, Woori Bank uses the historical simulation method at a 99 percent confidence level, once every 10 days, to measure Value at Risk (VaR) and calculate the market risk capital charge to compute the BIS ratio. For internal control purposes, we control daily limits by measuring VaR at 99 percent confidence level per day. Model validation is carried out through daily back-testing of the VaR measurement and actual profit/loss. Woori Overview Message from the CEO In addition to VaR, we perform monthly stress testing to measure the loss amount in the event of abnormal market situations, such as IMF borBoard of Directors rowings or a global financial crisis. Corporate Governance Company Structure Market risk limits, including VaR limits, loss limits and risk capital limits, are managed by business groups, departments or teams, while the Woori Bank Awards 2017 Risk Management Committee sets the risk type and unit annually. Limits for subordinate units, excluding the derivatives books, are set by posiNews Highlights tion-related departments within given limits. Compliance with limits is monitored by the Risk Management Department independently from Financial Highlights working-level departments, and the monitoring reports are submitted to the Risk Management Council and Risk Management Committee on a regular basis. Business Operations Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business (5) Liquidity Risk Corporate Banking (A) Definition SME Banking Liquidity risk management is aimed at preventing potential losses to a financial institution arising from a shortage of funds, a goal that can be Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance achieved by the effective management of a liquidity crunch due to the disparity in the maturity of assets and liabilities or unexpected outflow Global Business of funds. Therefore, derivative products that involve off-balance account cash flow, as well as all assets and liabilities appearing on financial International Trade Business statements, are subject to our liquidity risk management activities. Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking (B) Methods Risk Management ① Funding/Application Status Analysis by Maturity (Maturity Gap Model) In managing liquidity risk, we determine the maturity gaps and gap ratios from cash flow statements by time group (remaining maturities or Corporate Social Responsibility contract periods), grouping assets and liabilities according to a different ALM chart of accounts. Based on the outcomes, we maintain the gap ratios within predetermined target ratios (limits). Ethical Management Our daily ALM system allows business groups to look up maturity classification reports while providing daily liquidity ratios for identifying Consumer Protection liquidity risk management indicators and status at related departments. Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities ② Actions in Response to Basel III Woori Smile Microcredit We use the Basel III liquidity standards management system to calculate and control the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) and net stable funding ratio (NSFR) on a daily or monthly basis. We provide relevant information according to the disclosure standards imposed by the Basel CommitFinancial Review tee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). Management's Discussion ③ Contingency Planning & Implementation and Analysis To effectively respond to capital outflow and funding risks arising from abrupt and unforeseeable changes in market environments, we have Independent Auditors' prepared bank-wide contingency plans to conduct regular monitoring of various checkpoints related to liquidity risks on a daily or weekly basis. Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 072 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Deloitte Anjin LLC 9F., One IFC, 10, Gukjegeumyung-ro, Youngdeungpo-gu, Seoul 072 07326, Korea INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT Tel: +82 (2) 6676 1000 Fax: +82 (2) 6674 2114 www.deloitteanjin.co.kr Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights English Translation of a Report Originally Issued in Korean on March 14, 2018 Financial Highlights To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Woori Bank Business Operations Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements Retail Banking Wealth Management We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Woori Bank and subsidiaries Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking (the “Group”). The financial statements consist of the consolidated statements of financial position as SME Banking of December 31, 2017 and the consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the years ended Institutional Banking December 31, 2017 and 2016, consolidated statements of changes in shareholders’ equity and Real Estate Finance consolidated statements of cash flows, all expressed in Korean Won, for the years ended December 31, Global Business 2017 and 2016, respectively, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory International Trade Business information. Financial Market Business Investment Banking Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements Digital Banking Risk Management The Group’s management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Corporate Social Responsibility Standards (“K-IFRS”) and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether Ethical Management due to fraud or error. Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Independent Auditors’ Responsibility Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Our responsibility is to express an audit opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing (“KSAs”). Those Financial Review standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material Management's Discussion and Analysis misstatement. Independent Auditors' Report An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgment, Organizational Chart including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control Global Network relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing Coporate Fact Book an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by Woori Bank overview management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for Financial Highlights our audit opinion. Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 073 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 073 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Opinion Financial Highlights In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the Business Operations financial position of the Group as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and its financial performance and its cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with K-IFRS. Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business March 14, 2018 International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Notice to Readers Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner This report is effective as of March 14, 2018, the auditors’ report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances may have occurred between the auditors’ report date and the time the auditors’ report is read. Such events or circumstances could significantly affect the consolidated financial statements and may result in modifications to the auditors’ report. WOORI BANK 074 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 074 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION Woori Overview AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES Message from the CEO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION Board of Directors AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016 Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights December 31, December 31, Financial Highlights 2017 2016 (Korean Won in millions) Business Operations ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents (Note 6) 6,908,286 7,591,324 Retail Banking Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Wealth Management (Notes 4,7,11,12,18 and 26) 5,843,077 5,650,724 Trust & Pension Business Available-for-sale financial assets (Notes 4,8,11,12 and 18) 15,352,950 20,817,583 Held-to-maturity financial assets (Notes 4,9,11,12 and 18) 16,749,296 13,910,251 Corporate Banking Loans and receivables (Notes 4,10,11,12,18 and 45) 267,106,204 258,392,633 SME Banking Investments in joint ventures and associates (Note 13) 417,051 439,012 Institutional Banking Investment properties (Note 14) 371,301 358,497 Real Estate Finance Premises and equipment (Notes 15 and 18) 2,477,545 2,458,025 Global Business Intangible assets and goodwill (Note 16) 518,599 483,739 International Trade Business Assets held for sale (Note 17) 48,624 2,342 Financial Market Business Current tax assets (Note 42) 4,722 6,229 Investment Banking Deferred tax assets (Note 42) 280,130 232,007 Digital Banking Derivative assets (Notes 4,11,12 and 26) 59,272 140,577 Risk Management Net defined benefit assets (Note 24) 70,938 Other assets (Notes 19 and 45) 158,404 128,846 Corporate Social Responsibility Total assets 316,295,461 310,682,727 Ethical Management LIABILITIES Consumer Protection Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Employee Satisfaction (Notes 4,11,12,20 and 26) 3,427,909 3,803,358 Social Contribution Activities Deposits due to customers (Notes 4,11,21 and 45) 234,695,084 221,020,411 Woori Smile Microcredit Borrowings (Notes 4,6,11,12 and 22) 14,784,706 18,769,515 Debentures (Notes 4,6,11 and 22) 27,869,651 23,565,449 Financial Review Provisions (Notes 23, 44 and 45) 410,470 428,477 Net defined benefit liability (Note 24) 43,264 64,666 Management's Discussion Current tax liabilities (Note 42) 232,600 171,192 and Analysis Deferred tax liabilities (Note 42) 22,681 22,023 Independent Auditors' Derivative liabilities (Notes 4,11,12 and 26) 67,754 7,221 Report Other financial liabilities (Notes 4,11,12, 25 and 45) 13,892,461 21,985,086 Other liabilities (Notes 25 and 45) 283,981 299,376 Organizational Chart Total liabilities 295,730,561 290,136,774 Global Network (Continued) Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 075 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 075 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION Woori Overview AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016 (CONTINUED) Message from the CEO WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES Board of Directors Corporate Governance CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION Company Structure AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016 (CONTINUED) Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights December 31, December 31, Financial Highlights 2017 2016 (Korean Won in millions) Business Operations EQUITY Retail Banking Owners’ equity: 20,365,892 20,386,160 Wealth Management Capital stock (Note 28) 3,381,392 3,381,392 Trust & Pension Business Hybrid securities (Note 29) 3,017,888 3,574,896 Corporate Banking Capital surplus (Note 28) 285,880 286,331 Other equity (Note 30) (1,939,274) (1,468,025) SME Banking Institutional Banking Retained earnings (Notes 31 and 32) Real Estate Finance (Regulatory reserve for credit loss as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 Global Business is 2,438,191 million Won and 2,255,252 million Won, respectively International Trade Business Regulatory reserve for credit loss to be reserved as of December 31, Financial Market Business 2017 and 2016 is 140,266 million Won and 182,939 million Won, Investment Banking respectively Digital Banking Planned provision of regulatory reserve for credit loss as of Risk Management December 31, 2017 and 2016 is 140,266 million Won and 182,939 million Won, respectively) 15,620,006 14,611,566 Corporate Social Non-controlling interests 199,008 159,793 Responsibility Total equity 20,564,900 20,545,953 Ethical Management Total liabilities and equity 316,295,461 310,682,727 Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities See accompanying notes Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 076 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 076 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Woori Overview FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016 Message from the CEO WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES Board of Directors CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Corporate Governance FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016 Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 2017 2016 News Highlights (Korean Won in millions, Financial Highlights except for per share data) Interest income 8,550,687 8,512,312 Business Operations Interest expense (3,330,037) (3,492,768) Net interest income (Notes 34 and 45) 5,220,650 5,019,544 Retail Banking Wealth Management Fees and commissions income 2,069,198 1,865,470 Trust & Pension Business Fees and commissions expense (998,732) (928,339) Corporate Banking Net fees and commissions income (Notes 35 and 45) 1,070,466 937,131 SME Banking Dividend income (Note 36) 124,992 184,510 Institutional Banking Net gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (104,827) Real Estate Finance (Note 37) 114,387 Global Business Net loss on available-for-sale financial assets (Note 38) 192,708 (1,035) International Trade Business Impairment losses on credit loss (Notes 39 and 45) (785,133) (834,076) Financial Market Business General and administrative expenses (Notes 40 and 45) (3,530,801) (3,478,476) Net other operating expenses (Notes 40 and 45) Investment Banking (31,313) (367,779) Operating income 2,156,742 1,574,206 Digital Banking Risk Management Share of losses of joint ventures and associates (Note 13) (101,514) (19,507) Net other non-operating income (expense) (105,722) (1,310) Corporate Social Non-operating income (loss) (Note 41) (207,236) (20,817) Responsibility Net income before income tax expense 1,949,506 1,553,389 Ethical Management Consumer Protection Income tax expense (Note 42) (419,418) (275,856) Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Net income (Net income after the provision of regulatory reserve for credit loss for Woori Smile Microcredit the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are 1,389,822 million Won and 1,094,594 million Won, respectively) (Note 32) 1,530,088 1,277,533 Financial Review Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability 10,497 34,162 Management's Discussion Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 10,497 34,162 and Analysis Independent Auditors' Gain (loss) on available-for-sale financial assets (84,498) 12,586 Report Share of other comprehensive gain (loss) of joint ventures and associates 612 (7,937) Gain (loss) on foreign currency translation of foreign operations (208,329) 28,712 Gain on valuation of cash flow hedge 777 10,371 Organizational Chart Equity related to non-current assets held for sale 4,145 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss (287,293) 43,732 Global Network Other comprehensive income , net of tax (276,796) 77,894 Coporate Fact Book Total comprehensive income 1,253,292 1,355,427 Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values Net income attributable to: Net income attributable to owners 1,512,148 1,261,266 119 Years of History Net income attributable to non-controlling interests 17,940 16,267 Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Total comprehensive income attributable to: Global Networks Comprehensive income attributable to owners 1,249,057 1,332,614 Global Networks Strategy Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 4,235 22,813 Digital Strategy Net income per share (Note 43) A Trust-worthy Partner Basic and diluted earnings from operations per share (In Korean Won) 1,999 1,567 See accompanying notes WOORI BANK 077 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 077 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Woori Overview FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016 Message from the CEO WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES Board of Directors CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Corporate Governance FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016 Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights NonCapital Hybrid Capital Other Retained Controlling controlling Total Financial Highlights stock securities surplus Equity earnings interests interests equity (Korean Won in millions) Business Operations January 1, 2016 3,381,392 3,334,002 294,259 (1,547,303) 13,726,122 19,188,472 121,443 19,309,915 Net income 1,261,266 1,261,266 16,267 1,277,533 Retail Banking Dividends (168,317) (168,317) (1,286) (169,603) Change in capital surplus of Wealth Management consolidated subsidiaries (7,928) 7,930 2 2 Trust & Pension Business Changes in non-controlling Corporate Banking interests due to acquisition SME Banking of subsidiary 16,823 16,823 Institutional Banking Gain on valuation of availableReal Estate Finance for-sale financial assets 12,296 12,296 290 12,586 Share of other comprehensive Global Business loss of joint ventures and International Trade Business associates (7,937) (7,937) (7,937) Financial Market Business Gain on foreign currencies Investment Banking translation of foreign Digital Banking operations 22,436 22,436 6,276 28,712 Remeasurement of the net Risk Management defined benefit liability 34,182 34,182 (20) 34,162 Gain on valuation of cash flow Corporate Social hedge 10,371 10,371 10,371 Responsibility Dividends to hybrid securities (206,515) (206,515) (206,515) Issuance of hybrid securities 549,904 549,904 549,904 Ethical Management Redemption of hybrid securities (309,010) (990) (310,000) (310,000) Consumer Protection December 31, 2016 3,381,392 3,574,896 286,331 (1,468,025) 14,611,566 20,386,160 159,793 20,545,953 Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities January 1, 2017 3,381,392 3,574,896 286,331 (1,468,025) 14,611,566 20,386,160 159,793 20,545,953 Woori Smile Microcredit Net income 1,512,148 1,512,148 17,940 1,530,088 Dividends (336,636) (336,636) (1,554) (338,190) Financial Review Subsidiary capital increase (451) (451) 36,534 36,083 Gain(loss) on valuation of Management's Discussion available-for-sale financial and Analysis assets (85,051) (85,051) 553 (84,498) Share of other comprehensive Independent Auditors' gain of joint ventures and Report associates 612 612 612 Loss on foreign currencies Organizational Chart translation of foreign operations (194,347) (194,347) (13,982) (208,329) Gain on valuation of cash flow Global Network hedge 777 777 777 Remeasurement of the net Coporate Fact Book defined benefit liability 10,773 10,773 (276) 10,497 Equity related to non-current Woori Bank overview assets held for sale 4,145 4,145 4,145 Dividends on hybrid securities (167,072) (167,072) (167,072) Vision & Core Values Issuance of hybrid securities 559,565 559,565 559,565 119 Years of History Redemption of hybrid Corporate Governance securities (1,116,573) (208,158) (1,324,731) (1,324,731) Financial Highlights December 31, 2017 3,381,392 3,017,888 285,880 (1,939,274) 15,620,006 20,365,892 199,008 20,564,900 Global Networks Global Networks Strategy See accompanying notes Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 078 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 078 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Woori Overview FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES Message from the CEO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Board of Directors Corporate Governance FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016 Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 2017 2016 News Highlights (Korean Won in millions) Financial Highlights Cash flows from operating activities: Net income 1,530,088 1,277,533 Business Operations Adjustment to net income: Income tax expense 419,418 275,856 Retail Banking Interest income (8,550,687) (8,512,312) Wealth Management Interest expense 3,330,037 3,492,768 Trust & Pension Business Dividend income (124,992) (184,510) Corporate Banking (4,926,224) (4,928,198) SME Banking Additions of expenses not involving cash outflows: Institutional Banking Impairment losses due to credit loss 785,133 834,076 Real Estate Finance Loss on valuation of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 15,267 Global Business Loss on available-for-sale financial assets 1,035 International Trade Business Loss on investments in joint ventures and associates 185,020 56,264 Financial Market Business Loss on transaction and valuation of derivatives instruments (hedging) 109,569 98,981 Investment Banking Loss on hedged items (fair value hedge) 475 Digital Banking Provisions 107,028 34,774 Retirement benefits 142,902 152,609 Risk Management Depreciation and amortization 235,795 252,031 Loss on disposal of investments in joint ventures and associates 38,713 15,060 Corporate Social Loss on disposal of premises and equipment and other assets 9,994 9,718 Responsibility Impairment loss on premises and equipment and other assets 390 1,936 1,629,811 1,456,959 Ethical Management Consumer Protection Deduction of incomes not involving cash inflows: Employee Satisfaction Gain on valuation of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 75,690 Social Contribution Activities Gain on available-for-sale financial assets 192,708 Woori Smile Microcredit Gain on valuation of investments in joint ventures and associates 83,506 36,757 Gain on transaction and valuation of derivatives instruments (hedging) 122 130 Gain on hedged items (fair value hedge) 53,532 99,302 Financial Review Reversal of provisions 2,567 1,396 Gain on disposal of investments in joint ventures and associates 39,932 23,457 Management's Discussion Gain on disposal of premises and equipment and other assets 5,028 1,885 and Analysis Reversal of impairment loss on premises and equipment and other assets 666 3,581 Independent Auditors' 378,061 242,198 Report Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Organizational Chart Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (583,068) (99,581) Loans and receivables (9,647,563) (14,433,390) Global Network Other assets 35,953 219,323 Deposits due to customers 13,634,873 11,878,628 Provision (122,711) 34,376 Coporate Fact Book Net defined benefit liability (46,789) (261,097) Other financial liabilities (7,966,786) 5,158,055 Woori Bank overview Other liabilities (27,550) (6,163) Vision & Core Values (4,723,641) 2,490,151 119 Years of History Corporate Governance (Continued) Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 079 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 079 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Woori Overview FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER WOORI BANK 31, 2017AND ANDSUBSIDIARIES 2016 (CONTINUED) Message from the CEO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Board of Directors FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016 (CONTINUED) Corporate Governance Company Structure 2017 2016 Woori Bank Awards 2017 (Korean Won in millions) News Highlights Cash received from (paid for) operating activities: Interest income received 8,570,715 8,511,349 Financial Highlights Interest expense paid (3,404,608) (3,593,358) Dividends received 127,343 184,674 Business Operations Income tax paid (404,428) (251,627) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (1,979,005) 4,905,285 Retail Banking Wealth Management Cash flows from investing activities: Trust & Pension Business Cash in-flows from investing activities: Corporate Banking Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 24,912,752 20,395,744 SME Banking Redemption of held-to-maturity financial assets 8,587,092 8,462,346 Disposal of investments in joint ventures and associates 70,180 97,135 Institutional Banking Disposal of subsidiaries 203 Real Estate Finance Disposal of investment properties 418 Global Business Disposal of premises and equipment 7,428 63 International Trade Business Disposal of intangible assets 1,188 4,325 Financial Market Business Disposal of assets held for sale 24,808 22,723 Investment Banking 33,604,069 28,982,336 Digital Banking Cash out-flows from investing activities: Risk Management Net cash flows through business combination 132,301 Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets 19,674,346 23,844,849 Acquisition of held-to-maturity financial assets 11,521,065 8,818,376 Corporate Social Acquisition of investments in joint ventures and associates 143,161 43,281 Responsibility Acquisition of investment properties 9,872 4,428 Acquisition of premises and equipment 162,245 131,009 Ethical Management Acquisition of intangible assets 195,929 191,161 Consumer Protection Cash out-flow related to derivatives for risk hedge 13,742 42,544 Employee Satisfaction 31,720,360 33,207,949 Social Contribution Activities Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 1,883,709 (4,225,613) Woori Smile Microcredit Cash flows from financing activities: Financial Review Cash inflows from financing activities: Increase in borrowings 9,057,999 8,259,380 Issuance of debentures 18,438,221 15,848,055 Management's Discussion and Analysis Issuance of hybrid securities 559,565 549,904 Capital increase of subsidiaries 35,841 Independent Auditors' 28,091,626 24,657,339 Report Cash outflows from financing activities: Decrease in borrowings 12,692,883 9,524,626 Organizational Chart Repayment of debentures 13,620,520 14,118,720 Payment of dividends 336,636 168,317 Global Network Dividends paid on hybrid securities 177,730 201,328 Redemption of hybrid securities 1,323,400 310,000 Dividends paid on non-controlling interests 1,554 1,286 Coporate Fact Book 28,152,723 24,324,277 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (61,097) 333,062 Woori Bank overview Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (156,393) 1,012,734 Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the period 7,591,324 6,644,055 Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (526,645) (65,465) Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Cash and cash equivalents, end of the period 6,908,286 7,591,324 Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner See accompanying notes WOORI BANK 080 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 080 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Woori Overview AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016 Message from the CEO Board of Directors WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES Corporate Governance NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company Structure AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 AND 2016 Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights 1. GENERAL Business Operations (1) Summary of the parent company Retail Banking Woori Bank (hereinafter referred to the “Bank”), which is a controlling entity in accordance with Korean Wealth Management International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”) 1110 – Consolidated Financial Statements, was Trust & Pension Business established in 1899 and is engaged in the commercial banking business under the Banking Act, trust business Corporate Banking and foreign exchange business under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Market Act. SME Banking Institutional Banking Previously, Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd., the former holding company of Woori Financial Group, Real Estate Finance established on March 27, 2001 held a 100% ownership of the Bank. Effective November 1, 2014, Woori Finance Global Business Holdings Co., Ltd. completed its merger (the “Merger”) with and into the Bank. Accordingly, the shares of the International Trade Business Bank, 597 million shares, prior to the merger, were reduced to nil in accordance with capital reduction Financial Market Business procedure, and then, in accordance with the merger ratio, the Bank newly issued 676 million shares. As a result, Investment Banking as of December 31, 2017, the common stock of the Bank amounts to 3,381,392 million Korean won. Digital Banking Risk Management During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation (“KDIC”), the majority shareholder of the Bank, sold its 187 million shares in the Bank in accordance with the contract of “Disposal of Corporate Social Woori Bank’s shares to Oligopolistic Shareholders”. In addition to the sale, during the year ended December 31, Responsibility 2017, KDIC sold additional 33 million shares. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, KDIC held 125 million shares and 158 million shares (18.43% and 23.37% ownership interest) respectively, of the Bank’s shares issued. Ethical Management Consumer Protection On June 24, 2002, Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. listed its common shares on the Korea Exchange through Employee Satisfaction public offering. In addition, on September 29, 2003, the holding company registered with the Securities and Social Contribution Activities Exchange Commission in the United States of America and, on the same day, listed its American Depositary Woori Smile Microcredit Shares on the New York Stock Exchange. As Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. was merged into the Bank, the Bank, which is the existing company, succeeded such rights and obligations as a listed company on the Korea Financial Review Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. Management's Discussion As a result of such merger, the Bank incorporated Woori Card Co., Ltd., Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd., and Analysis Woori FIS Co., Ltd., Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd., and Woori Finance Research Institute Independent Auditors' Co., Ltd. as its subsidiaries. Report The head office of the Bank is located in 51, Sogong-ro, Jung Gu, Seoul, Korea. The Bank has 876 branches and Organizational Chart offices in Korea, and 23 branches and offices overseas as of December 31, 2017. Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 081 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 081 -2Woori Overview Message from the CEO (2) The consolidated financial statements for Woori Bank and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) include the Board of Directors following subsidiaries: Corporate Governance Company Structure Percentage of ownership Financial Woori Bank Awards 2017 (%) statements News Highlights December December as of Financial Highlights Subsidiaries Main business 31, 2017 31, 2016 Location (2017) Woori Bank: Woori FIS Co., Ltd. System software development Business Operations & maintenance 100.0 100.0 Korea December 31 Woori Private Equity Asset Management Finance Retail Banking Co., Ltd. 100.0 100.0 Korea December 31 Wealth Management Woori Finance Research Institute Co., Ltd. Other service business 100.0 100.0 Korea December 31 Trust & Pension Business Woori Card Co., Ltd. Finance 100.0 100.0 Korea December 31 Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd. (*1) 59.8 Corporate Banking Other credit finance business 58.2 Korea December 31 Woori Credit Information Co., Ltd. Credit information 100.0 100.0 Korea December 31 SME Banking Woori America Bank 100.0 Finance 100.0 U.S.A. December 31 Institutional Banking Woori Global Markets Asia Limited 〃 100.0 100.0 Hong Kong December 31 Real Estate Finance Woori Bank China Limited 〃 100.0 100.0 China December 31 Global Business AO Woori Bank 〃 100.0 100.0 Russia December 31 International Trade Business PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 December 31 Financial Market Business Tbk(*1) 79.9 74.0 Indonesia 〃 Banco Woori Bank do Brasil S.A. 100.0 December 31 Investment Banking 〃 100.0 Brazil Korea BTL Infrastructure Fund 〃 99.9 99.9 Korea December 31 Digital Banking Woori Fund Service Co., Ltd. 100.0 〃 100.0 Korea December 31 Risk Management Woori Finance Cambodia PLC. 〃 100.0 100.0 Cambodia December 31 Woori Finance Myanmar Co., Ltd. 〃 100.0 100.0 Myanmar December 31 Corporate Social Wealth Development Bank 〃 51.0 51.0 Philippines December 31 Responsibility Woori Bank Vietnam Limited 〃 100.0 100.0 Vietnam December 31 Kumho Trust First Co., Ltd. (*2) Asset securitization 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Ethical Management Asiana Saigon Inc. (*2) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Consumer Protection An-Dong Raja First Co., Ltd. (*6) 〃 0.0 Korea Employee Satisfaction Consus Eighth Co., LLC (*2) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Social Contribution Activities KAMCO Value Recreation First 〃 Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*2) 15.0 Woori Smile Microcredit 15.0 Korea December 31 Hermes STX Co., Ltd. (*2) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 BWL First Co., LLC (*2) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Financial Review Woori Poongsan Co., Ltd. (*6) 〃 0.0 Korea Deogi Dream Fourth Co., Ltd. (*2) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Management's Discussion Jeonju Iwon Ltd. (*2) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 and Analysis Wonju I one Inc. (*2) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Independent Auditors' Heitz Third Co., Ltd. (*2) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Report Woorihansoop 1st Co., Ltd. (*2) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Electric Cable First Co., Ltd (*2) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Organizational Chart Woori International First Co., Ltd. (*2) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Woori HJ First Co., Ltd. (*2) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Woori WEBST 1st Co., Ltd. (*2) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 Global Network HNLD 1st Inc.(*2) 0.0 〃 Korea December 31 Wibihansoop 1st Co., Ltd. (*2) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 Coporate Fact Book HNLD 1st Inc.(*2) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 Uri QS 1st Co., Ltd (*2) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 Woori Bank overview Uri Display 1st Co., Ltd.(*2) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 Vision & Core Values Tiger Eyes 2nd Co., Ltd.(*2) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 119 Years of History Woori Serveone 1st Co., Ltd. (*2) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 Corporate Governance HeungkukWoori Tech Company Private Securities investment and others Financial Highlights Placement Investment Trust No.1 and 5 Global Networks beneficiary certificates (*3) Korea December 31 Principle Guaranteed Trust (*4) Trust December 31 Global Networks Strategy 0.0 0.0 Korea Principle and Interest Guaranteed Trust (*4) 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Digital Strategy 〃 Woori Bank and Woori Private Equity Asset A Trust-worthy Partner Management Co., Ltd.: Woori Private Equity Fund (*5) Other financial business 31.9 Korea Woori Private Equity Fund: Woori EL Co., Ltd. (*5) Other financial business 100.0 Korea WOORI BANK 082 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 082 -3Woori Overview Message from the CEO Percentage of ownership Financial Board of Directors (%) statements Corporate Governance December December as of Company Structure Subsidiaries Main business 31, 2017 31, 2016 Location (2017) Woori Investment Bank: Woori Bank Awards 2017 Dongwoo First Securitization Specialty Co., News Highlights Ltd. (*2) Asset securitization 5.0 5.0 Korea December 31 Financial Highlights Seari First Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*2) Asset securitization 5.0 Korea December 31 Business Operations Namjong 1st Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*2) 〃 5.0 Korea December 31 Bukgeum First Securitization Specialty Co., Retail Banking Ltd. (*2) 〃 5.0 Korea December 31 Wealth Management Woori Card Co., Ltd.: Trust & Pension Business TUTU Finance-WCI Myanmar Co., Ltd. Finance 100.0 100.0 Myanmar December 31 Woori Card one of 2017-1 Securitization Corporate Banking Specialty Co., Ltd. (*2) Asset securitization 0.5 Korea December 31 SME Banking Woori Card one of 2017-2 Securitization Institutional Banking Specialty Co., Ltd. (*2) 〃 0.5 Korea December 31 Real Estate Finance Global Business (*1) The ownership ratio has been increased, attributed to unequal capital increase of the subsidiary. International Trade Business (*2) The entity was a structured entity for the purpose of asset securitization and was in scope for consolidation. Financial Market Business Although the Group is not a majority shareholder, the Group 1) had the power over the investee, 2) was exposed, Investment Banking or had rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and 3) had the ability to use its power to affect its returns. Digital Banking (*3) The entity was a structured entity for the purpose of investment in securities and was in scope for consolidation, Risk Management considering that the Group 1) had the power over the investee, 2) was exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and 3) had the ability to use its power to affect its returns. Corporate Social (*4) The entity was a money trust under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act and was in scope Responsibility for consolidation. Although the Group was not a majority shareholder, the Group 1) had the power over the investee, 2) was exposed, or had rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and 3) had the Ethical Management ability to use its power to affect its returns. Consumer Protection (*5) Due to liquidation of Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd., the entity was excluded from Employee Satisfaction subsidiaries during the year ended December 31, 2017. Social Contribution Activities (*6) Due to liquidation for the years ended as of December 31, 2017, the entity was excluded from the scope for consolidation. Woori Smile Microcredit (3) As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, despite having more than a 50% ownership interest, the Group has not Financial Review consolidated the following companies as the Group does not have the ability to control following subsidiaries: Management's Discussion and Analysis As of December 31, 2017 Independent Auditors' Main Percentage of Report Subsidiaries Location Business ownership (%) Golden Bridge NHN Online Private Equity Investment (*) Korea Securities Investment 60.0 Organizational Chart Mirae Asset Maps Clean Water Private Equity Investment Trust 7th (*) Korea Securities Investment 59.7 Kiwoom Yonsei Private Equity Investment Trust (*) Korea Securities Investment 88.9 Global Network Hana Walmart Real Estate Investment Trust 41-1 (*) Korea Securities Investment 90.1 IGIS Global Private Placement Real Estate Fund No. 148-1 (*) Korea Securities Investment 75.0 IGIS Global Private Placement Real Estate Fund No. 148-2 (*) Korea Securities Investment 75.0 Coporate Fact Book (*) The Group owns the majority ownership interest in these structured entities, but has no power on the investees’ Woori Bank overview relevant activities. As results, it is deemed that the Group has no power or control on the structured entities. Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History As of December 31, 2016 Corporate Governance Main Percentage of Financial Highlights Subsidiaries Location Business ownership (%) Global Networks Golden Bridge NHN Online Private Equity Investment (*) Korea Securities Investment 60.0 Global Networks Strategy Mirae Asset Maps Clean Water Private Equity Investment Trust 7th (*) Korea Securities Investment 59.7 Digital Strategy Kiwoom Yonsei Private Equity Investment Trust (*) Korea Securities Investment 88.9 A Trust-worthy Partner Kiwoom Frontier Professional Investment Private Fund 6(Bond) (*) Korea Securities Investment 50.0 (*) The Group owns the majority ownership interest in these structured entities, but has no power on the investees’ relevant activities. As results, it is deemed that the Group has no power or control on the structured entities. WOORI BANK 083 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 083 -4Woori Overview Message from the CEO (4) The summarized financial information before the elimination of intercompany transactions of the Board of Directors subsidiaries whose financial information was prepared under K-IFRS for the Group’s consolidated financial Corporate Governance statements is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 As of and for the year ended December 31, 2017 News Highlights Net income Comprehensive Financial Highlights (loss) income (loss) Operating attributable to attributable to Business Operations Assets Liabilities revenue owners owners Woori FIS Co., Ltd. 103,932 71,386 252,460 1,940 (2,963) Retail Banking Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd. 42,894 2,670 7,257 (4,114) (4,074) Wealth Management Woori Finance Research Institute Co., Ltd. 3,790 350 4,733 83 64 Trust & Pension Business Woori Card Co., Ltd. 8,605,993 6,973,705 1,771,157 101,214 107,321 Corporate Banking Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd. 1,880,157 1,588,610 183,376 20,023 20,210 SME Banking Woori Credit Information Co., Ltd. 33,298 6,175 31,580 861 752 Institutional Banking Woori America Bank 1,954,301 1,679,248 81,337 11,869 (16,833) Real Estate Finance Woori Global Markets Asia Limited 290,226 178,343 11,345 1,922 (12,544) Global Business Woori Bank (China) Limited 4,960,637 4,458,683 388,913 13,809 (15,252) International Trade Business AO Woori Bank 201,704 149,101 15,656 4,748 1,217 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Financial Market Business Tbk 2,230,617 1,745,171 192,485 38,488 (18,689) Investment Banking Banco Woori Bank do Brasil S.A. 213,889 181,544 20,455 1,843 (2,840) Digital Banking Korea BTL Infrastructure Fund 786,480 301 30,240 26,390 26,390 Risk Management Woori Fund Service Co., Ltd. 12,653 1,242 9,021 1,398 1,398 Woori Finance Cambodia PLC. 51,304 32,873 5,895 983 (473) Corporate Social Woori Finance Myanmar Co., Ltd. 18,236 5,307 2,506 791 15 Responsibility Wealth Development Bank 191,049 156,808 13,632 1,323 (1,093) Woori Bank Vietnam Limited 775,758 632,160 29,698 2,436 (15,347) Ethical Management Money trust under the FISCM Act (*) 1,560,672 1,530,760 44,344 582 582 Consumer Protection Structured entity for the securitization of financial assets 867,583 1,275,719 22,730 1,179 (2,800) Employee Satisfaction Structured entity for the investments in Social Contribution Activities securities 34,939 76 377 (475) (38,592) Woori Smile Microcredit (*) FISCM Act: Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act Financial Review As of and for the year ended December 31, 2016 Management's Discussion Net income Comprehensive and Analysis (loss) income (loss) Independent Auditors' Operating attributable to attributable to Report Assets Liabilities revenue owners owners Woori FIS Co., Ltd. 141,329 105,821 244,783 1,048 1,432 Organizational Chart Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd. 97,338 53,244 2,154 312 219 Woori Finance Research Institute Co., Global Network Ltd. 3,710 334 4,445 108 100 Woori Card Co., Ltd. 7,606,108 6,180,893 1,555,373 109,393 116,381 Coporate Fact Book Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd. 1,576,627 1,404,566 178,572 23,872 23,897 Woori Credit Information 31,292 4,416 27,884 543 618 Woori Bank overview Woori America Bank 2,186,049 1,973,263 73,909 15,266 20,899 Vision & Core Values Woori Global Markets Asia Limited 272,008 147,581 7,255 1,863 5,582 119 Years of History Woori Bank (China) Limited 4,984,017 4,466,812 475,174 32,025 11,505 Corporate Governance AO Woori Bank 239,860 188,474 16,221 5,650 15,553 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Financial Highlights Tbk 2,089,822 1,693,111 179,014 24,573 48,542 Global Networks Banco Woori Bank do Brasil S.A. 241,229 206,043 17,059 2,786 9,600 Global Networks Strategy Korea BTL Infrastructure Fund 784,770 299 33,476 29,617 29,617 Digital Strategy Woori Fund Service Co., Ltd. 11,386 1,372 7,787 1,011 1,011 A Trust-worthy Partner Woori Finance Cambodia PLC. 32,405 24,751 4,545 1,250 1,494 Woori Finance Myanmar Co., Ltd. 4,305 2,651 380 (613) (569) Wealth Development Bank 209,779 174,446 12,519 1,248 1,876 Woori Bank Vietnam Limited 159,223 278 (346) 3,545 Money trust under the FISCM Act (*) 1,525,145 1,495,815 55,540 697 697 WOORI BANK 084 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 084 -5Woori Overview Message from the CEO As of and for the year ended December 31, 2016 Board of Directors Net income Comprehensive Corporate Governance (loss) income (loss) Company Structure Operating attributable to attributable to Woori Bank Awards 2017 Assets Liabilities revenue owners owners News Highlights Structured entity for the securitization of Financial Highlights financial assets 487,431 895,824 29,480 6,912 7,138 Structured entity for the investments in securities 4,397,163 1,898,977 137,896 56,605 61,535 Business Operations (*) FISCM Act: Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act Retail Banking Wealth Management (5) The financial support that the Group provides to consolidated structured entities is as follows: Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking Structured entity for the securitization of financial assets SME Banking Institutional Banking The structured entity is established for the purpose of securitization of project financing loans, corporate Real Estate Finance bonds, and other financial assets. The Group is involved with the structured entity through providing Global Business with credit facility over asset-backed commercial papers issued by the entity, originating loans directly International Trade Business to the structured entity, or purchasing 100% of the subordinated debts issued by the structured entity. Financial Market Business Investment Banking Structured entity for the investments in securities Digital Banking Risk Management The structured entity is established for the purpose of investments in securities. The Group acquires beneficiary certificates through its contribution of fund to the structured entity, and it is exposed to the Corporate Social risk that it may not be able to recover its fund depending on the result of investment performance of Responsibility asset managers of the structured entity. Ethical Management Money trust under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction The Group provides with financial guarantee of principal and interest or principal only to some of its Social Contribution Activities trust products. Due to the financial guarantees, the Group may be obliged to supplement when the Woori Smile Microcredit principal and interest or principal of the trust product sold is short of the guaranteed amount depending on the result of investment performance of the trust product. Financial Review (6) The details of the limitations with regard to the transfer of assets or the redemption of liabilities within the Management's Discussion Group are provided below. and Analysis Independent Auditors' Some subsidiaries are regulated by the rules of the jurisdictions, in which they were incorporated, with Report regard to funding or management of deposits. Also, there is the limitation that they must have pre-approval from their regulators in case of remittance of earnings to the Group. Organizational Chart (7) The Group has entered into various agreements with structured entities such as asset securitization vehicles, Global Network structured finance and investment funds, and monetary funds. Where it is determined in accordance with KIFRS 1110 that the Group has no controlling power over such structured entities, the entities are not Coporate Fact Book consolidated. The nature of interests, which the Group retains, and the risks, to which the Group is exposed, of the unconsolidated structured entities are as follows: Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values The interests to unconsolidated structured entities, which the Group retains, are classified to asset 119 Years of History securitization vehicles, structured finance and investment fund, based on the nature and the purpose of the Corporate Governance structured entities. Financial Highlights Global Networks Asset securitization vehicle issues asset-backed securities and redeems the principal and interest or Global Networks Strategy distributes dividends on asset-backed securities with profits from collecting cash flows or sale of Digital Strategy securitized assets. The Group, as a secondary guarantor, provides purchase commitments for its assetA Trust-worthy Partner backed securities or guarantees to such asset securitization vehicle and recognizes commission income or interest income related to the commitment or guarantees. Therefore, the Group would be exposed to risks to purchases or pays back asset-backed securities issued by the vehicles when a primary guarantor fails to provide the financing asset securitization vehicles. WOORI BANK 085 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 085 -6Woori Overview Message from the CEO Structured finance includes investments in project financing on real estates, social overhead capital Board of Directors (“SOC”), infrastructure and shipping finance. They are formed as special purpose entity by funding through Corporate Governance equity investments and loans from various investors. Investment decisions are made by the Group based on Company Structure business outlook of such projects. In relation to such investments, the Group recognizes interest income on Woori Bank Awards 2017 loans, gains or losses on valuation of equity investments or dividend income. The structured finance is News Highlights secured by additional funding agreement, guarantee or credit facilities. However, the structured financing Financial Highlights project would fail to return the capital of equity investments or principal of loans to the Group if it is discontinued or did not achieve business outcome. Business Operations Investment funds include trusts and private equity funds. A trust is formed by contributions from various Retail Banking investors, operated by a manager engaged to the trust and distributed proceeds from sales of investments to Wealth Management the investors. A private equity fund is established in order to acquire ownership interests in a portfolio Trust & Pension Business company with exit strategy after implementing financial and operational restructuring of the company. The Corporate Banking Group recognizes unrealized gains or losses on change in value of investments in proposition of ownership SME Banking interests in investments. The Group would be exposed to risks of loss when the value of portfolio Institutional Banking investment is decreased. Real Estate Finance Global Business Total assets of the unconsolidated structured entities, the carrying value of the related items recorded, the International Trade Business maximum exposure to risks, and the loss recognized in conjunction with the unconsolidated structured Financial Market Business entities as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Investment Banking Digital Banking December 31, 2017 Risk Management Asset securitization Structured Investment vehicle finance Funds Corporate Social Total asset of the unconsolidated structured entities 7,295,601 40,172,830 13,641,135 Responsibility Assets recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to the unconsolidated structured entities 3,215,159 2,314,043 1,138,523 Ethical Management Loans and receivables 43,180 1,969,760 Consumer Protection Financial assets held for trading 233,428 10,160 Employee Satisfaction Available-for-sale financial assets 902,390 106,819 904,774 Social Contribution Activities Held-to-maturity financial assets 2,269,451 Woori Smile Microcredit Investments in joint ventures and associates 223,589 Derivative assets 138 4,036 Liabilities recognized in the consolidated financial statements Financial Review related to the unconsolidated structured entities 1,433 1,506 Derivative liabilities 575 968 Management's Discussion Other liabilities (including provisions) 858 538 and Analysis The maximum exposure to risks 4,032,531 2,918,448 1,138,523 Independent Auditors' Investments 3,215,159 2,314,043 1,138,523 Report Credit facilities 817,372 604,405 Loss recognized on unconsolidated structured entities 837 3,939 5,993 Organizational Chart December 31, 2016 Global Network Asset securitization Structured Investment Coporate Fact Book vehicle finance Funds Total asset of the unconsolidated structured entities 8,426,713 61,324,862 9,131,362 Woori Bank overview Assets recognized in the consolidated financial statements related Vision & Core Values to the unconsolidated structured entities 3,361,910 2,790,215 1,749,494 Loans and receivables 65,470 2,414,044 119 Years of History Financial assets held for trading 254,150 Corporate Governance Available-for-sale financial assets 1,216,446 115,843 1,664,865 Financial Highlights Held-to-maturity financial assets 2,079,648 Global Networks Investments in joint ventures and associates 84,629 Global Networks Strategy Derivative assets 346 6,178 Digital Strategy Liabilities recognized in the consolidated financial statements A Trust-worthy Partner related to the unconsolidated structured entities 1,363 1,224 Derivative liabilities 201 362 Other liabilities (including provisions) 1,162 862 The maximum exposure to risks 4,263,993 3,802,210 1,749,494 Investments 3,361,910 2,790,215 1,749,494 Purchase agreements 28,000 WOORI BANK 086 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 086 -7Woori Overview Message from the CEO December 31, 2016 Board of Directors Asset Corporate Governance securitization Structured Investment Company Structure vehicle finance Funds Woori Bank Awards 2017 Credit facilities 834,083 970,195 News Highlights Other commitments 40,000 41,800 Loss recognized on unconsolidated structured entities 6,353 71,185 683 Financial Highlights Business Operations (8) Subsidiaries of which non-controlling interests are significant to the Group’s consolidated financial statements are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Retail Banking Wealth Management 1) Accumulated non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 SME Banking Woori Investment Bank 119,111 73,986 Institutional Banking PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 64,877 70,249 Real Estate Finance Wealth Development Bank 16,778 16,983 Global Business International Trade Business 2) Net income attributable to non-controlling interests Financial Market Business Investment Banking For the year ended For the year ended Digital Banking December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Risk Management Woori Investment Bank 8,370 9,990 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 8,882 6,383 Corporate Social Wealth Development Bank 648 611 Responsibility 3) Dividends to non-controlling interests Ethical Management For the year ended For the year ended Consumer Protection December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Employee Satisfaction PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 1,513 1,242 Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review 2. BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Management's Discussion and Analysis (1) Basis of presentation Independent Auditors' Report The Group’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with K-IFRS. Organizational Chart The significant accounting policies that have been applied for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 are described below, and the significant accounting policies Global Network are the same as the accounting policies applied for the preparation of the previous year’s consolidated financial statements, except the impacts from the adoptions of accounting standards or interpretations which are explained Coporate Fact Book below. Woori Bank overview The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared based on the historical cost method except for Vision & Core Values specific non-current assets and certain financial assets or liabilities reported at fair value. The historical cost is 119 Years of History generally measured by fair value of acquired assets. Corporate Governance Financial Highlights The consolidated financial statements of the Group were approved by the board of directors on March 2, 2018. Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 087 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 087 -8Woori Overview Message from the CEO 1) The Group has newly adopted the following amendment to K-IFRS that affected the Group’s accounting Board of Directors policies. Corporate Governance Company Structure Amendments to K-IFRS 1007 – Statement of Cash Flows Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights The amendments require an entity to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate Financial Highlights changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including both cash and non-cash changes. Additional disclosure required related to the first time application of these amendments in the current year are in note 6. Business Operations Consistent with the transition provisions of the amendments, the Group has not disclosed comparative information for the prior period. Apart from the additional disclosure in note 6, the application of these Retail Banking amendments has no material impact on the disclosures or the amounts recognized in the Group’s Wealth Management consolidated financial statements. Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking Amendments to K-IFRS 1012 – Income Taxes SME Banking Institutional Banking The amendments clarify that in evaluating the deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary Real Estate Finance difference of debt instruments measured at fair value, the carrying amount of an asset does not limit the Global Business estimation of probable future taxable profits. The application of these amendments has no material impact on International Trade Business the disclosures or the amounts recognized in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Financial Market Business Investment Banking Other than the amendment stated above, there are several annual improvements in the current period, but the Digital Banking application of the amendments has had no material effect on the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Risk Management 2) The Group has not applied the following K-IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective: Corporate Social Responsibility Enactments to K-IFRS 1109 – Financial Instruments Ethical Management The standards include the requirements for the classification and measurement of financial instruments based Consumer Protection on their business model whose objective is achieved both by collecting contractual cash flows and selling Employee Satisfaction financial assets and based on the contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows, impairment Social Contribution Activities methodology based on the expected credit losses, broadened types of instruments that qualify as hedging Woori Smile Microcredit instruments, the types of risk components of non-financial items that are eligible for hedge accounting and the change in the hedge effectiveness test. This standards supersedes K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Financial Review Recognition and Measurement, and will be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. Management's Discussion In principle, K-IFRS 1109 must be applied retrospectively. However, there are certain exemptions to the and Analysis application of retroactive approach such as presenting comparative information on classification, Independent Auditors' measurement and impairment of financial instruments. In addition, K-IFRS 1109 are applied prospectively Report for hedge accounting with exceptions such as accounting for the time value of options. The Group has completed the implementation of the design of the internal controls and/or financial reporting Organizational Chart processes related to the presentation of financial instruments in order to adopt K-IFRS 1109. The Group has completed a financial impact analysis on the 2017 financial statements based on available information as of Global Network year-end in order to determine the impact of adopting K-IFRS 1109 for the first time. The expected financial impact of each key issue on the financial statement, is as follows. Coporate Fact Book a) Classification and Measurement of Financial Instruments Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values When K-IFRS 1109 is adopted, all recognized financial assets that in scope are subsequently measured at 119 Years of History either amortized cost, fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI), or fair value through profit Corporate Governance or loss (FVTPL) as shown below, based on the business model for managing financial assets and based on Financial Highlights the nature of contractual cash flows arising from the financial assets. Also, when hybrid contracts contain Global Networks financial asset as its host contract, the embedded derivative will not be bifurcated as the whole hybrid Global Networks Strategy contract would be classified as a financial asset. Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 088 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 088 -9Woori Overview Message from the CEO Business Model Board of Directors Corporate Governance Collection of the Collection of the contractual Nature of Sale of asset, others Company Structure the contractual cash flow contractual cashflow cashflow and sale of asset Woori Bank Awards 2017 Principal and Interest only Amortized Cost(*1) FVTOCI(*1) FVTPL News Highlights Financial Highlights Other than the above FVTPL(*2) Business Operations (*1) An irrevocable election is available to designate a financial asset to be classified as FVTPL, for the Retail Banking purpose of eliminating or reducing accounting discrepancies. Wealth Management (*2) For equity securities held for purposes other than short-term trading, an irrevocable election is Trust & Pension Business available to designate them as FVTOCI financial assets. Corporate Banking SME Banking As the requirements to classify a financial asset as either amortized cost or FVTPL are more stringent in KInstitutional Banking IFRS 1109 than in K-IFRS 1039, the variability of net income may increase as the amount of FVTPL Real Estate Finance financial assets is increased due to the adoption of K-IFRS 1109. Global Business International Trade Business As of year-end the Group currently holds loans and receivables amounting to 267,106,204 million Won, Financial Market Business held-to-maturity financial assets amounting to 16,749,296 million Won, available-for-sale financial assets Investment Banking amounting to 15,352,950 million Won, and FVTPL financial assets amounting to 2,727,303 million Won. Digital Banking Risk Management According to K-IFRS 1109, a financial asset may be measured at amortized cost only when its cashflows are solely principal and interest on specified dates on the contract and when the purpose of holding such asset is Corporate Social only to receive the contractual cashflows. As of year-end the Group holds loans and receivables amounting to Responsibility 267,106,204 million Won and held-to-maturity financial assets amounting to 16,749,296 million Won which are measured at amortized cost. This amount includes 51,653 million Won of hybrid contracts in which the Ethical Management host contract, after separating the embedded derivatives, is a debt security. Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction The estimated impact on the classification and measurement of Group’s financial assets (except derivatives) Social Contribution Activities as of year-end is presented as follows. The following information is constructed from the accounting system Woori Smile Microcredit for financial instruments built for the purpose of adopting K-IFRS 1109. Financial Review (Unit : Korean Won in millions) Management's Discussion Classification Classification Amount per Amount per and Analysis Accounts per K-IFRS 1039 per K-IFRS 1109 K-IFRS 1039 K-IFRS 1109 Independent Auditors' Deposits Loans and receivables Amortized cost 8,870,835 8,870,835 Report Deposits Financial assets at FVTPL FVTPL 25,972 25,972 Organizational Chart Debt securities Financial assets at FVTPL FVTPL 2,654,027 2,654,027 Debt securities AFS financial assets FVTPL 46,855 46,855 Global Network Debt securities AFS financial assets FVTOCI 12,874,209 12,874,209 Coporate Fact Book Debt securities AFS financial assets Amortized cost 308,181 322,300 Debt securities Held-to-maturity financial Woori Bank overview assets Amortized cost 16,749,296 16,749,296 Vision & Core Values Equity securities Financial assets at FVTPL FVTPL 47,304 47,304 119 Years of History Equity securities AFS financial assets FVTPL 1,273,498 1,274,716 Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Equity securities AFS financial assets FVTOCI 850,207 850,207 Global Networks Loans Loans and receivables FVTPL 279,032 280,001 Global Networks Strategy Loans Loans and receivables Amortized cost 253,014,491 253,014,491 Digital Strategy Other financial A Trust-worthy Partner assets Loans and receivables Amortized cost 6,772,088 6,772,088 Total financial assets except derivatives 303,765,995 303,782,301 WOORI BANK 089 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 089 10 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Among the financial assets measured at amortized cost, loans and receivables and held-to-maturity financial Board of Directors assets amounting to 279,032 million Won and AFS financial assets amounting to 1,320,353 million Won Corporate Governance would be reclassified to FVTPL financial assets as a result of adopting K-IFRS 1109. Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 b) Classification and Measurement of Financial Liabilities News Highlights Financial Highlights According to the K-IFRS 1109, the amount of changes in the fair value of financial liabilities measured at FVTPL due to changes in credit risk is presented as part of other comprehensive income, and such amount is Business Operations not recycled subsequently in profit or loss. However, when recognizing the fair value changes in other comprehensive income causes or magnifies accounting discrepancies, the amount is recognized in profit or Retail Banking loss instead. Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business As of year-end the Group holds financial liabilities amounting to 295,386,968 million Won, and out of this Corporate Banking amount 251,796 million Won has been designated as FVTPL financial liabilities. In relation to these financial SME Banking liabilities, the increase in fair value amounting to 31,275 million Won has been recognized as losses in the Institutional Banking current period. Real Estate Finance Global Business The results of the analysis conducted to determine the financial impact of applying K-IFRS 1109 on FVTPL International Trade Business financial liabilities as of year-end show that the cumulative changes in fair value of FVTPL financial Financial Market Business liabilities as a result of changes in credit risk amounted to 133 million Won. Investment Banking Digital Banking c) Impairment: Financial assets and Contract assets Risk Management K-IFRS 1109 requires the recognition of allowance for expected credit losses for debt instruments, lease Corporate Social receivables, contract assets, loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts measured at either Responsibility amortized cost or FVTPL. Ethical Management The allowance to be recognized under K-IFRS 1109 is the amount of expected 12-month credit loss or the Consumer Protection expected lifetime credit loss, according to the 3 stages of credit risk deterioration since initial recognition as Employee Satisfaction shown below. Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Credit risk has Financial Review Credit risk has not significantly significantly increased since initial increased since initial Credit has been Management's Discussion and Analysis recognition(*) recognition impaired Independent Auditors' Expected 12-month credit losses: Expected lifetime credit losses: Report Allowance Expected credit losses due to Expected credit losses from all possible for expected possible defaults on financial defaults during the expected lifetime of the Organizational Chart credit losses instruments within 12-month financial instruments. period from the year-end. Global Network (*) Credit risk may be considered to not have been significantly increased when credit risk is low at year-end. Coporate Fact Book Meanwhile, for financial assets already impaired at initial recognition, the allowance for expected credit Woori Bank overview losses per K-IFRS 1109 is the amount of cumulative changes in the expected lifetime credit losses after its Vision & Core Values initial recognition. 119 Years of History Corporate Governance As of year-end the Group holds loans and receivables amounting to 267,106,204 million Won in accordance Financial Highlights with K-IFRS 1039. In relation to this am ount, the Group has recognized allowance for credit losses Global Networks amounting to 1,830,242 million Won. Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy The expected impact on the allowance for credit losses as of year-end using the Group’s system for A Trust-worthy Partner allowances is as follows. WOORI BANK 090 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 090 11 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (Unit : Korean Won in millions) Board of Directors Corporate Governance Allowance for credit losses Allowance for credit losses Accounts Increases(B-A) Company Structure per K-IFRS 1039(A) per K-IFRS 1109 (B) Woori Bank Awards 2017 Deposits 2,458 3,092 634 News Highlights Debt securities 9,331 9,331 Financial Highlights AFS debt securities 4,253 4,253 Business Operations Held-to-maturity debt securities 5,078 5,078 Retail Banking Loan receivables Wealth Management and other Trust & Pension Business financial assets 1,827,785 2,075,752 247,967 Corporate Banking SME Banking Guarantees 183,247 192,376 9,129 Institutional Banking Loan Real Estate Finance commitments 66,115 104,887 38,772 Global Business Total 2,079,605 2,385,438 305,833 International Trade Business Financial Market Business d) Hedge accounting Investment Banking Digital Banking The requirements for hedge accounting in K-IFRS 1109 has become more lenient as compared to K-IFRS Risk Management 1039. That is, more financial instruments may now be considered to be a hedged item and/or a hedging instrument, the quantitative basis for evaluating high hedge effectiveness (80~125%) has been abolished, and Corporate Social the retroactive assessment requirement has also been abolished. These allow the firms to concentrate on Responsibility hedging activities. Ethical Management There are no significant impacts to the Group’s financial statements related to hedge accounting as a result of Consumer Protection adopting K-IFRS 1109. Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Enactments to K-IFRS 1115 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers Woori Smile Microcredit The core principle under K-IFRS 1115 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of Financial Review promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The amendments introduces a 5-step approach Management's Discussion to revenue recognition and measurement: 1) Identify the contract with a customer, 2) Identify the and Analysis performance obligations in the contract, 3) Determine the transaction price, 4) Allocate the transaction price Independent Auditors' to the performance obligations in the contract, 5) Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a Report performance obligation. This standard will supersede K-IFRS 1011 Construction Contracts, K-IFRS 1018Revenue, K-IFRS 2113 Customer Loyalty Programmes, K-IFRS 2115-Agreements for the Construction of Organizational Chart Real Estate, K-IFRS 2118 Transfers of Assets from Customers, and K-IFRS 2031-Revenue-Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services. The enactsments are effective for annual periods beginning on Global Network or after 1 January 2018. Coporate Fact Book Enactments to K-IFRS 1116—Leases Woori Bank overview K-IFRS 16 introduces a comprehensive model for the identification of lease arrangements and accountings Vision & Core Values treatments for both lessors and lessees. K-IFRS 16 will supersede the current lease guidance including K119 Years of History IFRS 1017 Leases and the related interpretations. The enactments are effective for annual periods beginning Corporate Governance on or after 1 January 2019. Financial Highlights Global Networks K-IFRS 1116 distinguishes leases and service contracts on the basis of whether an identified asset is Global Networks Strategy controlled by a customer. Distinctions of operating leases and finance leases are removed for lessee Digital Strategy accounting, and is replaced by model where a right-of-use asset and corresponding liability have to be A Trust-worthy Partner recognized for all leases by lessees except for short-term leases and leases of low value assets. WOORI BANK 091 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 091 12 Woori Overview Message from the CEO The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost (subject to certain Board of Directors exceptions) less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, adjusted for any remeasurement of the Corporate Governance lease liability. The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not Company Structure paid at that date. Subsequently, the lease liability is adjusted for interest and lease payments, as well as the Woori Bank Awards 2017 impact of lease modifications, amongst others. Furthermore, the classification of cash flows will also be News Highlights affected as operating lease payments under K-IFRS 1017 are presented as operating cash flows; whereas Financial Highlights under the K-IFRS 1116 model, the lease payments will be split into a principal and an interest portion which will be presented as financing and operating cash flows respectively. Business Operations In contrast to lessee accounting, K-IFRS 1116 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting Retail Banking requirements in K-IFRS 1017, and continues to require a lessor to classify a lease either as an operating lease Wealth Management or a finance lease. Furthermore, extensive disclosures are required by K-IFRS 1116. Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking In contrast, 1) for finance leases where the Group is a lessee and 2) in cases where the Group is a lessor, the SME Banking Group do not anticipate that the application of K-IFRS 1116 will have a significant impact on the amounts Institutional Banking recognized in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Real Estate Finance Global Business Amendments to K-IFRS 1102—Share-based Payment International Trade Business Financial Market Business The amendments include: 1) when measuring the fair value of share-based payment, the effects of vesting Investment Banking and non-vesting conditions on the measurement of cash-settled share-based payment should be consistent Digital Banking with the measurement of equity-settled share-based payment, 2) Share-based payment transaction in which Risk Management the Group settles the share-based payment arrangement net by withholding a specified portion of the equity instruments per statutory tax withholding requirements would be classified as equity-settled in its entirety, if Corporate Social otherwise would be classified as equity-settled without the net settlement feature, and 3) when a cash-settled Responsibility share-based payment changes to an equity-settled share-based payment because of modifications of the terms and conditions, the original liability recognized is derecognized and the equity-settled share-based payment is Ethical Management recognized at the modification date fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the liability at Consumer Protection the modification date and the amount recognized in equity at the same date would be recognized in profit and Employee Satisfaction loss immediately. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Amendments to K-IFRS 1040—Transfers of Investment Property Financial Review The amendments clarify that a transfer to, or from, investment property necessitates an assessment of whether a property meets, or has ceased to meet, the definition of investment property, supported by Management's Discussion observable evidence that a change in use has occurred. The amendments further clarify that situations other and Analysis than the ones listed in K-IFRS 1040 may evidence a change in use, and that a change in use is possible for Independent Auditors' properties under construction (i.e. a change in use is not limited to completed properties). Report The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018 with earlier application permitted. Entities can apply the amendments either retrospectively (if this is possible without the Organizational Chart use of hindsight) or prospectively. Global Network Enactments to K-IFRS 2122—Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration Coporate Fact Book The interpretation addresses how to determine the ‘date of transaction’ for the purpose of determining the exchange rate to use on initial recognition of an asset, expense or income, when consideration for that item Woori Bank overview has been paid or received in advance in a foreign currency which resulted in the recognition of a nonVision & Core Values monetary asset or non-monetary liability (e.g. a non-refundable deposit or deferred revenue). 119 Years of History Corporate Governance The interpretation specifies that the date of transaction is the date on which the entity initially recognizes the Financial Highlights non-monetary asset on non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration. Global Networks If there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the interpretation requires an entity to determine the Global Networks Strategy date of transaction for each payment or receipt of advance consideration. Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner The interpretation is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018 with earlier application permitted. Entities can apply the interpretation either retrospectively or prospectively. Specific transition provisions apply to prospective application. WOORI BANK 092 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 092 13 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Annual Improvements to K-IFRS 2014-2016 Cycle Board of Directors Corporate Governance The amendments include partial amendments to K-IFRS 1101 ‘First-time Adoption of K-IFRS’ and K-IFRS Company Structure 1028 ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.’ Amendments to K-IFRS 1028 provide that an investment Woori Bank Awards 2017 company such as a venture capital investment vehicle may selectively designate each of its investment in News Highlights associates and/or joint ventures to be measured at FVTPL, and that such designation must be made at the time Financial Highlights of each investment’s initial recognition. In addition, when non-investment companies apply equity method to investment in associates and/or joint ventures that are investment companies, these companies may apply the Business Operations same fair value measurement used by the said associates to value their own subsidiaries. This accounting treatment may be selectively applied to each associate. These amendments should be applied retrospectively Retail Banking and are available for early adoption. Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The Group is neither a Corporate Banking venture capital investment vehicle nor is adopting K-IFRS for the first time, thus it is expected that the SME Banking amendments explained above will not affect the Group’s financial statements. Furthermore, the Group does not Institutional Banking own shares of an associate or a joint venture that are classified as investment companies. Real Estate Finance Global Business The Group is in the process of evaluating the impact of the above-mentioned amendments in the consolidated International Trade Business financial statements. Financial Market Business Investment Banking (2) Basis of consolidated financial statement presentation Digital Banking Risk Management The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Bank and the entities (including structured entities) controlled by the Bank (and its subsidiaries, that is the Group). Control is achieved where the Corporate Social Group 1) has the power over the investee, 2) is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement Responsibility with the investee, and 3) has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three Ethical Management elements of control listed above. Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction When the Group has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, it has power over the investee when Social Contribution Activities the voting rights are sufficient to give it the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee Woori Smile Microcredit unilaterally. The Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether or not the Group's voting rights in an investee are sufficient to give it power, including: Financial Review • The relative size of the Group's holding of voting rights and dispersion of holdings of the other vote Management's Discussion holders; and Analysis • Potential voting rights held by the Group, other vote holders or other parties; Independent Auditors' • Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; Report • Any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Group has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns Organizational Chart at previous shareholders' meetings. Global Network Income and expenses of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the date the Group gains control until the date when the Group ceases Coporate Fact Book to control the subsidiary. Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owner of the Group and to the non-controlling interests. Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed Woori Bank overview to the owner of the Group and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests Vision & Core Values having a deficit balance. 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting Financial Highlights policies into line with the Group’s accounting policies. Global Networks Global Networks Strategy All intra-group transactions and, related assets and liabilities, income and expenses are eliminated in full on Digital Strategy consolidation. A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 093 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 093 14 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing control over the Board of Directors subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the Group’s interests and the nonCorporate Governance controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any Company Structure difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the Woori Bank Awards 2017 consideration paid or received is recognized directly in equity and attributed to the owner of the Group. News Highlights Financial Highlights When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii) Business Operations the previous carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), and liabilities of the subsidiary and any noncontrolling interests. When assets of the subsidiary are carried at revalued amounts or fair values and the related Retail Banking cumulative gain or loss has been recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity, the Wealth Management amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are accounted for as if Trust & Pension Business the Group had directly disposed of the relevant assets (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to Corporate Banking retained earnings). The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is SME Banking lost is recognized as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under K-IFRS 1039 Financial Institutional Banking Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment Real Estate Finance in an associate or a joint venture. Global Business International Trade Business (3) Business Combinations Financial Market Business Investment Banking Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration Digital Banking transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisitionRisk Management date fair values of the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities assumed by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. AcquisitionCorporate Social related costs are generally recognized in net income as incurred. Responsibility At the acquisition date, the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the Ethical Management condition for recognition under K-IFRS 1103 are recognized at their fair value, except that: Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction • deferred tax assets or liabilities and assets or liabilities related to employee benefit arrangements are Social Contribution Activities recognized and measured in accordance with K-IFRS 1012 Income Taxes and K-IFRS 1019 Employee Woori Smile Microcredit Benefits, respectively; • liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or shareFinancial Review based payment arrangements of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in accordance with K-IFRS 1102 Share-based Payment at the acquisition date; Management's Discussion and and Analysis • non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with K-IFRS 1105 Independent Auditors' Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured at the lower of their Report previous carrying amounts and fair value less costs to sell. Organizational Chart Any excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the Group’s previously held equity interest (if any) in the acquiree over the net of Global Network identifiable assets and liabilities assumed of the acquiree at the acquisition date is recognized as goodwill which is included in intangible assets. Coporate Fact Book If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets exceeds the Woori Bank overview sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value Vision & Core Values of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any), the excess is recognized immediately in 119 Years of History net income as a bargain purchase gain. Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of Global Networks the entity's net assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the nonGlobal Networks Strategy controlling interests' proportionate share of the recognized amounts of the acquiree's identifiable net assets. The Digital Strategy choice of measurement basis is made on a transaction-by-transaction basis. Other types of non-controlling A Trust-worthy Partner interests are measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in another K-IFRS. WOORI BANK 094 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 094 15 Woori Overview Message from the CEO When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets or liabilities resulting Board of Directors from a contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair Corporate Governance value and included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination. Changes in the fair value Company Structure of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with Woori Bank Awards 2017 corresponding adjustments against goodwill. Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from News Highlights additional information obtained during the ‘measurement period’ (which cannot exceed one year from the Financial Highlights acquisition date) about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date. Business Operations The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent Retail Banking consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent Wealth Management settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is Trust & Pension Business remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition Corporate Banking and Measurement, or K-IFRS 1037 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as appropriate, SME Banking with the corresponding gain or loss being recognized in profit or loss. Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group's previously held equity interest in the acquiree is Global Business remeasured at fair value at the acquisition date (i.e. the date when the Group obtains control) and the resulting International Trade Business gain or loss, if any, is recognized in net income. Amounts arising from changes in value of interests in the Financial Market Business acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognized in other comprehensive income are Investment Banking reclassified to net income where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of. Digital Banking In case where i) a common entity ultimately controls over all participating entities, or businesses, in business Risk Management combination transaction, prior to and after the transaction continuously, and ii) the control is not temporary, the transaction meets the definition of “business combination under common control” and it is deemed that the Corporate Social transaction only results in the changes in legal substance, not economic substance, from the perspective of the Responsibility ultimate controlling party. Thus, in such transactions, the acquirer recognizes the assets and liabilities of the acquiree on its financial statements at the book values as recognized in the ultimate controlling party’s Ethical Management consolidated financial statements, and the difference between the book value of consideration transferred to and Consumer Protection the book value of net assets transferred in is recognized as equity. Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities (4) Investments in joint ventures and associates Woori Smile Microcredit An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to Financial Review participate in making decision on the financial and operating policy of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies. Management's Discussion and Analysis A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights Independent Auditors' to net assets relating to the arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an Report arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. Organizational Chart The net income of current period and the financial results of the joint ventures and associates are incorporated in Global Network these consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance with K-IFRS 1105 Non-current Assets Coporate Fact Book Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. Under the equity method, an investment in the joint ventures and associates is initially recognized in the consolidated statements of financial position at cost and adjusted Woori Bank overview thereafter to recognize the Group's share of the net assets of the joint ventures and associates and any Vision & Core Values impairment. When the Group's share of losses of the joint ventures and associates exceeds the Group's interest in 119 Years of History the associate, the Group discontinues recognizing its share of further losses. Additional losses are recognized Corporate Governance only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of Financial Highlights the joint ventures and associates. Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group's share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, Digital Strategy liabilities and contingent liabilities of the joint ventures and associates recognized at the date of acquisition is A Trust-worthy Partner recognized as goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount of the investment. Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition is recognized immediately in net income. WOORI BANK 095 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 095 16 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Upon a loss of significant influence over the joint ventures and associates, the Group discontinues the use of the Board of Directors equity method and measures at fair value of any investment that the Group retains in the former joint ventures Corporate Governance and associates from the date when the Group loses significant influence. The fair value of the investment is Company Structure regarded as its fair value on initial recognition as a financial asset in accordance with K-IFRS 1039 Financial Woori Bank Awards 2017 Instruments; Recognition and Measurement. The Group recognized differences between the carrying amount and News Highlights fair value in net income and it is included in determination of the gain or loss on disposal of joint ventures and Financial Highlights associates. The Group accounts for all amounts recognized in other comprehensive income in relation to that joint ventures and associates on the same basis as would be required if the joint ventures and associates had Business Operations directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if a gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income by an associate would be reclassified to net income on the disposal of the related assets Retail Banking or liabilities, the Group reclassifies the gain or loss from equity to net income as a reclassification adjustment. Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business When the Group’s ownership of interest in an associate or a joint venture decreases but the Group continues to Corporate Banking maintain significant influence over an associate or a joint venture, the Group reclassifies to profit or loss the SME Banking proportion of the gain or loss that had previously been recognized in other comprehensive income relating to that Institutional Banking decrease in ownership interest if the gain or loss would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the Real Estate Finance related assets or liabilities. Meanwhile, if interest on associate or joint venture meets the definition of nonGlobal Business current asset held for sale, it is accounted for in accordance with K-IFRS 1105. International Trade Business Financial Market Business The requirements of K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement to determine whether Investment Banking there has been a loss event are applied to identify whether it is necessary to recognize any impairment loss with Digital Banking respect to the Group’s investment in the joint ventures and associates. When necessary, the entire carrying Risk Management amount of the investment (including goodwill) is tested for impairment in accordance with K-IFRS 1036 Impairment of Assets as a single asset by comparing its recoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value Corporate Social less costs to sell) with its carrying amount. Any impairment loss recognized is not allocated to any asset Responsibility (including goodwill), which forms part of the carrying amount of the investment. Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognized in accordance with K-IFRS 1036 to the extent that the recoverable amount of the Ethical Management investment subsequently increases. Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction The Group continues to use the equity method when an investment in an associate becomes an investment in a Social Contribution Activities joint venture or an investment in a joint venture becomes an investment in an associate. There is no Woori Smile Microcredit remeasurement to fair value upon such changes in ownership interests. Financial Review When a subsidiary transacts with an associate or a joint venture of the Group, profits and losses resulting from the transactions with the associate or joint venture are recognized in the Group's consolidated financial Management's Discussion statements only to the extent of interests in the associate or joint venture that are not related to the Group. and Analysis Independent Auditors' (5) Investment in joint operation Report A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have Organizational Chart rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant Global Network activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. Coporate Fact Book When the Group operates as a joint operator, it recognizes in relation to its interest in a joint operation: Woori Bank overview (a) its assets, including its share of any assets held jointly; Vision & Core Values (b) its liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly; 119 Years of History (c) its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation; Corporate Governance (d) its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation; and Financial Highlights (e) its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly. Global Networks Global Networks Strategy The Group accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to its interest in a joint operation in Digital Strategy accordance with the IFRSs applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. A Trust-worthy Partner When the Group enters into a transaction with a joint operation in which it is a joint operator, such as a sale or contribution of assets, it is conducting the transaction with the other parties to the joint operation and, as such, the Group recognizes gains and losses resulting from such a transaction only to the extent of the other parties’ interests in the joint operation. WOORI BANK 096 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 096 17 Woori Overview Message from the CEO When the Group enters into a transaction with a joint operation in which it is a joint operator, such as a purchase Board of Directors of assets, it does not recognize its share of the gains and losses until it resells those assets to a third party. Corporate Governance Company Structure (6) Revenue recognition Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights 1) Interest income Financial Highlights Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and receivables, available-for-sale or held-toBusiness Operations maturity is determined using the effective interest method. Retail Banking The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a financial asset (or group of Wealth Management financial assets) and of allocating the interest income over the expected life of the asset. The effective Trust & Pension Business interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows to the instrument's initial carrying Corporate Banking amount. Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees payable or receivable that is an SME Banking integral part of the instrument's yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees Institutional Banking and transaction costs. All contractual terms of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future Real Estate Finance cash flows. Global Business International Trade Business 2) Loan origination fees and costs Financial Market Business Investment Banking The commission fees earned on loans, which is part of the effective interest rate of loans, is accounted for Digital Banking deferred origination fees. Incremental cost related to the acquisition or disposal is accounted for deferred Risk Management origination costs, and it is amortized on the effective interest method and included in interest revenues on loans. Corporate Social Responsibility 3) Fees and commissions income Ethical Management Commitment and utilization fees are determined as a percentage of the outstanding facility. If it is unlikely Consumer Protection that a specific lending arrangement will be entered into, such fees are taken to net income over the life of Employee Satisfaction the facility otherwise they are deferred and included in the effective interest rate on the advance. Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Fees in respect of services are recognized as the right to consideration accrues through the provision of the service to the customer. The arrangements are generally contractual and the cost of providing the service is Financial Review incurred as the service is rendered. The price is usually fixed and determinable. Management's Discussion Credit card fees include commission received from merchants for processing credit card transaction and and Analysis annual fees received from credit card holders. Revenue from the commission is accrued to net income when Independent Auditors' the service performed and annual fee is deferred and recognized as income over the period of the service Report provided. Organizational Chart 4) Trust fees and compensation related to trust accounts Global Network The Group receives fees for its management of unconsolidated trust assets, which are recognized on an accrual basis when the management services are provided and earned. The Group also is entitled to receive Coporate Fact Book performance-based fees for certain trust accounts. These performance-based fees are recognized at the end of the performance period. In addition, a certain trust account which the Group guarantees to repay the Woori Bank overview principals and minimum interests of the trust account to its beneficiaries shall be included in the Vision & Core Values consolidated financial statements. The Group recognizes incomes when earned and expenses when interests 119 Years of History to be paid to beneficiaries are accrued. Corporate Governance Financial Highlights (7) Accounting for foreign currencies Global Networks Global Networks Strategy The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in Korean Won, which is the functional currency of Digital Strategy the Group. At the end of each reporting period, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies A Trust-worthy Partner are translated to the functional currency at its prevailing exchange rates at the date. Foreign exchange differences on monetary items that qualify as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge or that form part of net investment in foreign operations are recognized in equity. WOORI BANK 097 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 097 18 Woori Overview Message from the CEO A monetary available-for-sale (“AFS”) financial asset is treated as if it were carried at amortized cost in the Board of Directors foreign currency. Accordingly, for such financial assets, exchange differences resulting from retranslating Corporate Governance amortized cost are recognized in net income. Company Structure Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into Korean Woori Bank Awards 2017 Won at foreign exchange rates at the dates the values were determined. Translation differences arising on nonNews Highlights monetary items measured at fair value are recognized in net income except for differences arising on nonFinancial Highlights monetary AFS financial assets, for example equity shares, which are included in the AFS reserve in equity unless the asset is the hedged item in a fair value hedge. Business Operations The Group identifies the most appropriate functional currency for each foreign operation based on the foreign Retail Banking operation’s activities. If Korean Won is not the foreign operation’s functional currency, its assets and liabilities, Wealth Management including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into Korean Won at foreign Trust & Pension Business exchange rates at the end of each reporting date while the revenues and expenses are translated into Korean Won Corporate Banking at average exchange rates for the period unless these do not approximate to the foreign exchange rates at the SME Banking dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation are Institutional Banking recognized directly in equity and included in net income on its disposal. Real Estate Finance Global Business (8) Cash and cash equivalents International Trade Business Financial Market Business Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, demand deposits, interest-earning deposits with original Investment Banking maturities of up to 3 months of acquisition date and highly liquid investment assets that are readily convertible to Digital Banking known amounts of cash and subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Risk Management (9) Financial assets and financial liabilities Corporate Social Responsibility 1) Financial assets Ethical Management A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognized or derecognized on the trade or settlement Consumer Protection date. A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose term Employee Satisfaction requires delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or convention in the Social Contribution Activities marketplace concerned. Woori Smile Microcredit On initial recognition, financial assets are classified into financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial Review (“FVTPL”), AFS financial assets, held-to-maturity (“HTM”) and loans and receivables. Management's Discussion a) Financial assets at FVTPL: and Analysis Independent Auditors' A financial asset is classified as held for trading if: Report  it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling it in the near term; or Organizational Chart  on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking; or Global Network  it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument. Coporate Fact Book A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values  such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that 119 Years of History would otherwise arise; or Corporate Governance  the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is Financial Highlights managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group's Global Networks documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided Global Networks Strategy internally on that basis; or Digital Strategy  it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and K-IFRS 1039 Financial A Trust-worthy Partner Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL. WOORI BANK 098 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 098 19 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Financial assets designated by the Group on initial recognition as at FVTPL are recognized at fair value, Board of Directors with transaction costs recognized in net income, and are subsequently measured at fair value. Gains and Corporate Governance losses on financial assets that are designated as at FVTPL are recognized in net income as they arise. Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 b) AFS financial assets: News Highlights Financial Highlights Financial assets that are not classified as HTM, financial assets at FVTPL, or loans and receivables, are classified as AFS. Financial assets can be designated as AFS on initial recognition. AFS financial assets are Business Operations initially recognized at fair value plus directly related transaction costs. They are subsequently measured at fair value. Unquoted equity investments whose fair value cannot be measured reliably are carried at cost Retail Banking and classified as AFS financial assets. Impairment losses in monetary and non-monetary AFS financial Wealth Management assets and dividends on non-monetary financial assets are recognized in net income. Interest revenue on Trust & Pension Business monetary financial assets is calculated using the effective interest method. Other changes in the fair value Corporate Banking of AFS financial assets and any related tax are reported in a separate component of shareholders' equity SME Banking until disposal, when the cumulative gain or loss is recognized in net income. Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance c) HTM investments: Global Business International Trade Business A financial asset may be classified as a HTM investment only if it has fixed or determinable payments, a Financial Market Business fixed maturity, and the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold the financial asset to maturity. Investment Banking HTM investments are initially recognized at fair value plus directly related transaction costs. They are Digital Banking subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses. Risk Management d) Loans and receivables: Corporate Social Responsibility Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable repayments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables, except those that are classified as AFS or as held-for-trading, Ethical Management or designated as at FVTPL. Loans and receivables are initially recognized at fair value plus directly related Consumer Protection transaction costs. They are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method less Employee Satisfaction any impairment losses. Interest income is recognized using the effective interest method, except for the Social Contribution Activities short-term receivables to which the present value discount is not meaningful. Woori Smile Microcredit 2) Financial liabilities Financial Review On initial recognition financial liabilities are classified financial liabilities at FVTPL (held for trading, and Management's Discussion financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL) and financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. and Analysis Independent Auditors' A financial liability is classified as held-for-trading if it is incurred principally for repurchase in the near Report term, or forms part of a portfolio of financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative (not in a qualifying hedge relationship). Held-forOrganizational Chart trading financial liabilities are recognized at fair value with transaction costs being recognized in net income. Subsequently, they are measured at fair value. Gains and losses are recognized in net income as Global Network they arise. Coporate Fact Book A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values  such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that 119 Years of History would otherwise arise; or Corporate Governance  the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is Financial Highlights managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group's Global Networks documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided Global Networks Strategy internally on that basis; or Digital Strategy  it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and K-IFRS 1039 Financial A Trust-worthy Partner Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL. WOORI BANK 099 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 099 20 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Financial liabilities that the Group designates on initial recognition as being at FVTPL are recognized at Board of Directors fair value, with transaction costs being recognized in net income, and are subsequently measured at fair Corporate Governance value. Gains and losses on financial liabilities that are designated as at FVTPL are recognized in net income Company Structure as they arise. Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights All other financial liabilities, such as deposits due to customers, borrowings, and debentures, are measured Financial Highlights at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Business Operations 3) Reclassifications Retail Banking Held-for-trading and AFS financial assets that meet the definition of loans and receivables (non-derivative Wealth Management financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market) may be Trust & Pension Business reclassified to loans and receivables if the Group has the intention and ability to hold the financial asset for Corporate Banking the foreseeable future or until maturity. The Group typically regards the foreseeable future as twelve SME Banking months from the date of reclassification. Reclassifications are made at fair value. This fair value becomes Institutional Banking the asset's new cost or amortized cost as appropriate. Gains and losses recognized up to the date of Real Estate Finance reclassification are not reversed. Global Business International Trade Business 4) Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial Market Business Investment Banking The Group derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual right to the cash flows from the asset is Digital Banking expired, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of Risk Management the asset to another company. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognizes its retained Corporate Social interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains Responsibility substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognize the financial asset and also recognizes a collateralized borrowing for the proceeds received. Ethical Management Consumer Protection On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and Employee Satisfaction the sum of the consideration received and receivable and the cumulated gain or loss that had been Social Contribution Activities recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity is recognized in profit or loss. Woori Smile Microcredit On derecognition of a financial assets other than in its entirety (e.g. when the Group retains an option to Financial Review repurchase part of a transferred asset, or it retains a residual interest and such an retained interest indicates that the transferor has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership Management's Discussion and has retained control of the transferred asset), the Group allocates the previous carrying amount of the and Analysis financial asset between the part it continues to recognize under continuing involvement, and the part it no Independent Auditors' longer recognizes on the basis of the relative fair value of those parts on the date of the transfer. The Report difference between the carrying amount allocated to the part that is no longer recognized and the sum of the consideration received for the part that is no longer recognized and any cumulative gain or loss allocated to Organizational Chart it that had been recognized in other comprehensive income is recognized in profit or loss. A cumulative gain or loss that had been recognized in other comprehensive income is allocated between the part that Global Network continues to be recognized and the part that is no longer recognized on the basis of the relative fair value of those parts. Coporate Fact Book The Group derecognizes the financial liability, when Group's obligations are discharged, canceled or Woori Bank overview expired. The difference between paid cost and the carrying amount of financial liabilities is recorded in Vision & Core Values profit or loss. 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 100 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 100 21 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 5) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Board of Directors Corporate Governance Financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or designated as at FVTPL and financial assets Company Structure classified as AFS are recognized in the financial statements at fair value. All derivatives are measured at Woori Bank Awards 2017 fair value. News Highlights Financial Highlights Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in and orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Fair values are determined from quoted Business Operations prices in active markets for identical financial assets or financial liabilities where these are available. The Group characterizes active markets as those in which transactions for the asset or liability take place with Retail Banking sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Where a financial instrument is not in active market characterized by low transaction volumes, price Corporate Banking quotations which vary substantially among market participants, or in which minimal information is released SME Banking publicly, fair values are established using valuation techniques rely on alternative market data or internally Institutional Banking developed models using significant inputs that are generally readily observable from objective sources. Real Estate Finance Market data includes prices of financial instruments with similar maturities and characteristics, duration, Global Business interest rate yield curves, and measures of volatility. The amount determined to be fair value may International Trade Business incorporate the management of the Group’s own assumptions (including assumptions that the Group Financial Market Business believes market participants would use in valuing the financial instruments and assumptions relating to Investment Banking appropriate risk adjustments for nonperformance and lack of marketability). Digital Banking Risk Management The valuation techniques used to estimate the fair value of the financial instruments include market approach and income approach, each of which involves a significant degree of judgment. Under the market Corporate Social approach, fair value is determined by reference to a recent transaction involving the financial instruments or Responsibility by reference to observable valuation measures for comparable companies or assets. Ethical Management Under the income approach, fair value is determined by converting future amounts (e.g., cash flows or Consumer Protection earnings) to a single present amount (discounted) using current market expectations about the future Employee Satisfaction amounts. In determining value under this approach, the Group makes assumptions regarding, among other Social Contribution Activities things, revenues, operating income, depreciation and amortization, capital expenditures, income taxes, Woori Smile Microcredit working capital needs, and terminal value of the financial investments. These valuation techniques involve a degree of estimation, the extent of which depends on the instrument’s complexity and the availability of Financial Review market-based data. Management's Discussion The following are descriptions of valuation methodologies used by the Group to measure various financial and Analysis instruments at fair value. Independent Auditors' Report a. Financial assets at FVTPL and AFS financial assets: Organizational Chart The fair value of the securities included in financial assets at FVTPL and AFS financial assets are recognized in the consolidated statements of financial position based on quoted market prices, where Global Network available. For debt securities traded in the OTC market, the Group generally determines fair value based on prices obtained from independent pricing services. Specifically, with respect to independent pricing Coporate Fact Book services, the Group obtains three prices per instrument from reputable independent pricing services in Korea, and generally uses the lowest of the prices obtained from such services without further adjustment. Woori Bank overview For non-marketable equity securities, the Group obtains prices from the independent pricing services. The Vision & Core Values Group validates prices received from such independent pricing services using a variety of means, including 119 Years of History verification of the qualification of the independent pricing services, corroboration of the pricing by Corporate Governance comparing the prices among the independent pricing services and by reference to other available market Financial Highlights data, and review of the pricing model and assumptions used by the independent pricing services by the Global Networks Group’s personnel who are familiar with market-related conditions. Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 101 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 101 22 Woori Overview Message from the CEO b. Derivative assets and liabilities: Board of Directors Corporate Governance Quoted market prices are used for the Group’s exchange-traded derivatives, such as certain interest rate Company Structure futures and option contracts. All of the Group’s derivatives are traded in OTC markets where quoted Woori Bank Awards 2017 market prices are not readily available are valued using internal valuation techniques. Valuation techniques News Highlights and inputs to internally developed models depend on the type of derivative and nature of the underlying Financial Highlights rate, price or index upon which the derivative’s value is based. If the model inputs for certain derivatives are not observable in a liquid market, significant judgments on the level of inputs used for valuation Business Operations techniques are required. Retail Banking c. Valuation Adjustments: Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business By using derivatives, the Group is exposed to credit risk if counterparties to the derivative contracts do not Corporate Banking perform as expected. If counterparty fails to perform, counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount SME Banking reported as a derivative asset in the consolidated statements of financial position. The amounts reported as a Institutional Banking derivative asset are derivative contracts in a gain position. Few of the Group’s derivatives are listed on an Real Estate Finance exchange. The majority of derivative positions are valued using internally developed models that use as Global Business their basis observable market inputs. Therefore, an adjustment is necessary to reflect the credit quality of International Trade Business each counterparty to arrive at fair value. Counterparty credit risk adjustments are applied to derivative Financial Market Business assets, such as OTC derivative instruments, when the market inputs used in valuation models may not be Investment Banking indicative of the creditworthiness of the counterparty. Adjustments are also made when valuing financial Digital Banking liabilities to reflect the Group’s own credit standing. Risk Management The adjustment is based on probability of default of a counterparty and loss given default. The adjustment Corporate Social also takes into account contractual factors designed to reduce the Group’s credit exposure to each Responsibility counterparty. To the extent derivative assets (liabilities) are subject to master netting arrangements, the exposure used to calculate the credit risk adjustment is net of derivatives in a loss (gain) position with the Ethical Management same counterparty and cash collateral received (paid). Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction 6) Impairment of the financial assets Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit The Group assesses at the end of each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets classified as AFS, HTM or loans and receivables is impaired. A Financial Review financial asset or portfolio of financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss incurred if there is objective evidence of impairment as result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition Management's Discussion asset and that event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset. and Analysis Independent Auditors' a) Financial assets carried at amortized cost: Report If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of financial assets Organizational Chart classified as HTM investments or as loans and receivables has been incurred, the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets and the Global Network present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial recognition. For collateralized loans and receivables, estimated Coporate Fact Book future cash flows include cash flows that may result from foreclosure less the costs of obtaining and selling the collateral. Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values Impairment losses are assessed individually for financial assets that are individually significant and 119 Years of History assessed either individually or collectively for assets that are not individually significant. In making Corporate Governance collective assessment of impairment, financial assets are grouped into portfolios on the basis of similar risk Financial Highlights characteristics. Future cash flows from these portfolios are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash Global Networks flows and historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics. Historical loss Global Networks Strategy experience is adjusted, on the basis of observable data, to reflect current conditions not affecting the period Digital Strategy of historical experience. A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 102 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 102 23 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Impairment losses are recognized in net income and the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of Board of Directors financial assets reduced by establishing a provision for impairment losses. If, in a subsequent period, the Corporate Governance amount of the impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to an event after the impairment Company Structure was recognized (i.e., improvement in the credit quality of a debtor), the previously recognized loss is Woori Bank Awards 2017 reversed by adjusting the provision. Once an impairment loss has been recognized on a financial asset or News Highlights group of financial assets, interest income is recognized on the carrying amount using the rate of interest at Financial Highlights which estimated future cash flows were discounted in measuring impairment. Business Operations It is not the Group’s usual practice to write-off the asset at the time an impairment loss is recognized. Impaired loans and receivables are written off (i.e. the impairment provision is applied in writing down the Retail Banking loan's carrying value in full) when the Group concludes that there is no longer any realistic prospect of Wealth Management recovery of part or the entire loan. Amounts recovered after a loan has been written off are reflected to the Trust & Pension Business provision for the period in which they are received. Corporate Banking SME Banking b) Financial assets carried at fair value: Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance When a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified as AFS has been recognized directly in other Global Business comprehensive income and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss is International Trade Business removed from other comprehensive income and recognized in net income. The loss is measured as the Financial Market Business difference between the amortized cost of the financial asset and its current fair value. Impairment losses on Investment Banking AFS equity instruments are not reversed through net income, but those on AFS debt instruments are Digital Banking reversed, if there is a decrease in the cumulative impairment loss that is objectively related to a subsequent Risk Management event. Corporate Social (10) Offsetting financial instruments Responsibility Financial assets and liabilities are presented in net in the consolidated statements of financial position when the Ethical Management Group has an enforceable legal right to set off and an intention to settle on a net basis or to realize an asset and Consumer Protection settle the liability simultaneously. Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities (11) Investment properties Woori Smile Microcredit The Group classifies a property held to earn rentals and/or for capital appreciation as an investment property. Financial Review Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs, less subsequent depreciation and impairment. Management's Discussion and Analysis Subsequent costs are included in the carrying amount of the asset or recognized as a separate asset if it is Independent Auditors' probable that future economic benefits associated with the assets will flow into the Group and the cost of an asset Report can be measured reliably. Routine maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. Organizational Chart While land is not depreciated, all other investment properties are depreciated based on the respective assets’ estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation Global Network method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any change in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis. Coporate Fact Book An investment property is derecognized from the consolidated financial statements on disposal or when it is Woori Bank overview permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefits are expected even from its disposal. The gain Vision & Core Values or loss on derecognition of an investment property is calculated as the difference between the net disposal 119 Years of History proceeds and the carrying amount of the property and is recognized in profit or loss in the period of the Corporate Governance derecognition. Financial Highlights Global Networks (12) Premises and equipment Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy Premises and equipment are stated at cost less subsequent accumulated depreciation and accumulated A Trust-worthy Partner impairment losses. The cost of an item of premises and equipment is directly attributable to their purchase or construction, which includes any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. It also includes the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located. WOORI BANK 103 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 103 24 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Subsequent costs to replace part of the premises and equipment are recognized in carrying amount of an asset or Board of Directors as an asset if it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the assets will flow into the Group Corporate Governance and the cost of an asset can be measured reliably. Routine maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 While land is not depreciated, for all other premises and equipment, depreciation is charged to net income on a News Highlights straight-line basis on the estimated economic useful lives as follows: Financial Highlights Useful life Business Operations Buildings used for business purpose 35 to 57 years Structures in leased office 4 to 5 years Retail Banking Properties for business purpose 4 to 5 years Wealth Management Leased assets Useful lives of the same kind or Trust & Pension Business similar other premises and equipment Corporate Banking SME Banking The Group reassesses the depreciation method, the estimated useful lives and residual values of premises and Institutional Banking equipment at the end of each reporting period. If expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are Real Estate Finance accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. When the carrying amount of a fixed asset exceeds the Global Business International Trade Business estimated recoverable amount, the carrying amount of such asset is reduced to the recoverable amount. Financial Market Business (13) Intangible assets and goodwill Investment Banking Digital Banking Intangible assets are stated at the manufacturing cost or acquisition cost plus additional incidental expenses less Risk Management accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. The Group’s software and industrial property right (trademark) are amortized over five years using the straight-line method. The estimated useful life and Corporate Social Responsibility amortization method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period. If expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. Ethical Management Consumer Protection Useful life Employee Satisfaction Industrial property rights 10 years Social Contribution Activities Development costs 5 years Woori Smile Microcredit Software and others 4 to 5 years Financial Review In addition, when an indicator that intangible assets are impaired is noted, and the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated recoverable amount of the asset, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its Management's Discussion recoverable amount immediately. and Analysis Independent Auditors' Goodwill acquired in a business combination is included in intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortized but Report tested for impairment annually to the extent of reporting unit and when there is any indication of impairment. Organizational Chart Goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (“CGU”) expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. A CGU to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment Global Network annually, or more frequently when there is indication that the CGU may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets of the CGU on a pro-rata basis based on the Coporate Fact Book carrying amount of each asset in the CGU. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognized directly in net Woori Bank overview income in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History (14) Impairment of non-monetary assets Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, such as goodwill and membership, or intangible assets that are not Global Networks yet available for use are tested for impairment annually, regardless of whether or not there is any indication of Global Networks Strategy impairment. All other assets are tested for impairment when there is an objective indication that the carrying Digital Strategy amount may not be recoverable, and if the indication exists. The Group estimates the recoverable amount. A Trust-worthy Partner Recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and net fair value less costs to sell. If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount and such impairment loss is recognized immediately in net income. WOORI BANK 104 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 104 25 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (15) Leases Board of Directors Corporate Governance Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and Company Structure rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights 1) As a lessor Financial Highlights Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognized as receivables at the amount of the Group’s Business Operations net investment in the leases being the minimum lease payments and any unguaranteed residual value discount interest rate implicit in the lease. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to Retail Banking reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Group’s net investment outstanding in respect of the leases. Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Rental income from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant Corporate Banking lease. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying SME Banking amount of the leased asset and recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Operating lease Institutional Banking assets are included within others in other assets and depreciated over their useful lives. Real Estate Finance Global Business 2) As a lessee International Trade Business Financial Market Business Assets held under finance leases are initially recognized as assets of the Group at their fair value at the Investment Banking inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding Digital Banking liability to the lessor is included in the consolidated statements of financial position as a finance lease Risk Management obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Contingent rentals Corporate Social arising under finance leases are recognized as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred. Responsibility Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from Ethical Management the leased asset are consumed. Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognized as expenses Consumer Protection in the period in which they are incurred. Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities (16) Derivative instruments Woori Smile Microcredit Derivative instruments are classified as forward, futures, option, and swap, depending on the types of Financial Review transactions and are classified as either trading or hedging depending on the purpose. Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value at the date the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently measured to their Management's Discussion fair value at the end of each reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognized in net income immediately and Analysis unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument. Independent Auditors' Report A derivative embedded in a contract is accounted for as a stand-alone derivative if its economic characteristics are not closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract; unless the entire contract is measured Organizational Chart at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. Global Network The Group designates certain hedging instruments to (a) hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge); (b) hedge of the exposure to Coporate Fact Book variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecasted transaction (cash flow hedge); and (c) hedge of a net investment in a foreign Woori Bank overview operation. Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument Corporate Governance and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge Financial Highlights transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether Global Networks the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item. Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 105 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 105 26 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 1) Fair value hedge Board of Directors Corporate Governance Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualified as fair value hedges are Company Structure recognized in net income immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or Woori Bank Awards 2017 liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes News Highlights the hedging relationship or when the hedging instrument is no longer qualified for hedge accounting. The Financial Highlights fair value adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortized to net income from that date to maturity using the effective interest method. Business Operations 2) Cash flow hedge Retail Banking Wealth Management The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualified as cash Trust & Pension Business flow hedges is recognized in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective Corporate Banking portion is recognized immediately in net income. Amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive SME Banking income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to net income when the hedged item is recognized in net Institutional Banking income. Real Estate Finance Global Business Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument is expired or sold, or it is no longer International Trade Business qualified for hedge accounting, and any cumulative gain or loss in other comprehensive income remains in Financial Market Business equity until the forecast transaction is ultimately recognized in net income. When a forecasted transaction is Investment Banking no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognized immediately in net Digital Banking income. Risk Management (17) Assets (or Disposal group) held for sale Corporate Social Responsibility The Group classifies a non-current asset (or disposal group) as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. Non-current assets (and Ethical Management disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their previous carrying amount and fair Consumer Protection value less costs to sell. Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities (18) Provisions Woori Smile Microcredit The Group recognizes provision if it has a present or contractual obligations as a result of the past event, it is Financial Review probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount of the obligation is reliably estimated. Provision is not recognized for the future operating losses. Management's Discussion and Analysis The Group recognizes provision related to the unused portion of point rewards earned by credit card customers, Independent Auditors' payment guarantees, loan commitment and litigations. Where the Group is required to restore a leased property Report that is used as a branch, to an agreed condition after the contractual term expires, the present value of expected amounts to be used to dispose, decommission or repair the facilities is recognized as an asset retirement Organizational Chart obligation. Global Network Where there are a number of similar obligations, the probability that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the obligations as a whole. Although the likelihood of outflow for any one item may Coporate Fact Book be small, if it is probable that some outflow of resources will be needed to settle the obligations as a whole, a provision is recognized. Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values (19) Capital and compound financial instruments 119 Years of History Corporate Governance The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a financial liability or an equity instrument in Financial Highlights accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement. An instrument is classified as a liability if it is a Global Networks contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets or financial Global Networks Strategy liabilities on potentially unfavorable terms. An instrument is classified as equity if it evidences a residual interest Digital Strategy in the assets of the Group after the deduction of liabilities. The components of a compound financial instrument A Trust-worthy Partner issued by the Group are classified and accounted for separately as financial liabilities or equity as appropriate. The Group recognizes common stock as equity and redeemable preferred stocks as a liability. Direct expenses related to the issuance of new shares or options are recognized as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects. WOORI BANK 106 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 106 27 Woori Overview Message from the CEO If the Group reacquires its own equity instruments, those instruments (“treasury shares”) are presented as a Board of Directors deduction from total equity. The gain or loss on the purchase, sale, issue, or cancellation of treasury shares is not Corporate Governance recognized in net income but recognized directly in equity. Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 (20) Financial guarantee contracts News Highlights Financial Highlights Under a financial guarantee contract, the Group, in return for a fee, undertakes to meet a customer’s obligations under the terms of a debt instrument if the customer fails to do so. Business Operations A financial guarantee is recognized as a liability; initially at fair value and will be amortized, if not designated as Retail Banking at FVTPL, subsequently at the higher of its initial value less cumulative amortization and any provision under Wealth Management the contract measured in accordance with provision policy. Amortization is calculated so as to recognize fees in Trust & Pension Business net income over the period of the guarantee. Corporate Banking SME Banking (21) Employee benefits and pensions Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance The Group recognizes the undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expecting payment in exchange Global Business for the services, when employee renders services. Also, the Group recognizes expenses and liabilities in the case International Trade Business of accumulating compensated absences, when the employees render service that increases their entitlement to Financial Market Business future compensated absences. Though the Group may have no legal obligation to pay a bonus, considering some Investment Banking cases, the Group has a practice of paying bonuses. In such cases, the Group has a constructive obligation, and Digital Banking thus recognizes expenses and liabilities when the employees render service. Risk Management The Group is operating defined contribution retirement pension plans and defined benefit retirement pension Corporate Social plans. Contributions to defined contribution retirement pension plans are recognized as an expense when Responsibility employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions. For defined benefit retirement pension plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial Ethical Management valuations being carried out at the end of each reporting period. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and Consumer Protection losses, the effect of the changes to the asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on plan assets (excluding Employee Satisfaction interest), is reflected immediately in the consolidated statement of financial position with a charge or credit Social Contribution Activities recognized in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Woori Smile Microcredit Remeasurement recognized in other comprehensive income will not be reclassified to profit or loss. Past service Financial Review cost is recognized in profit or loss in the period of a plan amendment. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset. Defined benefit costs are Management's Discussion composed of service cost (including current service cost, past service cost, as well as gains and losses on and Analysis curtailments and settlements), net interest expense (income), and remeasurement. Independent Auditors' Report The Group presents the service cost and net interest expense (income) components in profit or loss, and the remeasurement component in other comprehensive income. Curtailment gains and losses are accounted for as Organizational Chart past service costs. Global Network The retirement benefit obligation recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the actual deficit or surplus in the Group’s defined benefit plans. Any surplus resulting from this calculation is Coporate Fact Book limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans. Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values Liabilities for termination benefits are recognized at the earlier of either 1) when the Group has become not able 119 Years of History to cancel its proposal for termination benefits, or 2) when the Group has recognized the cost of restructuring that Corporate Governance accompanies the payment of termination benefits. Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 107 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 107 28 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (22) Income taxes Board of Directors Corporate Governance Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. Current income tax expense Company Structure approximates taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period and deferred income tax expense is provided on Woori Bank Awards 2017 an asset and liability method whereby deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences, News Highlights including operating losses and tax credit carryforwards, and deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable Financial Highlights temporary differences. Temporary differences are the differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax bases. Deferred income tax benefit or expense is then Business Operations recognized for the change in deferred tax assets or liabilities between periods. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates on the date of enactment or substantive enactment that are expected to apply in the Retail Banking period in which the liability is settled or the asset realized. Deferred tax assets, including the carry forwards of Wealth Management unused tax losses, are recognized to the extent it is probable that the deferred tax assets will be realized. Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset if, and only if the Group has a legally enforceable right to SME Banking offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income Institutional Banking taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities which intend Real Estate Finance either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis. Global Business International Trade Business The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the Financial Market Business extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset Investment Banking to be recovered. Digital Banking Risk Management Deferred liabilities are not recognized if the temporary difference arises from goodwill. Deferred tax assets or liabilities are not recognized if they arise from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of Corporate Social other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. Responsibility Current and deferred tax are recognized in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognized in Ethical Management other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognized Consumer Protection in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively. Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit (23) Earnings per share (“EPS”) Financial Review Basic EPS is calculated by earnings subtracting the dividends paid to holders of preferred stock and hybrid securities from the net income attributable to ordinary shareholders from the statements of comprehensive Management's Discussion income and dividing by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted EPS is calculated and Analysis by adjusting the earnings and number of shares for the effects of all dilutive potential common shares. Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 108 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 108 29 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Board of Directors Corporate Governance The significant accounting estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on historical Company Structure experiences and various factors including expectations of future events that are considered to be reasonable. Woori Bank Awards 2017 Actual results can differ from those estimates based on such definitions. The accounting estimates and News Highlights assumptions, which involve potential significant risks that may materially impact the book values of assets and Financial Highlights liabilities on the Group’s consolidated financial statements, are as follows: Business Operations (1) Income taxes Retail Banking The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions, which requires significant judgment in Wealth Management determining realization of deferred tax. Actual tax payment may be different from the provision estimate and Trust & Pension Business such difference may affect the income tax expense. There are various transactions and calculations for which the Corporate Banking ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Deferred tax assets relating to tax losses carried forward and deductible SME Banking temporary differences are recognized, only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be Institutional Banking available against which the tax losses carried forward and the deductible temporary differences can be utilized. Real Estate Finance This assessment requires significant management estimates and judgments. Future taxable profit is estimated Global Business based on, among other relevant factors, forecasted operating results, which are based on historical financial International Trade Business performance. In the event the Group was to determine that it would be able to realize its deferred income tax Financial Market Business assets in the future at an amount different than their net recorded amount, the Group would make an adjustment Investment Banking to the provision for income taxes at such time. Digital Banking Risk Management (2) Valuation of Financial Instruments Corporate Social Financial instruments classified as held-for trading or designated as at FVTPL and financial instruments Responsibility classified as AFS are recognized in the financial statements at fair value. All derivatives are measured at fair value. Financial instruments, which are not traded in active market will have less objective fair value and require Ethical Management broad judgment in liquidity, concentration, uncertainty in market factors and assumption in price determination Consumer Protection and other risks. The fair value of those assets is established by using valuation techniques. Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities As described in the significant accounting policies in Note 2-(9)-5), ‘ Fair value of financial assets and Woori Smile Microcredit liabilities’, a range of valuation techniques, which include market approach and income approach and internally developed models that incorporate various types of assumptions and variables, are used to determine the fair Financial Review value of financial instruments. Management's Discussion (3) Impairment of loans and Analysis Independent Auditors' Impairment loss for loans and receivables carried at amortized cost is measured as the difference between such Report assets’ carrying value and the present value of estimated recoverable cash flows (not include any future loss events that have not occurred) discounted by using the initial effective interest rate. After initial recognition, Organizational Chart when the estimated cash flow of the financial asset is affected by one or more loss events, it is determined that the financial asset is impaired. Global Network The objective evidences that a financial asset is impaired incorporate below loss events: Coporate Fact Book 1) Financial assets that are individually assessed Woori Bank overview Past due Vision & Core Values Debt restructuring 119 Years of History Possible state of debtor’s bankruptcy or liquidation Corporate Governance Occurrence of significant impairment on securities Financial Highlights Breach of limit or debt covenant Global Networks Deterioration of operating performance Global Networks Strategy 2) Financial assets that are not individually assessed Digital Strategy Repayment status of debtor or observable macro-economic indexes A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 109 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 109 30 Woori Overview Message from the CEO The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that Board of Directors are individually significant (individual evaluation of impairment), and individually or collectively for financial Corporate Governance assets that are not individually significant. If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment Company Structure exists for an individually assessed financial asset, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar Woori Bank Awards 2017 credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment (collective evaluation of impairment). News Highlights Financial Highlights There are two components to the Group's loan impairment provisions (individual and collective). Business Operations Individual assessment of impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan at its original effective interest rate and comparing the resultant present value with the loan’s carrying Retail Banking amount. This process normally encompasses management’s best estimate, such as operating cash flow of debtor Wealth Management and net realizable value of any collateral held and the timing of anticipated receipts. Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking Collective assessment of impairment losses are established on a portfolio basis using the methodology based on SME Banking historical loss experience. The methodology based on historical loss experience is used to estimate inherent Institutional Banking incurred loss on groups of assets for collective evaluation of impairment. Such methodology incorporates factors Real Estate Finance such as type of product and debtors, credit rating, portfolio size, loss emergence period and recovery period and Global Business applies probability of default on each assets (or pool of assets) and loss given default by type of collateral. Also, International Trade Business consistent assumptions are applied to form a formula-based model in estimating inherent loss and to determine Financial Market Business factors on the basis of historical loss experience and current condition. The methodology and assumptions used Investment Banking for estimating future cash flows are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss estimates and Digital Banking actual loss experience. Risk Management (4) Defined benefit plan Corporate Social Responsibility The Group operates defined benefit retirement pension plans. Defined benefit retirement pension plans are measured through actuarial valuation and the Group estimates discount rate, future wage growth rate, mortality Ethical Management ratio to produce actuarial valuation. Defined benefit retirement pension plans contain significant uncertainty in Consumer Protection these estimates due to its long-term characteristic. Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit 4. RISK MANAGEMENT Financial Review The Group’s operating activity is exposed to various financial risks. The Group is required to analyze and assess the level of complex risks, and determine the permissible level of risks and manage such risks. The Group’s risk Management's Discussion management procedures have been established to improve the quality of assets for holding or investment and Analysis purposes by making decisions as how to avoid or mitigate risks through the identification of the source of the Independent Auditors' potential risks and their impact. Report The Group has established an approach to manage the acceptable level of risks and reduce the excessive risks in Organizational Chart financial instruments in order to maximize the profit given risks present, for which the Group has implemented processes for risk identification, assessment, control, and monitoring and reporting. Global Network The risk is managed by the risk management department in accordance with the Group’s risk management Coporate Fact Book policy. The Risk Management Committee makes decisions on the risk strategies such as the avoidance of concentration on capital at risk and the establishment of acceptable level of risk. Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values (1) Credit risk 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Credit risk represents the possibility of financial losses incurred when the counterparty fails to fulfill its Financial Highlights contractual obligations. The goals of credit risk management are to maintain the Group’s credit risk exposure to Global Networks a permissible degree and to optimize its rate of return considering such credit risk. Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 110 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 110 31 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 1) Credit risk management Board of Directors Corporate Governance The Group considers the probability of failure in performing the obligation of its counterparties, credit Company Structure exposure to the counterparty, the related default risk and the rate of default loss. The Group uses the credit Woori Bank Awards 2017 rating model to assess the possibility of counterparty’s default risk; and when assessing the obligor’s credit News Highlights grade, the Group utilizes credit grades derived using statistical methods. Financial Highlights In order to manage credit risk limit, the Group establishes the appropriate credit line per obligor, company Business Operations or industry. It monitors obligor’s credit line, total exposures and loan portfolios when approving the loan. Retail Banking The Group mitigates credit risk resulting from the obligor’s credit condition by using financial and physical Wealth Management collateral, guarantees, netting agreements and credit derivatives. The Group has adopted the entrapment Trust & Pension Business method to mitigate its credit risk. Credit risk mitigation is reflected in qualifying financial collateral, trade Corporate Banking receivables, guarantees, residential and commercial real estate and other collaterals. The Group regularly SME Banking performs a revaluation of collateral reflecting such credit risk mitigation. Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance 2) Maximum exposure to credit risk Global Business International Trade Business The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk refers to net book value of financial assets net of allowances, Financial Market Business which shows the uncertainties of maximum changes of net value of financial assets attributable to a Investment Banking particular risk without considering collateral and other credit enhancements obtained. However, the Digital Banking maximum exposure is the fair value amount (recorded on the books) for derivatives, maximum contractual Risk Management obligation for payment guarantees and loan commitment for loan contracts. Corporate Social The maximum exposure to credit risk is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Responsibility December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Ethical Management Loans and receivables: Consumer Protection Korean treasury and government agencies 8,823,584 16,058,305 Employee Satisfaction Banks 26,845,309 20,242,260 Social Contribution Activities Corporates 90,570,551 88,985,566 Woori Smile Microcredit Consumers 140,866,760 133,106,502 Sub-total 267,106,204 258,392,633 Financial Review Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”): Management's Discussion Gold banking assets 25,972 26,180 and Analysis Debt securities held for trading 2,644,333 2,644,916 Independent Auditors' Financial assets designated at FVTPL 9,694 4,348 Report Derivative assets for trading 3,115,775 2,898,295 Sub-total 5,795,774 5,573,739 Organizational Chart Available-for-sale (“AFS”) debt securities 13,229,244 16,541,888 Held-to-maturity (“HTM”) securities 16,749,296 13,910,251 Global Network Derivative assets for hedging 59,272 140,577 Off-balance accounts : Coporate Fact Book Guarantees 12,859,715 14,761,784 Loan commitments 80,760,325 83,795,496 Woori Bank overview Sub-total 93,620,040 98,557,280 Vision & Core Values Total 396,559,830 393,116,368 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 111 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 111 32 Woori Overview Message from the CEO a) Credit risk exposure by geographical areas Board of Directors Corporate Governance The following tables analyze credit risk exposure by geographical areas (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 December 31, 2017 News Highlights Korea China USA UK Japan Others (*) Total Financial Highlights Loans and receivables 250,678,479 4,104,912 2,823,247 1,094,988 381,890 8,022,688 267,106,204 Financial assets at FVTPL 5,551,870 2,937 148,955 92,012 5,795,774 Business Operations AFS debt securities 12,407,602 52,259 151,131 618,252 13,229,244 HTM securities 16,606,692 63,732 78,872 16,749,296 Retail Banking Derivative assets 16,590 42,682 59,272 Off-balance accounts 91,603,852 529,193 172,570 66,974 25,039 1,222,412 93,620,040 Wealth Management Total 376,865,085 4,689,301 3,210,680 1,353,599 406,929 10,034,236 396,559,830 Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking December 31, 2016 Korea China USA UK Japan Others (*) Total Institutional Banking Loans and receivables 241,380,250 4,286,018 2,792,088 895,874 323,470 8,714,933 258,392,633 Real Estate Finance Financial assets at FVTPL 5,205,849 6,525 261,547 81 99,737 5,573,739 Global Business AFS debt securities 16,155,290 13,845 137,861 234,892 16,541,888 International Trade Business HTM securities 13,758,863 20,336 131,052 13,910,251 Financial Market Business Derivative assets 74,166 66,342 69 140,577 Investment Banking Off-balance accounts 96,245,092 737,513 103,130 80,831 23,250 1,367,464 98,557,280 Digital Banking Total 372,819,510 5,043,901 3,053,415 1,304,594 346,801 10,548,147 393,116,368 Risk Management (*) Others consist of financial assets in Indonesia, Vietnam, Panama, European countries and others. Corporate Social Responsibility b) Credit risk exposure by industries Ethical Management The following tables analyze credit risk exposure by industries, which are service, manufacturing, finance Consumer Protection and insurance, construction, individuals and others in accordance with the Korea Standard Industrial Employee Satisfaction Classification Code (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit December 31, 2017 Finance and Financial Review Service Manufacturing insurance Construction Individuals Others Total Loans and Management's Discussion receivables 47,192,641 34,502,509 38,260,051 3,574,746 133,094,287 10,481,970 267,106,204 and Analysis Financial assets at FVTPL 100,766 83,239 4,640,068 15,073 1,040 955,588 5,795,774 Independent Auditors' AFS debt Report securities 707,737 37,719 7,331,774 153,534 4,998,480 13,229,244 HTM securities 1,348,754 10,962,149 296,214 4,142,179 16,749,296 Organizational Chart Derivative assets 59,272 59,272 Off-balance Global Network accounts 16,892,926 21,427,378 9,841,379 3,842,479 36,928,554 4,687,324 93,620,040 Total 66,242,824 56,050,845 71,094,693 7,882,046 170,023,881 25,265,541 396,559,830 Coporate Fact Book December 31, 2016 Woori Bank overview Finance and Vision & Core Values Service Manufacturing insurance Construction Individuals Others Total Loans and 119 Years of History receivables 46,040,278 35,652,974 37,711,983 3,789,670 125,558,637 9,639,091 258,392,633 Corporate Governance Financial assets at Financial Highlights FVTPL 77,198 360,881 4,093,567 24,140 993 1,016,960 5,573,739 Global Networks AFS debt Global Networks Strategy securities 1,092,279 57,781 9,568,151 63,166 5,760,511 16,541,888 Digital Strategy HTM securities 1,673,971 8,290,451 251,599 3,694,230 13,910,251 A Trust-worthy Partner Derivative assets 140,577 140,577 Off-balance accounts 18,423,611 26,878,320 9,927,574 4,621,971 33,603,651 5,102,153 98,557,280 Total 67,307,337 62,949,956 69,732,303 8,750,546 159,163,281 25,212,945 393,116,368 WOORI BANK 112 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 112 33 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 3) Credit risk of loans and receivables Board of Directors Corporate Governance The credit exposure of loans and receivables by customer and loan condition is as follows (Unit: Korean Company Structure Won in millions): Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights December 31, 2017 Financial Highlights Corporates Korean treasury Small and Project Business Operations and government General medium sized financing agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total Retail Banking Loans and receivables neither overdue nor Wealth Management impaired 8,825,767 26,861,286 50,463,112 34,107,547 5,547,950 90,118,609 139,886,407 265,692,069 Trust & Pension Business Loans and receivables Corporate Banking overdue but not SME Banking impaired 8 65,616 63,067 128,683 878,406 1,007,097 Institutional Banking Impaired loans and receivables 1,402,131 251,431 46,717 1,700,279 537,001 2,237,280 Real Estate Finance Global Business Total 8,825,775 26,861,286 51,930,859 34,422,045 5,594,667 91,947,571 141,301,814 268,936,446 Allowance for credit International Trade Business losses 2,191 15,977 1,078,733 267,162 31,125 1,377,020 435,054 1,830,242 Financial Market Business Total, net 8,823,584 26,845,309 50,852,126 34,154,883 5,563,542 90,570,551 140,866,760 267,106,204 Investment Banking Digital Banking December 31, 2016 Risk Management Corporates Korean treasury Small and Project Corporate Social and government General medium sized financing Responsibility agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total Loans and receivables neither overdue nor Ethical Management impaired 16,062,399 20,258,860 49,815,352 31,520,617 7,142,440 88,478,409 132,195,005 256,994,673 Consumer Protection Loans and receivables Employee Satisfaction overdue but not Social Contribution Activities impaired 48,294 57,245 105,539 765,829 871,368 Woori Smile Microcredit Impaired loans and receivables 1,404,568 429,955 208,372 2,042,895 510,793 2,553,688 Total 16,062,399 20,258,860 51,268,214 32,007,817 7,350,812 90,626,843 133,471,627 260,419,729 Financial Review Allowance for credit losses 4,094 16,600 1,156,000 424,142 61,135 1,641,277 365,125 2,027,096 Management's Discussion Total, net 16,058,305 20,242,260 50,112,214 31,583,675 7,289,677 88,985,566 133,106,502 258,392,633 and Analysis Independent Auditors' a) Credit quality of loans and receivables Report The Group manages credit quality of its loans and receivables, (neither overdue nor impaired, net of Organizational Chart allowance) through an internal rating system. Segregation of credit quality is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Global Network December 31, 2017 Coporate Fact Book Korean Corporates treasury and Small and Project government General medium sized financing Woori Bank overview agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total Vision & Core Values Upper grade (*1) 8,823,576 26,845,309 43,613,460 23,191,627 4,623,750 71,428,837 135,893,496 242,991,218 119 Years of History Lower grade (*2) 6,565,274 10,767,062 898,536 18,230,872 3,835,030 22,065,902 Corporate Governance Total 8,823,576 26,845,309 50,178,734 33,958,689 5,522,286 89,659,709 139,728,526 265,057,120 Financial Highlights Value of Global Networks collateral(*3) 1,409 483,469 19,868,185 29,600,362 2,642,674 52,111,221 114,441,637 167,037,736 Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 113 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 113 34 Woori Overview Message from the CEO December 31, 2016 Board of Directors Corporates Korean Corporate Governance treasury and Small and Project Company Structure government General medium sized financing Woori Bank Awards 2017 agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total News Highlights Upper grade (*1) 16,058,288 20,242,260 41,461,420 18,755,963 5,337,033 65,554,416 128,374,017 230,228,981 Financial Highlights Lower grade (*2) 17 7,941,871 12,550,282 1,763,658 22,255,811 3,680,920 25,936,748 Total 16,058,305 20,242,260 49,403,291 31,306,245 7,100,691 87,810,227 132,054,937 256,165,729 Value of Business Operations collateral(*3) 358,456 18,003,674 25,493,006 3,996,162 47,492,842 111,054,910 158,906,208 Retail Banking (*1) AAA~BBB for corporates, and 1~6 level for consumers Wealth Management (*2) BBB~C for corporates, and 7~10 level for consumers Trust & Pension Business (*3) The value of collateral is the allocated collateral amount when estimating the allowance for credit losses. Corporate Banking SME Banking Allowances for credit losses, for loans and receivables neither overdue nor impaired, amounting to 634,949 Institutional Banking million Won and 828,944 million Won as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, which are deducted Real Estate Finance from the loans and receivables above. Global Business International Trade Business b) Aging analysis of loans and receivables Financial Market Business Investment Banking Aging analysis of loans and receivables (overdue but not impaired, net of allowance) is as follows (Unit: Digital Banking Korean Won in millions): Risk Management December 31, 2017 Korean Corporates Corporate Social Responsibility treasury and Small & Project government General medium sized financing Past due agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total Ethical Management Less than 30 days 8 59,560 48,002 107,562 683,445 791,015 Consumer Protection 30~59 days 3,702 6,550 10,252 94,376 104,628 Employee Satisfaction 60~89 days 928 4,935 5,863 55,011 60,874 Social Contribution Activities Total 8 64,190 59,487 123,677 832,832 956,517 Woori Smile Microcredit Value of collateral (*) 4,619 46,513 51,132 619,867 670,999 Financial Review December 31, 2016 Corporates Management's Discussion Korean treasury and Small & and Analysis Project government General medium sized financing Independent Auditors' Past due agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total Report Less than 30 days 45,255 41,329 86,584 584,995 671,579 30~59 days 1,553 8,933 10,486 90,296 100,782 Organizational Chart 60~89 days 337 2,123 2,460 49,151 51,611 Total 47,145 52,385 99,530 724,442 823,972 Global Network Value of collateral (*) 7,021 45,304 52,325 546,164 598,489 Coporate Fact Book (*) The value of collateral is the allocated collateral amount when estimating the allowance for credit losses. Woori Bank overview Allowances for credit losses, for loans and receivables that are overdue but not impaired, amounting to Vision & Core Values 50,580 million Won and 47,396 million Won as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, which are 119 Years of History deducted from the loans and receivables above. Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 114 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 114 35 Woori Overview Message from the CEO c) Impaired loans and receivables Board of Directors Corporate Governance Impaired loans and receivables, net of allowance are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 December 31, 2017 News Highlights Corporates Financial Highlights Korean treasury and Small & Project government General medium sized financing Business Operations agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total Impaired loans 609,202 136,707 41,256 787,165 305,402 1,092,567 Retail Banking Value of Wealth Management collateral (*) 562,638 141,026 20,351 724,015 227,966 951,981 Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking December 31, 2016 SME Banking Korean Corporates Institutional Banking treasury and Small & Project Real Estate Finance government General medium sized financing Global Business agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total Impaired loans 661,778 225,045 188,986 1,075,809 327,123 1,402,932 International Trade Business Value of Financial Market Business collateral (*) 482,680 236,954 42,166 761,800 250,583 1,012,383 Investment Banking Digital Banking (*) The value of collateral held is recoverable amount used when calculating allowance for credit losses. Risk Management Allowances for credit losses, for impaired loans and receivables amounting to 1,144,713 million Won and Corporate Social 1,150,756 million Won as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, are deducted from the impaired Responsibility loans and receivables above. Ethical Management 4) Credit quality of debt securities Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction The Group manages debt securities based on the external credit rating. Credit soundness of debt securities on Social Contribution Activities the basis of External Credit Assessment Institution (ECAI)’s rating is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in Woori Smile Microcredit millions): Financial Review December 31, 2017 Financial assets at AFS debt Management's Discussion and Analysis FVTPL (*) securities HTM securities Total AAA 1,685,099 9,897,689 15,806,327 27,389,115 Independent Auditors' Report AA~ AA+ 722,923 2,386,567 888,547 3,998,037 BBB~ A+ 236,311 876,482 52,188 1,164,981 Below BBB9,694 68,506 2,234 80,434 Organizational Chart Total 2,654,027 13,229,244 16,749,296 32,632,567 Global Network December 31, 2016 Coporate Fact Book Financial assets at AFS debt FVTPL (*) securities HTM securities Total Woori Bank overview AAA 1,658,332 12,490,934 13,342,384 27,491,650 Vision & Core Values AA~ AA+ 720,535 3,372,310 466,401 4,559,246 119 Years of History BBB~ A+ 266,049 618,736 101,466 986,251 Corporate Governance Below BBB4,348 59,908 64,256 Financial Highlights Total 2,649,264 16,541,888 13,910,251 33,101,403 Global Networks Global Networks Strategy (*) Financial assets at FVTPL comprise debt securities held for trading and financial assets designated at Digital Strategy FVTPL A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 115 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 115 36 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (2) Market risk Board of Directors Corporate Governance Market risk is the possible risk of loss arising from trading activities and non-trading activities in the volatility of Company Structure market factors such as interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates. Market risk occurs as a result of Woori Bank Awards 2017 changes in the interest rates and foreign exchange rates for financial instruments that are not yet settled, and all News Highlights contracts are exposed to a certain level of volatility according to changes in the interest rates, credit spreads, Financial Highlights foreign exchange rates and the price of equity securities. Business Operations 1) Market risk management Retail Banking For trading activities and non-trading activities, the Group avoids, bears, or mitigates risks by identifying Wealth Management the underlying source of the risks, measuring parameters and evaluating their appropriateness. Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking On a yearly basis, the Risk Management Committee establishes a Value at Risk (“VaR”, maximum losses) SME Banking limit, loss limit and risk capital limit by subsidiaries for its management purposes. The limit by investment Institutional Banking desk/dealer is independently managed to the extent of the limit given to subsidiaries and the limit by Real Estate Finance investment and loss cut is managed by the risk management personnel within the department. Global Business International Trade Business The Group uses both a standard-based and an internal model-based approach to measure market risk. The Financial Market Business standard-based approach is used to calculate individual market risk of owned capital while the internal Investment Banking model-based approach is used to calculate general capital market risk and it is used to measure internal risk Digital Banking management measure. For the trading activities, the Risk Management department measures the VaR limit Risk Management by department, risk factor and loss limit on a daily basis and reports regularly to the Risk Management Committee. Corporate Social Responsibility 2) Sensitivity analysis of market risk Ethical Management The Group performs the sensitivity analyses both for trading and for non-trading activities. Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction For trading activities, the Group uses a VaR model that uses certain assumptions of possible fluctuations in Social Contribution Activities market condition and, by conducting simulations of gains and losses, under which the model estimates the Woori Smile Microcredit maximum losses that may occur. A VaR model predicts based on statistics of possible losses on the portfolio at a certain period currently or in the future. It indicates the maximum expected loss with at least Financial Review 99% credibility. In short, there exists a one percent possibility that the actual loss might exceed the predicted loss generated from the VaR calculation. The actual results are periodically monitored to examine Management's Discussion the validity of the assumptions, variables, and factors that are used in VaR calculations. However, this and Analysis approach cannot prevent the loss when the market fluctuation exceeds expectation. Independent Auditors' Report For the non-trading activities, interest rate Earning at Risk (“EaR”) and interest rate VaR, which is based on the simulations of the Net Interest Income (“NII”) and Net Present Value (“NPV”), are calculated for the Organizational Chart Bank and the consolidated trusts, and the risks for all other subsidiaries are measured and managed by the interest rate EaR and the interest rate VaR calculations based on the Bank for International Settlements Global Network (“BIS”) Framework. Coporate Fact Book NII is a profit-based indicator for displaying the profit changes in short term due to the short-term interest changes. It will be estimated as subtracting interest expenses of liabilities from the interest income of Woori Bank overview assets. NPV is an indicator for displaying risks in economic view according to unfavorable changes related Vision & Core Values to interest rate. It will be estimated as subtracting the present value of liabilities from the present value of 119 Years of History assets. Corporate Governance Financial Highlights EaR shows the maximum profit-loss amount, which indicates the maximum deduction amount caused by Global Networks the unfavorable changes related to the interest rate of a certain period (i.e. 1 year). Interest rate VaR shows Global Networks Strategy the potential maximum loss generated by the unfavorable changes during a certain period of time in the Digital Strategy present or future. A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 116 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 116 37 Woori Overview Message from the CEO a) Trading activities Board of Directors Corporate Governance The minimum, maximum and average VaR for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, Company Structure and the VaR as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in Woori Bank Awards 2017 millions): News Highlights Financial Highlights For the year ended For the year ended As of As of December December 31, 2017 December December 31, 2016 Business Operations Risk factor 31, 2017 Average Maximum Minimum 31, 2016 Average Maximum Minimum Interest rate 4,183 3,799 4,918 2,467 3,250 2,844 6,430 1,367 Retail Banking Stock price 909 2,863 4,419 909 4,191 3,456 5,063 2,304 Wealth Management Foreign currencies 4,750 5,051 6,636 4,061 4,396 4,914 7,686 3,967 Trust & Pension Business Commodity price 31 188 152 113 325 21 Corporate Banking Diversification (4,472) (4,621) (6,798) (2,067) (5,630) (5,355) (10,385) (4,034) Total VaR 5,370 7,123 9,363 5,370 6,359 5,972 9,119 3,625 SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance b) Non-trading activities Global Business International Trade Business The NII and NPV are calculated for the assets and liabilities owned by the Bank and consolidated trusts, Financial Market Business respectively, by using the simulation method. The scenario responding to interest rate (“IR”) changes are as Investment Banking follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Digital Banking Risk Management December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 NII NPV NII NPV Corporate Social Base case 4,916,138 23,472,792 4,367,411 21,556,632 Responsibility Base case (Prepay) 4,916,015 23,163,942 4,384,783 20,666,425 IR 100bp up 5,361,546 22,886,122 4,802,118 20,893,490 Ethical Management IR 100bp down 4,386,437 24,127,559 3,903,129 22,279,204 Consumer Protection IR 200bp up 5,806,723 22,372,208 5,236,879 20,289,742 Employee Satisfaction IR 200bp down 3,452,590 24,830,482 2,975,351 23,052,848 Social Contribution Activities IR 300bp up 6,251,897 21,929,189 5,671,639 19,742,627 Woori Smile Microcredit IR 300bp down 2,254,609 26,633,807 1,968,273 25,096,193 Financial Review The interest EaR and VaR calculated based on the BIS Framework of subsidiaries other than the Bank and consolidated trusts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Management's Discussion and Analysis December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Independent Auditors' EaR VaR EaR VaR Report 255,679 130,821 188,381 110,335 Organizational Chart The Group estimates and manages risks related to changes in interest rate due to the difference in the maturities of interest-bearing assets and liabilities and discrepancies in the terms of interest rates. Cash flows(both principal Global Network and interest) from non-trading, interest bearing assets and liabilities, presented by each re-pricing date, are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Coporate Fact Book December 31, 2017 Woori Bank overview Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Vision & Core Values months months months months years Over 5 years Total 119 Years of History Asset: Loans and receivables 161,653,892 41,671,530 7,614,159 6,411,841 54,150,998 26,272,958 297,775,378 Corporate Governance AFS financial assets 2,150,708 2,500,103 2,016,711 2,367,762 4,229,000 601,735 13,866,019 Financial Highlights HTM financial assets 2,286,179 2,161,467 1,433,425 1,687,362 9,369,794 345,868 17,284,095 Global Networks Total 166,090,779 46,333,100 11,064,295 10,466,965 67,749,792 27,220,561 328,925,492 Global Networks Strategy Liability: Digital Strategy Deposits due to A Trust-worthy Partner customers 106,815,564 37,750,367 25,117,556 27,585,458 37,518,878 91,246 234,879,069 Borrowings 9,865,249 1,056,579 412,966 437,431 2,709,010 479,827 14,961,062 Debentures 1,955,902 2,452,240 1,018,563 1,752,847 19,770,538 2,869,766 29,819,856 Total 118,636,715 41,259,186 26,549,085 29,775,736 59,998,426 3,440,839 279,659,987 WOORI BANK 117 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 117 38 Woori Overview Message from the CEO December 31, 2016 Board of Directors Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Corporate Governance months months months months years Over 5 years Total Company Structure Asset: Woori Bank Awards 2017 Loans and receivables 148,237,350 42,032,667 8,064,502 7,757,087 55,838,192 35,245,734 297,175,532 News Highlights AFS financial assets 3,165,094 2,946,992 2,854,514 2,915,226 5,029,918 713,596 17,625,340 Financial Highlights HTM financial assets 2,770,079 1,515,213 1,246,503 1,143,170 6,853,951 892,030 14,420,946 Total 154,172,523 46,494,872 12,165,519 11,815,483 67,722,061 36,851,360 329,221,818 Liability: Business Operations Deposits due to customers 100,051,821 36,614,529 25,028,378 25,017,836 34,513,004 40,737 221,266,305 Retail Banking Borrowings 13,772,710 1,044,748 491,330 368,431 2,816,565 421,677 18,915,461 Wealth Management Debentures 2,109,235 2,077,681 860,455 1,545,943 14,613,799 4,143,773 25,350,886 Trust & Pension Business Total 115,933,766 39,736,958 26,380,163 26,932,210 51,943,368 4,606,187 265,532,652 Corporate Banking SME Banking 3) Currency risk Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Currency risk arises from the financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies other than the Global Business functional currency. Therefore, no currency risk arises from non-monetary items or financial instruments International Trade Business denominated in the functional currency. Financial Market Business Investment Banking Financial instruments in foreign currencies exposed to currency risk are as follows (Unit: USD in millions, Digital Banking JPY in millions, CNY in millions, EUR in millions, and Korean Won in millions): Risk Management December 31, 2017 USD JPY CNY EUR Others Total Corporate Social Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Won Won Responsibility currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent equivalent equivalent Asset: Ethical Management Loans and receivables 23,000 24,642,900 126,944 1,204,843 25,224 4,127,936 1,156 1,479,351 3,937,733 35,392,763 Consumer Protection Financial assets at FVTPL 32 34,303 25 238 27 34,583 104,892 174,016 Employee Satisfaction AFS financial assets 1,966 2,105,972 319 52,259 590 302,801 2,461,622 Social Contribution Activities HTM financial assets 111 118,868 78,175 197,043 Woori Smile Microcredit Total 25,109 26,902,043 126,969 1,205,081 25,543 4,180,195 1,183 1,514,524 4,423,601 38,225,444 December 31, 2017 Financial Review USD JPY CNY EUR Others Total Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Won Won Management's Discussion currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent equivalent equivalent and Analysis Liability: Independent Auditors' Financial liabilities at Report FVTPL 41 43,423 79 752 19 24,878 69,977 139,030 Deposits due to customers 13,744 14,725,686 195,176 1,852,440 21,865 3,578,142 883 1,129,802 2,396,826 23,682,896 Organizational Chart Borrowings 6,604 7,080,118 2,218 21,056 247 315,685 242,874 7,659,733 Debentures 3,467 3,714,411 700 114,555 375,749 4,204,715 Other financial Global Network liabilities 2,392 2,562,740 16,125 153,043 1,802 294,950 129 165,189 588,625 3,764,547 Total 26,248 28,126,378 213,598 2,027,291 24,367 3,987,647 1,278 1,635,554 3,647,051 39,450,921 Coporate Fact Book Off-balance accounts 8,108 8,687,009 33,624 319,127 1,199 196,261 406 519,843 176,886 9,899,126 Woori Bank overview December 31, 2016 Vision & Core Values USD JPY CNY EUR Others Total 119 Years of History Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Won Won currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent equivalent equivalent Corporate Governance Asset: Financial Highlights Loans and receivables 22,868 27,635,970 108,944 1,129,539 23,194 4,018,678 1,548 1,962,856 4,382,990 39,130,033 Global Networks Financial assets at Global Networks Strategy FVTPL 66 79,386 57 589 30 37,562 34,124 151,661 AFS financial assets 898 1,085,108 80 13,844 570 144,799 1,244,321 Digital Strategy HTM financial assets 17 20,517 143,535 164,052 A Trust-worthy Partner Total 23,849 28,820,981 109,001 1,130,128 23,274 4,032,522 1,578 2,000,988 4,705,448 40,690,067 WOORI BANK 118 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 118 39 Woori Overview Message from the CEO December 31, 2016 Board of Directors USD JPY CNY EUR Others Total Corporate Governance Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Won Won Company Structure currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent equivalent equivalent Woori Bank Awards 2017 Liability: Financial liabilities at News Highlights FVTPL 75 90,908 253 2,621 88 111,098 115,980 320,607 Financial Highlights Deposits due to customers 11,294 13,648,729 124,790 1,293,835 18,950 3,283,291 651 825,165 2,402,076 21,453,096 Borrowings 7,193 8,692,792 3,243 33,625 222 280,894 115,332 9,122,643 Business Operations Debentures 2,931 3,541,769 700 121,282 228,720 3,891,771 Other financial Retail Banking liabilities 2,235 2,700,703 12,390 128,464 1,508 261,278 245 310,396 846,990 4,247,831 Wealth Management Total 23,728 28,674,901 140,676 1,458,545 21,158 3,665,851 1,206 1,527,553 3,709,098 39,035,948 Trust & Pension Business Off-balance accounts 8,593 10,384,163 28,675 297,304 1,061 183,883 374 473,845 312,187 11,651,382 Corporate Banking SME Banking (3) Liquidity risk Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group may encounter difficulties in meeting obligations from its Global Business financial liabilities. International Trade Business Financial Market Business 1) Liquidity risk management Investment Banking Digital Banking Liquidity risk management is to prevent potential cash shortages as a result of mismatching the use of funds Risk Management (assets) and sources of funds (liabilities) or unexpected cash outflows. The financial liabilities that are relevant to liquidity risk are incorporated within the scope of risk management. Derivatives instruments are Corporate Social excluded from those financial liabilities as they reflect expected cash flows for a pre-determined period. Responsibility Assets and liabilities are grouped by account under Asset Liability Management (“ALM”) in accordance Ethical Management with the characteristics of the account. The Group manages liquidity risk by identifying the maturity gap Consumer Protection and such gap ratio through various cash flows analysis (i.e. based on remaining maturity and contract Employee Satisfaction period, etc.), while maintaining the gap ratio at or below the target limit. Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit 2) Maturity analysis of non-derivative financial liabilities Financial Review a) Cash flows of principals and interests by remaining contractual maturities of non-derivative financial liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Management's Discussion and Analysis December 31, 2017 Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Over Independent Auditors' Report months months months months years 5 years Total Financial liabilities at FVTPL 168,442 155,984 1,717 512 375 327,030 Organizational Chart Deposits due to customers 148,008,777 29,563,310 18,175,348 32,468,110 7,409,118 2,624,594 238,249,257 Borrowings 6,115,732 1,893,173 1,489,272 1,178,107 3,924,681 479,568 15,080,533 Global Network Debentures 1,955,255 2,452,565 1,018,714 1,744,731 19,770,380 2,869,699 29,811,344 Other financial liabilities 7,121,342 162,871 825 1,003 128,940 2,730,001 10,144,982 Coporate Fact Book Total 163,369,548 34,227,903 20,685,876 35,392,463 31,233,494 8,703,862 293,613,146 Woori Bank overview December 31, 2016 Vision & Core Values Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 119 Years of History months months months months years years Total Financial liabilities at Corporate Governance FVTPL 678,813 1,529 94 47 154,325 834,808 Financial Highlights Deposits due to customers 136,835,315 28,685,473 19,254,108 30,875,962 6,284,092 2,732,019 224,666,969 Global Networks Borrowings 9,146,895 2,355,336 876,836 1,486,710 4,711,273 420,720 18,997,770 Global Networks Strategy Debentures 2,108,780 2,077,387 860,596 1,518,524 14,641,016 4,116,768 25,323,071 Digital Strategy Other financial liabilities 14,813,948 27,544 5,480 1,433 84,792 2,751,825 17,685,022 A Trust-worthy Partner Total 163,583,751 33,147,269 20,997,114 33,882,676 25,875,498 10,021,332 287,507,640 WOORI BANK 119 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 119 40 Woori Overview Message from the CEO b) Cash flows of principals and interests by expected maturities of non-derivative financial liabilities are as Board of Directors follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Corporate Governance Company Structure December 31, 2017 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 News Highlights months months months months years years Total Financial Highlights Financial liabilities at FVTPL 168,442 155,984 1,717 512 375 327,030 Business Operations Deposits due to customers 159,146,602 31,298,562 16,667,130 21,995,294 6,487,047 2,278,756 237,873,391 Borrowings 6,115,732 1,893,173 1,489,272 1,178,107 3,924,681 479,568 15,080,533 Retail Banking Debentures 1,955,255 2,452,565 1,018,714 1,744,731 19,770,380 2,869,699 29,811,344 Other financial liabilities 7,121,342 162,871 825 1,003 128,940 2,730,001 10,144,982 Wealth Management Total 174,507,373 35,963,155 19,177,658 24,919,647 30,311,423 8,358,024 293,237,280 Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking December 31, 2016 SME Banking Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 Institutional Banking months months months months years years Total Real Estate Finance Financial liabilities at Global Business FVTPL 678,813 1,529 94 47 154,325 834,808 International Trade Business Deposits due to customers 148,089,355 30,163,971 17,600,803 20,947,335 5,128,387 2,331,993 224,261,844 Financial Market Business Borrowings 9,146,901 2,355,332 876,835 1,486,710 4,711,273 420,719 18,997,770 Investment Banking Debentures 2,108,780 2,077,387 860,596 1,518,524 14,641,016 4,116,768 25,323,071 Digital Banking Other financial liabilities 14,813,948 27,544 5,480 1,433 84,792 2,751,825 17,685,022 Total 174,837,797 34,625,763 19,343,808 23,954,049 24,719,793 9,621,305 287,102,515 Risk Management 3) Maturity analysis of derivative financial liabilities is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Corporate Social Responsibility Derivatives held for trading purpose are not managed in accordance with their contractual maturity, as the Ethical Management Group holds such financial instruments with the purpose of disposing or redemption before their maturity. As Consumer Protection such, those derivatives are incorporated as “within 3 months” in the table below. Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities The cash flow by the maturity of derivative financial liabilities as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as Woori Smile Microcredit follows: Financial Review Remaining maturity Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 months months months months years years Total Management's Discussion and Analysis December 31, 2017 3,150,149 381 67,373 3,217,903 December 31, 2016 3,009,977 208 7,013 3,017,198 Independent Auditors' Report 4) Maturity analysis of off-balance accounts Organizational Chart The Group provides guarantees on behalf of customers. A financial guarantee represents an irrevocable undertaking that the Group should meet a customer’s obligations to third parties if the customer fails to do so. Global Network Under a loan commitment, the Group agrees to make funds available to a customer in the future. Loan commitments that are usually for a specified term may persist or may be unconditionally cancellable, Coporate Fact Book provided all conditions in the loan facility are satisfied or waived. Commitments to lend include commercial standby facilities and credit lines, liquidity facilities to commercial paper conduits and utilized overdraft Woori Bank overview facilities. The maximum limit to be paid by the Group in accordance with guarantees and loan commitment Vision & Core Values only applies to principal amounts. There are contractual maturities for financial guarantees, such as 119 Years of History guarantees for debentures issued or loans, loan commitments, and other guarantees, however, under the terms Corporate Governance of the guarantees and loan commitments, funds should be paid upon demand from the counterparty. Details Financial Highlights of off-balance accounts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Global Networks Global Networks Strategy December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Digital Strategy Guarantees 12,859,715 14,761,784 A Trust-worthy Partner Loan commitments 80,760,325 83,795,496 WOORI BANK 120 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 120 41 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (4) Operational risk Board of Directors Corporate Governance The Group defines the operational risk that could cause a negative effect on capital resulting from inadequate Company Structure internal process, labor work and systematic problem or external factors. Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights 1) Operational risk management Financial Highlights The Group has been running the operational risk management system under Basel II. The Group developed Business Operations advanced measurement approaches to quantify required capital for operational risk. This system is used for reinforcement in foreign competitions, reducing the amount of risk capitals, managing the risk, and Retail Banking precaution for any unexpected occasions. This system has been tested by an independent third party, and Wealth Management this system approved by the Financial Supervisory Service. Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking 2) Operational risk measurement SME Banking Institutional Banking To quantify required capital for operational risk, the Group applies Advanced Measurement Approaches Real Estate Finance (AMA) using of internal and external loss data, business environment and internal control factors Global Business (BEICFs), and scenario analysis (SBA). For the operational risk management for its subsidiaries, the Group International Trade Business adopted the Basic Indicator Approach. Financial Market Business Investment Banking (5) Capital management Digital Banking Risk Management The Group complies with the standard of capital adequacy provided by financial regulatory authorities. The capital adequacy ratio is based on Basel III of Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and Basel III was Corporate Social applied from the end of December, 2013. The capital adequacy ratio is calculated by dividing own capital by Responsibility asset (weighted with a risk premium – risk weighted assets) based on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. Ethical Management Consumer Protection According to the above regulations, the Group is required to meet the following new minimum requirements: Employee Satisfaction 6.25% and 5.38%, a minimum Tier 1 ratio of 7.75% and 6.88% and a minimum total regulatory capital of 9.75% Social Contribution Activities and 8.88% as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Woori Smile Microcredit Details of the Bank’s capital adequacy ratio as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows (Unit: Korean won Financial Review in millions): Management's Discussion December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 and Analysis Tier 1 capital 16,074,987 15,714,480 Independent Auditors' Other Tier 1 capital 3,041,664 3,275,496 Report Tier 2 capital 3,486,555 3,910,513 Total risk-adjusted capital 22,603,206 22,900,489 Organizational Chart Risk-weighted assets for credit risk 134,767,711 138,018,500 Risk-weighted assets for market risk 2,316,938 2,277,809 Global Network Risk-weighted assets for operational risk 9,677,559 9,431,814 Total risk-weighted assets 146,762,208 149,728,123 Coporate Fact Book Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 10.95% 10.50% Tier 1 capital ratio 13.03% 12.68% Woori Bank overview Total capital ratio 15.40% 15.29% Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 121 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 121 42 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 5. OPERATING SEGMENTS Board of Directors Corporate Governance In evaluating the results of the Group and allocating resources, the Group’s Chief Operation Decision Maker (the Company Structure “CODM”) utilizes the information per type of customers. This financial information of the segments is regularly Woori Bank Awards 2017 audited by the CODM to make decisions about resources to be allocated to each segment and evaluate its News Highlights performance. Financial Highlights (1) Segment by type of customers Business Operations The Group’s reporting segments comprise the following customers: consumer banking, corporate banking, Retail Banking investment banking, capital market, credit card market and headquarters and others. The reportable segments are Wealth Management classified based on the target customers for whom the service is being provided. Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking • Consumer banking: Loans/deposits and financial services for retail and individual consumers, etc. SME Banking • Corporate banking: Loans/deposits and export/import, financial services for corporations, etc. Institutional Banking • Investment banking: Domestic/foreign investment, structured finance, M&A, Equity & fund investment Real Estate Finance related business, venture advisory related tasks, real estate SOC development practices, etc. Global Business • Capital market: Fund management, investment in securities and derivatives, etc. International Trade Business • Credit card: Credit card, cash service and card loan, etc. Financial Market Business • Headquarter and others: Segments that do not belong to above operating segments Investment Banking Digital Banking The details of operating income by each segment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Risk Management For the year ended December 31, 2017 Corporate Social Consumer Corporate Investment Capital Headquarters AdjustResponsibility banking banking banking market Credit Cards and others Sub-total ments Total Net Interest income 1,702,939 1,795,377 12,124 36,883 463,603 622,790 4,633,716 586,934 5,220,650 Ethical Management Interest income 3,149,625 2,964,813 148,500 18,834 599,550 1,360,734 8,242,056 308,631 8,550,687 Consumer Protection Interest expense (955,836) (1,681,652) (243) (135,947) (834,662) (3,608,340) 278,303 (3,330,037) Employee Satisfaction Inter-segment (490,850) 512,216 (136,133) 18,049 96,718 Social Contribution Activities Net non-interest income 649,950 571,336 152,168 69,671 73,537 389,004 1,905,666 (745,990) 1,159,676 Non-interest income 802,387 680,778 366,523 9,548,399 1,163,575 2,683,407 15,245,069 (395,833) 14,849,236 Woori Smile Microcredit Non-interest expense (253,961) (170,268) (214,355) (9,478,728) (1,090,038) (2,132,053) (13,339,403) (350,157) (13,689,560) Inter-segment 101,524 60,826 (162,350) Financial Review Other income(expense) (1,906,561) (1,149,288) (63,835) 14,662 (398,652) (939,406) (4,443,080) 219,496 (4,223,584) Administrative expense (1,808,974) (832,429) (12,881) (16,567) (163,536) (954,238) (3,788,625) 257,824 (3,530,801) Management's Discussion Impairment losses due to and Analysis credit loss and others (97,587) (316,859) (50,954) 31,229 (235,116) 14,832 (654,455) (38,328) (692,783) Operating income 446,328 1,217,425 100,457 121,216 138,488 72,388 2,096,302 60,440 2,156,742 Independent Auditors' Non-operating Report income(expense) (98,510) (3,153) 39,350 (5,219) (112,734) (180,266) (26,970) (207,236) Net income before income tax Organizational Chart expense 347,818 1,214,272 139,807 121,216 133,269 (40,346) 1,916,036 33,470 1,949,506 Income tax expense (84,172) (296,634) (33,834) (29,335) (32,055) 63,396 (412,634) (6,784) (419,418) Net income 263,646 917,638 105,973 91,881 101,214 23,050 1,503,402 26,686 1,530,088 Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 122 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 122 43 Woori Overview Message from the CEO For the year ended December 31, 2016 Board of Directors Consumer Corporate Investment Capital Headquarter AdjustCorporate Governance banking banking banking market Credit Card and Others Sub-total ment Total Company Structure Net Interest income 1,484,233 1,741,140 14,613 48,826 428,096 713,677 4,430,585 588,959 5,019,544 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Interest income 2,979,811 3,026,148 153,160 19,575 556,682 1,492,147 8,227,523 284,789 8,512,312 News Highlights Interest expense (1,023,290) (1,780,990) (225) (324) (128,586) (863,523) (3,796,938) 304,170 (3,492,768) Inter-segment (472,288) 495,982 (138,322) 29,575 85,053 Financial Highlights Net non-interest income 557,410 550,194 160,885 4,033 79,714 302,800 1,655,036 (955,696) 699,340 Non-interest income 923,810 535,514 605,026 7,590,087 986,148 4,563,280 15,203,865 (433,880) 14,769,985 Business Operations Non-interest expense (405,912) (32,873) (444,141) (7,586,054) (906,434) (4,173,415) (13,548,829) (521,816) (14,070,645) Inter-segment 39,512 47,553 (87,065) Retail Banking Other expense (1,875,579) (1,476,190) (110,863) (51,995) (364,137) (574,606) (4,453,370) 308,692 (4,144,678) Wealth Management Administrative expense (1,788,672) (966,878) (14,983) (17,964) (148,001) (793,978) (3,730,476) 252,000 (3,478,476) Impairment losses on Trust & Pension Business credit loss and others (86,907) (509,312) (95,880) (34,031) (216,136) 219,372 (722,894) 56,692 (666,202) Corporate Banking Operating income 166,064 815,144 64,635 864 143,673 441,871 1,632,251 (58,045) 1,574,206 SME Banking Non-operating Institutional Banking income(expense) (35,081) (1,619) 46,559 (5,288) (1,504) 55,291 58,358 (79,175) (20,817) Real Estate Finance Net income before income Global Business tax expense 130,983 813,525 111,194 (4,424) 142,169 497,162 1,690,609 (137,220) 1,553,389 Income tax expense (31,698) (203,983) (26,909) 1,071 (32,774) 16,476 (277,817) 1,961 (275,856) International Trade Business Net income 99,285 609,542 84,285 (3,353) 109,395 513,638 1,412,792 (135,259) 1,277,533 Financial Market Business Investment Banking (2) Information on products and services Digital Banking Risk Management The products of the Group are classified as interest-bearing products such as loans, deposits and debt securities and non-interest bearing products such as loan commitment, credit commitment, equity securities, and credit Corporate Social card service. This classification of products has been reflected in the segment information presenting interest Responsibility income and non-interest income. Ethical Management (3) Information on geographical areas Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Among the Group’s revenue (interest income and non-interest income) from services, revenue from the domestic Social Contribution Activities customers for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 amounted to 22,279,666 million Won and Woori Smile Microcredit 22,265,508 million Won, respectively, and revenue from the foreign customers amounted to 1,120,257 million Won and 1,016,789 million Won, respectively. Among the Group’s non-current assets (investments in joint Financial Review ventures and associates, investment properties, premises and equipment and intangible assets), non-current assets attributed to domestic subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are 3,550,764 million Won and 3,498,327 Management's Discussion million Won, respectively, and foreign subsidiaries are 233,732 million Won and 240,946 million Won, and Analysis respectively. Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 123 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 123 44 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 6. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Board of Directors Corporate Governance (1) Details of cash and cash equivalents are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 News Highlights Cash 2,009,363 2,113,739 Financial Highlights Foreign currencies 617,155 742,340 Demand deposits 3,423,355 4,238,956 Business Operations Fixed deposits 858,413 496,289 Total 6,908,286 7,591,324 Retail Banking Wealth Management (2) Significant transactions not involving cash inflows and outflows are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in Trust & Pension Business millions): Corporate Banking SME Banking For the years ended December 31 Institutional Banking 2017 2016 Real Estate Finance Changes in other comprehensive income due to valuation Global Business of AFS financial assets (84,498) 12,586 International Trade Business Changes in other comprehensive income (loss) Financial Market Business of investment in associates 612 (7,937) Investment Banking Changes in other comprehensive income (loss) Digital Banking of foreign operations translation (208,329) 28,712 Risk Management Changes in other comprehensive income related to valuation of cash flow hedging 777 10,371 Corporate Social Changes in other comprehensive income due to Responsibility remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability 10,497 34,162 Ethical Management Changes in investments in associates Consumer Protection due to equity swap and others 51,227 Changes in investments in associates Employee Satisfaction due to accounts transfer (62,571) (156,708) Social Contribution Activities Changes in unpaid dividends of hybrid equity securities (10,658) 5,187 Woori Smile Microcredit (3) Adjustments of liabilities from financing activities in current year are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in Financial Review millions): Management's Discussion and Analysis For the year ended December 31, 2017 Not involving cash inflows and outflows Independent Auditors' Report Variation of gains on Organizational Chart valuation of January Foreign hedged December 1,2017 Cash flow Exchange items Others 31,2017 Global Network Borrowings 18,769,515 (3,634,883) (350,429) 503 14,784,706 Debentures 23,565,449 4,817,701 (478,249) (39,373) 4,123 27,869,651 Coporate Fact Book Total 42,334,964 1,182,818 (828,678) (39,373) 4,626 42,654,357 Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 124 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 124 45 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 7. FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FVTPL Board of Directors Corporate Governance (1) Financial assets at FVTPL consist of as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 News Highlights Financial assets held for trading 5,820,787 5,633,724 Financial Highlights Financial assets designated at FVTPL 22,290 17,000 Total 5,843,077 5,650,724 Business Operations (2) Financial assets held for trading are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Retail Banking Wealth Management December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Trust & Pension Business Deposits: Corporate Banking Gold banking asset 25,972 26,180 SME Banking Securities: Institutional Banking Debt securities Real Estate Finance Korean treasury and government agencies 540,438 519,337 Global Business Financial institutions 1,476,498 1,444,459 International Trade Business Corporates 627,397 681,120 Financial Market Business Equity securities 21,666 35,983 Investment Banking Beneficiary certificates 13,041 23,891 Digital Banking Securities loaned 4,459 Risk Management Sub-total 2,679,040 2,709,249 Derivatives assets 3,115,775 2,898,295 Corporate Social Responsibility Total 5,820,787 5,633,724 Ethical Management (3) Financial assets designated at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Social Contribution Activities Debt securities 9,694 4,348 Woori Smile Microcredit Equity securities 12,596 12,652 Total 22,290 17,000 Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 125 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 125 46 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 8. AVAILABLE FOR SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Board of Directors Corporate Governance Details of AFS financial assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 As of December 31, 2017 News Highlights Cumulative Cumulative Financial Highlights Amortized gains on losses on cost valuation valuation Fair value Business Operations Debt securities: Korean treasury and government agencies 2,338,760 1,193 (9,386) 2,330,567 Retail Banking Financial institutions 5,225,921 1,504 (10,159) 5,217,266 Wealth Management Corporates 2,727,016 3,851 (5,635) 2,725,232 Trust & Pension Business Asset-backed securities 309,518 (1,337) 308,181 Corporate Banking Bond denominated in foreign currencies 2,449,954 3,100 (10,475) 2,442,579 SME Banking Other debt securities 35,154 21 (12) 35,163 Institutional Banking Sub-total 13,086,323 9,669 (37,004) 13,058,988 Real Estate Finance Equity securities 982,393 430,921 (2,236) 1,411,078 Global Business Beneficiary certificates 697,655 18,701 (3,728) 712,628 International Trade Business Securities loaned 169,988 664 (396) 170,256 Financial Market Business Total 14,936,359 459,955 (43,364) 15,352,950 Investment Banking Digital Banking As of December 31, 2016 Risk Management Cumulative Cumulative Amortized gains on losses on Corporate Social cost valuation valuation Fair value Responsibility Debt securities: Korean treasury and government agencies 3,778,688 13,700 (3,758) 3,788,630 Ethical Management Financial institutions 6,310,517 7,585 (3,904) 6,314,198 Consumer Protection Corporates 4,336,195 93,957 (20,966) 4,409,186 Employee Satisfaction Asset-backed securities 250,630 (1,427) 249,203 Social Contribution Activities Bond denominated in foreign currencies 1,226,893 1,076 (16,105) 1,211,864 Woori Smile Microcredit Other debt securities 73,360 1,871 (3) 75,228 Sub-total 15,976,283 118,189 (46,163) 16,048,309 Financial Review Equity securities 1,034,299 420,038 (724) 1,453,613 Beneficiary certificates 2,802,847 40,405 (21,170) 2,822,082 Management's Discussion Securities loaned 493,625 3,040 (3,086) 493,579 and Analysis Total 20,307,054 581,672 (71,143) 20,817,583 Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 126 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 126 47 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 9. HELD TO MATURITY FINANCIAL ASSETS Board of Directors Corporate Governance Details of HTM financial assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 As of December 31, 2017 News Highlights Cumulative Cumulative Financial Highlights Amortized gains on losses on cost valuation valuation Fair value Business Operations Korean treasury and government agencies 3,994,857 6,944 (15,266) 3,986,535 Financial institutions 7,245,426 2,923 (15,067) 7,233,282 Retail Banking Corporates 5,311,970 12,367 (25,326) 5,299,011 Wealth Management Bond denominated in foreign currencies 197,043 832 (1,024) 196,851 Trust & Pension Business Total 16,749,296 23,066 (56,683) 16,715,679 Corporate Banking SME Banking As of December 31, 2016 Institutional Banking Cumulative Cumulative Real Estate Finance Amortized gains on losses on Global Business cost valuation valuation Fair value International Trade Business Korean treasury and government agencies 3,754,356 26,366 (6,391) 3,774,331 Financial Market Business Financial institutions 5,168,487 9,236 (4,940) 5,172,783 Investment Banking Corporates 4,823,356 58,176 (7,093) 4,874,439 Digital Banking Bond denominated in foreign currencies 164,052 (428) 163,624 Risk Management Total 13,910,251 93,778 (18,852) 13,985,177 Corporate Social Responsibility 10. LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Ethical Management (1) Details of loans and receivables are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Social Contribution Activities Due from banks 8,868,378 14,815,476 Woori Smile Microcredit Loans 251,523,301 235,400,585 Other loans and receivables 6,714,525 8,176,572 Financial Review Total 267,106,204 258,392,633 Management's Discussion and Analysis (2) Details of due from banks are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Independent Auditors' Report December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Due from banks in local currency: Due from The Bank of Korea (“BOK”) 6,246,496 11,395,162 Organizational Chart Due from depository banks 30,003 3 Due from non-depository institutions 150 9,811 Global Network Due from the Korea Exchange 50,000 1,625 Others 97,365 73,283 Coporate Fact Book Allowance for credit losses (1,541) (2,798) Sub-total 6,422,473 11,477,086 Woori Bank overview Due from banks in foreign currencies: Vision & Core Values Due from banks on demand 794,353 877,636 119 Years of History Due from banks on time 972,915 1,684,631 Corporate Governance Others 679,554 778,418 Financial Highlights Allowance for credit losses (917) (2,295) Global Networks Sub-total 2,445,905 3,338,390 Global Networks Strategy Total 8,868,378 14,815,476 Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 127 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 127 48 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (3) Details of restricted due from banks are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Board of Directors Corporate Governance December Company Structure Financial institution Counterparty 31, 2017 Reason of restriction Woori Bank Awards 2017 Due from banks in local currency: News Highlights Due from The BOK The BOK Reserve deposits under The Financial Highlights 6,246,496 BOK Act Others The Korea Exchange and Central Counter Party KRW Business Operations others 94,394 margin and others Sub-total 6,340,890 Retail Banking Due from banks in foreign currencies: Wealth Management Due from banks on demand The BOK and others Reserve deposits under The 787,520 BOK Act and others Trust & Pension Business Others The People’s Bank of China Corporate Banking and others 367,108 Reserve deposits and others SME Banking Sub-total 1,154,628 Institutional Banking Total 7,495,518 Real Estate Finance Global Business December International Trade Business Financial institution Counterparty 31, 2016 Reason of restriction Financial Market Business Due from banks in local currency: Investment Banking Due from The BOK The BOK Reserve deposits under The Digital Banking 11,395,162 BOK Act Risk Management Others The Korea Exchange and Central counter party KRW others 70,304 margin and others Sub-total 11,465,466 Corporate Social Due from banks in foreign currencies: Responsibility Due from banks on demand The BOK and others Reserve deposits under The 854,612 BOK Act and others Ethical Management Others The People’s Bank of China Consumer Protection and others 778,418 Reserve deposits and others Employee Satisfaction Sub-total 1,633,030 Social Contribution Activities Total 13,098,496 Woori Smile Microcredit (4) Details of loans are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Financial Review December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Management's Discussion Loans in local currency 200,213,230 191,309,481 and Analysis Loans in foreign currencies 13,147,888 14,101,839 Independent Auditors' Domestic banker’s letter of credit 2,516,907 3,754,030 Report Credit card accounts 6,827,295 6,673,765 Bills bought in foreign currencies 8,197,159 7,758,575 Organizational Chart Bills bought in local currency 334,714 414,451 Factoring receivables 137,523 96,763 Global Network Advances for customers on guarantees 23,620 25,197 Privately placed bonds 362,319 328,405 Coporate Fact Book Securitized loans 563,152 252,690 Call loans 3,003,455 2,985,077 Woori Bank overview Bonds purchased under resale agreements 16,859,064 8,854,753 Vision & Core Values Loan origination costs and fees 510,860 458,639 119 Years of History Others 607,325 251,635 Corporate Governance Present value discount (10,988) (13,827) Financial Highlights Allowance for credit losses (1,770,222) (1,850,888) Global Networks Total 251,523,301 235,400,585 Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 128 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 128 49 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (5) Details of other loan and receivables are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Board of Directors Corporate Governance December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Company Structure CMA accounts 135,000 190,000 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Receivables 4,459,318 5,417,676 News Highlights Accrued income 1,026,273 1,080,489 Financial Highlights Telex and telephone subscription rights and refundable deposits 984,620 1,019,577 Business Operations Other debtors 166,877 639,945 Allowance for credit losses (57,563) (171,115) Retail Banking Wealth Management Total 6,714,525 8,176,572 Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking (6) Changes in allowance for credit losses on loans and receivables are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in SME Banking millions): Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance For the year ended December 31, 2017 Global Business Consumers Corporates Credit card Others Total International Trade Business (163,858) (1,498,842) (155,372) (209,024) (2,027,096) Beginning balance Financial Market Business (131,275) (539,222) (203,968) 12,192 (862,273) Net provision Investment Banking Recoveries of loans previously charged off (45,060) (84,413) (51,366) (68) (180,907) Digital Banking Charge-offs 142,099 453,249 228,640 63,181 887,169 Risk Management Sales of loans and receivables 898 65,145 29,186 95,229 Unwinding effect 8,643 36,548 45,191 Corporate Social Responsibility Others (*) 908 211,729 1 (193) 212,445 Ending balance (187,645) (1,355,806) (182,065) (104,726) (1,830,242) Ethical Management Consumer Protection For the year ended December 31, 2016 Employee Satisfaction Consumers Corporates Credit card Others Total Social Contribution Activities Beginning balance (203,433) (1,686,194) (145,810) (442,620) (2,478,057) Woori Smile Microcredit Net provision (73,356) (536,359) (207,730) (73,318) (890,763) Recoveries of loans previously Financial Review charged off (53,679) (192,183) (44,393) (19,233) (309,488) Charge-offs 155,424 722,359 242,561 236,857 1,357,201 Management's Discussion Sales of loans and receivables 2,055 113,177 91,800 207,032 and Analysis Unwinding effect 10,319 66,901 77,220 Independent Auditors' Others (*) (1,188) 13,457 (2,510) 9,759 Report Ending balance (163,858) (1,498,842) (155,372) (209,024) (2,027,096) Organizational Chart (*) Others are due to debt-equity swap, fluctuation of foreign currencies exchange rates, etc. Global Network 11. THE FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Coporate Fact Book (1) The fair value hierarchy Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values The fair value hierarchy is determined by the levels of judgment involved in estimating fair values of financial 119 Years of History assets and liabilities. The specific financial instruments characteristics and market condition such as volume of Corporate Governance transactions and transparency are reflected to the market observable inputs. The fair value hierarchy gives the Financial Highlights highest priority to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The Group Global Networks maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value Global Networks Strategy of its financial assets and financial liabilities. Fair value is measured based on the perspective of a market Digital Strategy participant. As such, even when market assumptions are not readily available, the Group’s own assumptions A Trust-worthy Partner reflect those that market participants would use for measuring the assets or liabilities at the measurement date. WOORI BANK 129 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 129 50 Woori Overview Message from the CEO The fair value measurement is described in the one of the following three levels used to classify fair value Board of Directors measurements: Corporate Governance Company Structure • Level 1—fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for Woori Bank Awards 2017 identical assets or liabilities. The types of financial assets or liabilities generally included in Level 1 are News Highlights publicly traded equity securities, derivatives, and debt securities issued by governmental bodies. Financial Highlights • Level 2— fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Business Operations Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). The types of financial assets or liabilities generally included in Level 2 are debt securities Retail Banking not traded in active markets and derivatives traded in OTC but not required significant judgment. Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business • Level 3— fair value measurements are those derived from valuation technique that include inputs for the Corporate Banking asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). The types of SME Banking financial assets or liabilities generally included in Level 3 are non-public securities and derivatives and Institutional Banking debt securities of which valuation techniques require significant judgments and subjectivity. Real Estate Finance Global Business The inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the International Trade Business level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value Financial Market Business measurement. The Group’s assessment of the significance of a particular input to a fair value measurement in its Investment Banking entirety requires judgment and consideration of inherent factors of the asset or liability. Digital Banking Risk Management (2) Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Corporate Social Responsibility December 31, 2017 Level 1 (*1) Level 2 (*1) Level 3 (*2) Total Ethical Management Financial assets: Consumer Protection Financial assets held for trading Employee Satisfaction Deposits 25,972 25,972 Social Contribution Activities Debt securities 405,942 2,238,391 2,644,333 Woori Smile Microcredit Equity securities 21,666 21,666 Beneficiary certificates 13,041 13,041 Financial Review Derivative assets 1,021 3,093,272 21,482 3,115,775 Sub-total 454,601 5,344,704 21,482 5,820,787 Management's Discussion and Analysis Financial assets designated at FVTPL Independent Auditors' Debt securities 9,694 9,694 Report Equity securities 12,596 12,596 Sub-total 22,290 22,290 Organizational Chart AFS financial assets Global Network Debt securities 2,710,172 10,348,815 13,058,987 Equity securities 399,214 1,011,864 1,411,078 Coporate Fact Book Beneficiary certificates 68,722 643,906 712,628 Securities loaned 69,778 100,478 170,256 Woori Bank overview Sub-total 3,179,164 10,518,015 1,655,770 15,352,949 Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Derivative assets 59,272 59,272 Corporate Governance Total 3,633,765 15,921,991 1,699,542 21,255,298 Financial Highlights Global Networks Financial liabilities: Global Networks Strategy Financial liabilities held for trading Deposits 25,964 25,964 Digital Strategy Derivative liabilities 2,613 3,126,585 20,951 3,150,149 A Trust-worthy Partner Securities sold Sub-total 28,577 3,126,585 20,951 3,176,113 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL WOORI BANK 130 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 130 51 Woori Overview Message from the CEO December 31, 2017 Board of Directors Level 1 (*1) Level 2 (*1) Level 3 (*2) Total Corporate Governance Equity-linked securities 160,057 160,057 Company Structure Debentures 91,739 91,739 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Sub-total 91,739 160,057 251,796 News Highlights Financial Highlights Derivative liabilities 67,754 67,754 Total 28,577 3,286,078 181,008 3,495,663 Business Operations December 31, 2016 Retail Banking Level 1 (*1) Level 2 (*1) Level 3 (*2) Total Wealth Management Financial assets: Trust & Pension Business Financial assets held for trading Corporate Banking Deposits 26,180 26,180 SME Banking Debt securities 370,636 2,274,280 2,644,916 Institutional Banking Equity securities 35,983 35,983 Real Estate Finance Beneficiary certificates 23,891 23,891 Global Business Securities loaned 4,459 4,459 International Trade Business Derivative assets 3,233 2,871,909 23,153 2,898,295 Financial Market Business Sub-total 440,491 5,170,080 23,153 5,633,724 Investment Banking Digital Banking Financial assets designated at FVTPL Risk Management Debt securities 4,348 4,348 Equity securities 12,652 12,652 Corporate Social Sub-total 17,000 17,000 Responsibility AFS financial assets Ethical Management Debt securities 2,288,917 13,759,392 16,048,309 Consumer Protection Equity securities 428,678 1,024,935 1,453,613 Employee Satisfaction Beneficiary certificates 2,291,571 530,511 2,822,082 Social Contribution Activities Securities loaned 391,279 102,300 493,579 Woori Smile Microcredit Sub-total 3,108,874 16,153,263 1,555,446 20,817,583 Financial Review Derivative assets 140,478 99 140,577 Total 3,549,365 21,463,821 1,595,698 26,608,884 Management's Discussion and Analysis Financial liabilities: Independent Auditors' Financial liabilities held for trading Report Deposits 26,501 26,501 Derivative liabilities 1,750 2,974,703 33,524 3,009,977 Organizational Chart Sub-total 28,251 2,974,703 33,524 3,036,478 Global Network Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Coporate Fact Book Equity-linked securities 197 673,709 673,906 Debentures 92,974 92,974 Woori Bank overview Sub-total 93,171 673,709 766,880 Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Derivative liabilities 7,221 7,221 Corporate Governance Total 28,251 3,075,095 707,233 3,810,579 Financial Highlights Global Networks (*1) There is no transfer between level 1 and level 2 of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value. The Group recognizes Global Networks Strategy transfers between the levels at the end of reporting period within which events or conditions change. Digital Strategy (*2) Certain AFS unquoted equity securities were measured at cost as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, that are amounting to 37,092 A Trust-worthy Partner million Won and 43,202 million Won, respectively. These unquoted equity instruments mostly represent minority investments in special purposed entity vehicles such as asset securitization structures. They are measured at cost because (a) observable inputs of financial information to measure fair value was not available to obtain, or (b) there is a significant variance in likely estimated cash flows or (c) the probabilities for the various estimated cash flows could not be measured reliably. In addition, the Group has no intention to dispose these investments in the foreseeable future. WOORI BANK 131 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 131 52 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Certain financial assets are carried at cost, even though under K-IFRS it is required to be subsequently measured Board of Directors at their fair value, since they do not have quoted market prices in an active market and cannot be measured at fair Corporate Governance value reliably. The carrying amount of the financial assets which have been disposed for the year ended Company Structure December 31, 2017 is 1,266 million Won and the related gain from the disposals is 657 million Won. Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial assets and liabilities designated at FVTPL, held-for-trading financial assets and liabilities, AFS Financial Highlights financial assets, and derivative assets and liabilities are recognized at fair value. Fair value is the amount that would be received to sell an asset, or paid to transfer a liability, in an orderly transaction between market Business Operations participants at the measurement date. Retail Banking Financial instruments are measured at fair value using a quoted market price in active markets. If there is no Wealth Management active market for a financial instrument, the Group determines the fair value using alternative assumptions and Trust & Pension Business developing fair value measurement methods. Input variables and fair value measurement methods for each type Corporate Banking of financial instruments are as follows: SME Banking Institutional Banking Fair value measurement methods Input variables Real Estate Finance Debt securities The fair value is measured by discounting the Risk-free market rate, credit Global Business projected cash flows of debt securities by spread International Trade Business applying the market discount rate that has been Financial Market Business applied to a proxy company that has similar Investment Banking credit rating to the issuers of the securities. Digital Banking Equity securities and Among DCF (Discounted Cash Flow) Model, Risk-free market rate, market risk Risk Management Beneficiary FCFE (Free Cash Flow to Equity) Model, premium, Beta, etc. certificates Comparable Company Analysis, Dividend Corporate Social Discount Model, Risk-adjusted Rate of Return Responsibility Method, and Net Asset Value Method, more than one method is used given the characteristic Ethical Management of the subject of fair value measurement. Consumer Protection Derivatives The in-house developed model which is based on Risk-free market rate, forward Employee Satisfaction the models that are used by market participants rate, volatility, foreign exchange Social Contribution Activities in the valuation of general OTC derivative rate, stock prices, etc. Woori Smile Microcredit products, such as options, interest rate swaps, currency swap and currency forward that are Financial Review based on inputs observable in the market. However, for some complicated financial Management's Discussion instruments of which valuation should be based and Analysis on some assumptions since some significant or Independent Auditors' all inputs to be used in the model are not Report observable in the market, the in-house derived model which is developed from the general Organizational Chart valuation models, such as Finite Difference Method (“FDM”) or Monte Carlo Simulation. Global Network Equity-linked securities The fair value of security linked to stock prices or Values of underlying assets, riskderivatives is measured by the models such as free market rate, market rate, Coporate Fact Book DCF model, FDM, or Monte Carlo Simulation dividend and convenience yield, given the natures of the securities or underlying volatility, correlation coefficient, Woori Bank overview assets. credit spread, and foreign Vision & Core Values exchange rate 119 Years of History Debentures The fair value is measured by discounting the Risk-free market rate, forward rate Corporate Governance projected cash flows of a debenture by applying Financial Highlights the market discount rate that is reflecting credit Global Networks rating of the Group. Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 132 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 132 53 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Valuation methods of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value and classified into Level 3 and Board of Directors significant but unobservable inputs are as follows: Corporate Governance Company Structure Fair value Impact of changes in significant Woori Bank Awards 2017 measurement unobservable inputs on fair value News Highlights technique Input variable Range measurement Financial Highlights Derivative assets Option valuation Correlation Variation of fair value increases as model and others coefficient correlation coefficient increases. Business Operations 0.900~0.980 Volatility of Variation of fair value increases as Retail Banking underlying asset volatility increases. 12.1%~28.1% Wealth Management Derivative Option valuation Correlation Variation of fair value increases as Trust & Pension Business liabilities model and others coefficient correlation coefficient increases. Corporate Banking 0.900~0.980 SME Banking Volatility of Variation of fair value increases as Institutional Banking underlying asset volatility increases. Real Estate Finance 12.1%~28.1% Global Business Equity linked Monte Carlo Correlation Equity linked securities’ variation of securities Simulation and coefficient 0.363~0.694 fair value increases if both volatility International Trade Business others Volatility of and correlation coefficient increase. Financial Market Business underlying asset However when correlation coefficient Investment Banking decreases, despite the increase in Digital Banking volatility, the variation of fair value of Risk Management equity linked securities may decrease. 6.8%~58.9% Corporate Social Equity securities External appraisal Expected growth Fair value increases as expected Responsibility and value and others rate growth rate increases. Beneficiary 0.0%~1.0% Ethical Management certificates Volatility of real Fair value increases as sale price estate sale price Increases Consumer Protection 0% Employee Satisfaction Discount rate of Fair value increases as discount rate of Social Contribution Activities lease cash flow lease cash flow decreases Woori Smile Microcredit and others 8.31%~8.54% Financial Review Fair value of financial assets and liabilities classified into level 3 is measured by the Group using its own valuation techniques or using external specialists. Unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurements are Management's Discussion produced by the internal system of the Group and the appropriateness of inputs is reviewed regularly. and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 133 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 133 54 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (3) Changes in financial assets and liabilities classified into level 3 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in Board of Directors millions): Corporate Governance Company Structure For the year ended December 31, 2017 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Net Other Transfer to or News Highlights January Income (loss) comprehensive Purchases/ Disposals/ out of level 3 December Financial Highlights 1, 2017 (*1) income Issuances Settlements (*2) 31, 2017 Financial assets: Financial assets held for trading Business Operations Derivative assets 23,153 22,362 1,398 (25,431) 21,482 Retail Banking Financial assets designated at FVTPL Wealth Management Debt securities 4,348 346 5,000 9,694 Trust & Pension Business Equity securities 12,652 (56) 12,596 Corporate Banking Sub-total 17,000 290 5,000 22,290 SME Banking AFS financial assets Institutional Banking Equity securities 1,024,935 27,986 24,442 65,961 (131,460) 1,011,864 Real Estate Finance Beneficiary certificates 530,511 212 (4,321) 226,975 (109,471) 643,906 Global Business Sub-total 1,555,446 28,198 20,121 292,936 (240,931) 1,655,770 International Trade Business Financial Market Business Derivative assets 99 329 (428) Total 1,595,698 51,179 20,121 299,334 (266,790) 1,699,542 Investment Banking Digital Banking Financial liabilities: Risk Management Financial liabilities held for trading Derivative liabilities 33,524 24,866 500 (37,939) 20,951 Corporate Social Financial liabilities designated at Responsibility FVTPL Equity-linked securities 673,709 112,015 (625,667) 160,057 Ethical Management Total 707,233 136,881 500 (663,606) 181,008 Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction (*1) The losses which increase the financial liabilities are presented as positive amounts and the gains which decrease the Social Contribution Activities financial liabilities are presented as negative amounts. The loss amounting to 34,621 million Won for the year ended Woori Smile Microcredit December 31, 2017, which is from financial assets and liabilities that the Group holds, has been recognized in net gain (loss) on financial instruments at FVTPL and net gain (loss) on AFS financial assets in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Financial Review (*2) The Group recognizes transfers between levels at the end of reporting period within which events have occurred or conditions have changed. Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 134 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 134 55 Woori Overview Message from the CEO For the year ended December 31, 2016 Board of Directors Net Other Transfer to or Corporate Governance January 1, Income comprehensive Purchases/ Disposals/ from level 3 December Company Structure 2016 (loss) (*1) income (loss) Issuances Settlements (*2) 31, 2016 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Financial assets: Financial assets held for trading News Highlights Derivative assets (*3) 78,676 (29,117) 13,640 (39,506) (540) 23,153 Financial Highlights Financial assets designed at FVTPL Business Operations Debt securities 986 (161) 4,509 (986) 4,348 Equity securities 11,609 1,043 12,652 Retail Banking Sub-total 12,595 882 4,509 (986) 17,000 Wealth Management AFS financial assets: Trust & Pension Business Equity securities (*4) 993,368 (6,986) 57,323 205,749 (205,348) (19,171) 1,024,935 Corporate Banking Beneficiary certificates 377,070 (868) 5,794 174,024 (25,509) 530,511 SME Banking Others 5,308 594 (643) (5,259) Institutional Banking Sub-total 1,375,746 (7,260) 62,474 379,773 (236,116) (19,171) 1,555,446 Real Estate Finance Derivative assets 5,973 3,877 (9,751) 99 Global Business Total 1,472,990 (31,618) 62,474 397,922 (286,359) (19,711) 1,595,698 International Trade Business Financial Market Business Financial liabilities: Investment Banking Financial liabilities held for trading Digital Banking Derivative liabilities 78,607 (8,322) 1,155 (37,916) 33,524 Risk Management Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Corporate Social Equity-linked securities 747,351 71,079 (144,721) 673,709 Responsibility Total 825,958 62,757 1,155 (182,637) 707,233 Ethical Management (*1) The losses which increase the financial liabilities are presented as positive amounts and the gains which decrease the Consumer Protection financial liabilities are presented as negative amounts. The loss amounting to 94,238 million Won for the year ended Employee Satisfaction December 31, 2016, which is from financial assets and liabilities that the Group holds, has been recognized in net gain Social Contribution Activities (loss) on financial instruments at FVTPL and net gain (loss) on AFS financial assets in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Woori Smile Microcredit (*2) The Group recognizes transfers between levels at the end of reporting period within which events have occurred or conditions have changed. Financial Review (*3) As the variables used for the valuation of currency related derivatives were observable in the market, such derivatives were transferred into level 2 from level 3. Management's Discussion (*4) AFS financial assets were transferred out of level 1 to level 3 upon the change of the fair value measurement method of the and Analysis assets by using market the external valuation specialists from previously using quoted prices in the active market, in the opposite case, they were transferred out of level 3 to level 1. Independent Auditors' Report (4) Sensitivity analysis on the unobservable inputs used for measuring level 3 financial instruments Organizational Chart The sensitivity analysis of the financial instruments has been performed by classifying with favorable and unfavorable changes based on how changes in unobservable assumptions would have effects on the fluctuations Global Network of financial instruments’ value. When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the below table reflects the most favorable or the most unfavorable changes which Coporate Fact Book resulted from varying the assumptions individually. The sensitivity analysis was performed for two types of level 3 financial instruments: (1) debt securities, equity securities, interest rate related derivatives, currency Woori Bank overview related derivatives, equity related derivatives, and equity-linked securities of which fair value changes are Vision & Core Values recognized as net income; (2) equity securities and beneficiary certificates of which fair value changes are 119 Years of History recognized as other comprehensive income. Equity securities classified as level 3 but measured at costs are Corporate Governance excluded from sensitivity analysis. Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 135 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 135 56 Woori Overview Message from the CEO The following table presents the sensitivity analysis to disclose the effect of reasonably possible volatility on the Board of Directors fair value of a level 3 financial instruments as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Corporate Governance Company Structure For the year ended December 31, 2017 For the year ended December 31, 2016 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Net income Other comprehensive Net income Other comprehensive News Highlights (loss) income (loss) (loss) income (loss) Financial Highlights Favorable Unfavorable Favorable Unfavorable Favorable Unfavorable Favorable Unfavorable Financial assets: Financial assets held for Business Operations trading Derivatives assets Retail Banking (*1)(*2) 1,234 (526) 861 (2,248) Wealth Management Financial assets designed Trust & Pension Business at FVTPL Corporate Banking Debt securities (*5) 265 (309) Equity securities (*5) 670 (624) 707 (657) SME Banking AFS Financial assets Institutional Banking Equity securities Real Estate Finance (*3)(*4) 28,583 (15,246) 31,412 (18,551) Global Business Beneficiary certificates International Trade Business (*4) 1,861 (1,857) 2,903 (2,571) Total 2,169 (1,459) 30,444 (17,103) 1,568 (2,905) 34,315 (21,122) Financial Market Business Investment Banking Financial liabilities: Digital Banking Financial liabilities held for trading Risk Management Derivative liabilities (*1)(*2) 5 (513) 4,892 (3,568) Corporate Social Financial liabilities Responsibility designated at FVTPL Equity-linked securities Ethical Management (*1) 8 (7) 905 (857) Consumer Protection Total 13 (520) 5,797 (4,425) Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities (*1) Fair value changes of equity related derivatives assets and liabilities and equity-linked securities are calculated by increasing or decreasing historical volatility of the stock price and correlation, which are major unobservable variables, by Woori Smile Microcredit 10%, respectively. In the case of interest rate related derivative assets and liabilities, fair value changes are calculated by increasing or decreasing the volatility of interest rate, which are major unobservable variables, by 10%, respectively. Financial Review (*2) Both derivative assets and liabilities for held for trading and hedging are included. (*3) Fair value changes of equity securities are calculated by increasing or decreasing growth rate (0~1%) and discount rate or Management's Discussion liquidation value (-1~1%) and discount rate. The growth rate, discount rate, and liquidation value are major unobservable and Analysis variables. (*4) Among the equity securities, even if the sensitivity analysis of the capital contributions and beneficiary certificates is not Independent Auditors' possible in practice, fair value changes of beneficiary certificates and other securities whose major unobservable variables Report are composed of the real estate are calculated by increasing or decreasing price fluctuation of real estate which is underlying assets and discount rate by 1%. Organizational Chart (*5) Changes of fair value are measured by increasing or decreasing the discount rate by 10%, which is major unobservable variable, respectively. Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 136 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 136 57 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (5) Fair value and carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities that are recorded at amortized cost are as Board of Directors follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Corporate Governance Company Structure As of December 31, 2017 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Fair value Book News Highlights Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total value Financial Highlights Financial assets: HTM financial assets 1,206,292 15,509,387 16,715,679 16,749,296 Business Operations Loans and receivables 265,570,649 265,570,649 267,106,204 Financial liabilities: Deposits due to customers 234,682,775 234,682,775 234,695,084 Retail Banking Borrowings 14,754,506 14,754,506 14,784,706 Wealth Management Debentures 27,889,781 27,889,781 27,869,651 Trust & Pension Business Other financial liabilities 13,890,789 13,890,789 13,892,461 Corporate Banking SME Banking As of December 31, 2016 Institutional Banking Fair value Book Real Estate Finance Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Value Global Business Financial assets: International Trade Business HTM financial assets 741,880 13,243,297 13,985,177 13,910,251 Loans and receivables 259,565,952 259,565,952 258,392,633 Financial Market Business Financial liabilities: Investment Banking Deposits due to customers 221,001,466 221,001,466 221,020,411 Digital Banking Borrowings 18,785,325 18,785,325 18,769,515 Risk Management Debentures 24,004,668 24,004,668 23,565,449 Other financial liabilities 21,984,171 21,984,171 21,985,086 Corporate Social Responsibility The fair values of financial instruments are measured using quoted market price in active markets. In case there is no active market for financial instruments, the Group determines the fair value using alternative assumptions Ethical Management through developing fair value measurement methods. Input variables and fair value measurement methods for Consumer Protection financial assets and liabilities that are measured at amortized costs are given as follows: Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Fair value measurement technique Input variables Woori Smile Microcredit Debt securities The fair value is measured by Risk-free market rate and discounting the projected cash flows credit spread Financial Review of debt securities by applying the market discount rate that has been Management's Discussion applied to a proxy company that has and Analysis similar credit rating to the issuers of Independent Auditors' the securities. Report Loans and receivables The fair value is measured by Risk-free market rate, discounting the projected cash flows credit spread and Organizational Chart of loan products by applying the prepayment-rate market discount rate that has been Global Network applied to a proxy company that has similar credit rating to the debtor. Coporate Fact Book Deposit due to customers, The fair value is measured by Risk-free market rate and borrowings, debentures, discounting the projected cash flows forward rate Woori Bank overview and other financial of debt products by applying the Vision & Core Values liabilities market discount rate that is reflecting 119 Years of History credit rating of the Group. Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 137 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 137 58 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 12. DERECOGNITION AND OFFSET OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Board of Directors Corporate Governance (1) Derecognition of financial assets Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 1) Transferred financial assets that meet condition of derecognition News Highlights Financial Highlights The book value, fair value of, and maximum exposure to loss from the financial assets that were derecognized from the consolidated financial statements of the Group through disposals, but the Group Business Operations still have continuous involvements are given as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Retail Banking December 31, 2017 Wealth Management Book value of Fair value of Trust & Pension Business Type of continuous continuous continuous Maximum Corporate Banking involvement participation participation exposure to loss SME Banking Conditional disposal of loans Institutional Banking to KAMCO (*) Post settlement Real Estate Finance Global Business (*) The post settlement had been settled up as of December 31, 2017, and there are no financial instruments which meet the derecognition conditions but the group has continuous involvements. International Trade Business Financial Market Business December 31, 2016 Investment Banking Book value of Fair value of Digital Banking Type of continuous continuous continuous Maximum Risk Management involvement participation participation exposure to loss Conditional disposal of loans Corporate Social to KAMCO (*) Post settlement 701 Responsibility (*) For ex-post settling up amount of the collateral is not fixed yet, expected cash flow cannot be Ethical Management reliably measured as of December 31, 2016, and the maximum exposure to loss is disclosed at the Consumer Protection transfer price. Though the transfer does not qualify for derecognition in accordance with K-IFRS Employee Satisfaction 1039 – Financial Instrument: Recognition and Measurement, the Group derecognized the financial Social Contribution Activities asset from the consolidated financial statements applying exception for retrospective application of Woori Smile Microcredit transactions before the date of transition to IFRSs in K-IFRS 1101 – First-time Adoption of K-IFRS. Financial Review 2) Transferred financial assets that do not meet condition of derecognition Management's Discussion a) Disposal of securities under repurchase agreements and Analysis Independent Auditors' The financial instruments that were disposed but the Group agreed to repurchase at the fixed amounts at the Report same time, so that they did not meet the conditions of derecognition, are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Organizational Chart December 31, December 31, Global Network 2017 2016 Assets transferred AFS financial assets 9,998 2,546,683 Coporate Fact Book HTM financial assets 5,436 7,133 Total 15,434 2,553,816 Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values Related liabilities Bonds sold under repurchase agreements 3,173 2,004,905 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 138 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 138 59 Woori Overview Message from the CEO b) Securities loaned Board of Directors Corporate Governance When the Group loans its securities to outside parties, the legal ownerships of the securities are transferred, Company Structure however, they should be returned at the end of lending period therefore the Group does not derecognize Woori Bank Awards 2017 them from the consolidated financial statements as it owns majority of risks and benefits from the securities News Highlights continuously regardless of the transfer of legal ownership. The carrying amounts of securities loaned are as Financial Highlights follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Business Operations December 31, December 31, 2017 2016 Loaned to Retail Banking Financial assets at Korean equity securities Samsung Securities Co., Wealth Management FVTPL 4,459 Ltd. and others Trust & Pension Business AFS financial Korean treasury and Korea Securities Finance Corporate Banking assets government agencies and Corporation and others SME Banking others 170,256 493,579 Total 170,256 498,038 Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business The details of the transferred financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety, such as disposal of International Trade Business securities under repurchase agreement or securities loaned, are explained in Note 18. Financial Market Business Investment Banking (2) The offset of financial assets and liabilities Digital Banking Risk Management The Group possesses both the uncollected domestic exchange receivables and unpaid domestic exchange payable, which satisfy offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032. Therefore, the total number of uncollected domestic exchange receivables or unpaid domestic exchange payable has been countervailed with part of Corporate Social Responsibility unpaid domestic exchange payable or uncollected domestic exchange receivables, respectively, and has been disclosed in loans and receivables or other financial liabilities of the Group’s statements of financial position Ethical Management and loans and receivables, respectively. Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction The Group possesses the derivative assets, derivative liabilities, receivable spot exchange, and payable spot Social Contribution Activities exchange which do not satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032, but provide the Group the right of, Woori Smile Microcredit under the circumstances of the trading party’s defaults, insolvency, or bankruptcy, the offsetting. Item such as cash collateral cannot satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032, but in accordance with the collateral Financial Review arrangements and under the circumstances of the trading party’s default, insolvency, or bankruptcy, the derivative assets, derivative liabilities, receivable spot exchange, and the net amount of payable spot Management's Discussion exchange can be offset. and Analysis Independent Auditors' The Group has entered into a sale and repurchase agreements and accounted it as collateralized borrowing. Report Also, the Group has entered into a purchase and resale agreement and accounted it as secured loans. The repurchase and resale agreement can have the offsetting right only under the trading party’s default, Organizational Chart insolvency, or bankruptcy which do not satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032, the Group recorded the collateralized borrowings in borrowings and the secured loans in loans and receivables. The Group under the Global Network repurchase agreements has offsetting right only upon the counter-party’s default, insolvency or bankruptcy, thus the repurchase agreements are applied by the TBMA/ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement of which do not satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032. The Group disclosed bonds sold (purchased) Coporate Fact Book under repurchase agreements as borrowings (loans and receivables). Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 139 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 139 60 Woori Overview Message from the CEO As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the financial instruments to be set off and may be covered by master Board of Directors netting agreements and similar agreements are given as below (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Corporate Governance Company Structure December 31, 2017 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Related amounts not set off News Highlights in the consolidated Financial Highlights Gross Gross Net statement of financial amounts of amounts of amounts of position recognized recognized financial Netting Cash Business Operations financial financial assets agreements collateral Net assets assets set off presented and others received amounts Retail Banking Financial assets: Wealth Management Derivative assets and others (*1) 2,992,476 1,710 2,990,766 5,787,448 174,415 796,629 Trust & Pension Business Receivable spot exchange (*2) 3,767,726 3,767,726 Corporate Banking Bonds purchased under resale agreements (*2) 16,859,064 16,859,064 16,859,064 SME Banking Domestic exchanges receivable Institutional Banking 39,050,227 38,985,354 64,873 64,873 (*2)(*5) Real Estate Finance Total 62,669,493 38,987,064 23,682,429 22,646,512 174,415 861,502 Global Business International Trade Business December 31, 2017 Financial Market Business Related amounts not set off Investment Banking Gross in the consolidated Digital Banking Gross amounts of Net statement of financial Risk Management amounts of recognized amounts of position recognized financial financial Netting Cash financial liabilities set liabilities agreements collateral Net Corporate Social liabilities off presented and others pledged amounts Responsibility Financial liabilities: Derivative liabilities and others (*1) 3,160,217 1,710 3,158,507 Ethical Management 5,866,682 157,750 857,961 Payable spot exchange (*3) 3,723,886 3,723,886 Consumer Protection Bonds sold under repurchase Employee Satisfaction agreements (*4) 3,173 3,173 3,173 Social Contribution Activities Domestic exchanges payable (*3)(*5) 40,284,515 38,985,354 1,299,161 1,293,931 5,230 Woori Smile Microcredit Total 47,171,791 38,987,064 8,184,727 7,163,786 157,750 863,191 Financial Review December 31, 2016 Related amounts not set off Management's Discussion in the consolidated and Analysis Gross Gross Net statement of financial Independent Auditors' amounts of amounts of amounts of position Report recognized recognized financial Netting Cash financial financial assets agreements collateral Net assets assets set off presented and others received amounts Organizational Chart Financial assets: Derivative assets and others (*1) 2,962,969 8,442 2,954,527 6,546,232 69,834 1,016,550 Global Network Receivable spot exchange (*2) 4,678,089 4,678,089 Bonds purchased under resale agreements (*2) 8,854,753 8,854,753 8,854,753 Coporate Fact Book Domestic exchanges receivable (*2)(*5) 31,456,123 30,883,281 572,842 572,842 Woori Bank overview Total 47,951,934 30,891,723 17,060,211 15,400,985 69,834 1,589,392 Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 140 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 140 61 Woori Overview Message from the CEO December 31, 2016 Board of Directors Related amounts not set off Corporate Governance Gross in the consolidated Company Structure Gross amounts of Net statement of financial Woori Bank Awards 2017 amounts of recognized amounts of position News Highlights recognized financial financial Netting Cash financial liabilities set liabilities agreements collateral Net Financial Highlights liabilities off presented and others pledged amounts Financial liabilities: Business Operations Derivative liabilities and others (*1) 3,467,374 8,442 3,458,932 6,695,062 105,270 1,341,375 Payable spot exchange (*3) 4,682,775 4,682,775 Retail Banking Bonds sold under repurchase Wealth Management agreements (*4) 2,004,905 2,004,905 2,004,905 Trust & Pension Business Domestic exchanges payable (*3)(*5) 39,345,524 30,883,281 8,462,243 6,161,151 2,301,092 Corporate Banking Total 49,500,578 30,891,723 18,608,855 14,861,118 105,270 3,642,467 SME Banking Institutional Banking (*1) The items include derivatives held for trading, derivatives for hedging and equity linked securities. Real Estate Finance (*2) The items are included in loans and receivables. Global Business (*3) The items are included in other financial liabilities. International Trade Business (*4) The items are included in borrowings. Financial Market Business (*5) Certain financial assets and liabilities are presented at as net amounts. Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management 13. INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES Corporate Social (1) Investments in joint ventures and associates accounted for using the equity method of accounting are as Responsibility follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Ethical Management Percentage of Financial Consumer Protection ownership (%) statements as of Employee Satisfaction December December December Joint ventures and Associates Main business 31, 2017 31,2016 31, 2017 Social Contribution Activities Woori Bank and Woori Private Equity Woori Smile Microcredit Asset Management Co., Ltd.: Woori Blackstone Korea Financial Review Opportunity No.1 Private Equity Fund (*19) Other finance business 26.4 Woori Bank: Management's Discussion Kumho Tire Co., Inc. (*1)(*2) Manufacturing 14.2 14.2 September 30 (*3) and Analysis Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. (*4) Freight & staffing Independent Auditors' services 4.9 4.9 November 30 (*3) Report Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. (*5) Credit information 9.9 9.9 December 31 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. (*4) Security service 15.0 15.0 November 30 (*3) Chin Hung International Inc. (*2)(*9) Construction 25.3 28.4 November 30 (*3) Organizational Chart Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. (*6)(*12)(*14) Construction 29.4 31.0 September 30 (*3) STX Engine Co., Ltd. (*1)(*2)(*20) Manufacturing 29.2 29.2 Global Network Samho International Co., Ltd. (*2)(*18) Construction 7.8 Force TEC Co., Ltd. (*6)(*15) Freight & staffing Coporate Fact Book services 34.4 STX Corporation (*1)(*2)(*6)(*13) Wholesale of nonWoori Bank overview specialized goods 19.7 9.5 September 30 (*3) Saman Corporation (*5) General construction Vision & Core Values Technology service 9.2 9.2 September 30 (*3) 119 Years of History Dongwoo C & C Co., Ltd. (*6) Construction 23.2 23.2 Corporate Governance SJCO Co., Ltd. (*6) Aggregate Financial Highlights transportation and 26.5 Global Networks wholesale 26.5 Global Networks Strategy G2 Collection Co., Ltd. (*6) Wholesale and retail Digital Strategy sales 28.9 28.9 A Trust-worthy Partner The Base Enterprise Co., Ltd. (*6) Manufacturing 48.4 48.4 Heungjiwon Co., Ltd. (*6)(*17) Other printing 27.8 Kyesan Engineering Co., Ltd. (*6) Construction 23.2 23.2 Good Software Lap Co., Ltd. (*6) Service 28.9 28.9 Wongwang Co., Ltd. (*6) Wholesale and real 29.0 estate 29.0 WOORI BANK 141 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 141 62 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Percentage of Financial Board of Directors ownership (%) statements as of Corporate Governance December December December Company Structure Joint ventures and Associates Main business 31, 2017 31,2016 31, 2017 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Sejin Construction Co., Ltd. (*6) Construction 29.6 29.6 News Highlights Deokwon Food Co., Ltd. (*6)(*17) Poultry processing and Financial Highlights storage 27.3 QTS Shipping Co., Ltd. (*6) Complex transportation brokerage 49.4 49.4 Business Operations DAEA SNC Co., Ltd. (*6) Wholesale and retail sales 24.0 24.0 Retail Banking ARES-TECH Co., Ltd. (*6) Electronic component Wealth Management manufacturing 23.4 23.4 Trust & Pension Business Reading Doctors Co., Ltd. (*6)(*10) Other service business 35.4 Corporate Banking PREXCO Co., Ltd. (*6)(*10) Manufacturing 28.1 SME Banking Hyunwoo International Co., Ltd. (*6)(*10) Manufacturing 25.9 Institutional Banking Jiwon Plating Co., Ltd. (*6)(*16) Plating 20.5 Cultizm Korea LTD Co., Ltd. (*6)(*16) Wholesale and retail 31.3 Real Estate Finance sales Global Business Gil Co.,Ltd. (*6)(*16) Manufacturing 26.1 International Trade Business NK Eng Co., Ltd. (*6)(*10) Manufacturing 23.1 Financial Market Business Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Investment Banking Private Equity Fund Other financial business 23.1 23.1 December 31 Digital Banking 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Risk Management Fund Other financial business 20.0 20.0 December 31 K BANK Co., Ltd. (*5) Finance 13.0 13.0 November 30 (*3) Smart Private Equity Fund No.2 (*11) Other financial business 20.0 December 31 Corporate Social Woori Bank-Company K Korea Movie Asset Responsibility Fund (*11) Other financial business 25.0 December 31 Well to Sea No. 3 Private Equity Fund (*11) Finance 50.0 September 30 (*3) Ethical Management Woori Private Equity Fund: Consumer Protection Woori Renaissance Holdings (*7) Other financial business 51.6 Employee Satisfaction Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Social Contribution Activities Ltd.,: Woori Smile Microcredit Woori Columbus 1st Private Equity Fund (*8) Other financial business 2.0 Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd. Nomura-Rifa Private Real Estate Investment Financial Review Trust No.17 (*11) Other financial business 25.0 December 31 Management's Discussion (*1) The Group has significant influence on these entities through its position in the creditors' council which is the and Analysis decision making body regarding to financial and operational policies of associates. Independent Auditors' (*2) The investments in associates that have quoted market prices are Kumho Tire Co., Ltd. (current period: KRW Report 4,425, previous year: KRW 8,480), Chin Hung International Inc. (current period: KRW 1,915, previous year: KRW 2,090), STX Engine Co., Ltd. (current period: KRW 9,150, previous year: KRW 6,630), Samho International Co., Organizational Chart Ltd. (previous year: KRW 16,900), STX Corporation. (previous year: KRW 1,660). (*3) The significant transactions and events between the end of reporting period of the associates and the Group have been properly incorporated. Global Network (*4) Most of the significant business transactions of associates are with the Group as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. (*5) The Group can participate in decision-making body and exercise significant influence over associates through Coporate Fact Book business partnerships. (*6) The carrying values of investments in Reading Doctors Co., Ltd., PREXCO Co., Ltd., Hyunwoo International Co., Woori Bank overview Ltd., Jiwon Plating Co., Ltd., Cultizm Korea LTD Co., Ltd., Gil Co., Ltd. and NK Eng Co., Ltd. are nil as of Vision & Core Values December 31, 2017 and those of investments in Force TEC Co., Ltd., STX Corporation and Deokwon Food Co., 119 Years of History Ltd. are nil as of December 31, 2016. Furthermore, those of investments in Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd., Dongwoo Corporate Governance C&C Co., Ltd., SJCO Co., Ltd., G2 collection Co., Ltd., The Base Enterprise Co., Ltd., Heungjiwon Co., Ltd., Financial Highlights Kyesan Engineering Co., Ltd., Good Software Lab Co., Ltd., Wongwang Co., Ltd., Sejin Construction Co., Ltd., QTS Shipping Co., Ltd., DAEA SNC Co., Ltd. and ARES-TECH Co., Ltd. are nil as of both December 31, 2017 Global Networks and 2016. Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 142 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 142 63 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (*7) The Group owns over 50% ownership as of December 31, 2016. However, the investment in this entity was Board of Directors accounted for using equity method as the ownership and related contracts meet the definition of joint arrangement Corporate Governance under K-IFRS 1111 Joint Arrangements. As of December 31, 2017 the entity has been excluded from the range of Company Structure associates as liquidated. Woori Bank Awards 2017 (*8) As a general partner of Woori Columbus 1st Private Equity Fund, the Group had significant influence over the News Highlights entity’s operational and financial policy making process, including participating in making decision of dividend or Financial Highlights other distribution. As such, the investment in this entity was accounted for using equity method as of December 31, 2016. The Woori Columbus 1st Private Equity Fund has been removed from the list of associated companies as it was liquidated during the current period. Business Operations (*9) Due to consolidation of stocks and debt-equity swap, the Group’s number of holding shares and ownership ratio have decreased. Retail Banking Wealth Management (*10) Even though the Group’s ownership ratio of the entity was more than 20% as of December 31, 2016, the Group did Trust & Pension Business not have significant influence over the entity due to the fact that the entity was going through workout process under Corporate Banking receivership, and thus the entity was excluded from the investment in associates. However, as the workout process SME Banking was completed during the years ended December 31, 2017, it has been included in the investment in associates. Institutional Banking (*11) Due to capital contribution by the Group during the years ended December 31, 2017, the entities were included in the investment in associates. Real Estate Finance (*12) The Group has sold a part of shares of the associates so the number of shares holding has decreased during the years Global Business ended December 31, 2017. International Trade Business (*13) Due to debt-equity swap capital stock, the Group ownership ratio have increased during the years ended December Financial Market Business 31, 2017. Investment Banking (*14) As the carrying amounts of certain investments in associates had been reduced to zero, the Group discontinued the Digital Banking use of the equity method in accounting for those investments, and unrecognized losses due to the restricted Risk Management application of equity method amount to 16,344 million Won and 612 million Won as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. (*15) Not in scope for the associates, because the Group does not have significant influence over the entity due to the fact Corporate Social that it is going through workout process under receivership as of December 31, 2017. Responsibility (*16) Due to debt-equity swap, the entity was included in the investment in associates during the years ended December 31, 2017. Ethical Management (*17) As the Group sold its entire ownership interest of the entities, it was exclude from the investment in associates Consumer Protection during the years ended December 31, 2017. Employee Satisfaction (*18) The entity was sold after it was transferred to assets held for sale and was excluded from the investment in Social Contribution Activities associates. Woori Smile Microcredit (*19) It has been removed from the list of associated companies as it was liquidated during the current period. (*20) The shares of STX Engine Co., Ltd. owned by the Group were reclassified as assets held for sale, as the creditor financial institutions committee entered into a contract with UAMCO.,Ltd during the current period to sell STX Financial Review Engine Co., Ltd. shares. Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 143 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 143 64 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (2) Changes in the carrying value of investments in joint ventures and associates accounted for using the equity Board of Directors method of accounting are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Corporate Governance Company Structure For the year ended December 31, 2017 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Share of Disposal AcquisitiJanuary 1, profits Acquisiand others Change in ImpairOthers December News Highlights on cost 2017 (losses) tion (*1) (*2) Dividends capital ment (*1) 31, 2017 Financial Highlights Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity No.1 Private Equity Fund 15,289 (4,617) (7,369) (3,303) Business Operations Kumho Tire Co., Inc. 175,652 200,332 (102) 1,545 (102,842) 98,933 Woori Service Networks Retail Banking Co., Ltd. 108 145 21 (8) 158 Wealth Management Korea Credit Bureau Co., 371 (147) 5,816 Trust & Pension Business Ltd. 3,313 5,592 Korea Finance Security Co., 3,266 3,376 197 (54) 3,519 Corporate Banking Ltd. SME Banking Chin Hung International Inc. 89,725 43,032 (14,375) 41,053 1,535 (26,144) 45,101 Institutional Banking Poonglim Industrial Co., (6,733) Real Estate Finance Ltd. 13,916 6,733 STX Engine Co., Ltd. 92,038 43,036 (1,010) (46,217) 4,191 Global Business Samho Co., Ltd. 7,492 19,729 2,021 (16,354) (73) (5,323) International Trade Business STX Corporation 42,215 (29,788) 8,546 417 27,772 6,947 Financial Market Business Saman Corporation 8,521 8,699 (733) 26 (6,738) 1,254 Investment Banking Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Private Digital Banking Equity Fund 13,602 13,118 (582) 15,729 (498) (156) 27,611 Risk Management 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Fund 1,800 1,800 5,040 6,840 K BANK Co., Ltd. 32,500 30,442 (11,381) 12,892 (245) 27 31,735 Corporate Social Smart Private Equity Fund (68) 3,000 2,932 Responsibility No.2 3,000 Woori Bank-Company K Ethical Management Korea Movie Asset Fund 1,500 (43) 3,000 2,957 Consumer Protection Well to Sea No.3 Private Equity Fund 102,500 80,894 102,500 (508) (577) 182,309 Employee Satisfaction Woori Renaissance Holdings 54,422 (622) (57,109) 3,309 Social Contribution Activities Nomura-Rifa Private Real Woori Smile Microcredit Estate Investment Trust (61) 1,000 939 No.17 1,000 592,148 439,012 13,389 192,760 (70,946) (60,621) 6,663 (114,903) 11,697 417,051 Financial Review (*1) Changes in investments in joint ventures and associates due to debt-equity swap is 51,227 million Won. Management's Discussion (*2) The Investments in Associates reclassified as assets held for sale amount to 62,571 million Won, of which and Analysis 16,354 million Won was disposed of during the current period. Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 144 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 144 65 Woori Overview Message from the CEO For the year ended December 31, 2016 Board of Directors Share of Disposal Corporate Governance AcquisitiJanuary 1, profits Acquisiand others Change in December Company Structure on cost 2016 (losses) tion (*1) (*2) Dividends capital Impairment 31, 2016 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity Private Equity News Highlights Fund No.1 43,917 56,044 10,093 (37,036) (13,812) 15,289 Financial Highlights Kumho Tire Co., Inc. 175,652 214,050 (13,172) (546) 200,332 Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 108 139 18 (12) 145 Business Operations Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 3,313 5,291 436 (135) 5,592 Retail Banking Korea Finance Security Wealth Management Co., Ltd. 3,266 3,711 (281) (54) 3,376 Trust & Pension Business United PF 1st Corporate financial stability 172,441 187,592 3,265 (190,857) Corporate Banking Chin Hung International Inc. 89,725 43,936 (996) 92 43,032 SME Banking Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. 13,916 5,313 (2,378) (2,935) Institutional Banking STX Engine Co., Ltd. 92,038 51,276 (6,665) (1,575) 43,036 Samho Co., Ltd. 7,492 14,325 5,392 12 19,729 Real Estate Finance STX Corporation 42,215 4,251 (4,222) (29) Global Business Osung LST Co., Ltd. 15,405 10,985 (2,903) (6,909) (1,173) International Trade Business Saman Corporation 8,521 8,521 252 (74) 8,699 Financial Market Business K-Growth crowd 2step Fund 800 (13) 800 (787) Woori Growth Partnerships New Investment Banking Technology Private Equity Digital Banking Fund 13,602 (640) 13,602 156 13,118 Risk Management 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Fund 1,800 1,800 1,800 K BANK Co., Ltd. 32,500 (1,589) 32,500 (469) 30,442 Corporate Social Woori Renaissance Holdings 63,000 37,121 17,303 (2) 54,422 Responsibility Woori Columbus First PEF 1,200 1,306 (43) (1,065) (198) Total 780,911 643,861 3,857 48,702 (236,654) (14,213) (5,368) (1,173) 439,012 Ethical Management Consumer Protection (*1) The transfers from AFS financial assets to investments in associates to investments in associates amounted to Employee Satisfaction 5,421 million Won during the year ended December 31, 2016. Social Contribution Activities (*2) The transfers from investments in associates to AFS financial assets amounted to 155,220 million Won and the transfers from investments in associates to assets held for sale amounted to 6,909 million Won. Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 145 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 145 66 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (3) Summary financial information relating to investments in joint ventures and associates accounted for using Board of Directors the equity method of accounting is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Corporate Governance Company Structure December 31, 2017 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Operating Net income News Highlights Assets Liabilities revenue (loss) Financial Highlights Kumho Tire Co., Inc. 5,105,107 3,928,327 2,136,569 (61,748) Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 4,982 1,780 14,887 1,003 Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 75,504 19,323 68,750 3,580 Business Operations Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 33,915 10,461 55,610 1,071 Chin Hung International Inc. 341,284 259,454 513,285 28,698 Retail Banking Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. 241,063 309,925 107,360 (29,812) Wealth Management STX Corporation 595,348 543,458 1,371,272 342,869 Trust & Pension Business Saman Corporation 98,435 69,929 76,135 (6,096) Corporate Banking Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Private SME Banking Equity Fund 120,133 485 1,024 (3,199) Institutional Banking 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Fund 32,815 380 6 (1,515) K BANK Co., Ltd. 1,244,270 1,001,121 19,231 (74,403) Real Estate Finance Smart Private Equity Fund No.2 14,711 51 1 (340) Global Business Woori Bank-Company K Korea Movie Asset Fund 11,830 2 16 (172) International Trade Business Well to Sea No.3 Private Equity Fund 5,068,424 4,534,957 131,488 162,743 Financial Market Business Nomura-Rifa Private Real Estate Investment Trust Investment Banking No.17 20,265 16,507 62 (242) Digital Banking Risk Management December 31, 2016 Operating Net income Assets Liabilities revenue (loss) Corporate Social Woori Blackstone Korea Responsibility Opportunity No.1 Private Equity Fund 57,971 427 75,084 38,226 Kumho Tire Co., Inc. 5,079,740 3,914,306 2,156,667 (53,328) Ethical Management Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 4,722 1,782 14,875 801 Consumer Protection Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 71,245 17,322 59,868 3,517 Employee Satisfaction Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 32,262 9,759 52,657 700 Social Contribution Activities Chin Hung International Inc. 421,710 354,995 578,640 794 Woori Smile Microcredit Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. 304,718 323,765 156,770 (15,135) STX Engine Co., Ltd. 865,265 769,481 372,295 (22,978) Samho Co., Ltd. 740,786 489,130 909,927 68,077 Financial Review STX Corporation 781,622 1,087,469 1,252,968 (378,782) Saman Corporation 83,380 47,175 72,850 2,746 Management's Discussion Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Private and Analysis Equity Fund 57,339 493 37 (2,177) Independent Auditors' 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Report Fund 9,005 254 5 (250) K BANK Co., Ltd. 239,806 5,633 2,927 (12,222) Organizational Chart Woori Renaissance Holdings Inc. 127,411 26,703 37,206 33,508 Woori Columbus 1st Private Equity Fund 811 506 3,764 (450) Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 146 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 146 67 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (4) The entities that the Group has not applied equity method of accounting although the Group’s ownership Board of Directors interest is more than 20% as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: Corporate Governance Company Structure As of December 31, 2017 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Number of shares owned Ownership (%) News Highlights Orient Shipyard Co., Ltd. (*) 465,050 21.4% Financial Highlights Saenuel Co., Ltd. (*) 3,531 37.4% E Mirae Tech Co., Ltd. (*) 7,696 41.0% Business Operations Jehin Trading Co., Ltd. (*) 81,610 27.3% The season Co., Ltd. (*) 18,187 30.1% Retail Banking Yuil PESC Co., Ltd. (*) 8,642 24.0% Wealth Management Youngdong Sea Food Co., Ltd. (*) 12,106 24.0% Trust & Pension Business Sinseong Trading Co., Ltd. (*) 2,584 27.2% Corporate Banking CL Tech Co., Ltd. (*) 13,759 38.6% SME Banking Force TEC Co., Ltd. (*) 4,780,907 25.8% Institutional Banking Protronics Co., Ltd. (*) 95,921 48.1% Real Estate Finance Instern Co., Ltd. (*) 14,296 20.1% Global Business International Trade Business (*) Even though the Group’s ownership interest of the entity is more than 20%, the Group does not have Financial Market Business significant influence over the entity since it is going through work-out process under receivership, Investment Banking thus it is excluded from the investment in associates. Digital Banking Risk Management As of December 31, 2016 Number of shares owned Ownership (%) Corporate Social Orient Shipyard Co., Ltd. (*) 465,050 23.0% Responsibility Saenuel Co., Ltd. (*) 3,531 37.4% E Mirae Tech Co., Ltd. (*) 7,696 41.0% Ethical Management Jehin Trading Co., Ltd. (*) 81,610 27.3% Consumer Protection NK Eng Co., Ltd. (*) 697,033 23.1% Employee Satisfaction The season Co., Ltd. (*) 18,187 30.1% Social Contribution Activities Yuil PESC Co., Ltd. (*) 8,642 24.0% Woori Smile Microcredit Youngdong Sea Food Co., Ltd. (*) 12,106 24.0% Sinseong Trading Co., Ltd. (*) 2,584 27.2% Financial Review Reading Doctors Co., Ltd. (*) 7,398 35.4% PREXCO Co., Ltd. (*) 919,972 28.1% Management's Discussion Hyunwoo International Co., Ltd. (*) 59,873 25.9% and Analysis Independent Auditors' (*) Even though the Group’s ownership interest of the entity is more than 20%, the Group does not have Report significant influence over the entity since it is going through work-out process under receivership, thus it is excluded from the investment in associates. Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 147 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 147 68 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (5) As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the reconciliations from the net assets of associates based on the Board of Directors ownership ratio of the Group to its corresponding book value of investment in joint ventures and associates Corporate Governance are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions except for ownership): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 As of December 31, 2017 News Highlights Net assets of Cost-book Financial Highlights associates value Intercompany Total net Ownership (or joint differential transaction Book asset (%) ventures) and others Impairment and others value Business Operations Kumho Tire Co., Inc. (*) 1,065,421 14.2 150,767 48,459 (102,843) 2,549 98,932 Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 3,202 4.9 158 158 Retail Banking Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 56,181 9.9 5,568 248 5,816 Wealth Management Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 23,454 15.0 3,519 3,519 Trust & Pension Business Chin Hung International Inc. (*) 81,686 25.3 20,671 24,565 (136) 45,100 Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. (*) (168,154) 29.4 (49,446) 54,542 (20,504) 15,408 Corporate Banking STX Corporation 51,890 19.7 10,232 24,614 (27,904) 5 6,947 SME Banking Saman Corporation 28,506 9.2 2,619 5,373 (6,738) 1,254 Institutional Banking Woori Growth Partnerships New Real Estate Finance Technology Private Equity Fund 119,648 23.1 27,611 27,611 Global Business 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Fund International Trade Business 32,435 20.0 6,487 353 6,840 K BANK Co., Ltd. 243,149 13.0 31,535 200 31,735 Financial Market Business Smart Private Equity Fund No.2 14,660 20.0 2,932 2,932 Investment Banking Woori Bank-Company K Korea Digital Banking Movie Asset Fund 11,828 25.0 2,957 2,957 Risk Management Well to Sea No.3 Private Equity Fund (*) 364,909 50.0 182,366 (57) 182,309 Corporate Social Nomura-Rifa Private Real Estate Investment Trust No.17 3,758 25.0 939 939 Responsibility (*) The net asset amount is after reflecting debt-equity swap and others. Ethical Management Consumer Protection As of December 31, 2016 Employee Satisfaction Net assets of Cost-book Social Contribution Activities associates value Intercompany Woori Smile Microcredit Total net Ownership (or joint differential transaction Book asset (%) ventures) and others Impairment and others value Woori Blackstone Korea Financial Review Opportunity Private Equity Fund No.1 57,544 26.4 15,191 98 15,289 Management's Discussion Kumho Tire Co., Inc. (*) 1,055,219 14.2 149,324 48,459 2,549 200,332 and Analysis Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 2,940 4.9 145 145 Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 53,923 9.9 5,344 248 5,592 Independent Auditors' Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 22,503 15.0 3,376 3,376 Report Chin Hung International Inc. (*) 65,387 28.4 18,593 24,565 (126) 43,032 Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. (*) (111,156) 31.0 (34,463) 54,149 (21,062) 1,376 Organizational Chart STX Engine Co., Ltd. 95,784 29.2 28,002 14,954 80 43,036 Samho Co., Ltd. 251,656 7.8 19,729 19,729 STX Corporation (*) (250,018) 9.5 (23,633) 24,614 (27,904) 26,923 Global Network Saman Corporation 36,205 9.2 3,326 5,373 8,699 Woori Growth Partnerships New Coporate Fact Book Technology Private Equity Fund 56,846 23.1 13,118 13,118 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Woori Bank overview Technology Venture Fund 8,751 20.0 1,750 50 1,800 Vision & Core Values K BANK Co., Ltd. 234,173 13.0 30,442 30,442 Woori Renaissance Holdings 100,708 51.6 51,965 (6,441) 8,898 54,422 119 Years of History Woori Columbus 1st Private Equity Corporate Governance Fund 305 2.0 6 (6) Financial Highlights Global Networks (*) The net asset amount is after reflecting preferred stocks and others. Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 148 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 148 69 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 14. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Board of Directors Corporate Governance (1) Investment properties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 News Highlights Acquisition cost 404,741 387,675 Financial Highlights Accumulated depreciation (33,440) (29,178) Net carrying value 371,301 358,497 Business Operations (2) Changes in investment properties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Retail Banking Wealth Management For the year ended For the year ended Trust & Pension Business December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Corporate Banking Beginning balance 358,497 351,496 SME Banking Acquisition 9,872 4,428 Institutional Banking Disposal (458) Real Estate Finance Depreciation (3,902) (3,762) Global Business Transfer 2,472 6,314 International Trade Business Classified to assets held for sale (371) Financial Market Business Foreign currencies translation adjustments (324) 21 Investment Banking Others 5,515 Digital Banking Ending balance 371,301 358,497 Risk Management Corporate Social (3) Fair value of investment properties is amounting to 396,587 million Won and 382,370 million Won as of Responsibility December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The fair value of investment property, based on the assessment that was independently performed by external appraisal agencies, is classified as level 3 on the fair value Ethical Management hierarchy. Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction (4) Rental fee earned from investment properties is amounting to 4,579 million Won and 5,027 million Won Social Contribution Activities for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 149 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 149 70 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 15. PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT Board of Directors Corporate Governance (1) Details of premises and equipment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 December 31, 2017 News Highlights Properties for Structures in Construction Financial Highlights Land Building business use leased office in progress Structures Total Acquisition cost 1,487,278 867,804 1,024,186 429,665 64,559 20 3,873,512 Business Operations Accumulated depreciation (186,958) (844,114) (364,878) (17) (1,395,967) Net carrying value 1,487,278 680,846 180,072 64,787 64,559 3 2,477,545 Retail Banking Wealth Management December 31, 2016 Trust & Pension Business Properties for Structures in Construction Corporate Banking Land Building business use leased office in progress Structures Total SME Banking Acquisition cost 1,488,745 855,332 1,010,141 424,562 18,717 20 3,797,517 Accumulated depreciation (163,633) (820,239) (355,604) (16) (1,339,492) Institutional Banking Net carrying value 1,488,745 691,699 189,902 68,958 18,717 4 2,458,025 Real Estate Finance Global Business (2) Details of changes in premises and equipment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): International Trade Business Financial Market Business For the year ended December 31, 2017 Investment Banking Properties for Structures in Construction Digital Banking Land Building business use leased office in progress Structures Total Risk Management Beginning balance 1,488,745 691,699 189,902 68,958 18,717 4 2,458,025 Acquisition 4,755 22,579 59,694 23,420 51,797 162,245 Corporate Social Disposal (1,840) (2,593) (442) (1,231) (6,106) Responsibility Depreciation (26,156) (74,223) (31,728) (1) (132,108) Classified from(to) Ethical Management assets held for sale (2,693) (1,059) 549 (3,203) Consumer Protection Transfer (196) (2,134) 5,411 (5,553) (2,472) Employee Satisfaction Foreign currencies translation adjustment (1,493) (1,393) (2,023) (1,315) (402) (6,626) Social Contribution Activities Others (97) 1,204 6,683 7,790 Woori Smile Microcredit Ending balance 1,487,278 680,846 180,072 64,787 64,559 3 2,477,545 Financial Review For the year ended December 31, 2016 Properties for Structures in Construction Management's Discussion Land Building business use leased office in progress Structures Total and Analysis Beginning balance 1,493,628 704,017 193,291 79,744 522 4 2,471,206 Independent Auditors' Acquisition 15,939 74,336 19,615 21,231 131,121 Report Disposal (30) (1,474) (233) (2,623) (102) (4,462) Depreciation (24,887) (82,445) (48,587) (155,919) Organizational Chart Classified to assets held for sale (4,063) (251) (4,314) Transfer (1,415) (1,557) (3,087) (6,059) Global Network Foreign currencies translation adjustment 625 516 307 376 153 1,977 Coporate Fact Book Acquisition through business combination 209 442 651 Woori Bank overview Others (604) 4,437 19,991 23,824 Vision & Core Values Ending balance 1,488,745 691,699 189,902 68,958 18,717 4 2,458,025 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 150 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 150 71 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 16. INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL Board of Directors Corporate Governance (1) Details of intangible assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 December 31, 2017 News Highlights Industrial Financial Highlights property Development Membership Goodwill Software rights cost Others deposit Total Business Operations Acquisition cost 108,707 203,418 1,063 413,296 634,150 27,337 1,387,971 Accumulated amortization (162,746) (524) (182,846) (516,467) (862,583) Retail Banking Accumulated impairment losses (137) (6,652) (6,789) Wealth Management Net carrying value 108,707 40,672 539 230,450 117,546 20,685 518,599 Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking December 31, 2016 Industrial SME Banking property Development Membership Institutional Banking Goodwill Software rights cost Others deposit Total Real Estate Finance Acquisition cost 124,803 185,202 714 299,031 622,540 26,884 1,259,174 Global Business Accumulated amortization (149,725) (401) (160,335) (458,088) (768,549) International Trade Business Accumulated impairment losses (88) (6,798) (6,886) Financial Market Business Net carrying value 124,803 35,477 313 138,696 164,364 20,086 483,739 Investment Banking Digital Banking (2) Details of changes in intangible assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Risk Management For the year ended December 31, 2017 Corporate Social Industrial Responsibility property Development Membership Goodwill Software rights cost Others deposit Total Ethical Management Beginning balance 124,803 35,477 313 138,696 164,364 20,086 483,739 Consumer Protection Acquisition 105 9,722 349 122,849 22,531 1,867 157,423 Disposal (37) (944) (981) Employee Satisfaction Amortization (*) (16,258) (123) (22,534) (60,869) (99,784) Social Contribution Activities Impairment losses (78) (159) (237) Woori Smile Microcredit Transfer 7,987 (7,987) Foreign currencies translation Financial Review adjustment (16,201) (952) (483) (2,742) (160) (20,538) Others 4,696 (91) (5,623) (5) (1,023) Management's Discussion Ending balance 108,707 40,672 539 230,450 117,546 20,685 518,599 and Analysis Independent Auditors' (*) Amortization of other intangible assets amounting to 48,292 million Won is included in other operating Report expenses. Organizational Chart For the year ended December 31, 2016 Industrial Global Network property Development Membership Goodwill Software rights cost Others deposit Total Beginning balance 103,525 38,171 344 51,357 201,769 24,640 419,806 Coporate Fact Book Acquisition 8,708 64 92,969 30,842 2,306 134,889 Disposal (23) (3,785) (3,808) Woori Bank overview Amortization (15,795) (95) (18,657) (57,803) (92,350) Vision & Core Values Impairment losses 3,230 (1,585) 1,645 119 Years of History Foreign currencies translation Corporate Governance adjustment 7,338 16 853 50 8,257 Financial Highlights Acquisition through business Global Networks combination 7,857 162 43 8,062 Others 6,083 4,215 13,027 (14,504) (1,583) 7,238 Global Networks Strategy Ending balance 124,803 35,477 313 138,696 164,364 20,086 483,739 Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 151 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 151 72 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 17. ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Board of Directors Corporate Governance Assets held for sale are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 News Highlights Investments in subsidiaries and Financial Highlights associates 46,217 Premises and equipment 2,407 2,342 Business Operations Total 48,624 2,342 Retail Banking Wealth Management 18. ASSETS SUBJECT TO LIEN AND ASSETS ACQUIRED THROUGH FORECLOSURES Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking (1) Assets subjected to lien are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): SME Banking December 31, 2017 Institutional Banking Collateral given to Amount Reason for collateral Real Estate Finance Loan and receivables Due from banks on time in Collaterals for issuing letter Global Business local currency Bank of China and others 6,629 of guarantee and others International Trade Business Due from banks in local Samsung Securities Co., Margin deposit for futures Financial Market Business currency Ltd. and others 10,809 or option Investment Banking Due from banks in foreign Korea Investment & Digital Banking currencies Securities Co., Ltd. and Foreign margin deposit for Risk Management others 9,136 future or option and others Financial assets at Financial institutions debt Yuanta Securities Co., Substitute securities and FVTPL securities and others Ltd. and others 501,523 others Corporate Social AFS financial assets Corporate bonds Korea Securities Related to bonds sold under Responsibility Depository and others 9,998 repurchase agreements (*) Korean treasury and Ethical Management government agencies bonds Consumer Protection and others The BOK and others 1,570,608 Settlement risk and others Employee Satisfaction HTM financial assets Korean treasury and Korea Securities Related to bonds sold under Social Contribution Activities government agencies bonds Depository 5,436 repurchase agreements (*) Woori Smile Microcredit Financial institutions debt securities and others The BOK and others 7,605,292 Settlement risk and others Premises and Land and building Credit Counselling & Financial Review equipment Recovery Service and others 6,186 Leasehold rights and others Management's Discussion Total 9,725,617 and Analysis Independent Auditors' (*) The Group enters into the repurchase agreements at predetermined price or original sale price added Report with certain rate of return after the disposal of securities. In this regards, the securities are provided as collaterals, and the purchasers are eligible to dispose or provide them as collateral. Therefore, as such Organizational Chart securities have been transferred but have not been derecognized, the Group recognizes the relevant amount as liability (bond sold under repurchase agreements). Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 152 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 152 73 Woori Overview Message from the CEO December 31, 2016 Board of Directors Collateral given to Amount Reason for collateral Corporate Governance Loan and receivables Due from banks in local Samsung Securities Co., Margin deposit for futures Company Structure currency Ltd. and others 24,589 and options and others Woori Bank Awards 2017 Due from banks in foreign Korea Investment & News Highlights currencies Securities Co., Ltd. and Foreign margin deposit for Financial Highlights others 227,249 future or option and others Financial assets at Financial institutions debt Yuanta Securities Co., Substitute securities and FVTPL securities and others Ltd. and others 473,476 others Business Operations AFS financial assets Korean treasury and Korea Securities Related to bonds sold under government agencies bonds Depository and others 2,546,683 repurchase agreements (*) Retail Banking Financial institutions debt Wealth Management securities and others The BOK and others 836,522 Settlement risk and others Trust & Pension Business HTM financial assets Korean treasury and Korea Securities Related to bonds sold under Corporate Banking government agencies bonds Depository and others 7,133 repurchase agreements (*) SME Banking Korean treasury and Institutional Banking government agencies bonds Real Estate Finance and others The BOK and others 6,185,295 Settlement risk and others Global Business Premises and Land and Building Credit Counselling & equipment Recovery Service and International Trade Business others 6,310 Leasehold rights and others Financial Market Business Total 10,307,257 Investment Banking Digital Banking (*) The Group enters into the repurchase agreements at predetermined price or original sale price added Risk Management with certain rate of return after the disposal of securities. In this regards, the securities are provided as collaterals, and the purchasers are eligible to dispose or provide them as collateral. Therefore, as such Corporate Social securities have been transferred but have not been derecognized, the Group recognizes the relevant Responsibility amount as liability (bond sold under repurchase agreements). Ethical Management (2) The carrying amounts of buildings acquired through foreclosure are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in Consumer Protection millions): Employee Satisfaction December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Social Contribution Activities Land 332 4,138 Woori Smile Microcredit Buildings 44 1,852 Personal properties not used in Financial Review business 202 Total 376 6,192 Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' (3) Securities loaned are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Report December December Organizational Chart 31, 2017 31, 2016 Loaned to Financial assets Korean Equity securities Samsung Securities Global Network at FVTPL 4,459 Co., Ltd. and others AFS financial Korean treasury and government Korea Securities Coporate Fact Book assets agencies bonds and others Finance Corporation 170,256 493,579 and others Woori Bank overview Total 170,256 498,038 Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Securities loaned are lending of specific securities to borrowers who agree to return the same quantity of the Corporate Governance same security at the end of lending period. As the Group does not derecognize these securities, there are no Financial Highlights liabilities recognized through such transactions relates to securities loaned. Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 153 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 153 74 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (4) Collaterals held that can be disposed and re-subjected to lien regardless of defaults of counterparties Board of Directors Corporate Governance Fair values of collaterals held can be disposed and re-subjected to lien regardless of defaults of Company Structure counterparties as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights December 31, 2017 Financial Highlights Fair values of collaterals were Fair values of collaterals disposed or re-subjected to lien Business Operations Securities 17,671,490 Retail Banking December 31, 2016 Wealth Management Fair values of collaterals were Trust & Pension Business Fair values of collaterals disposed or re-subjected to lien Corporate Banking Securities 8,746,101 SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance 19. OTHER ASSETS Global Business International Trade Business Details of other assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Financial Market Business Investment Banking December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Digital Banking Prepaid expenses 130,245 111,445 Risk Management Advance payments 18,363 1,944 Non-operative assets 376 6,192 Corporate Social Others 9,420 9,265 Responsibility Total 158,404 128,846 Ethical Management Consumer Protection 20. FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AT FVTPL Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Financial liabilities at FVTPL are composed of financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities Woori Smile Microcredit designated at FVTPL. Financial Review (1) Financial liabilities at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Management's Discussion and Analysis December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Financial liabilities held for trading 3,176,113 3,036,478 Independent Auditors' Report Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 251,796 766,880 Total 3,427,909 3,803,358 Organizational Chart (2) Financial liabilities held for trading are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Global Network December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Coporate Fact Book Deposits due to Customers: Gold banking liabilities 25,964 26,501 Woori Bank overview Derivative liabilities 3,150,149 3,009,977 Vision & Core Values Total 3,176,113 3,036,478 119 Years of History Corporate Governance (3) Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Financial Highlights Global Networks December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Global Networks Strategy Equity linked securities index: Digital Strategy Equity linked securities index in short position 160,057 673,906 A Trust-worthy Partner Debentures: Debentures in local currency 91,739 92,974 Total 251,796 766,880 WOORI BANK 154 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 154 75 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (4) Credit risk adjustments to financial liabilities designated at FVTPL is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in Board of Directors millions): Corporate Governance Company Structure For the year ended December 31 Woori Bank Awards 2017 2017 2016 News Highlights Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL subject Financial Highlights to credit risk adjustments 251,796 766,880 Changes in fair value for credit risk adjustments (254) (8) Business Operations Accumulated changes in fair value for credit risk adjustments 133 349 Retail Banking Wealth Management Credit risk adjustments are applied to reflect the Group’s own credit risk when measuring financial Trust & Pension Business liabilities designated at FVTPL at fair value. The methodology to determine the adjustment incorporates the Corporate Banking Group’s credit spread as observed through credit ratings. SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance (5) The differences between financial liabilities at FVTPL’s carrying amount and nominal amount at maturity Global Business are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): International Trade Business Financial Market Business December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Investment Banking Carrying amount 251,796 766,880 Digital Banking Nominal amount at maturity 255,408 902,375 Risk Management Difference (3,612) (135,495) Corporate Social Responsibility 21. DEPOSITS DUE TO CUSTOMERS Ethical Management Details of deposits due to customers by type are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Woori Smile Microcredit Deposits in local currency: Deposits on demand 9,349,070 9,491,680 Financial Review Deposits at termination 194,292,679 183,723,369 Mutual installment 34,055 37,128 Management's Discussion and Analysis Deposits on notes payables 1,323,679 943,446 Deposits on CMA 164,431 203,013 Independent Auditors' Report Certificate of deposits 4,436,443 3,836,430 Other deposits 1,451,841 1,360,176 Sub-total 211,052,198 199,595,242 Organizational Chart Deposits in foreign currencies 23,682,896 21,453,096 Present value discount (40,010) (27,927) Global Network Total 234,695,084 221,020,411 Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 155 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 155 76 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 22. BORROWINGS AND DEBENTURES Board of Directors Corporate Governance (1) Details of borrowings are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 December 31, 2017 News Highlights Lenders Interest rate (%) Amount Financial Highlights Borrowings in local currency: Borrowings from The BOK The BOK 0.5 ~ 0.8 1,404,087 Business Operations Borrowings from government funds Small Enterprise And Market Service and others 0.0 ~ 2.9 1,723,340 Retail Banking Others The Korea Development Bank and others Wealth Management 0.0 ~ 3.2 3,957,421 Sub-total 7,084,848 Trust & Pension Business Borrowings in foreign currencies: Corporate Banking Borrowings in foreign currencies The Export-Import BOK and others 0.0 ~ 6.8 6,996,551 SME Banking Offshore borrowings in foreign Institutional Banking currencies Commonwealth Bank 1.8 28,285 Real Estate Finance Sub-total 7,024,836 Global Business Bills sold Others 0.0 ~ 1.2 36,953 International Trade Business Call money Bank and others 1.5 ~ 2.7 635,061 Financial Market Business Bonds sold under repurchase agreements Other financial institutions Investment Banking 0.6 ~ 12.7 3,173 Present value discount (165) Digital Banking Total 14,784,706 Risk Management December 31, 2016 Corporate Social Lenders Interest rate (%) Amount Responsibility Borrowings in local currency: Borrowings from the BOK The BOK 0.5 ~ 0.8 1,598,553 Ethical Management Borrowings from government funds Small and Medium Business Consumer Protection Corporation and others 0.0 ~ 3.5 1,534,807 Employee Satisfaction Others Seoul Metropolitan Government and Social Contribution Activities others 0.0 ~ 3.8 3,922,878 Woori Smile Microcredit Sub-total 7,056,238 Borrowings in foreign currencies: Borrowings in foreign currencies The Export-Import BOK and others 0.0 ~ 5.2 7,737,237 Financial Review Offshore borrowings in foreign currencies Wells Fargo 1.4 18,128 Management's Discussion Sub-total and Analysis 7,755,365 Bills sold Others 0.0 ~ 1.6 26,895 Independent Auditors' Call money Bank and others 0.0 ~ 5.1 1,926,779 Report Bonds sold under repurchase agreements Other financial institutions 0.0 ~ 4.5 2,004,905 Organizational Chart Present value discount (667) Total 18,769,515 Global Network (2) Details of debentures are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Coporate Fact Book December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Woori Bank overview Interest rate Interest rate Vision & Core Values (%) Amount (%) Amount 119 Years of History Face value of bond(*): Corporate Governance Ordinary bonds 1.5 ~ 5.8 22,468,908 1.5 ~ 11.8 18,268,403 Financial Highlights Subordinated bonds 3.4 ~ 12.6 4,781,301 3.0 ~ 12.6 5,327,335 Global Networks Other bonds 1.6 ~ 17.0 649,615 17.0 4,006 Global Networks Strategy Sub-total 27,899,824 23,599,744 Digital Strategy Discounts on bond (30,173) (34,295) A Trust-worthy Partner Total 27,869,651 23,565,449 (*) Included debentures under fair value hedge relationships are 3,102,386 million Won and 3,610,193 million Won as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Also, debentures under cash flow hedge amounting to 699,029 million Won are included as of December 31, 2017 WOORI BANK 156 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 156 77 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 23. PROVISIONS Board of Directors Corporate Governance (1) Details of provisions are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 News Highlights Asset retirement obligation 61,872 58,076 Financial Highlights Provision for guarantee (*1) 183,247 238,117 Provisions for unused commitments 66,115 87,909 Business Operations Provisions for customer reward credits 40,445 22,093 Other provisions (*2) 58,791 22,282 Retail Banking Total 410,470 428,477 Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business (*1) Provision for guarantee includes provision for financial guarantee of 71,697 million Won and 67,557 Corporate Banking million Won as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. SME Banking (*2) Other provisions consist of provision for litigation and others. Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance (2) Changes in provisions except for asset retirement obligation are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Global Business International Trade Business For the year ended December 31, 2017 Financial Market Business Provision for Provisions for Investment Banking Provision for unused customer Other Digital Banking guarantees commitments reward credits provisions Total Risk Management Beginning balance 238,117 87,909 22,093 22,282 370,401 Provisions provided 4,876 2,028 62,593 42,042 111,539 Corporate Social Provisions used and others (24,898) (68) (84,979) (8,014) (117,959) Responsibility Reversal of unused amount (60,300) (23,744) (77) (84,121) Foreign currencies translation 9 (10) (249) (250) Ethical Management adjustments Consumer Protection Transfer(*) 21,808 21,808 Employee Satisfaction Others 25,443 18,930 2,807 47,180 Social Contribution Activities Ending balance 183,247 66,115 40,445 58,791 348,598 Woori Smile Microcredit (*) According to contracts with the third parties, the Group ultimately will be reimbursed for which it has Financial Review paid out on behalf of customers, which has incurred through their customer loyalty programs. Therefore, Management's Discussion when such obligation incurs, the Group recognizes it as “transfer”, but there is no impact on the Group’s and Analysis expense. Independent Auditors' Report For the year ended December 31, 2016 Provision for Provisions for Organizational Chart Provision for unused customer Other guarantees commitments reward credits provisions Total Beginning balance 364,141 85,313 5,445 22,581 477,480 Global Network Provisions provided 4,281 8,502 23,525 8,034 44,342 Provisions used and others (80,017) 22 (8,158) (11,323) (99,476) Coporate Fact Book Reversal of unused amount (64,061) (5,409) (69,470) Foreign currencies translation Woori Bank overview adjustments 2,990 2,990 Vision & Core Values Transfer(*) 503 503 119 Years of History Others 13,773 (519) 778 14,032 Corporate Governance Ending balance 238,117 87,909 22,093 22,282 370,401 Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy (*) As the credits of the affiliates were transferred to the Group, the allowance for the provisions for Digital Strategy customer reward credits increased, for the year ended December 31, 2016. A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 157 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 157 78 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (3) Changes in asset retirement obligation are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Board of Directors Corporate Governance For the year ended For the year ended Company Structure December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Beginning balance 58,076 39,121 News Highlights Provisions provided 2,225 2,034 Financial Highlights Provisions used (1,283) (1,279) Amortization 428 464 Business Operations Reversal of unused amount (733) (1) Increase in asset retirement expense and others 3,159 17,737 Retail Banking Ending balance 61,872 58,076 Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking 24. NET DEFINED BENEFIT LIABILITY(ASSET) SME Banking Institutional Banking The characteristics of the Group’s defined benefit retirement pension plans characteristics are as follows: Real Estate Finance Global Business Employees and directors with one or more years of service are entitled to receive a payment upon termination of International Trade Business their employment, based on their length of service and rate of pay at the time of termination. The assets of the Financial Market Business plans are measured at their fair value at the end of reporting date. The plan liabilities are measured using the Investment Banking projected unit method, which takes account of projected earnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that give Digital Banking the best estimate of the future cash flows that will arise under the plan liabilities. Risk Management The Group is exposed to various risks through defined benefit retirement pension plan, and the most significant Corporate Social risks are as follows: Responsibility Ethical Management Volatility of asset The defined benefit obligation was estimated with an interest rate Consumer Protection calculated based on blue chip corporate bonds earnings. A deficit Employee Satisfaction may occur if the rate of return of plan assets falls short of the Social Contribution Activities interest rate. Woori Smile Microcredit Decrease in profitability of blue A decrease in profitability of blue chip bonds will be offset by Financial Review chip bonds some increase in the value of debt securities that the employee benefit plan owns but will bring an increase in the defined benefit Management's Discussion and Analysis obligation. Independent Auditors' Risk of inflation Defined benefit obligations are related to inflation rate; the higher Report the inflation rate is, the higher the level of liabilities. Therefore, deficit occurs in the system if an inflation rate increases. Organizational Chart (1) Details of net defined benefit liability (asset) are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Global Network December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Coporate Fact Book Defined benefit obligation 1,071,170 984,381 Fair value of plan assets (1,027,906) (990,653) Woori Bank overview Net defined benefit liability (asset) 43,264 (6,272) Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 158 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 158 79 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (2) Changes in the carrying value of defined benefit obligation are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Board of Directors Corporate Governance For the year ended For the year ended Company Structure December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Beginning balance 984,381 901,219 News Highlights Current service cost 146,750 153,660 Financial Highlights Interest expense 26,629 24,326 Remeasurements (20,389) (52,402) Business Operations Foreign currencies translation adjustments (279) 80 Retirement benefit paid (55,552) (34,346) Retail Banking Curtailment or liquidation (10,928) (9,536) Wealth Management Others 558 1,380 Trust & Pension Business Ending balance 1,071,170 984,381 Corporate Banking SME Banking (3) Changes in the plan assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance For the year ended For the year ended Global Business December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 International Trade Business Beginning balance 990,653 801,528 Financial Market Business Interest income 30,601 25,038 Investment Banking Remeasurements (14,125) (7,304) Digital Banking Employer’s contributions 43,114 226,752 Risk Management Retirement benefit paid (51,877) (33,341) Curtailment or liquidation (11,052) (9,198) Corporate Social Others 40,592 (12,822) Responsibility Ending balance 1,027,906 990,653 Ethical Management Consumer Protection (4) Plan assets wholly consist of time deposits as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Among plan Employee Satisfaction assets, realized returns on plan assets amount to 16,476 million Won and 17,734 million Won for the year Social Contribution Activities ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Woori Smile Microcredit Meanwhile, the contribution expected to be paid in the subsequent accounting year amounts to 125,818 Financial Review million Won. Management's Discussion (5) Current service cost, net interest income, loss (gain) on the curtailment or liquidation and remeasurements and Analysis recognized in the consolidated statements of net income and total comprehensive income are as follows Independent Auditors' (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Report For the years ended For the years ended Organizational Chart December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Current service cost 146,750 153,660 Global Network Net interest income (3,972) (712) Loss (gain) on the curtailment or liquidation 124 (339) Coporate Fact Book Cost recognized in net income 142,902 152,609 Woori Bank overview Remeasurements(*) (6,264) (45,098) Vision & Core Values Cost recognized in total comprehensive income 136,638 107,511 119 Years of History Corporate Governance (*) This is an amount before considering the tax effects. Financial Highlights Global Networks Retirement benefit service costs related to defined contribution plans are recognized 3,946 million Won and Global Networks Strategy 3,747 million Won for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 159 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 159 80 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (6) Key actuarial assumptions used in defined benefit liability(asset) assessment are as follows: Board of Directors Corporate Governance December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Company Structure Discount rate 3.18% 2.85% Woori Bank Awards 2017 Future wage growth rate 6.18% 6.05% News Highlights Mortality rate Issued by Korea Insurance Issued by Korea Insurance Financial Highlights Development Institute Development Institute Retirement rate Experience rate for each Experience rate for each Business Operations employment classification employment classification Retail Banking (7) The sensitivity to actuarial assumptions used in the assessment of defined benefit obligation is as follows Wealth Management (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 SME Banking Discount rate Increase by 1% point (116,405) (107,203) Institutional Banking Decrease by 1% point 137,151 125,395 Real Estate Finance Future wage growth rate Increase by 1% point 136,707 124,766 Global Business Decrease by 1% point (117,765) (108,344) International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking 25. OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AND OTHER LIABILITIES Digital Banking Risk Management Other financial liabilities and other liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Corporate Social December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Responsibility Other financial liabilities: Accounts payable 4,692,320 5,626,661 Ethical Management Accrued expenses 2,049,861 2,055,936 Consumer Protection Borrowings from trust accounts 3,271,817 3,329,683 Employee Satisfaction Agency business revenue 344,591 331,159 Social Contribution Activities Foreign exchange payables 590,667 702,968 Woori Smile Microcredit Domestic exchange payables 1,309,646 8,480,765 Other miscellaneous financial Financial Review liabilities 1,635,156 1,458,747 Present value discount (1,597) (833) Management's Discussion Sub-total 13,892,461 21,985,086 and Analysis Other liabilities: Independent Auditors' Unearned income 180,664 171,050 Report Other miscellaneous liabilities 103,317 128,326 Sub-total 283,981 299,376 Organizational Chart Total 14,176,442 22,284,462 Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 160 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 160 81 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 26. DERIVATIVES Board of Directors Corporate Governance (1) Derivative assets and derivative liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 December 31, 2017 News Highlights Assets Liabilities Financial Highlights For cash For fair For cash For fair For For Nominal flow value flow value Business Operations trading trading amount hedge hedge hedge hedge Interest rate: Retail Banking Futures 75,845 Wealth Management Swaps 130,197,378 59,272 223,935 12,103 253,972 Trust & Pension Business Purchase options 630,000 12,346 Corporate Banking Written options 795,000 12,869 SME Banking Currency: Institutional Banking Futures 318,217 Real Estate Finance Forwards 72,526,956 1,314,368 1,375,799 Global Business Swaps 48,176,306 1,352,924 55,651 1,347,905 International Trade Business Purchase options 2,291,154 64,267 Financial Market Business Written options 4,038,237 58,687 Investment Banking Equity: Digital Banking Futures 91,436 Risk Management Swaps 15,000 103 10 Purchase options 5,060,706 146,775 Corporate Social Written options 4,504,290 99,770 Responsibility Others: Futures Ethical Management Swaps 7,805 1,056 1,037 Consumer Protection Purchase options Employee Satisfaction Written options 5,000 100 Social Contribution Activities Total 268,733,330 59,272 3,115,775 55,651 12,103 3,150,149 Woori Smile Microcredit December 31, 2016 Financial Review Assets Liabilities Management's Discussion Notional For fair value For fair value For trading For trading and Analysis amount hedge hedge Independent Auditors' Interest rate: Report Futures 54,785 Swaps 118,582,511 139,832 470,057 7,013 509,686 Organizational Chart Purchase options 860,000 21,172 Written options 1,035,000 21,863 Global Network Currency: Futures 493,733 Forwards 62,539,094 1,265,852 1,015,380 Coporate Fact Book Swaps 39,782,049 1,022,969 1,221,959 Woori Bank overview Purchase options 1,120,949 42,126 Written options 907,211 8,589 Vision & Core Values Equity: 119 Years of History Futures 926,392 Corporate Governance Swaps 15,000 92 88 Financial Highlights Purchase options 3,007,969 745 73,261 Global Networks Written options 4,460,233 208 228,900 Global Networks Strategy Others: Digital Strategy Futures 5,105 A Trust-worthy Partner Swaps 7,918 2,645 2,331 Purchase options 8,307 121 Written options 64,352 1,181 Total 233,870,608 140,577 2,898,295 7,221 3,009,977 WOORI BANK 161 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 161 82 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Derivatives held for trading purpose are classified into financial assets or liabilities at FVTPL (see Notes 7 and Board of Directors 20) and derivatives for hedging are stated as a separate line item in the consolidated statements of financial Corporate Governance position. Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 (2) Gains or losses from valuation of financial instruments under hedge accounting are as follows (Unit: News Highlights Korean Won in millions): Financial Highlights For the year ended December 31 Business Operations 2017 2016 Gains from hedged items 110,152 98,827 Retail Banking Losses from hedging instruments (109,447) (98,851) Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Meanwhile, the maximum period that the Group is exposed to cash flow risk arising from the hedging Corporate Banking transaction discussed above will be terminated by February 2021. SME Banking Institutional Banking Among gain (loss) on valuation of derivatives that was included in the accumulated other comprehensive Real Estate Finance income, the amount has been reclassified to loss is 56,676 million Won, before reduction of income tax Global Business effect during the year ended December 31, 2017. International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking 27. DEFERRED DAY 1 PROFITS OR LOSSES Digital Banking Risk Management Changes in deferred day 1 profits or losses are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Corporate Social For the year ended December 31 Responsibility 2017 2016 Beginning balance 13,422 28,008 Ethical Management New transactions 500 1,337 Consumer Protection Amounts recognized in profits or losses (6,506) (15,923) Employee Satisfaction Ending balance 7,416 13,422 Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit In case some variables to measure fair values of financial instruments are not observable or available in the market, valuation techniques are utilized to evaluate such financial instruments. Those financial instruments are Financial Review recorded at the fair value produced by the valuation techniques as at the time of acquisition, even though there are difference noted between the transaction price and the fair value. The table above presents the difference yet Management's Discussion and Analysis to be realized as profit or losses. Independent Auditors' Report 28. CAPITAL STOCK AND CAPITAL SURPLUS Organizational Chart (1) The number of authorized shares and others are as follows: Global Network December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Authorized shares of common stock 5,000,000,000 Shares 5,000,000,000 Shares Coporate Fact Book Par value 5,000 Won 5,000 Won Issued shares of common stock 676,000,000 Shares 676,000,000 Shares Woori Bank overview Capital stock 3,381,392 million Won 3,381,392 million Won Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History (2) There is no change to be disclosed in numbers of issued and outstanding shares of common stock for the year Corporate Governance ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. Financial Highlights Global Networks (3) Details of capital surplus are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 A Trust-worthy Partner Capital in excess of par value 269,533 269,533 Other capital surplus 16,347 16,798 Total 285,880 286,331 WOORI BANK 162 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 162 83 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 29. HYBRID SECURITIES Board of Directors Corporate Governance The bond-type hybrid securities classified as owner’s equity are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Interest rate December December News Highlights Issue date Maturity (%) 31, 2017 31, 2016 Financial Highlights Securities in local June 20, 2008 June 20, 2038 7.7 255,000 255,000 currency March 8, 2012 March 8, 2042 5.8 190,000 Business Operations April 25, 2013 April 25, 2043 4.4 500,000 500,000 November 13, 2013 November 13, 2043 5.7 200,000 200,000 Retail Banking December 12, 2014 December 12, 2044 5.2 160,000 160,000 Wealth Management June 3, 2015 June 3, 2045 4.4 240,000 240,000 Trust & Pension Business Securities in May 2, 2007 May 2, 2037 6.2 930,900 Corporate Banking foreign June 10, 2015 June 10, 2045 5.0 559,650 559,650 SME Banking currencies September 27, 2016 4.5 553,450 553,450 Institutional Banking May 16, 2017 5.3 562,700 Real Estate Finance Issuance cost (12,912) (14,104) Global Business Total 3,017,888 3,574,896 International Trade Business Financial Market Business The hybrid securities mentioned above are either without a maturity date or its maturity can be extended Investment Banking indefinitely at the maturity date without change of terms. Further, if a resolution is passed not to pay Digital Banking dividends on common stock, interest payments on the hybrid securities may be skipped. Risk Management Corporate Social 30. OTHER EQUITY Responsibility (1) Details of other equity are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Ethical Management Consumer Protection December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Employee Satisfaction Accumulated other comprehensive income: Social Contribution Activities Gain on valuation of available-for-sale financial Woori Smile Microcredit assets 301,930 386,981 Share of other comprehensive loss of joint ventures Financial Review and associates (1,251) (1,863) Loss on foreign currency translation of foreign Management's Discussion operations (242,700) (48,353) and Analysis Remeasurement loss related to defined benefit plan (152,624) (163,397) Independent Auditors' Gain on valuation of cash flow hedges 777 Report Equity related to non-current assets held for sale 4,145 Sub-total (89,723) 173,368 Organizational Chart Treasury shares (34,113) (34,113) Other capital adjustments (1,815,438) (1,607,280) Global Network Total (1,939,274) (1,468,025) Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 163 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 163 84 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (2) Changes in the accumulated other comprehensive income are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Board of Directors Corporate Governance For the year ended December 31, 2017 Company Structure ReclassifWoori Bank Awards 2017 Beginning Increase ication Income tax Ending News Highlights balance (decrease)(*) adjustments(*) effect balance Financial Highlights Gain (loss) on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets 386,981 80,997 (164,803) (1,245) 301,930 Business Operations Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of joint ventures Retail Banking and associates (1,863) 2,516 (1,904) (1,251) Wealth Management Loss on foreign currency Trust & Pension Business translation of foreign Corporate Banking operations (48,353) (193,272) (1,075) (242,700) SME Banking Remeasurement gain (loss) Institutional Banking related to defined benefit plan (163,397) 6,216 4,557 (152,624) Gain (loss) on valuation of cash Real Estate Finance flow hedges 1,025 (248) 777 Global Business Transfer to non-current assets International Trade Business held for sale 4,145 4,145 Financial Market Business Total 173,368 (98,373) (164,803) 85 (89,723) Investment Banking Digital Banking (*) For the change in gain (loss) on valuation of AFS financial assets, “increase (decrease)” represents Risk Management change due to the valuation during the period, and “reclassification adjustments” explains disposal or recognition of impairment losses on AFS financial assets. Corporate Social Responsibility For the year ended December 31, 2016 ReclassifEthical Management Beginning Increase Ication Income tax Ending Consumer Protection balance (decrease)(*) adjustments(*) effect balance Employee Satisfaction Gain (loss) on valuation of Social Contribution Activities available-for-sale financial assets 374,685 114,617 (101,647) (674) 386,981 Woori Smile Microcredit Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of joint ventures Financial Review and associates 6,074 (9,274) 1,337 (1,863) Gain (loss) on foreign currency Management's Discussion translation of foreign and Analysis operations (70,789) 30,368 (7,932) (48,353) Independent Auditors' Remeasurement gain (loss) Report related to defined benefit plan (197,579) 45,096 (10,914) (163,397) Gain (loss) on valuation of cash flow hedges (10,371) 10,371 Organizational Chart Total 102,020 191,178 (101,647) (18,183) 173,368 Global Network (*) For the change in gain (loss) on valuation of AFS financial assets, “increase (decrease)” represents change due to the valuation during the period, and “reclassification adjustments” explains disposal or Coporate Fact Book recognition of impairment losses on AFS financial assets. Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 164 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 164 85 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 31. RETAINED EARNINGS Board of Directors Corporate Governance (1) Details of retained earnings are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 News Highlights Legal reserve Earned surplus reserve 1,729,754 1,622,754 Financial Highlights Other legal reserve 45,668 44,634 Sub-total 1,775,422 1,667,388 Business Operations Voluntary Business rationalization reserve 8,000 8,000 reserve Reserve for financial structure improvement 235,400 235,400 Retail Banking Additional reserve 7,418,806 7,073,104 Wealth Management Regulatory reserve for credit loss 2,438,191 2,255,252 Trust & Pension Business Revaluation reserve 751,964 753,908 Corporate Banking Other voluntary reserve 11,700 11,700 SME Banking Sub-total 10,864,061 10,337,364 Institutional Banking Retained earnings before appropriation 2,980,523 2,606,814 Real Estate Finance Total 15,620,006 14,611,566 Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business i. Earned surplus reserve Investment Banking In accordance with the Banking Act, earned surplus reserve are appropriated at least one tenth of the Digital Banking earnings after tax on every dividend declaration, not exceeding the paid in capital. This reserve may not be Risk Management used other than for offsetting a deficit or transferring to capital. Corporate Social Responsibility ii. Other legal reserve Ethical Management Other legal reserves were appropriated in the branches located in Japan, Vietnam and Bangladesh according Consumer Protection to the banking laws of Japan, Vietnam and Bangladesh, and may be used to offset any deficit incurred in Employee Satisfaction those branches. Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit iii. Business rationalization reserve Pursuant to the Restriction of Special Taxation Act, the Group was previously required to appropriate, as a Financial Review reserve for business rationalization, amounts equal to tax reductions arising from tax exemptions and tax Management's Discussion credits up to December 31, 2001. The requirement was no longer effective from 2002. and Analysis Independent Auditors' iv. Reserve for financial structure improvement Report From 2002 to 2014, the Finance Supervisory Services recommended banks in Korea to appropriate at least Organizational Chart 10 percent of net income after accumulated deficit for financial structure improvement, until tangible common equity ratio equals 5.5 percent. But this reserve is not available for payment of cash dividends; however, it can be used to reduce a deficit or be transferred to capital. The reserve and appropriation is an Global Network Autonomous judgment matter of the Group since 2015. Coporate Fact Book v. Additional Woori Bank overview Additional reserve was appropriated for capital adequacy and other management purpose. Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History vi. Regulatory reserve for credit loss Corporate Governance Financial Highlights In accordance with Article 29 of the Regulation on Supervision of Banking Business (“RSBB”), if Global Networks provisions for credit loss under K-IFRS for the accounting purpose are lower than provisions under RSBB, Global Networks Strategy the Group discloses such short fall amount as regulatory reserve for credit loss. Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner vii. Revaluation reserve Revaluation reserve is the amount of limited dividends set by the board of directors to be the recognized as complementary capital when the gain or loss occurred in the property revaluation by adopting K-IFRS. WOORI BANK 165 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 165 86 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (2) Changes in retained earnings are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Board of Directors Corporate Governance For the year ended December 31 Company Structure 2017 2016 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Beginning balance 14,611,566 13,726,122 News Highlights Net attributable to owners 1,512,148 1,261,266 Financial Highlights Dividends on common stock (336,636) (168,317) Dividends on hybrid securities (167,072) (206,515) Business Operations Repayment of hybrid securities (990) Ending balance 15,620,006 14,611,566 Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business 32. REGULATORY RESERVE FOR CREDIT LOSS Corporate Banking SME Banking In accordance with Paragraph 1 and 2 of Article 29 of the Regulation on the Supervision of Banking Business Institutional Banking (“RSBB”), if the estimated provisions for credit loss under K-IFRS for the accounting purpose are lower than Real Estate Finance those in accordance with the provisions under the RSBB, the Group shall disclose the difference as the planned Global Business regulatory reserve for credit loss. International Trade Business Financial Market Business (1) Balance of the planned regulatory reserve for credit loss is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Investment Banking Digital Banking December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Risk Management Beginning balance 2,438,191 2,255,252 Planned provision of regulatory reserve Corporate Social for credit loss 140,266 182,939 Responsibility Ending balance 2,578,457 2,438,191 Ethical Management Consumer Protection (2) Planned reserves provided, adjusted net income after the planned reserves provided and adjusted earnings Employee Satisfaction per share after the planned reserves provided are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions, except for Social Contribution Activities earnings per share amount): Woori Smile Microcredit For the years ended December 31 2017 2016 Financial Review Net income 1,530,088 1,277,533 Provision of regulatory reserve for credit loss 140,266 Management's Discussion 182,939 and Analysis Adjusted net income after the provision of regulatory reserve 1,389,822 1,094,594 Independent Auditors' Adjusted EPS after the provision of regulatory reserve Report (Unit: Korean Won) 1,817 1,320 Organizational Chart 33. DIVIDENDS Global Network The Bank’s dividends for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are 500 Won and 400 Won per share, respectively, and total dividend payments amount to 336,636 million Won and 269,308 million Won, Coporate Fact Book respectively. Dividends for the current period will be brought up as an agenda in the annual shareholders’ meeting scheduled on March 23, 2018. Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values Meanwhile, the Bank paid out 67,328 million Won (100 Won per share) as an interim dividend during the year 119 Years of History ended December 31, 2017. Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 166 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 166 87 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 34. NET INTEREST INCOME Board of Directors Corporate Governance (1) Interest income recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 For the years ended December 31 News Highlights 2017 2016 Financial Highlights Financial assets at FVTPL 53,348 63,408 AFS financial assets 239,030 339,518 Business Operations HTM financial assets 307,965 360,054 Loans and receivables: Retail Banking Interest on due from banks 83,325 75,021 Wealth Management Interest on loans 7,835,957 7,635,791 Trust & Pension Business Interest of other receivables 31,062 38,520 Corporate Banking Sub-total 7,950,344 7,749,332 SME Banking Total 8,550,687 8,512,312 Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance (2) Interest expense recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Global Business International Trade Business For the years ended December 31 Financial Market Business 2017 2016 Investment Banking Interest on deposits due to customers 2,380,263 2,547,142 Digital Banking Interest on borrowings 238,212 215,240 Risk Management Interest on debentures 638,653 619,255 Other interest expense 72,909 111,131 Corporate Social Responsibility Total 3,330,037 3,492,768 Ethical Management Consumer Protection 35. NET FEES AND COMMISSIONS INCOME Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities (1) Details of fees and commissions income recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Woori Smile Microcredit For the years ended December 31 Financial Review 2017 2016 Fees and commissions received (*) 673,582 660,556 Management's Discussion Fees and commissions received for provision of and Analysis guarantee 65,779 66,549 Independent Auditors' Fees and commissions received on project financing 13,394 20,213 Report Fees and commissions received on credit card 1,072,423 954,502 Fees and commissions received on securities 80,872 70,928 Organizational Chart Other fees and commissions received 163,148 92,722 Total 2,069,198 1,865,470 Global Network (*) Fees and commissions received include fees income from agency commission, fees income from Coporate Fact Book electronic finance, fees income related to loan, fees for import letter of credit dealing, commission received on foreign exchange and others. Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values (2) Details of fees and commissions expense incurred are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 119 Years of History Corporate Governance For the years ended December 31 Financial Highlights 2017 2016 Global Networks Fees and commissions paid 164,834 162,170 Global Networks Strategy Credit card commissions 828,363 760,913 Digital Strategy Brokerage commissions 558 739 A Trust-worthy Partner Others 4,977 4,517 Total 998,732 928,339 WOORI BANK 167 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 167 88 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 36. DIVIDEND INCOME Board of Directors Corporate Governance Details of dividend income recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 For the years ended December 31 News Highlights 2017 2016 Financial Highlights Dividend from financial assets at FVTPL 446 996 Dividend from AFS financial assets 124,546 183,514 Business Operations Total 124,992 184,510 Retail Banking Wealth Management 37. GAINS (LOSSES) ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AT FVTPL Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking (1) Details of gains or losses related to financial instruments at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in SME Banking millions): Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance For the years ended December 31 Global Business 2017 2016 International Trade Business Gains on financial assets held for trading 6,123 185,786 Financial Market Business Losses of financial assets designated at FVTPL (110,950) (71,399) Investment Banking Total (104,827) 114,387 Digital Banking Risk Management (2) Gains (losses) on financial instruments held for trading are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Corporate Social Responsibility For the years ended December 31 2017 2016 Ethical Management Financial Securities Gain on valuation 2,764 9,323 Consumer Protection instruments held Gain on disposals Employee Satisfaction for trading 20,528 24,509 Social Contribution Activities Loss on valuation (13,757) (12,681) Woori Smile Microcredit Loss on disposals (6,466) (11,524) Sub-total 3,069 9,627 Financial Review Other financial Gain on valuation 6,524 13,628 assets Gain on disposals 2,353 2,404 Management's Discussion Loss on valuation (7,885) (14,033) and Analysis Loss on disposals (619) (1,644) Independent Auditors' Sub-total 373 355 Report Total of financial instruments held for trading 3,442 9,982 Organizational Chart Derivatives Interest rates Gain on transactions (for trading) derivatives and valuation 1,088,192 1,423,606 Global Network Loss on transactions and valuation (1,043,312) (1,401,582) Coporate Fact Book Sub-total 44,880 22,024 Currencies Gain on transactions Woori Bank overview derivatives and valuation 7,253,426 5,804,420 Vision & Core Values Loss on transactions 119 Years of History and valuation (7,408,741) (5,683,357) Corporate Governance Sub-total (155,315) 121,063 Financial Highlights Equity Gain on transactions Global Networks derivatives and valuation 511,220 293,657 Global Networks Strategy Loss on transactions Digital Strategy and valuation (397,462) (259,280) A Trust-worthy Partner Sub-total 113,758 34,377 WOORI BANK 168 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 168 89 Woori Overview Message from the CEO For the years ended December 31 Board of Directors Derivatives Other Gain on transactions Corporate Governance (for trading) derivatives and valuation 4,056 50,139 Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Loss on transactions News Highlights and valuation (4,698) (51,799) Financial Highlights Sub-total (642) (1,660) Business Operations Total of derivatives(for trading) 2,681 175,804 Total 6,123 185,786 Retail Banking Wealth Management (3) Gains (losses) on financial instruments designated at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in Trust & Pension Business millions): Corporate Banking SME Banking For the years ended December 31 Institutional Banking 2017 2016 Real Estate Finance Loss on equity-linked securities Global Business Loss on disposals of equity-linked securities (79,965) (24,165) International Trade Business Loss on valuation of equity-linked securities (32,511) (52,007) Financial Market Business Sub-total (112,476) (76,172) Investment Banking Digital Banking Gain on other securities: Risk Management Gain on disposals of other securities 14 Gain on valuation of other securities 290 882 Sub-total 290 896 Corporate Social Responsibility Gain on other financial instruments: Gain on valuation of other financial instruments 1,236 3,877 Ethical Management Total (110,950) (71,399) Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities 38. GAINS (LOSSES) ON AFS FINANCIAL ASSETS Woori Smile Microcredit Gains (losses) on AFS financial assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Financial Review For the years ended December 31 Management's Discussion 2017 2016 and Analysis Gains on redemption of securities 47 721 Independent Auditors' Gains on transaction of securities 223,961 47,985 Report Impairment losses on securities (31,300) (49,741) Total 192,708 (1,035) Organizational Chart Global Network 39. IMPAIRMENT LOSSES DUE TO CREDIT LOSS Coporate Fact Book Impairment losses on loans and receivables, guarantees and loan commitment recognized for credit loss are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values For the years ended December 31 119 Years of History 2017 2016 Corporate Governance Impairment losses due to credit loss (862,273) (890,763) Financial Highlights Reversal of provision on guarantee 55,424 59,780 Global Networks Reversal of provision on (provision for) loan Global Networks Strategy commitment 21,716 (3,093) Digital Strategy Total (785,133) (833,076) A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 169 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 169 90 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 40. GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES AND OTHER NET OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSES) Board of Directors Corporate Governance (1) General and administrative expenses recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 For the years ended December 31 News Highlights 2017 2016 Financial Highlights Employee benefits Short term Salaries 1,317,826 1,323,007 employee benefits Employee benefits 559,562 466,585 Retirement benefit service costs 146,848 156,356 Business Operations Termination 299,562 179,286 Sub-total 2,323,798 2,125,234 Retail Banking Depreciation and amortization 183,601 248,269 Wealth Management Other general Rent 313,080 311,992 Trust & Pension Business and administrative Taxes and dues 111,248 102,531 Corporate Banking expenses Service charges 198,828 244,543 SME Banking Computer and IT related 70,936 83,978 Institutional Banking Telephone and communication 65,015 63,699 Real Estate Finance Operating promotion 43,850 48,115 Global Business Advertising 68,942 76,153 Printing 8,633 9,502 International Trade Business Traveling 13,064 11,681 Financial Market Business Supplies 6,795 6,827 Investment Banking Insurance premium 8,548 8,092 Digital Banking Reimbursement 27,516 26,846 Risk Management Maintenance 16,081 16,470 Water, light and heating 14,165 15,006 Corporate Social Vehicle maintenance 9,902 9,987 Responsibility Others 46,799 69,551 Sub-total 1,023,402 1,104,973 Ethical Management Total 3,530,801 3,478,476 Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction (2) Other operating income recognized is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Social Contribution Activities For the years ended December 31 Woori Smile Microcredit 2017 2016 Gains on transaction of foreign exchange 3,391,095 4,791,772 Financial Review Gains on disposal of loans and receivables 205,490 204,239 Gains related to derivatives 122 130 Management's Discussion Gains on fair value hedged items 53,532 99,302 and Analysis Others (*) 86,159 112,079 Independent Auditors' Total 3,736,398 5,207,522 Report (*) Other income includes such incomes amounting to 29,336 million Won and 74,700 million Won for the year ended Organizational Chart December, 2017 and 2016, respectively, that the Group recognized for it is to receive from other creditor financial institutions in accordance with the creditor financial institutions committee agreement. Global Network (3) Other operating expenses recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Coporate Fact Book For the years ended December 31 2017 2016 Woori Bank overview Losses on transaction of foreign exchange 2,886,535 4,706,055 Vision & Core Values KDIC deposit insurance fees 304,055 298,804 119 Years of History Contribution to miscellaneous funds 286,000 295,601 Corporate Governance Losses on disposal of loans and receivables 9,221 4,265 Financial Highlights Losses related to derivatives 109,569 98,981 Losses on fair value hedged items 475 Global Networks Others (*) 172,331 171,120 Global Networks Strategy Total 3,767,711 5,575,301 Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner (*) For the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, other expense includes losses amounting to 5,237 million Won and 109,063 million Won respectively, which are related to the Group’s expected payments to other creditor financial institutions in accordance with the creditor financial institutions committee agreement. In addition, other expense for the year ended December 31, 2017 includes 48,292 million Won of intangible asset amortization expense. WOORI BANK 170 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 170 91 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 41. OTHER NON-OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSES) Board of Directors Corporate Governance (1) Details of gains or losses on valuation of investments in joint ventures and associates are as follows (Unit: Company Structure Korean Won in millions): Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights For the years ended December 31 Financial Highlights 2017 2016 Gain on valuation 83,506 36,757 Business Operations Loss on valuation (70,117) (55,091) Impairment loss (114,903) (1,173) Retail Banking Total (101,514) (19,507) Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business (2) Other non-operating income and expenses recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Corporate Banking SME Banking For the years ended December 31 Institutional Banking 2017 2016 Real Estate Finance Other non-operating income 84,361 132,272 Global Business Other non-operating expenses (190,083) (133,582) International Trade Business Financial Market Business Total (105,722) (1,310) Investment Banking Digital Banking (3) Other non-operating income recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Risk Management For the years ended December 31 Corporate Social 2017 2016 Responsibility Rental fee income 6,973 7,291 Gains on disposal of investment in joint Ethical Management ventures and associates 39,932 23,457 Consumer Protection Gains on disposal of premises and equipment Employee Satisfaction and other assets 5,028 1,885 Social Contribution Activities Reversal of impairment loss on premises and Woori Smile Microcredit equipment and other assets 666 3,581 Others 31,762 96,058 Financial Review Total 84,361 132,272 Management's Discussion (4) Other non-operating expenses recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): and Analysis Independent Auditors' For the years ended December 31 Report 2017 2016 Depreciation on investment properties 3,902 3,762 Organizational Chart Interest expenses of rent leasehold deposits 459 496 Losses on disposal of investment in joint ventures Global Network and associates 38,713 15,060 Losses on disposal of premises and equipment Coporate Fact Book and other assets 9,994 9,718 Impairment losses on premises and equipment Woori Bank overview and other assets 390 1,936 Vision & Core Values Donation 98,132 43,939 119 Years of History Others 38,493 58,671 Corporate Governance Total 190,083 133,582 Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 171 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 171 92 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 42. INCOME TAX EXPENSE Board of Directors Corporate Governance (1) Income tax expenses are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 For the years ended December 31 News Highlights 2017 2016 Financial Highlights Current tax expense Current tax expense in respect of the current year 471,669 332,996 Business Operations Adjustments recognized in the current period in relation to the current tax of prior periods (5,209) (22,138) Retail Banking Sub-total 466,460 310,858 Wealth Management Deferred tax expense Trust & Pension Business Deferred tax benefit relating to the origination and reversal Corporate Banking of temporary differences (47,464) (18,766) SME Banking Deferred tax charged directly to equity 422 (16,236) Institutional Banking Sub-total (47,042) (35,002) Real Estate Finance Income tax expense 419,418 275,856 Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business (2) Income tax expense can be reconciled to net income before income tax expense as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Investment Banking Digital Banking For the years ended December 31 Risk Management 2017 2016 Net income before income tax expense 1,949,506 1,553,389 Corporate Social Responsibility Tax calculated at statutory tax rate (*) 471,318 375,458 Adjustments Ethical Management Effect of income that is exempt from taxation (55,983) (75,166) Consumer Protection Effect of expense not deductible in determining taxable Employee Satisfaction profit 22,254 13,664 Social Contribution Activities Adjustments recognized in the current period in relation to Woori Smile Microcredit the current tax of prior periods (5,209) (22,138) Others (12,962) (15,962) Financial Review Sub-total (51,900) (99,602) Income tax expense 419,418 275,856 Management's Discussion Effective tax rate 21.5% 17.8% and Analysis Independent Auditors' (*) The applicable income tax rate; 1) 11% for below 200 million Won, 2) 22% for above 200 million Won Report and below 20 billion Won, 3) 24.2% for above 20 billion Won. Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 172 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 172 93 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (3) Deferred tax charged direct to equity is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Board of Directors Corporate Governance For the year ended December 31, 2017 Company Structure Recognized as Woori Bank Awards 2017 other News Highlights Recognized as comprehensive Financial Highlights Beginning income income Ending balance (expense) (expense) balance Business Operations Gain (loss) on financial assets 407,128 72,945 (1,008) 479,065 Gain (loss) on valuation using the equity method of accounting 32,859 (6,473) (1,904) 24,482 Retail Banking Gain (loss) on valuation of derivatives (43,818) 33,806 (248) (10,260) Wealth Management Accrued income (69,959) 8,972 (60,987) Trust & Pension Business Provision for loan losses (46,811) (886) (47,697) Corporate Banking Loan and receivables written off 53,915 (44,138) 9,777 SME Banking Loan origination costs and fees (108,102) (29,218) (137,320) Institutional Banking Defined benefit liability 225,045 54,533 4,656 284,234 Real Estate Finance Deposits with employee retirement Global Business insurance trust (226,321) (61,012) (287,333) Provision for guarantee 41,138 (10,536) 30,602 International Trade Business Other provision 32,392 12,761 45,153 Financial Market Business Others (*) (87,479) 16,289 (1,075) (72,265) Investment Banking Net deferred tax assets 209,987 47,043 421 257,451 Digital Banking Risk Management (*) Among the deferred tax assets and liabilities classified as ‘Others,’ the deferred tax asset arising from accumulated deficit amounts to 15,652 million Won. Corporate Social Responsibility For the year ended December 31, 2016 Recognized as Ethical Management other Consumer Protection Recognized as comprehensive Employee Satisfaction Beginning income income Ending Social Contribution Activities balance (expense) (expense) balance Woori Smile Microcredit Gain (loss) on financial assets 324,193 (18,467) (666) 305,060 Gain on valuation using the equity method of accounting 5,106 26,500 1,337 32,943 Financial Review Loss on valuation of derivatives (39,774) (4,079) (43,853) Accrued income (82,148) 12,188 (69,960) Management's Discussion Provision for loan losses (50,504) 3,693 (46,811) and Analysis Loan and receivables written off 54,225 (310) 53,915 Independent Auditors' Loan origination costs and fees (103,912) (4,190) (108,102) Report Defined benefit liability 203,423 32,536 (10,914) 225,045 Deposits with employee retirement Organizational Chart insurance trust (187,044) (39,277) (226,321) Provision for guarantee 69,225 (28,087) 41,138 Other provision 27,898 4,494 32,392 Global Network Others (29,470) 50,001 (5,993) 14,538 Net deferred tax assets 191,218 35,002 (16,236) 209,984 Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 173 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 173 94 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (4) Unrealizable temporary differences are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Board of Directors Corporate Governance December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Company Structure Deductible temporary differences 126,818 59,803 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Unused tax losses 96,135 192,138 News Highlights Taxable temporary differences (1,298,586) (1,263,200) Financial Highlights Total (1,075,633) (1,011,259) Business Operations (5) Deferred tax charged direct to equity is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Retail Banking December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Wealth Management Loss on available-for-sale financial assets (114,169) (113,161) Trust & Pension Business Share of other comprehensive gain (loss) of joint ventures Corporate Banking and associates (954) 950 SME Banking Gain on foreign operations translation 15,855 16,930 Institutional Banking Remeasurements 56,317 51,661 Real Estate Finance Loss on valuation of cash flow hedges (248) Global Business Total (43,199) (43,620) International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking (6) Current tax assets and liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Digital Banking December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Risk Management Current tax assets 4,722 6,229 Current tax liabilities 232,600 171,192 Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management 43. EARNINGS PER SHARE (“EPS”) Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net income by weighted average number of common shares outstanding Social Contribution Activities (Unit: Korean Won in millions, except for EPS and number of shares): Woori Smile Microcredit For the years ended December 31 Financial Review 2017 2016 Net income attributable to common shareholders 1,512,148 1,261,266 Management's Discussion Dividends to hybrid securities (167,072) (206,515) and Analysis Net income attributable to common shareholders 1,345,076 1,054,751 Independent Auditors' Weighted average number of common shares outstanding 673 million shares 673 million shares Report Basic Earnings Per Share (Unit : Korean won) 1,999 1,567 Organizational Chart Diluted EPS is equal to basic EPS because there is no dilution effect for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 174 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 174 95 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 44. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS Board of Directors Corporate Governance (1) Details of guarantees are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 News Highlights Confirmed guarantees Financial Highlights Guarantee for loans 157,299 79,566 Acceptances 320,519 504,354 Business Operations Guarantees in acceptances of imported goods 108,238 97,606 Other confirmed guarantees 6,288,965 7,588,661 Retail Banking Total 6,875,021 8,270,187 Wealth Management Unconfirmed guarantees Trust & Pension Business Local letter of credit 383,117 397,588 Corporate Banking Letter of credit 3,637,787 3,844,345 SME Banking Other unconfirmed guarantees 505,689 859,768 Institutional Banking Total 4,526,593 5,101,701 Real Estate Finance Commercial paper purchase commitments and others 1,458,101 1,389,896 Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business (2) Details of loan commitments and others are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Investment Banking December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Digital Banking Loan commitments 80,760,325 83,795,496 Risk Management Other commitments 4,546,090 4,840,593 (3) Litigation case Corporate Social Responsibility The Group had filed lawsuits as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions except for number of cases): Ethical Management Consumer Protection December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Employee Satisfaction As plaintiff As defendant As plaintiff As defendant Social Contribution Activities Number of cases 83 cases 155 cases 88 cases 175 cases Woori Smile Microcredit Amount of litigation 413,267 244,767 308,848 246,465 Provisions for litigations 9,277 5,946 Financial Review (4) Other Management's Discussion and Analysis The Group provides clearance services for payments in Korean Won in order to facilitate trade transactions Independent Auditors' between Korea and Iran. In connection with these services, the Group is currently being investigated by US Report government agencies including US prosecutors(United States Attorney’s Office and New York State Attorney General’s Office) as to whether the Group has violated United States laws by participating in Organizational Chart prohibited transactions involving countries sanctioned by the US. The Group has decided not to disclose the required disclosures stated in K-IFRS 1037 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ as Global Network such information may adversely affect the current investigation against the Group. Coporate Fact Book 45. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values Related parties of the Group as of December 31, 2017 and its assets and liabilities recognized as of December 119 Years of History 31, 2017 and 2016 and major transactions with related parties for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Corporate Governance are as follows: Financial Highlights (1) Related parties Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Related parties Digital Strategy Associates Kumho Tires Co., Inc., Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd., Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd., A Trust-worthy Partner Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd., Chin Hung International Inc., Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd., STX Engine Co., Ltd, STX Corporation, 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Fund, K BANK Co., Ltd., Well to Sea No. 3 Private Equity Fund, and Others (Dongwoo C & C Co., Ltd. and other 22 associates) WOORI BANK 175 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 175 96 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (2) Assets and liabilities from transactions with related parties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Board of Directors Corporate Governance December 31, December 31, Company Structure Related party A title of account 2017 2016 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Corporation that have KDIC (*1) Loans 9 News Highlights significant influence Other assets 270,041 Financial Highlights over the Group Deposits due to customers 1,894,631 Other liabilities 15,568 Business Operations Associates Kumho Tires Co., Inc. Loans 170,917 299,523 Allowance for credit loss (156,712) (715) Retail Banking Deposits due to customers 666 45,957 Wealth Management Other liabilities 50 50 Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking Woori Blackstone Korea Other assets 34 SME Banking Opportunity Private Equity Other liabilities Institutional Banking Fund No.1 306 Real Estate Finance Woori Service Networks Co., 45 Global Business Loans 29 Ltd. Deposits due to customers 1,311 2,572 International Trade Business Other liabilities 357 393 Financial Market Business Investment Banking Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. Loans 6 2 Digital Banking Deposits due to customers 5,586 5,069 Risk Management Other liabilities 54 40 Associates Korea Finance Security Co., Loans 56 55 Corporate Social Ltd. Deposits due to customers 2,854 2,801 Responsibility Other liabilities 7 6 Ethical Management Chin Hung International Inc. Loans 408 4,320 Consumer Protection Allowance for credit loss (22) (4,287) Employee Satisfaction Deposits due to customers 46,220 14,047 Social Contribution Activities Other liabilities 1,658 279 Woori Smile Microcredit Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. Deposits due to customers 4 283 Financial Review STX Engine Co., Ltd. Loans 106,176 107,974 Management's Discussion Allowance for credit loss (88,734) (89,531) and Analysis Deposits due to customers 18,092 13,260 Independent Auditors' Other liabilities 29 588 Report Samho International Co., Loans 37,327 Ltd.(*2) Allowance for credit loss (717) Organizational Chart Deposits due to customers 82,917 Other liabilities 216 Global Network STX Corporation Loans 47,711 144,035 Coporate Fact Book Allowance for credit loss (31,210) (92,643) Deposits due to customers 77,555 14,412 80 Woori Bank overview Other liabilities 90 Vision & Core Values K BANK Co., Ltd. Loans 212 119 Years of History Other assets 325 Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Well to Sea No.3 Private Loans 73,810 Global Networks Equity Fund (*3) Allowance for credit loss (39) Global Networks Strategy Deposits due to customers 61 Digital Strategy Other liabilities 27 A Trust-worthy Partner Others (*4) Loans 499 619 Allowance for credit loss (471) (253) Other assets 1 8 Deposits due to customers 2,906 4,460 Other liabilities 73 60 WOORI BANK 176 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 176 97 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (*1) As its ownership interest in the Group is lower than 20% as of December 31, 2017, it has been excluded from the Board of Directors corporation that have significant influence over the Group. Corporate Governance (*2) As the Group sold its entire ownership interest of the entity, it is excluded from the investment in associates Company Structure during the years ended December 31, 2017. Woori Bank Awards 2017 (*3) Due to capital contribution by the Group during the years ended December 31, 2017, the entity was included in News Highlights the investment in associates. Financial Highlights (*4) Others include Saman Corporation, Kyesan Engineering Co., Ltd., Hyunwoo International Co., Ltd., DAEA SNC Co., Ltd. and others as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. Business Operations (3) Gain or loss from transactions with related parties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Retail Banking For the years ended Wealth Management December 31 Trust & Pension Business Related party A title of account 2017 2016 Corporate Banking Corporation that has KDIC(*1) Interest income 11,778 SME Banking significant influence Interest expenses 15,331 20,966 Institutional Banking over the group Real Estate Finance Associates Kumho Tires Co., Inc. Interest income 2,641 2,430 Global Business Fees income 5 6 International Trade Business Interest expenses 1 68 Financial Market Business Impairment losses due to Investment Banking credit loss 155,997 162 Digital Banking Risk Management Woori Blackstone Korea Fees income Opportunity Private Corporate Social Equity Fund No.1 6,225 1,364 Responsibility Woori Service Networks Other income 30 29 Co., Ltd. Ethical Management Interest expenses 24 49 Consumer Protection Fees expenses 543 985 507 222 Employee Satisfaction Other expenses Social Contribution Activities Korea Credit Bureau Co., Interest expenses 82 Woori Smile Microcredit 138 Ltd. Fees expenses 2,079 1,915 Financial Review Korea Finance Security Co., Interest expenses 12 10 Ltd. Fees expenses Management's Discussion 110 and Analysis Chin Hung International Inc. Interest income 364 240 Independent Auditors' 1 Report Fees income 1 Interest expenses 27 28 Reversal of impairment Organizational Chart losses due to credit loss (4,265) (481) Global Network Poonglim Industrial Co., Interest expenses 2 Ltd. Reversal of impairment Coporate Fact Book losses due to credit loss (1,557) Woori Bank overview STX Engine Co., Ltd. Interest income 1,417 1,348 Vision & Core Values Fees income 28 58 Interest expenses 147 119 Years of History 97 Impairment losses due to Corporate Governance (797) credit loss (reversal) 63,866 Financial Highlights Global Networks Samho International Co., Interest income 486 916 Global Networks Strategy Ltd. (*2) Fees income 5 5 Digital Strategy Interest expenses 334 525 A Trust-worthy Partner Reversal of impairment losses due to credit loss (717) (5,166) Force TEC Co., Ltd. (*3) Interest income 153 WOORI BANK 177 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 177 98 Woori Overview Message from the CEO For the years ended Board of Directors December 31 Corporate Governance Related party A title of account 2017 2016 Company Structure STX Corporation Interest income 219 1,039 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Fees income 30 75 News Highlights Interest expenses 4 7 Financial Highlights Impairment losses due to credit loss (reversal) (61,432) 73,457 Business Operations Retail Banking Associates Osung LST Co., Ltd. (*4) Interest income 170 Wealth Management Interest expenses 1 Trust & Pension Business Reversal of allowance for Corporate Banking credit loss (338) SME Banking Institutional Banking Woori Columbus 1st Private Fees income Equity Fund 272 308 Real Estate Finance Global Business K BANK Co., Ltd. (*5) Fees income 296 International Trade Business Other income 1,051 1,638 Financial Market Business Investment Banking Well to Sea No.3 Interest incomes 982 Digital Banking Private Equity Fund (*6) Interest expenses 4 Risk Management Impairment losses due to credit loss 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Others (*7) Interest expenses 13 17 Impairment losses due to Ethical Management credit loss 218 253 Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction (*1) As its ownership interest in the Group is lower than 20% as of December 31, 2017, it has been exclude from the Social Contribution Activities corporation that have significant influence over the Group. (*2) As the Group sold its entire ownership interest of the entity, it is excluded from the investment in associates Woori Smile Microcredit during the years ended December 31, 2017. (*3) The entity is not in scope for the associates, because the Group does not have significant influence over the entity Financial Review due to the fact that it is going through workout process under receivership as of December 31, 2017. (*4) As the Group sold its ownership interests in the entities during the year ended December 31, 2016, these entities Management's Discussion were excluded from the investment in associates. and Analysis (*5) Due to capital contribution during the year ended December 31, 2016, the entity has been included in the Independent Auditors' investment in associates. Report (*6) Due to capital contribution by the Group during the year ended December 31, 2017, the entity was included in the investment in associates. (*7) Others include Saman Corporation, Kyesan Engineering Co., Ltd., Hyunwoo International Co., Ltd., DAEA SNC Organizational Chart Co., Ltd. and others as of December 31, 2017, and Saman Corporation, Kyesan Engineering Co., Ltd., Gachi Staff Co., Ltd., QTS Shipping Co., Ltd., and others were included as of December 31, 2016, respectively. Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 178 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 178 99 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (4) Guarantees provided to the related parties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Board of Directors Corporate Governance December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Company Structure KDIC (*1) 1,500,000 Loan commitment Woori Bank Awards 2017 Kumho Tires Co., Inc. 4,181 24,187 Letter of credit and others News Highlights 636 126,435 Loan commitment Financial Highlights Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 204 205 Loan commitment Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 29 33 Loan commitment Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 155 171 Loan commitment Business Operations Chin Hung International Inc. 31,891 40,904 Loan commitment STX Engine Co., Ltd. 68,858 63,103 Letter of credit and others Retail Banking 685 Loan commitment Wealth Management SamHo Co., Ltd. (*2) 30,083 Loan commitment Trust & Pension Business STX corporation 17,557 24,316 Letter of credit and others Corporate Banking 53 71 Loan commitment SME Banking Well to Sea No.3 Private Equity Fund Institutional Banking (*3) 236,190 Loan commitment Real Estate Finance (*1) As its ownership interest in the Group is lower than 20% as of December 31, 2017, it has been exclude from the Global Business corporation that have significant influence over the Group. International Trade Business (*2) As the Group sold its entire ownership interest of the entities during the year ended December 31, 2017, they are Financial Market Business excluded from the investment in associates. Investment Banking (*3) Due to capital contribution by the Group during the year ended December 31, 2017, the entity was included in Digital Banking the investment in associates. Risk Management For the guarantee provided to the related parties, the Group recognized provisions for guarantees Corporate Social amounting to 71,459 million Won and 70,587 million Won, as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, Responsibility respectively. Ethical Management (5) Compensation for key management is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction For the years ended December 31 Social Contribution Activities 2017 2016 Woori Smile Microcredit Short term benefits 12,024 9,523 Severance payments 472 424 Financial Review Total 12,496 9,947 Management's Discussion Key management includes registered executives and non-registered executives. Outstanding assets and liabilities and Analysis from transactions with key management amount to 2,439 million Won and 6,309 million Won, respectively, as Independent Auditors' of December 31, 2017. With respect to the assets, the Group has not recognized any allowance, nor provision. Report Organizational Chart 46. TRUST ACCOUNTS Global Network (1) Trust accounts of the Group are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Coporate Fact Book Total assets Operating income December 31, December 31, For the year ended For the year ended Woori Bank overview 2017 2016 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Vision & Core Values Trust accounts 43,895,511 38,807,666 1,029,501 751,691 119 Years of History Corporate Governance (2) Receivables and payables from the transactions between the Group and trust accounts are as follows (Unit: Financial Highlights Korean Won in millions): Global Networks Global Networks Strategy December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Digital Strategy Receivables A Trust-worthy Partner Trust fees receivables 25,286 23,667 Payables Deposits due to customers 585,832 1,919,324 Borrowings from trust accounts 2,711,529 2,687,776 Total 3,297,361 4,607,100 WOORI BANK 179 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 179 100 Woori Overview Message from the CEO (3) Significant transactions between the Group and trust accounts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in Board of Directors millions): Corporate Governance Company Structure For the years ended December 31 Woori Bank Awards 2017 2017 2016 News Highlights Revenue Financial Highlights Trust fees 141,999 78,616 Expense Business Operations Interest expenses on deposits due to customers 17,768 47,604 Retail Banking Interest expenses on borrowings Wealth Management 31,956 from trust accounts 45,012 Trust & Pension Business Total 49,724 92,616 Corporate Banking SME Banking (4) Principal guaranteed trusts and principal and fixed rate of return guaranteed trusts Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business 1) As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the carrying of principal guaranteed trusts and principal and fixed International Trade Business rate of return guaranteed trusts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Financial Market Business Investment Banking December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Digital Banking Principal guaranteed trusts Risk Management Old-age pension trusts 4,058 4,513 Personal pension trusts 530,556 532,959 Pension trusts 791,920 741,759 Corporate Social Responsibility Retirement trusts 50,035 53,773 New personal pension trusts 8,563 8,536 Ethical Management New old-age pension trusts 2,467 2,919 Consumer Protection Sub-total 1,387,599 1,344,459 Employee Satisfaction Principal and fixed rate of return Social Contribution Activities guaranteed trusts Woori Smile Microcredit Development trusts 19 19 Unspecified money trusts 801 787 Financial Review Sub-total 820 806 Total 1,388,419 1,345,265 Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' 2) As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the amounts that the Group has to pay by the capital guaranteed Report contract or the operating results of the principal and return guaranteed trusts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Organizational Chart December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Global Network Liabilities for the account (subsidy for trust account adjustment) 32 30 Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 180 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 180 Organizational Chart Woori Overview 3 Unit 18 Groups 4 Divisions 65 Departments Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Customer Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Regional Banking Headquarters Branch Financial Highlights Business Operations Domestic Business Unit Global Business Unit Retail Banking Wealth Management Small & Trust & Pension Business Retail Corporate Medium Institutional Real Estate Trust & International Investment Financial Wealth Global Corporate Banking Banking Banking Corporate Banking Finance Pension Trade Banking Market Management Business SME Banking Business Business Banking Business Business Business Business Business Business Group Group Institutional Banking Group Group Business Group Group Group Group Group Group Group Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Small & Medium Institutional Retail Banking Wealth Global International Corporate Social Banking Corporate Banking Real Estate Investment Products & Management Trust Business Trade Treasury Products & Banking Products Products & Finance Banking Responsibility Marketing Strategy Department Strategy Business Department Marketing & Marketing Marketing Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Ethical Management Consumer Protection Foreign Wealth Retirement Global Marketing Public Customer Project Employee Satisfaction Promotion Fund Sales Housing Fund Management Pension Business Banking Finance Trading Department Business Business Support Department Social Contribution Activities Department Department Business Department Department Department Department Woori Smile Microcredit Department Wealth Financial Review National International Settlement Card Business Management Custody Agent Pension Trade Service Support Department Advisory Department Department Center Department Management's Discussion Center and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Customer Center Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner Board of Directors Secretary Department President & CEO WOORI BANK 181 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 181 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Corporate Banking Headquarters Financial Highlights Business Operations Business Support Unit Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Digital Management Human Risk Operation Credit Consumer Corporate Banking Banking & Finance Resources Management & Support Support & Brand SME Banking Business Planning Group Group Group Group Group Institutional Banking Group Group Real Estate Finance Global Business Next International Trade Business Generation Information Corporate Future Financial Market Business ICT System Security Restructuring Strategy Investment Banking Building Division Division Division Digital Banking Division Risk Management Next Digital Corporate Social Human Generation Risk Information Corporate Strategy & Future Consumer Banking General Affairs Loan Policy Resources ICT System Management Security Restoration Control Tower Strategy Protection Responsibility Strategy Department Department Department Integration Department Department Department Department Department Center Department Center Ethical Management Consumer Protection Next Generation Human Digital Retail Credit ICT System Corporate Finance & Management Public Employee Satisfaction Resources Banking Acquisition Loan Review Loan Service Analysis & Restructuring Planning Innovation Relations Development Business Department Center Approval Social Contribution Activities Support Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Woori Smile Microcredit Department Next SME Credit Financial Review Employee Platform Generation Deposit Investor Analysis & Satisfaction Business ICT System Service Relations Approval Center Department Analysis Center Department Management's Discussion Department Department and Analysis Next Large Independent Auditors' Generation ICT Security Corporate Report ICT Support System Change Control Credit Analysis Accounting Center Department Management Department & Approval Department Department Organizational Chart Credit Global Network Management & Collection Department Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Innovation Vision & Core Values Development 119 Years of History Center Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Compliance Officer Digital Strategy Compliance Department A Trust-worthy Partner Audit Committee Anti-Money Laundering Department Standing Audit Committee Member/Director Audit Department WOORI BANK 182 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 182 Global Network (as of the end of April, 2018) Woori Overview Message from the CEO 13 Woori Bank, Narayanganj Sub-Branch 7 Palisades Park Branch Head Office Board of Directors Adamjee Export Processing zone, Shiddhirganj, 225 Broad Avenue Palisades Park, NJ 07650, USA 51, Sogong-ro (203, Hoehyeon-dong 1-ga), Narayanganj-1431 Bangladesh Phone: 1-201-346-0055 Corporate Governance Jung-gu, Seoul, 100-792, Korea Phone: 880-2769-2031~34 Fax: 1-201-346-0075 Company Structure Phone: +82-2-2002-3000 Fax: 880-2769-2035 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Swift: HVBKKRSE 8 Closter Branch 14 Gaeseong Branch 234 Closter Dock Road Closter, NJ 07624, USA News Highlights Gaesong Industrial District Phase 1, 25-1 Business Phone: 1-201-784-7012 Financial Highlights Overseas Branch Support Center, 1st Floor 103 1st Floor, Bongdong-Ri, Fax: 1-201-784-7013 Gaeseong, Hwanghae-Do, North Korea 1 New York Agency Phone: 001-8585-2300~2 9 Elkins Park Branch Business Operations 245, Park Ave. 43rd Floor, New York, NY 10167, USA Fax: 001-8585-2303 7300 Old York Rd Elkins Park, PA 19027 Phone: 1-212-949-1900 Phone: 1-215-782-1100 Fax: 1-212-490-7146 15 Chennai Branch Fax: 1-215-782-1500 Retail Banking 6th Floor, EA Chambers, No. 49 & 50L, Whites Road, Swift: HVBKUS33 Wealth Management Royapettah, Chennai 600 014, India 10 Annandale Branch 2 LA Branch Seoul Plaza 4231 Markeham St, Annandale, Trust & Pension Business Phone: 91-44-3346-6900 3360, West Olympic Blvd. Suite 300, LA, CA90019, USA Fax: 91-44-3346-6995 VA 22003, USA Corporate Banking Phone: 1-213-620-0747~8 Phone: 1-703-256-7633 SME Banking Fax: 1-213-627-5438 16 Gurgaon Branch Fax: 1-703-256-7511 Swift: HVBKUS6L 1st Floor, Salcon Platina Building, MG Road, Sector-28, Institutional Banking 11 Bayside Branch Sikanderpur, Gurgaon-122001,Haryana, India Real Estate Finance 3 London Branch Phone: 91-12-43049700 215-10 Northern Blvd. Bayside, NY 11361, USA 9th Floor, 71 Fenchurch Street, London, EC3M 4BR,UK Phone: 1-718-224-3800 Global Business Fax: 91-12-4304-6730 Phone: 44-207-680-0680 Fax: 1-718-224-3828 International Trade Business Fax: 44-207-481-8044 17 Mumbai Branch 12 Ellicott City Branch Financial Market Business Swift: HVBKGB2L Unit 601, 6th floor, Birla Centurion, Century Mills Compound, Pandurang Budhkar Marg, Worli, Mumbai, 100352 Baltimore National Pike Ellicott City, Investment Banking 4 Tokyo Branch MD 21042, USA Maharashtra-400030, India Digital Banking Shiodome City Center 10th Floor 5-2, Higashiphone: 91-22-6263-8100 Phone: 1-443-973-3690 Shimbashi 1-Chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 105-7110, Fax: 1-410-461-1002 Risk Management Fax: 86-10-8440-0698 Japan 18 Sydney Branch 13 Wilshire Branch Phone: 81-3-6891-5600 Suite 25.03, Level 25, 363 George Street Sydney NSW 3540 Wilshire Blvd. Unit 104, Los Angeles, CA 90010, USA Corporate Social Fax: 81-3-6891-2457 2000 Australia Phone: 1-213-382-8700 Responsibility Fax: 1-213-382-8787 5 Hong Kong Branch Phone: 61-2-8222-2200 Suite 1401, Two Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, Hongkong Fax: 61-2-8222-2299 Ethical Management 14 Olympic Branch Phone: 85-2-2521-8016 3360, West Olympic Blvd. Suite #300, LA, CA90019, USA Consumer Protection Fax: 85-2-2526-7458 19 Dubai Branch 1102A, Level 11, The Gate Building, East Wing, P.O. Box Phone: 1-213-738-1100 Employee Satisfaction 6 Singapore Branch 506760, DIFC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Fax: 1-213-738-1101 Social Contribution Activities 10 Marina Boulevard #13-05 MBFC Tower 2, Singapore Phone: 971-4-325-8365 15 Fullerton Branch 018983 Singapore Fax: 971-4-325-8366 Woori Smile Microcredit 5731 Beach Blvd., Buena Park, CA 90621, USA Phone: 65-6422-2000 Swift: HVBKAEADXXX Phone: 1-714-521-3100 Fax: 65-6422-2001 Fax: 1-714-521-3101 Financial Review 7 Bahrain Branch 16 Garden Grove Branch P.O. Box 1151, 4th Floor, Entrance 1, Manama Centre Subsidiary 10120 Garden Grove Blvd.,Suite 151Garden Grove, CA Management's Discussion Building, Manama, Bahrain 92844, USA and Analysis Phone: 973-17-223503 U.S.A Phone: 1-714-534-6300 Fax: 973-17-224429 Independent Auditors' 1 Woori America Bank Fax: 1-714-534-6301 Report 8 Dhaka Branch 330 5th Avenue, 3rd Floor, New York, NY 10001, USA 17 Centreville Branch Suvastu Imam Square (1st & 4th Fl.) 65 Gulshan Avenue, Phone: 1-212-244-3000 13830 Braddock Road. Centreville, VA 20121, USA Dhaka, Bangladesh Fax: 1-212-736-5929 Phone: 1-703-988-9555 Organizational Chart Phone: 880-2-881-3270~3 2 Manhattan Branch Fax: 1-703-988-9554 Fax: 880-2-881-3274/3241 330 5th Avenue, 1st Floor, New York, NY 10001 18 Irvine Branch Global Network 9 DEPZ Customer Service Center Phone: 1-212-244-1500 14252 Culver Dr. #G, Irvine, CA 92604 Dhaka Export Processing Zone(Old Area), Ganakbari, Fax: 1-212-695-5593 Phone: 1-949-885-3760 Ssvar, Dhaka-1349, Bangladesh Coporate Fact Book 3 Flushing Branch Fax: 1-949-653-0943 Phone: 880-2778-8030 Fax: 880-2881-3274/3241 136-88 39th Avenue Flushing New York, NY 11354, USA 19 Torrance Branch Woori Bank overview Phone: 1-718-886-1988 2390 Crenshaw Boulevard, Units C, Torrance CA 90501 USA 10 Woori Bank Chittangong Sub-Branch Fax: 1-718-762-6898 Vision & Core Values Phone: 1-310-974-1880 World Trade Center Chittagon(2nd Floor) Plopt No. 4 Fort Lee Branch Fax: 1-310-782-7004 119 Years of History 102-103, Agrabad Commercial Area, Chittagong, Bangladesh 2053 Lemoine Avenue Fort Lee, NJ 07024, USA Corporate Governance 20 Georgia LPO Phone: 880-931-728221~4 Phone: 1-201-363-9300 2472 Pleasant Hill Rd. Duluth, GA30096, USA Financial Highlights Fax: 880-931-728225 Fax: 1-201-302-0452 Phone: 1-404-904-9880 Global Networks 5 Woodside Branch 11 Woori Bank Uttara Sub-Branch 21 San Jose LPO Global Networks Strategy Paradise Tower(Ground Floor) Plot 11, Sector 3, Uttara 43-22 50th St. Woodside, NY 11377, USA 2328 Walsh Ave, Santa Clara CA 95051 USA Digital Strategy Model Town,Uttara, Dhaka 1230, Bangladesh Phone: 1-718-429-1900 Phone: 1-415-652-9476 Phone: 880-2896-2125~6 Fax: 1-718-429-2084 A Trust-worthy Partner Fax: 880-2896-2129 22 Northern Branch 6 Ridgefield Branch 164-25 Northern Blvd. Flushing NY 11358, USA 12 Woori Bank Mirpur Sub-Branch 321 Broad Avenue #104 Ridgefield, NJ 07657, USA Phone: 1-929-362-3330 Padma Bhaban(First Floor), 1/9 Mirpur Road Pallabi, Phone: 1-201-941-9999 Mirpur-12, Dhaka-1216, Bangladesh Fax: 1-201-941-4419 Phone: 880-2902-1061~2 Fax: 880-2902-1064 WOORI BANK 183 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 183 Woori Overview Message from the CEO China 14 DaLian Branch 5 Bogor Branch Board of Directors 2F-218 YOMA IFC, No.128 Jinma Road, Dalian Jl. Pangkalan Raya No.8, Warung Jambu Bogor/16151 1 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Development Area, Dalian, 116600, China Phone: 62-251-8377887 Corporate Governance Floor11-12 Block A Building 13 District 4 Wangjing East Phone: 86-411-8765-8000 Fax: 62-251-8377209 Company Structure Park Chaoyang District Beijing China 100102 Fax: 86-411-8765-8515 Woori Bank Awards 2017 Phone: 86-10-8412-3000 6 Surapati Core Branch Fax: 86-10-8441-7071 15 Zhangjiagang Sub-Branch Jl. PHH. Mustofa No.39, Surapati Core Blok News Highlights B104/B205 Huachang Oriental Plaza, 11 Renmin East F1 Bandung/40192 Financial Highlights 2 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Head office business Road, Zhangjiagang, Jiangsu 215600, China Phone: 62-22-87241326 department Phone: 86-512-5636-6696 Fax: 62-22-87241327 Floor1 Block B Building 13 District 4 Wangjing East Park Fax: 86-512-5636-6697 Business Operations Chaoyang District Beijing China 100102 7 Surabaya Branch Phone: 86-10-8441-7771 16 Chengdu Branch Kompleks Ruko 21, Jl. Raya, Gubeng No.68 Fax: 86-10-8446-4631 1F-3F, Ping’an Fortune Center, No.1 Renmin South E Surabaya/60281 Retail Banking Road, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610044 China Phone: 62-31-5041906 Wealth Management 3 Beijing Branch Phone: 86-28-6557-2366 Fax: 62-31-5047727 1F, West Tower, Twin Towers, B-12 Jianguomenwai Trust & Pension Business Fax: 86-28-6357-2369 Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100022, China Swift: HVBKCNBJ 8 Semarang Branch Corporate Banking Phone: 86-10-8453-8880 Imam Bonjol Square Kav 4,Jl. Imam Bonjol SME Banking Fax: 86-10-8453-8881 17 Weihai Branch No.176 Tasikmalaya/50132 No.106-1~3, Attached Qingdao Mid-Road, Weihai, Phone: 62-24-3521906 Institutional Banking 4 Shanghai Branch Shandong Province, China, 264200 Fax: 62-24-3521900 Real Estate Finance Drum Building 1-2F, LJZ -Plaza,1600 Century Avenue, Phone: 86-631-599-6000 Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200122, China 9 Tasikmalaya Branch Global Business Fax: 86-31-597-0030 Phone: 86-21-5081-0707 Ruko Plaza Asia Blok A5-A6, Jl. HZ. Mustofa No.326 International Trade Business Fax: 86-21-5081-2484 18 Tianjin Dongmalu Sub-Branch Tasikmalaya/46126 Financial Market Business 1-2F, Tower C, Yuding Plaza(Qixiang Street), Dongma Phone: 62-265-2351906 5 Shenzhen Branch Road, Nankai District, Tianjin, 300090, China Fax: 62-265-2352206 Investment Banking B0105, B0210 Rongchao Landmark, 4028 Jintian Road, Phone: 86-22-8776-9000 Digital Banking Futian District, Shenzhen, 518035 China Fax: 86-22-8776-9901~2 10 Yogyakarta Branch Phone: 86-755-3338-1234 Jl. Mangkubumi No.45 Yogyakarta/55232 Risk Management Fax: 86-755-3338-7227 19 Chongqing Branch Phone: 62-274-549280 Unitl, Floor L2-1, Ping An Fortune Center, No.25-2, West Fax: 62-274-549285 Corporate Social 6 Suzhou Branch Main Street, Jiangbei District, Chongqing 400023, China 101B, Sovereign Building, #8 Suhua Road Suzhou Phone: 86-23-6152-2222 11 Denpasar Branch Responsibility Industrial Park, Jiangsu, 215021 China 0361-223099 Ruko Griya Alamanda blok 3-4, Jl. Cok Fax: 86-23-6152-2220 Phone: 86-512-6295-0777 Agung Tresna Renon-Denpasar/80235 Ethical Management Fax: 86-512-6295-2141 20 Shanghai Lianyang Sub-Branch Phone: 62-361-263755 Consumer Protection No.52, Zendai Thumb Plaza lane 199, FangDian Road, Fax: 62-361-223099 7 TianJin Branch Pudong New District, Shanghai, 200135 China Employee Satisfaction No.1 Building, Aocheng Commercial Square, Binshui Phone: 86-21-6882-0608 12 The Gedung Energy Branch Social Contribution Activities West Road, Nankai District, Tianjin, 300381, China Fax: 86-21-6882-8821 Gd The Energy Lot 11 A SCBD, Jl. Jendral Sudirman Kav Phone: 86-22-2338-8008 52 53, Jakarta/12190 Woori Smile Microcredit Fax: 86-22-2392-5905 21 Beijing Sanyuanqiao Sub-Branch Phone: 62-21-29951906 1F-05, 2F-09, Tower A, Tianyuangang Center, C2, North Fax: 62-21-29951904 8 Shanghai Puxi Sub-Branch Road, East Third Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing Financial Review S115-S119, 1F Maxdo center No.8 Xingyi Rd. Changning 13 Ampera Branch 100027. China District Shanghai, 200336, China Phone: 86-10-8440-7177 Jl. Ampera Raya No.20 Gd.Medco III/12560 Management's Discussion Phone: 86-21-5208-1000 Fax: 86-10-8441-7761/7790 Phone: 62-21-7821756 and Analysis Fax: 86-21-6235-1036 Fax: 62-21-7821642 22 Shenyang Branch Independent Auditors' 9 Beijing Wangjing Sub-Branch 1F, 2F, Lotte North-Station Arcade, 9-8 Beiling Street, 14 Purwokerto Branch Report 1F, No.10, Furong Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing, Huanggu District, Shenyang City Liaoning Province, Jl. Jenderal gatot Subroto No.78 Purwokerto Jawa 100102, China China Tengah/53116 Phone: 86-10-8471-8866 Phone: 86-24-8186-0808 Phone: 62-281-622212 Organizational Chart Fax: 86-10-8471-5245 Fax: 86-24-8186-0801 Fax: 62-281-631616 10 Shanghai Wuzhonglu Sub-Branch 15 Malang Branch Global Network 1C, Liaoshen Building, 1068 Wuzhong Rd Minhang Jl. Letjen Sutoyo No.27 MalangJawa Timur/56141 District, Shanghai, 201103 China Indonesia Phone: 62-341-421906/7601906 Phone: 86-21-6446-7887 Fax: 62-341-408188 Coporate Fact Book 1 BankWoorisaudara Head Office Fax: 86-21-6446-1200 Jl. Diponegoro No.28 Bandung/40115 16 Solo Branch 11 Shenzhen Futian Sub-Branch Phone: 62-22-87831900/87831906 Jl. Ronggo Warsito No. 53 Kota, Solo Jawa Woori Bank overview Room 107, 201, Daqing Building, NO.6027, Shen Nan Fax: 62-22-87831918 Tengah/57131 Vision & Core Values Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, 518040 China Phone: 62-271-633600 2 Coperate Branch 119 Years of History Phone: 86-755-8826-9000 Fax: 62-271-633433 Gd. BEJ Tower 1 Lt. 16 Jl. Jend.Sudirman Kav. 52-53 Fax: 86-755-8826-9038 Corporate Governance Jakarta/12190 17 Tangerang Branch 12 Shanghai Jinxiujiangnan Sub-Branch Phone: 62-21-5151919 Tangerang City Business Park Blok F/50 Jl. Jend. Financial Highlights 1F, 188 South Jinhui Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, Fax: 62-21-5151477 Sudirman No.1 Tangerang/15118 Global Networks 200237, China Phone: 62-21-29529226 Global Networks Strategy 3 Wastukancana Branch Phone: 86-21-3432-1116 Fax: 62-21-29529227 Jl. Wastukancana No.79 Bandung/40116 Digital Strategy Fax: 86-21-3432-1112 Phone: 62-22-4209940 18 Pelembang Branch A Trust-worthy Partner 13 Beijing Shunyi Sub-Branch Fax: 62-22-4209941 Jl. Basuki Rahmat No.886 A Palembang/30127 1F,Tower A, AMB Building, 2, Cangshang St, Shunyi Phone: 62-711-315828 4 Cirebon Branch District, Beijing 101300, China Fax: 62-711-315510 Jl. DR. Wahidin No.51 Cirebon/45122 Phone: 86-10-8945-2220 Phone: 62-231-242006 Fax: 86-10-8949-3560 Fax: 62-231-242066 WOORI BANK 184 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 184 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 19 Sukabumi Branch 35 Serang Sub-Branch 50 Mojokerto Sub-Branch Board of Directors Jl. Jenderal Sudirman No.31-Sukabumi/43111 Jl. KH. Abdul fatah Hasan No.53 Kel. Cipare Jl. Gajah Mada No.85B/60319 Phone: 62-266-6251906 Serang/42124 Phone: 62-321-383444 Corporate Governance Fax: 62-266-6249717 Phone: 62-254-224142 Fax: 62-321-383465 Company Structure Fax: 62-254-224243 Woori Bank Awards 2017 20 Pekalongan Branch 51 Cianjur Sub-Branch Jl. KH. Mansyur No.64, Perkalongan 36 Cikarang Sub-Branch Jl. Abdulah Bin Nuh No.15/43253 News Highlights Phone: 62-285-4460505 Cikarang Commercial Centre Blok A1-2, Jl. Cibarusah Phone: 62-263-260941, 260943, 260945 Financial Highlights Fax: 62-285-4460506 KM. 40 No.2 Kampung pasir sari kec. Cikarang Fax: 62-263-280712 Selatan/17550 21 Madiun Branch Phone: 62-21-89835720 52 Pamulang Sub-Branch Business Operations Jl. Diponegoro No.110, Madiun Fax: 62-21-89835721 Jl. Dr. Setiabudi No.71 Kav. 6 Pamulang Timur/15417 Phone: 62-351-4773000 Phone: 62-21-7403205, 7443335 Fax: 62-351-4773003 37 Atrium Sub-Branch Fax: 62-21-7402330 Retail Banking Jl. KH. Hasyim ashari No.49 Cideng/10410 Wealth Management 22 Jamber Branch Phone: 62-21-3451964 53 Sumber Sub-Branch Jl. Gajah Made No. Ruko Gajah Mada Square Block A2-3 Jl. Dewi Sartika No.57 Sumber/45611 Trust & Pension Business Fax: 62-21-3451954 Phone: 62-331-421648 Phone: 62-231-8330618 Corporate Banking Fax: 62-331-4350187 38 Kebon Jeruk Sub-Branch Fax: 62-231-8330619 SME Banking Jl. Kelapa Dua Raya(RayaPanjang) No.2, Rt 008, Rw 002 23 Kediri Branch Kel. Kelapa Dua Kec. Kebon Jeruk/12130 54 Bantul Sub-Branch Institutional Banking Jl. Brawijaya No. 25A Kota Kediri Jl. Jenderal Sudirman No.130 Kabupaten Bantul/55713 Phone: 62-21-53660160 Real Estate Finance Phone: 62-354-4526726 Fax: 62-21-53660164 Phone: 62-274-367514 Fax: 62-3354-4526716 Fax: 62-274-368787 Global Business 39 Diponegoro Sub-Branch International Trade Business 24 Purwakarta Branch Jl. Diponegoro No.28 Bandung/40251 55 Balaraja Sub-Branch Jl. Basuki Rahmat No. 94, Purwakarta/41114 Komplek Ruko Balaraja Center Blok A No.2 Jl. Raya Financial Market Business Phone: 62-22-87831928/87831909 Phone: 62264-8227475 Fax: 62-22-87831919 59Serang Km. 24 Talaga Sari Balaraja-tangerang/15610 Investment Banking Phone: 62-21-29015618 Digital Banking 25 Subang Branch 40 Lembang Sub-Branch Fax: 62-21-29015474 JL. Ahmad Yani No. 36/41211 Jl. Grand Hotel Lembang No.25 Bandung/40391 Risk Management Phone: 62260-421015 56 Ciledug Sub-Branch Phone: 62-22-2784797 Fax: 62-22-2784975 Ruko Dian Plaza Jl. Raden Fatah No.8A Kelurahan 26 Karawaci Tangerang Branch Sudirman Selatan,Ciledug/15225 Corporate Social Ruko Pinangsia Blok H No. 1 Lippo Karawaci Kel. 41 Cikarang Sub-Branch Phone: 62-21-7330545 Responsibility Cibodas Tangerang/15139 Ruko Metro Boulevard Kav. A Jl. Niaga Raya No.10 Fax: 62-21-7330706 Phone: 6221-5577636 Kawasan Industri Jabeka/17835 Ethical Management Phone: 62-21-89836020/021-89837020 57 Gunung Sabeulah Sub-Branch 27 Garut Branch JL. Gunung Sabeulah Kel.Tawangsari Kec. Tawang kota Consumer Protection Jl. Ahmad Yani No.33/44117 Fax: 62-21-89835953 Tasikmalaya/46112 Phone: 62262-544670 Employee Satisfaction 42 Majalengka Sub-Branch Phone: 62-265-326147 Social Contribution Activities 28 Buah Batu Sub-Branch Jl. KH. Abdul Halim No.447 Majalengka/45411 Fax: 62-265-331135 Jl. Buah Batu No.58 Bandung/40265 Phone: 62-233-8285460 Woori Smile Microcredit Fax: 62-233-8285459 58 Magelang Sub-Branch Phone: 62-22-7322150 Ruko Metro Square Blok F No.25/56172 Fax: 62-22-7319626 43 Kuningan Sub-Branch Phone: 62-293-326498-99 Financial Review Jl. Dewi Sartika No.4/45512 Fax: 62-293-326356 29 Kopo Mas Sub-Branch Komp Ruko Mas J-9 Jl. Kopo Cirangrang/40225 Phone: 62-232-8880938 59 Padalarang Sub-Branch Management's Discussion Phone: 62-22-5436802 Fax: 62-232-8880939 Jl. Raya Padalarang No.463 H/40553 and Analysis Fax: 62-22-5436803 44 Indramayu Sub-Branch Phone: 62-22-6803940/41 Independent Auditors' 30 Cimahi Sub-Branch Jl. DI. Panjaitan No.103/45212 Fax: 62-22-6803935 Report Jl. Raya Cibabat No.310 Cimahi/40213 Phone: 62-234-276236 Fax: 62-234-276237 60 Patrol Sub-Branch Phone: 62-22-6634656 Jl. Raya Patrol Anjatan Blok Bunder No.52/45256 Fax: 62-22-6634657 Organizational Chart 45 Cibubur Sub-Branch Phone: 62-234-5613627 31 Sukajadi Sub-Branch Cibubur Times Square Blok B1/1 Jl. Alternatif Cibubur Fax: 62-234-611919 Jl. Sukajadi No.248/40153 KM 3 Kel. Jatiraya, Kec. Jastisampurna Bekasi/17435 Phone: 62-21-84305050 61 Gianyar Sub-Branch Global Network Phone: 62-22-2042248 Jl. By.Pass Dharma Giri No.99/80511 Fax: 62-22-2041213 Fax: 62-21-84305353 Phone: 62-361-8958295 Coporate Fact Book 32 Soekarno Hatta Sub-Branch 46 Cikampek Sub-Branch Fax: 62-361-8958194 Jl. Soekarno Hatta No.618 F/40286 Jl. Terusan Sudirman No.6B(Sudirman Center)/41373 Phone: 62-264-8385171,72 62 Gresik Sub-Branch Woori Bank overview Phone: 62-22-7509905 Ruko KIG Jl. Tri Dharma Kav. A-14/61117 Fax: 62-22-7509902 Fax: 62-264-8385088 Vision & Core Values Phone: 62-31-3981758 33 Pemuda Sub-Branch 47 Depok Sub-Branch Fax: 62-31-3981720 119 Years of History Jl. Margonda Raya No.1 Rt 001/011 Kelurahan Depok Ruko Graha Mas Blok AA No.3 Taman Berdikari Sentosa Corporate Governance Kecamatan Pancoran Mas/16431 63 Karawang Sub-Branch Jl.Pemuda/13220 Jl. Tuparev No.499 (Johar) Kab. Karawang Financial Highlights Phone: 62-21-47862070 Phone: 62-21-7522091 Fax: 62-21-7522092 Phone: 62-267-8454873-74 Global Networks Fax: 62-21-4711298 Fax: 62-267-8454875 Global Networks Strategy 34 Sumedang Sub-Branch 48 Salatiga Sub-Branch Ruko Wijaya Square B5 Jl.Diponegoro No.110 64 Cibinong Sub-Branch Digital Strategy Jl. Prabu Geusan Ulun No.76/45311 Jl. Raya Mayor Oking No.158 V/16918 Phone: 62-261-206527 Salatiga/50711 A Trust-worthy Partner Fax: 62-261-206528 Phone: 62-298-311828 Phone: 62-21-87904397 Fax: 62-298-312808 Fax: 62-21-87904443 49 Sidoarjo Sub-Branch 65 Singaparna Sub-Branch Jl. KH. Mukmin No.11 Blok B-7 Sidoarjo/60281 Jl. Raya Timur No.45 Singaparna/46416 Phone: 62-31-8922842 Phone: 62-265-543111-3 Fax: 62-31-8922841 Fax: 62-265-545074 WOORI BANK 185 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 185 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 66 Ciamis Sub-Branch 81 Luragung Sub-Branch 95 Batu Sub-Branch Board of Directors Jl. Letjen. Samuji Ruko No.35/46211 Jl. Siliwangi No.18 Kec Luragung, Kab Kuningan/45581 Jl. Brantas No.49 Batu-Malang/65314 Phone: 62-265-772221 Phone: 62-232-870016 Phone: 62-341-513709 Corporate Governance Fax: 62-265-777860 Fax: 62-232-870020 Fax: 62-341-513712 Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 67 Sleman Sub-Branch 82 Pangandaran Sub-Branch 96 Palimanan Sub-Branch Jl. Magelang KM 12.8 No.200/55514 Jl. Parapat, Desa Pangandaran, kec pangandaran kab Jl. Otto Iskandardinata No.503 Palimanan News Highlights Phone: 62-274-865922 ciamis/46396 Phone: 62-231-343950 Financial Highlights Fax: 62-274-866168 Phone: 62-265-630400, 630010 Fax: 62-231-343955 Fax: 62-265-630800 68 Losari Sub-Branch 97 cibadak Sub-Branch Business Operations Jl. Soekarno Hatta NO.77 Losari/45192 83 Purwodadi Sub-Branch Jl. Raya Suryakencana RT 03 RW 08, Cibadak Kab. Phone: 62-231-8832738-39 Jl. Letjend. S. Parman No.13 Kel. Purwodadi Kec. Sukabumi Fax: 62-231-8832736 Purwodadi Jawa Tengah/58111 Phone: 6266-531915 Retail Banking Phone: 62-292-423399 Fax: 62266-531917 Wealth Management 69 Bekasi Sub-Branch Fax: 62-292-423799 Jl. Raya Narogong KM 12.5 No.23A/17151 98 Bekasi Sub-Branch Trust & Pension Business Phone: 62-21-82611045-46 84 Leuwi Liang Sub-Branch Annex Building Lt. 1 Jl. Afrika No.2 Krakatau Posco Corporate Banking Fax: 62-21-82605356 Jl. Raya Jasinga 11A Kel. Cibeber, Kec. Leuwiliang Kab Cilegon/42435 SME Banking Bogor/16640 Phone: 62-21-82404282 70 Kudus Sub-Branch Phone: 62-251-8640297 Fax: 62-21-82401878 Institutional Banking Jl. Sunan Kudus No.5 a/509000 Fax: 62-251-8640299 Real Estate Finance Phone: 62-291-4249241 99 Wates Sub-Branch Fax: 62-291-4246497 85 Ciawi Sub-Branch Jl. Kolonel Sugiyono No.3-Wates Global Business Jl. Perjuangan No.80 Kp.Karanganyar Rt. 04 Rw. 05 Phone: 62-274-6657325 International Trade Business 71 Pamanukan Sub-Branch Desa Pakemitan Kec Ciawi Kab. Tasikmalaya/46156 Fax: 62-274-774338 Jl. Eyang Tirtapraja No.54 Kab. Subang/41254 Financial Market Business Phone: 62-265-455163, 455167 Phone: 62-260-551773 Fax: 62-265-455162 100 Tanjung Priok Sub-Branch Investment Banking Fax: 62-260-551774 Jl. Enggano No.58 CTanjung Priok jakarta Utara/14310 Digital Banking 86 Cilacap Sub-Branch Phone: 62-21-4361667 72 Majalaya Sub-Branch Jl. Jend. A Yani No.46 Cilacap/53212 Fax: 62-21-4361668 Risk Management Jl. Alun-alun utara/Jl. Tengah komp ruko permata Phone: 62-282-537929 majalaya Blok C6/40382 Fax: 62-282-535522 101 Karangnunggal Sub-Branch Phone: 62-22-85963799 Jl. Raya Karangnunggal KP. Karangmekar RT/RW 03/09 Corporate Social Fax: 62-22-5959826 87 Jombang Sub-Branch Desa Hegarwangi Kec. Bantarkalong Kab. Responsibility Jl. KH. Wahid Hasyim No.71 Kota Jombang-Jawa Phone: 62-265-258471~2 73 Pangalengan Sub-Branch Timur/61411 Fax: 62-265-2584570 Jl. Raya Pintu Pangalengan KM-1/40378 Ethical Management Phone: 62-321-878906, 872906 Phone: 62-22-5979222 Fax: 62-321-860904 102 Cibatu Sub-Branch Consumer Protection Fax: 62-22-5978690 Jalan Raya Cibatu Limbangan Ruko Perum Bunar Employee Satisfaction 88 Banjar Sub-Branch Indah Blok C-29 No.15-17 Rt 06 Rw 04 Desa Cibunar 74 Cilegon Sub-Branch Jl. Letjen Soewarto No.92/46321 Kecamatan Cibatu Kabupaten Garut Social Contribution Activities Jl. Jend. A. yani Komp Cilegon green megablok Blok D3 Phone: 62-265-740557 Phone: 62-262-467708 Woori Smile Microcredit No.17 Cibeber cilegon/42433 Fax: 62-265-740558 Fax: 62-262-467707 Phone: 62-254-8484772 Fax: 62-254-8484773 89 Boyolali Sub-Branch 103 Wonogiri Sub-Branch Financial Review Jl. Pandanaran No.179 B Kab.Boyolali/57313 Jalan Ahmad Yani No.66, Wonogiri 75 Rangkasbitung Sub-Branch Phone: 62-276-323655 Phone: 62-271-633600 Jl. Raden Hardiwinangun Blok A No.9/42314 Management's Discussion Phone: 62-252-203612 Fax: 62-276-323650 Fax: 62-271-633433 and Analysis Fax: 62-252-203613 90 Martadinata Sub-Branch 104 Kawali Sub-Branch Independent Auditors' Jl. RE Martadinata Pav 123 Bandung/40114 Jl. Siliwangi No.262, Desa Kawali mukti 76 Tabanan Sub-Branch Phone: 62-22-71070901 Phone: 62-265-791560 Report Jl. Ngurah Rai No.73 Kediri/82121 Fax: 62-22-7107091 Fax: 62-265-791580 Phone: 62-361-814160 Organizational Chart Fax: 62-361-814281 91 Melawai/Radio dalam Sub-Branch 105 Kepanjen Sub-Branch JL. Radio dalam raya No.4 Kel. Gandaria Utara Kec. Jl. Kawi Ruko B 7, Kepanjen 77 Surabaya Barat Sub-Branch Kebayoran baru Jakarta selatan/12160 Phone: 62-34-1379840 Surya inti permata II Blok C-6 Jl. HR Muhammad No.175 Phone: 62-21-7211005 Fax: 62-34-1379839 Global Network Surabaya/60266 Fax: 62-21-7210970 Phone: 62-31-7381606 106 Pamekasan Sub-Branch Coporate Fact Book Fax: 62-31-7387007 92 Singaraja Sub-Branch Jl. Kabupaten No.114 Jl. Ngurah Rai No.16 Singaraja Kelurahan Kendran Phone: 62-324-333905, 333906 78 Soreang Raya Sub-Branch Kecamatan Buleleng/81112 Fax: 62-324-333604 Woori Bank overview Jl. Raya Soreang No.412/40900 Phone: 62-362-25098 Vision & Core Values Phone: 62-22-5896880 Fax: 62-362-26605 107 Kebumen Sub-Branch Fax: 62-22-5897444 Jl. Ahmad Yani No.20, Kubumen 119 Years of History 93 Manonjaya Sub-Branch Phone: 62-281-6222212 Corporate Governance 79 Ujung Berung Sub-Branch Jl. RTA. Prawira Adiningrat No.214 A Desa Manonjaya Fax: 62-281-631616 Komp Ruko Bandung Timur Plaza No. RA Jl. A.H. kec. Manonjaya-Tasikmalaya Financial Highlights Nasution Kav. 46A Ujung Berung/40612 Phone: 62-265-380510 108 Mangga Dua Sub-Branch Global Networks Phone: 62-22-7834128 Ruko Harco Mangga Dua Blok L. No.5 Fax: 62-265-380356 Global Networks Strategy Fax: 62-22-7834153 Phone: 62-21-6120176 94 Surabaya Utara Sub-Branch Fax: 62-21-6120179 Digital Strategy 80 Jemur Sari/Surabaya selatan Sub-Branch Jl. Kertajaya Indah No.9/F-105 Surabaya/60161 A Trust-worthy Partner Jl. Raya Jemursari No.15C Surabaya/60237 Phone: 62-31-3572064 109 Kelapa Gading Sub-Branch Phone: 62-31-8480454 Fax: 62-31-3537005 Jl. Boulevard Barat Ruko MOI Blok I No.15 Fax: 62-31-8480483 Phone: 62-21-29364053 Fax: 62-21-29364054 WOORI BANK 186 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 186 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 110 Kayu Agung Sub-Branch 127 KCP PROBOLINGGO 148 Gading Serpong Cash-Office Board of Directors Jl. Letnan Muthtar Saleh, Kayuagung, Palembang, Jl. Boulevard Raya Gading Sepong, Ruko Alexandrite 3, South Sumatra 128 KCP PANDEGLANG No.21, Kabupaten Tangerang Corporate Governance Phone: 62-711-315828 129 KCP PASAR ATOM Phone: 62-21-5421-2159 Company Structure Fax: 62-711-315510 Fax: 62-21-5421-0975 Woori Bank Awards 2017 130 KCP CITRA RAYA 111 Klaten Sub-Branch 149 Bojonergoro Cash-Office News Highlights Jl. Pemuda No. 246 Klaten, solo 131 KCP CAKUNG Jl. Untung Suropati Ruko Adipura Block A-11 Financial Highlights Phone: 62-271-633600 Phone: 62-353-311271 Fax: 62-271-633433 132 KCP PANTAI INDAH KAPUK Fax: 62-353-311270 133 KCP CENTRAL PARK Business Operations 112 Parung Sub-Branch 150 Surya Sumantri Cash-Office Jl. Rayal Parung RT002/RW006, Kacamatan Parung, 134 KCP JEPARA Phone: 62-22-2021760 Kabupaten Bogor Fax: 62-22-20271073 Retail Banking Phone: 62-2151-861-9559 135 KCP BANJARNEGARA Wealth Management Fax: 62-251-861-5455 151 Asabri Cash-Office 136 Dalem Kaum Cash-Office Jl. Kebonsari Elveka I No.5 Surabaya Gedung Kantor Trust & Pension Business Jl. Dalem Kaum No.5 Bandung/40251 113 Pasuruan Sub-Branch Phone: 62-31-82517971 Corporate Banking Jl. Panglima Sudirman No.45 Ruko I, Pasuruan, Malang Phone: 62-22-4211906 Fax: 62-22-4206837 152 KK KEMANG SME Banking Phone: 62-343-561-4700 Fax: 62-343-561-4940 153 KK CIKANDE Institutional Banking 137 Batujajar Cash-Office Real Estate Finance 114 Pati Sub-Branch Jl. Batujajar No.324 Bandung 154 Dalem Kaum Functional Office Jl. Ir. Susato No.40 Pati, Jawa Tengah Phone: 62-22-86861018/17/15 Global Business Fax: 62-22-86861016 JL. Dalem Kaum No.5 Bandung Phone: 62-24-352-1906 Phone: 62-33-4233810 International Trade Business Fax: 62-24-352-1900 138 Cimahi Cash-Office Fax: 62-22-4206837 Financial Market Business Cijerah II blok V No.3 Cimahi 115 Sumenep Sub-Branch Investment Banking JI. Trunouyo No. 244 Sumenep Phone: 62-22-86065156 Digital Banking Phone: 62-328-6762234 Fax: 62-22-6075579 Hong Kong Fax: 62-328-6762242 Risk Management 139 Suci Cash-Office Woori Global Markets Asia Limited 116 Pelabuhan Ratu Sub-Branch Jl. PHH. Mustofa No.35/40124 Rooms 1905-1908, 19/F, Gloucester Tower, The Jl. Siliwangi Rt/Rw 02/18, Desa Pelabuhan Ratu Phone: 62-22-7279740 Landmark, 15 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong Corporate Social Fax: 62-22-7276361 Phone: 852-3763-0888 Phone: 62-266-6249715 Responsibility Fax: 852-3763-0808 117 Posco Cilegon Sub-branch 140 Jatinangor Cash-Office Annex Building Lt. 1 Jl. Afrika No.2 Krakatau Posco Jl. Raya Jatinangor KM 20.5 KKBI IKOPIN/45363 Ethical Management Phone: 62-22-7781587 Cilegon/42435 Consumer Protection Fax: 62-22-7781563 Russia Phone: 62254-369755 Employee Satisfaction 1 AO Woori Bank 118 Union Square Cikarang Sub-branch 141 Darmaraja Cash-Office 8th floor, Lotte Plaza, 8, Novinsky Boulevard, Moscow, Social Contribution Activities Ruko Union Square Blok A No.6 Lippo Cikarang, Jl. Raya Darmaraja No.253 desa Darmaraja, Kec 121099, Russia Woori Smile Microcredit Cikarang Selatan Darmaraja Kab.Sumedang/45372 Phone: 7-495-783-9787 Phone: 6221-89909797 Phone: 62-262-429000, 429069, 428478 Fax: 7-495-783-9788 Fax: 62-262-429070 Financial Review 119 Sadang Sub-Branch 2 Saint-Petersburg Branch Sadang Terminal Square No.07,08,25 Jl. Raya Sadang 142 Cililitan Asabri Cash-Office 1st Floor, Atlantic City, 126 Savushkina Street, Purwakarta/41181 Jl. Mayjen Sutoyo No.11 Gedung PT Asabri (persero) Jl. Management's Discussion Saint-Petersburg, 197374, Russia Phone: 62264-8220180 Cililitan jakarta Timur/13630 Phone: 7-812-327-9787 and Analysis Phone: 62-21-80876494 Fax: 7-812-327-9789 120 Cikajang Sub-branch Fax: 62-21-80876381 Independent Auditors' Jl. Raya Cikajang No. 80 Garut 3 AO Woori Bank vladivostok Representative Report Phone: 6262-576094 143 Jatibarang Cash-Office Office Jl. Letnan Joni No.178 Kec. Jatibarang Kab Vladivostok Business-Center<Hyundai> Office No.614, 121 Cilimus Sub-branch Indramayu/45273 29, Semenovskaya Str. Vladivostok, 690091, Russia Organizational Chart Jalan Raya Cilimus RT 017/04, Desa Cilimus Kecamatan Phone: 62-234-352911 Phone: 7-423-240-7014 Cilimus, Kabupaten Kuningan Fax: 62-234-352910 Fax: 7-423-240-7015 Phone: 62232-615411 Global Network 144 Taman Topi Cash-Office 122 Kendal Sub-branch Jl. Gedong Sawah I No.1 A Pabaton Bogor/16121 Coporate Fact Book Jl. Raya Utama No.9 weleri Kendal Phone: 62-251-8335714 Brazil Phone: 62294-644704 Fax: 62-251-8335721 1 Woori Bank Brazil Woori Bank overview 123 Wonosari Sub-branch 145 Juanda/ KK Tajur Cash-Office Avenida Nacoes Unidas, 14,171, Crystal Tower, Conj.803, Jl. KH. Agus Salim No.71A Wonosari Kab Gunungkidul Jl. Raya Tajur Ruko Galaxy No.59 H Bogo Vila Gertrudes, 04794-000, Sao Paulo-SP, Brazil Vision & Core Values Phone: 62274-3950673 Phone: 62-251-7559203, 8384254 Phone: 55-11-2309-4740 119 Years of History Fax: 62-251-7559205 Fax: 55-11-3511-3300 124 Purbalingga Sub-branch Corporate Governance Jl. Ahmad Yani No.42 Purbalingga 146 Ungaran Cash-Office 2 Bom Retiro Branch Financial Highlights Phone: 62281-895553 Ruko permata hijau No.1 Jl. MT Haryono No.16 Kel Rua Tres Rios, 261 Andar 2, Bom Retiro, Sao Paulo SP, Brazil Global Networks 125 Sragen Sub-branch Ungaran Kec Ungaran Barat Kab. Semarang/50511 Phone: 55-11-3511-3350 Phone: 62-24-76911017 Global Networks Strategy Jl. Sukowati No.156 Sragen Fax: 62-24-76911001 Digital Strategy Phone: 62271-895015 A Trust-worthy Partner 147 Serang Cash-Office 126 Bintaro Sub-branch Jl. Raya Serangpandeglang KM 11 Lingkungan waru Jl Kesehatan No 18B, Jakarta Lor, Desa/kel. Kamanisa Kec Curug Kota serang/42117 Phone: 6221-7374693 Phone: 62-254-222133 Fax: 62-254-8494615 WOORI BANK 187 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 187 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Cambodia 18 Kandal Stueng Branch 16 Hinthada I Branch Board of Directors No. 49, U Wisarra St. Pha Tar Gyi Ward, Hinthada 1 Woori Finance Cambodia Plc. 19 Odongk Branch Township, Ayeyardady, Myanmar Corporate Governance Building No.119B, Street271, Sangkat Phsar Doem 20 Mukh Kampul Branch Phone: 95 9 960996099 Company Structure Thkov Khan Chamkarmon, Phnom Penh. Woori Bank Awards 2017 Phone: 855-23-999-661 17 Hlain Branch Fax: 855-23-999-663 No. 101, Tha Yet Taw(3) Upper St. Tha Yet Taw Ward, News Highlights Myanmar Kyimyindaing Township, Yangon, Myanmar Financial Highlights 2 Russey Keo Branch Phone: 95 9 960996089 House No.1A, National Road 5, Sangkat Kilomet Lek6 1 Woori Finance Myanmar Plc. Khan Russey Keo, Phnom Penh. 115/A, Pyay Road, Saw Bwar Gyee Kone Ward(10 miles), 18 Hinthada II Branch Business Operations Phone: 855-23-999-664 Insein Township Yangon, Myanmar No. 93, Nat Maw St. Panbetan Ward, Hinthada Township, Phone: 95-01-643798 Ayeyarwady, Myanmar 3 Pursenchey Branch Phone: 95 9 961010611 Retail Banking House No.6A, Russian Blvd, Tangoun Village, Sangkat 2 MingladonⅠ Branch Kakb, Khan Pursenchey, Phnom Penh. 115/A, Pyay Road, Saw Bwar Gyee Kone Ward(10 miles), 19 Hinthada III Branch Wealth Management Phone: 855-23-999-803 Insein Township Yangon, Myanmar No. 93, Nat Maw St. Panbetan Ward, Hinthada Township, Trust & Pension Business Phone: 95-01-643798 Ayeyarwady, Myanmar Corporate Banking 4 Kean svay Branch Phone: 95 9 961010611 House No.330, National Road 1, Toul Tuaut village, 3 NorthOkkalapa Branch SME Banking No. M(56), Thiriyadanar Wholesale Market Korkey Communce, kean Svay district, Kandal province 20 Twantay Branch Institutional Banking Phone: 855-23-720-632 NorthOkkalapa Township, Yangon, Myanmar No. 49, Bo Kyoke St. Kon Gyan(Middle) Ward, Twantay Phone: 95-99-6889-2300 Real Estate Finance Township, Yangon, Myanmar 5 Takhmao Branch Phone: 95 9 961010511 Global Business Building No.31, Street2, Takhmao village, Takhmao 4 Mingaladon II Branch 4F, 115/A Pyay Road, Saw Bwar Gyee Kone International Trade Business Commune, Takhmao District, Kandal Province, Cambodia 21 Pyapon I Branch Phone: 855-24-998-333 Ward(10miles), lnsein Township, Yangon Myanmar No. 18C, 8th St. 9th Ward, Pyapon Township, Ayeyarwady Financial Market Business Phone: 95-01-643798 Phone: 95 9 950311093 Investment Banking 6 PrekPhnov Branch National highway 5, Kandal Village, Prek Phnov 5 Nyaungdon Branch 22 Pyapon II Branch Digital Banking Room No. 103, 1st Street, 5 Quarter, Nyaungdon commune, Phnom Penh, Cambodia No. 18C, 8th St. 9th Ward, Pyapon Township, Ayeyarwady Risk Management Phone: 855-23-900-945 Township, Ayarwaddy, Myanmar Phone: 95 9 950311096 Phone: 95-99-7674-7709 7 Ang Snoul Branch 23 Pantanaw I Branch Corporate Social #109, National road No.4, Village Bek Chan, 6 Taikkyi Branch No. 1, Sel Myaung St. Myo Kwet Thit 1, Pantanaw Responsibility CommuneBek Chan, District Ang Snuol, Cambodia Room No.9, Natsinkone Road, Ohtan Ward, Taikkyi Township, Ayeyarwady, Myanmar Phone: 855-023-999-355 Township, Yangon, Myanmar Phone: 95 9 764433931 Phone: 95-9-7717-81028 Ethical Management 8 Phsar Depo Branch 24 Pantanaw II Branch Consumer Protection #138D, St 215, Sangkat Veal Vong, Khan Prumpei 7 Hmawbi I Branch No. 1, Sel Myaung St. Myo Kwet Thit 1, Pantanaw Makara, Phnom Penh, Cambodia 2F No(26) Tatkyee Kone village, Hmawbi Township, Township, Ayeyarwady, Myanmar Employee Satisfaction Yangon, Myanmar Phone: 855-23-900-455 Phone: 95 9 764433932 Social Contribution Activities Phone: 95-9-9-74563586 Woori Smile Microcredit 9 AreyKshat Branch 25 Gyobingauk I Branch #154, National Rd. 21 Preak Khsev Village, Rokar Khpos 8 Hmawbi II Branch No. 154, Ashay Myopat St. Pan Tin Ward, Gyobingauk Commune, S’ang District, Kandal Province, Phnom 1F No(26) Tatkyee Kone village, Hmawbi Township, Township, Bago, Myanmar Financial Review Penh, Cambodia Yangon, Myanmar Phone: 95 9 764433935 Phone: 855-2490-1455 Phone: 95-9-97456395 26 Gyobingauk II Branch Management's Discussion 10 S’ang Branch 9 Maubin I Branch No. 154, Ashay Myopat St. Pan Tin Ward, Gyobingauk and Analysis #154, National Rd. 21 Preak Khsev Village, Rokar Khpos Plot No(34), No(396), Building 01, Yei Le road, Ward 7, Township, Bago, Myanmar Commune, S’ang District, Kandal Province, Phnom Penh Maubine Township, Ayeyarwaddy, Myanmar (2F) Phone: 95 9 764433936 Independent Auditors' Phone: 95 9 9712 25895 Phone : 855-2490-1455 Report 27 Zigon Branch 11 Steung Meanchey Branch 10 Maubin II Branch Hlaing Htate Khaung Tin St. No. 1 Ward, Zigon No.19A St, Monireth, Phumdomnak Thom, Sangkat Plot No(34), No(396), Building 01, Yei Le road, Ward 7, Township, Bago, Myanmar Organizational Chart Stoeung Meanchey, Khan Meanchey, Phnom Penh, Maubine Township, Ayeyarwaddy, Myanmar (1F) Phone: 95 9 780 113417 Cambodia Phone: 95 9 9616 12763 Phone: 855-23-901-345 28 Paungde I Branch Global Network 11 Kawhmu Branch Plot No. 79, Shwetaung Street, Min Kwet 3, Ward, 12 Chom Chao Branch No 192/B, Bogyoke St. South Wd Kawhmu Townshop, Paungde Township, Bago, Myanmar No.4A, St, Veng Sreng, Chrey Koung Village, Sangkat Yangon Phone: 95 9 780114012 Coporate Fact Book Phone: 95 9 9742 91112 Chom Chao, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Phone: 855-23-901-355 29 Paungde II Branch 12 Insein Branch Plot No. 79, Shwetaung Street, Min Kwet 3, Ward, Woori Bank overview 115/A, Pyay Road, Saw Bwar Gyee Kone Ward(10 miles), 13 Char Ampov Branch Paungde Township, Bago, Myanmar Vision & Core Values #610B, National road No.1, Doem Sleng Village, Sangkat Insein Township Yangon, Myanmar Phone: 95 9 780114068 119 Years of History Chabar Ampov, Khan Chbar Ampov, Phnom Penh Phone: 95 1 643798 30 Lewe I Branch Corporate Governance 14 Toul Kork Branch 13 Kungyangon Branch No. 17 Plot, Min Wine Yat, No. 4 Ward, Lewe Township, Financial Highlights #1C, St 355, Phum 1, Sangkat Boeung Kok1, Khan Toul No 540, Yadanar Pone 2nd St, Kangyi / Magyi Ward, Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar Kork, Phnom Penh Chamkar 15 15 Kungyangon Township, Yangon, Myanmar Phone: 95 9 402187901 Global Networks Phone: 95 9 975 890019 Global Networks Strategy 15 Chamkar Doung Branch 31 Pyinmana I Branch #2039, St 217, Taley Village, Sangkat Dong Kor, Khan 14 Zalun Branch No. 181, Yarza Htarni St. Aung Thar Yar Ward, Pobbathiri Digital Strategy Dong Kor, Phnom Penh Kampongspeu Branch Bogyok St. Nyaung Pin Zay Ward, Zalun Township, Township, Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar A Trust-worthy Partner Ayeyarwady, Myanmar Phone: 95 9 402187923 16 Kampongspeu Branch Phone: 95 9 960996083 #751, National Highway No 4, Kampongspeu, Cambodia 15 Kyimyindaing Branch 17 Pshar Dey Huy Branch No. 101, Tha Yet Taw(3) Upper St. Tha Yet Taw Ward, Kyimyindaing Township, Yangon, Myanmar Phone: 95 9 960996092 WOORI BANK 188 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 188 Woori Overview Message from the CEO 32 Pyinmana II Branch 10 Cebu Mandaue Branch Vietnam Board of Directors No. 181, Yarza Htarni St. Aung Thar Yar Ward, Pobbathiri Ground Floor, G/F Meritz Building, A.C. Cortes Ave. Township, Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar Ibabao, Mandaue City, Cebu 1 Woori Bank Vietnam Corporate Governance 34F, Keangnam Landmark 72, E6 Pham Hung Road, Tu Phone: 95 9 402187924 Phone: 63-32-343-8144 Company Structure Fax: 63-32-343-8143 Liem District. Hanoi, Vietnam Woori Bank Awards 2017 33 Lewe II Branch Phone: 63-82-225-3318 No. 241, Office Street, Min Wine Yat, No. 4 Ward, Lewe 11 Cebu Tabunok Branch Fax: 84-04-7300-6806 News Highlights Township, Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar Ground Floor, AGSy Bldg., National Hi-Way, Tabunok Financial Highlights Phone: 95 9 441580466 Talisay City, Cebu 2 Hanoi Branch Phone: 63-32-272-2955 24F, Keangnam Landmark 72, E6 Pham Hung Road, Tu 34 Dekkhinathiri Branch Fax: 63-32-273-6870 Liem District. Hanoi, Vietnam Business Operations No. Da-2410, Wai Da 10 St. Dekkhinathiri Township, Nay Phone : 84-4-3831-5281 Pyi Taw, Myanmar 12 Cebu Mandaue Pacific Mall Metro Branch Phone: 95 9 441580468 Ground Floor, Mandaue Pacific Mall Metro National 3 Ho Chi Minh Branch Retail Banking Highway corner M.B. Fernan Ave. Estancia, Ibabao, 2 Floor, Kumho Asiana Plaza Saigon, 39 Le Duan St., Dist Wealth Management 35 Lewe Ⅲ Branch Mandaue City, Metro Cebu 1, HCMC, Vietnam No. 241, Office Street, Min Wine Yat, No. 4 Ward, Lewe Phone : 84-8-3821-9838 Trust & Pension Business Phone: 63-32-239-1072 Township, Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar Fax: 63-32-239-1073 Corporate Banking 4 Bac Ninh Branch 36 Takkon Ⅰ Branch 13 Cebu Mambaling Branch 1-2 Floor Halla Bld, Yen Phong Industrial Zone, Yen SME Banking No. (ma-127), Yin Mar Street, Area (3), Mya Waddy Ward, G/F Metro Store Mambaling, Cebu, N. Bacalso Avenue Trung Commune, Yen Phong District, Institutional Banking Takkon Township, Nay Pyi Taw corner F. Llamas Street, Basak San Nicolas, Cebu City 5 Bac Ninh Province, Vietnam Real Estate Finance Phone: 63-32-414-4233 Global Business Philippines 14 Tagbilaran Banking Center International Trade Business Ground Floor, No. 15 JS Torralba St., Poblacion 2, Overseas Office Financial Market Business 1 Wealth Development Bank Tagbilaran City, Bohol Taft Financial Center, Cardinal Rosales Avenue, Cebu Phone: 63-38-411-4860 Investment Banking Business Park, Cebu City, Cebu Malaysia Fax: 63-38-501-9098 Digital Banking Woori Bank Kuala Lumpur Representative Office 2 Alabang Branch 15 Iloilo Banking Center Risk Management Unit 103, South Center Tower Condominium 2206 Unit 4129/4130, 41/F, Vista Tower, The Intermark 182 Ground Floor, ACCE Bldg., Mabini Ledesma St., Jalan Tun Razak, Kuala Lumpur 50400, Malaysia Market Street, Madrigal Business Par Alabang, Liberation, Iloilo City Phone: 84-04-7300-6802 Corporate Social Muntinlupa City, Manila Phone: 63-33-338-4419 Fax: 60-3-2163-9288 Responsibility Phone: 63-32-415-5265 Fax: 63-33-338-4417 Fax: 63-32-415-5266 Myanmar 16 Cagayan De Oro Banking Center Ethical Management 3 Angeles Marquee Mall Branch Ground Floor, Jammin Lui Bldg., corner A. Velez & Gomez Woori Bank Yangon, Myanmar Office Ground Floor , Marquee Mall, Don Bonifacio St., Pulung Sts. Poblacion, Cagayan de Oro City, Misamis Oriental No.115(A) First Floor, Pyay Road, 10 Miles, Insein Consumer Protection Maragul Angeles City, Pampanga Phone: 63-88-856-8974 Township, Yangon, Myanmar Employee Satisfaction Phone: 63-45-624-0072 Fax: 63-88-856-8942 Phone: 95-01-646951 Social Contribution Activities 4 Legazpi Pacific Mall Branch 17 Davao Branch Iran Woori Smile Microcredit G/F Expansion II, Pacific Mall Legazpi, Landco Business Ground Floor, Door 8, 9 & 10 Grand MenSeng Hotel Park, F. Imperial Street Cor. Circumferential Road, Pichon St., 1-E Poblacion, Davao City, Davao del Sur Woori Bank Iran Representative Office Legazpi City 4500 1st Floor, No; 18, J St., Moghadas Ardebili St., Financial Review Phone: 63-82-225-3318 Phone: 63-52-480-0038 Mahmodiyeh, Tehran, Iran Fax: 63-82-255-3319 Phone: 98-22-04-6975 / 98-90-3826-3169 Management's Discussion 5 Lucena Pacific Mall Branch 18 Tacloban Branch Ground Floor L 1-26, Pacific Mall, M.L. Tagarao St. Sukwan Bldg, corner Real and Burgos Streets, Poland and Analysis Landco Business Park, Brgy. III , Lucena City, Quezon Tacloban City Poland Representative Office Independent Auditors' Phone: 63-42-795-3771 Phone : 63-053-832-3435 Uniwersytecka 13, 40-007, Katowice, Poland Report Fax: 63-42-795-3773 Phone : 48-323-076-417 19 Caloocan Branch 6 Taguig Market Market Branch Rizal Avenue Extension, East Grace Park, Caloocan Organizational Chart Ground Floor, Play Ground Zone, Metro Market Market 1400, Metro Manila Mall, Mckinley Parkway, Fort Bonifacio Global City, Phone : 63-0917-870-7335 Taguig City Global Network Phone: 63-02-889-0275 20 Gensan Branch Fax: 63-02-887-4371 Gaisano mall, Jose Catolico Sr. Avenue, General Santos City, South Cotabato Coporate Fact Book 7 Cebu Ayala Branch Phone : 63-083-250-1238 Ground Floor, Taft Financial Center, Cardinal Rosales Avenue, Cebu Business Park, Brgy. Luz, Cebu City 21 Dumaguete Branch Woori Bank overview 1F Jose Building South Road Calindagan, Dumaguete City Phone: 63-32-415-4888 Vision & Core Values Fax: 63-32-415-5777 22 Bacolod Branch 119 Years of History Lacson-Luzuriaga Streets, Bacolod City, Negros 8 Cebu Ramos Branch Corporate Governance Ground Floor, Hilario Chu Bldg., No. 148 F. Ramos St. Occidental Financial Highlights Santa Cruz, Cebu City Phone: 63-32-412-6302 Global Networks Fax: 63-32-412-6353 Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy 9 Cebu Carbon Branch Ground Floor, M.C. Briones & Plaridel Sts., Cebu City A Trust-worthy Partner Phone: 63-32-416-9077 Fax: 63-32-416-9078 WOORI BANK 189 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 189 Woori Bank CORPoRATE FACT BOOK 2017 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights togetheR For tomorrow Business Operations Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking WOORI BANK Real Estate Finance Global Business ANNUAL REPORT 2017 International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management A Leading Woori Bank overview Vision & Core values Bank Company History Corporate Social Shaping Responsibility Corporate Governance Ethical Management Consumer Protection the Future Financial Highlights Employee Satisfaction Global Networks Social Contribution Activities Woori Bank is shaping the future of Korean financial industry as Digital Strategy Woori Smile Microcredit a leading global bank that grows alongside customers. Partners & Awards Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 190 Coporate Fact Book ANNUAL REPORT 2017 190 01 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Woori Bank (as of the end of 2017) Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Overview News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Established nearly 120 years ago Woori Bank’s Subsidiaries with capital from the royal treasury Retail Banking of Emperor Gojong, Woori Bank has Wealth Management been at the forefront of building the Trust & Pension Business framework for modern finance in Korea. Domestic Subsidiaries Corporate Banking SME Banking The Bank is known for having been Woori Card 100% Institutional Banking a trust-worthy partner to its customers Woori Investment Bank 59.83% Real Estate Finance throughout many of the countries Global Business historic moments. Woori FIS 100% International Trade Business Woori Finance Research Institute 100% Financial Market Business Woori Bank is shaping the future of the Investment Banking Korean financial industry as a leading Woori Credit Information 100% Digital Banking global bank that grows alongside Woori Fund Service Co 100% Risk Management customers. Woori Private Equity Asset Management 100% Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Credit Ratings Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction International Subsidiaries Social Contribution Activities International Ratings Woori Smile Microcredit Woori America Bank 100% (U.S.A.) Woori Bank Republic of Korea Financial Review Woori Global Markets Asia 100% (Hong Kong) Management's Discussion and Analysis Moody's A1 Aa2 Woori Bank China (China) 100% Independent Auditors' AO Woori Bank 100% Report S&P A AA (Russia) Woori Bank Brazil 100% Organizational Chart (Brazil) Global Network Fitch AAAWoori Finance Cambodia (Cambodia) 100% Coporate Fact Book PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 79.88% (Indonesia) Woori Bank overview Domestic Ratings Woori Finance Myanmar 100% Vision & Core Values (Myanmar) Korea 119 Years of History Korea NICE Investors Woori Wealth Development Bank 51% Corporate Governance Ratings Service (Philippines ) Financial Highlights Woori Bank Vietnam 100% Global Networks Global Networks Strategy AAA AAA AAA (Vietnam) Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 191 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 191 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Woori Bank at a Glance Retail Banking Wealth Management Customers SME/SOHO Conglomerates Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business 23.0 Million 1.48 Million 13 Out of 36 large enterprises Investment Banking Total number of customers Total number of SME customers Total number of large Digital Banking enterprises where Woori Bank is the major creditor bank Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Domestic Global Employees Branches Networks BANK Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit 25 19,540 876 Countries Financial Review Branches Total number of domestic 301 Networks Overseas networks Employees Total number of employees Management's Discussion and Analysis branches (Including Korea desk & GRM) (Consolidated base) Independent Auditors' Report Assets Loans Deposits Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book KRW KRW KRW Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 355.5 Trillion 222.1 Trillion 234.7 Trillion 119 Years of History USD 331.8 bn USD 207.3 bn USD 219.1bn Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Total assets (incl. trust account) Total loans Total deposits Global Networks Global Networks Strategy *Based on exchange rate of KRW1,071.4/USD as of Dec. 29 2017 Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 192 Coporate Fact Book ANNUAL REPORT 2017 192 02 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Vision & Core Values Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights No.1 Bank of Korea Business Operations Korea's leading provider of financial services Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Core Values Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Customer Pioneering Honesty Putting Real Estate Finance Happiness for the and Trust Talent First Global Business Future International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Woori puts Woori challenges Woori leads the way Woori fosters Digital Banking customer itself to create a in creating a healthy human talent Risk Management happiness first better future financial order Corporate Social Responsibility Management Policy Slogan Field centered management to put customers first Woori All Together, All New Woori Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Beyond Korea’s No.1 Bank, Jump to Become a Global Top Class Bank by 2020 Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' 2016 ~2017 2018~ 2020 Report Organizational Chart Successful Reestablishment of No. 1 Privatization Financial Group Financial Group Global Network ·Half a Step Ahead ·Transition to FG Structure Global Top Class Bank ·Fulfilling One’s Duties ·Expansion of Business Portfolio ·600 Overseas Networks ·Locking the Back Door Coporate Fact Book ·Leading the 4th Industrial ·Detail-Focused Business Revolution Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 193 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 193 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Retail Banking ASIA TOP 10 Wealth Management GLOBAL TOP 50 Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Overseas Networks Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management VISION 2020 Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Financial Woori Smile Microcredit Group Financial Review Management's Discussion Digital and Analysis Banking Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 194 Coporate Fact Book ANNUAL REPORT 2017 194 03 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance 119 Years of History Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Woori Bank marked the important moment in history News Highlights Financial Highlights Emperor Gojong In 1899, the Emperor invested 30,000 won from the royal treasury for 1 the foundation of Woori Bank’s predecessor, Daehan Cheonil Bank. Business Operations The First Seoul Metropolitan Government Served as the treasury bank for the Seoul Metro Retail Banking politan Government over the past 100 years. Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business National Debt Repayment Movement Managed funds raised for the National Debt Corporate Banking 2 Achieving Repayment Movement. SME Banking Win-win Institutional Banking Growth The Supporter of Korea Economy Served as the driving force behind economic Real Estate Finance growth by serving as a lender for promising exporters. Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Established Daehan Became The Commercial Merged into Cheonil Bank Bank of Korea Risk Management Hanvit Bank Corporate Social Responsibility Gwangtonggwan was built Ethical Management in 1909 as a head office of Became Hanil Bank Daehan Chonil Bank. The Consumer Protection oldest continuously operating Employee Satisfaction banking building in Korea. Social Contribution Activities (Currently Jongno Branch) Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Established Chosun The 1st Korean Bank Korea Deposit Management's Discussion Trust Company listed on the Korea Stock Insurance and Analysis Exchange Corporation Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network 1899 1932 1956 1968 1999 Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values Emperor Gojong invested Opened Tokyo Branch 119 Years of History capital from the royal treasury Corporate Governance for the foundation of Woori The 1st Korean commercial Financial Highlights Bank’s predecessor, Daehan bank to open an overseas Cheonil Bank in 1899 network Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 195 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 195 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights Overcoming Crisis During the Asian Financial Crisis, coordinated the merger between 3 two key players in corporate finance, Commercial Bank of Korea and Hanil Bank. Business Operations Leaping Turning circumstances around A new leap forward as Korea's No.1 bank by working Forward together to overcome the Asian Financial Crisis. Retail Banking Successful Privatization MOU between KDIC and Woori Bank is terminated. Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking 4 WiBee Bank WiBee Bank was launched as Korea's 1st mobile-only bank. SME Banking Taking WiBee Talk WiBee Talk was launched as the 1st mobile messenger in the financial sector. Institutional Banking the Lead Global Network 300 The 1st Korean bank to open 300 global networks. Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Changed Name to Merged Woori Financial Successful Privatization Woori Bank Group and Woori bank Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Woori Listed on NYSE Main Service Provider Management's Discussion Financial For National Pension and Analysis Group Service Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network 2001 2002 2003 2014 2016 2017 Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values Established [Change in KDIC Stake] 119 Years of History Woori FG Corporate Governance Oligopolistic Financial Highlights The 1st Financial Holding 29.7% Shareholders Company in Korea 51.1% Global Networks Global Networks Strategy 21.4% KDIC Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 196 Coporate Fact Book ANNUAL REPORT 2017 196 04 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 New governance structure after privatization will enable us to enhance our corporate value further. News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations 2017 2016 Retail Banking Wealth Management New Governance Structure Successful Privatization Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking KDIC finalized sale of 29.7% SME Banking stake in Woori Bank Institutional Banking Termination of MOU between New Governance Structure Real Estate Finance KDIC and Woori Bank based on oligopolistic shareholders Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Establishment of New Governance Structure Risk Management Corporate Social Shareholders (as of the end of 2017) Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Oligopolistic Shareholders 27.22 % Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit KDIC 18.43% Korea Tongyang Kiwoom Hanwha Mirae Eugene IMM NPS 9.29% Financial Review I&S Life Securities Life Asset* Asset* ESOA 5.36% Management's Discussion and Analysis * Investors who chose not to exercise BOD recommendation rights Others 39.7% Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart BOD (8 Members) Global Network Outside Directors Non-standing Director CEO Standing Auditor Coporate Fact Book recommended by recommended by KDIC oligopolistic shareholders (Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation) Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History BOD’s Active Participation in Major Corporate Governance Management Decisions Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy “Enhancing Corporate Value” Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner with post-privatization governance structure WOORI BANK 197 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 197 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Board of Directors & Management Financial Highlights Business Operations President & Outside Director Retail Banking Chief Executive Officer Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Sohn, Tae Seung Ro, Sung Tae Corporate Banking SME Banking Shin, Sang Hoon Standing Director Institutional Banking Park, Sang Yong Real Estate Finance Oh, Jung Sik Global Business Tian, Zhiping International Trade Business Governance Award Financial Market Business Non-Standing Director Chang, Dong Woo Best Company in Governance (Board of Directors) Investment Banking The Maeil Business Newspaper, Digital Banking Bae, Chang Sik Daishin Economic Research Institute Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Shareholder Composition (4% and above, as of the end of 2017) Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review NPS (National Pension Service) 9.29% 6.00% IMM PE Management's Discussion and Analysis Korea Investment & Independent Auditors' 4.00% Securuties Report KDIC (Korea 18.43% Deposit Insurance Corporation) 4.00% Tongyang Life Insurance Organizational Chart Global Network ESOA (Employee Stock 4.00% Kiwoom Securities Ownership Association) 5.36% Coporate Fact Book 4.00% Hanwha Life Insurance Others 44.92% Woori Bank overview * The total stake of Oligopolistic shareholders : 27.22% Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 198 Coporate Fact Book ANNUAL REPORT 2017 198 05 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights Net Income 2017 [ Wbn, U$mn in( ) ] 2016 Business Operations 2015 1,512 1,261 Retail Banking 1,059 (1,411) (1,177) Wealth Management (988) Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Interest Income Non Interest Income Real Estate Finance [ Wbn, U$mn in( ) ] [ Wbn, U$mn in( ) ] Global Business International Trade Business 5,221 1,252 Financial Market Business 5,019 (4,873) (1,169) Investment Banking (4,685) Digital Banking 4,762 867 Risk Management 4,493 (4,445) + (4,194) 4.0% (809) + 706 5.4% (659) + Corporate Social + 44.4% Responsibility 6.0% 461 + (430) 22.8% Ethical Management + Consumer Protection 53.1% Employee Satisfaction 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit * Consolidated Basis, Based on exchange rate of KRW1,071.4/USD as of Dec. 29 2017 Net Income(Continuing Operations) attributable to owners Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Assets Funding Independent Auditors' [ Wtn, U$bn in( ) ] [ Wtn, U$bn in( ) ] Report Loan in Local Currency Deposit Organizational Chart Total Assets Total Funding Global Network 200 (187) 235(219) 2017 356(332) 2017 296(276) Coporate Fact Book 191(178) 221(206) 2016 Woori Bank overview 2016 343(320) 290(271) Vision & Core Values 185(272) 209(195) 119 Years of History 2015 2015 318(297) 273(255) Corporate Governance Financial Highlights 167(156) 189(176) Global Networks 2014 297(272) 2014 252(235) Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy * Consolidated Basis, Total Assets include Trust Account A Trust-worthy Partner Based on exchange rate of KRW1,071.4/USD as of Dec. 29 2017 WOORI BANK 199 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 199 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Profitability(ROA & ROE) Dividend [ Unit : % ] 7.42 [ Unit : % ] Financial Highlights ROA ROE 6.36 Business Operations 5.69 2016 2017 Retail Banking Dividend per Wealth Management 3.55 0.48 Share (KRW) 400 600 Trust & Pension Business 0.41 0.37 21.35 26.71 Corporate Banking Payout Ratio 0.21 (%) SME Banking Institutional Banking * 2017 : including the interim dividend 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 Real Estate Finance 100(KRW) Global Business * Consolidated basis International Trade Business *2014: excluding one-off factors related to the sale and the spin-off subsidiaries Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Asset Quality (NPL Ratio) [ Unit : % ] Capital Adequacy [ Unit : % ] NPL Ratio (Bank) BIS Ratio Tier1 Ratio CET1 Ratio Corporate Social NPL Ratio (excl. 4 shipbuilders*) Responsibility Ethical Management 2.10 15.29 15.40 Consumer Protection 1.47 13.66 Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities 0.98 12.68 13.03 1.62 0.83 Woori Smile Microcredit 1.24 10.43 10.50 10.95 0.91 0.80 Financial Review 8.47 Management's Discussion 2014 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 and Analysis * 4 Shipbuilders : Sungdong, SPP, Daesun, STX Independent Auditors' Report Credit Cost Ratio [ Unit : % ] Credit-to-Income-Ratio [ Unit : % ] Organizational Chart Cost-to-Income Ratio Cost-to-Income Ratio(excluding ERP Expense) Global Network Coporate Fact Book 59.1 57.6 0.52 Woori Bank overview 0.45 54.6 0.37 Vision & Core Values 0.34 56.1 53.9 119 Years of History Corporate Governance 49.9 Financial Highlights 2014 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Global Networks Global Networks Strategy * Consolidated basis * Cost-to-income ratio = Credit Cost Ratio = Credit cost/average Total Credit balance SG&A expense / (Interest Income + Non-Interest Income) Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 200 Coporate Fact Book ANNUAL REPORT 2017 200 06 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Global Networks Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Woori Bank has a strong global presence at 301 overseas networks located in News Highlights 25 countries around the globe. Financial Highlights Business Operations Retail Banking Wealth Management Poland Trust & Pension Business London Woori Bank Russia Corporate Banking Germany SME Banking Woori Bank China Turkey Institutional Banking Iran Tokyo Real Estate Finance Dhaka Woori Global Markets Asia Bahrain Mumbai Global Business Qatar Hong Kong International Trade Business Dubai Gurgaon Woori Bank Vietnam Financial Market Business Wealth Development Bank Philippines India Regional Headquarters Chennai Kuala Lumpur Investment Banking Singapore Digital Banking Woori Finance Myanmar Yangon Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia Risk Management Woori Finance Cambodia Corporate Social Network to be opened (2018) Responsibility Sydney South Africa Korean Desk Ethical Management Consumer Protection Growing Our Financial Services through a Global Network Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Management's Discussion Total Overseas and Analysis Networks Branches New York Independent Auditors' 301 19 Woori America Bank Report Los Angeles Mexico Organizational Chart Global Network Woori Bank China 21 Woori Bank Russia 3 Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank Vietnam 3 Representative Overseas India Regional Headquarters 3 Woori Bank overview Office Subsidiaries Wealth Development 21 Woori Bank Brazil Vision & Core Values Bank Philippines 119 Years of History 4 10 Woori Finance Myanmar 33 Corporate Governance Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 153 Financial Highlights (278) Woori Finance Cambodia 20 Global Networks Woori America Bank 21 Global Networks Strategy Woori Bank Brazil 2 Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 201 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 201 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Global Business History News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Retail Banking Wealth Management 1968.11.11 2006.02.13 2008.01.09 2012.09.25 2016.11.07 Trust & Pension Business Tokyo Ho Chi Minh Woori Bank Russia Woori Bank Brazil Woori Bank Vietnam Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Global Business Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management 1976.04.08 2007.11.12 2012.04.05 2014.07.29 Corporate Social New York Woori Bank China Chennai Woori Finance Cambodia Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Overseas Branches Social Contribution Activities Branch Subsidiary Representative Office Woori Smile Microcredit 1968.11.11 1976.04.08 1978.01.16 1978.05.26 1980.03.14 1980.10.28 1983.10.01 Financial Review Tokyo New York LA London Hong Kong Singapore Bahrain Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' 1984.01.27 1996.09.21 1997.09.26 2006.02.13 2006.10.03 2007.11.12 2008.01.09 Report Woori Global Woori America Markets Asia Woori Bank Woori Bank Bank Dhaka Hanoi Ho Chi Minh China Russia Organizational Chart (Hong Kong) Global Network 2009.02.27 2012.04.05 2012.09.25 2012.10.25 2013.02.19 2014.05.19 2014.07.29 Coporate Fact Book Kuala Woori Bank Yangon Woori Finance Lumpur Chennai Brazil (Myanmar) Sydney Dubai Cambodia Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 2014.12.30 2015.11.26 2016.10.28 2016.11.07 2017.01.16 2017. 02.03 2017.07.31 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Bank Woori Woori Finance Wealthbank Woori Bank Financial Highlights Saudara Myanmar (Philippines) Vietnam Gurgaon Poland Mumbai Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 202 Coporate Fact Book ANNUAL REPORT 2017 202 07 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Global Networks Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 Strategy News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Retail Banking Vietnam, Philippines, India Cambodia, Myanmar Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business 〮 Convert existing branches to 〮 Launch new businesses Corporate Banking subsidiaries ( i.e. Microfinance and Savings SME Banking Bank) adapting to local 〮 Expand through M&A environments Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social n Div Responsibility atio er si z Ethical Management Loc on ati al Consumer Protection i Employee Satisfaction fic Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit ic ket Financial Review Le Va with ve l -U r lue Management's Discussion p w Maeg e N rat and Analysis St Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book China, USA, Indonesia Germany, Poland, Mexico Woori Bank overview 〮 Leverage existing subsidiaries 〮 Enter new markets with core Vision & Core Values to further expand Woori Bank strategic values presence in the region 119 Years of History 〮 Establish financial belts Corporate Governance connecting regions Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 203 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 203 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Overseas Expansion Financial Highlights 〮W  oori Bank has a strong global presence at 301 overseas networks located in 25 countries around the globe. Business Operations 〮W  e are actively expanding overseas operations by establishing financial belts on every continent . Retail Banking 〮W  e aim to become one of Asia's top 10, and one of the World's Top 50 banks in the near future. Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Largest Overseas Network among Korean Banks Real Estate Finance 301 Networks in 25 nations Worldwide (as of Dec. 2017) Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Woori Bank Russia Poland Corporate Social London Responsibility Woori America Bank Woori Bank China Tokyo New York Ethical Management Tehran Woori Finance Myanmar SEOUL Los Angeles Bahrain Gurgaon Hong Kong Consumer Protection Dubai Dhaka Woori Global Markets Asia Ltd HK Yangon Woori Bank Vietnam Employee Satisfaction Chennai Woori Finance Cambodia Social Contribution Activities Kuala Lumpur Wealth Development Bank Woori Smile Microcredit Singapore P.T. Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia Financial Review Main Focus Countries Woori Bank Brazil (Brazil) Management's Discussion Sydney and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Indonesia Vietnam Philippines Organizational Chart India Cambodia Myanmar Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Head Office Vision & Core Values 600 Overseas Networks Overseas Branch 19 119 Years of History by 2020 Corporate Governance Overseas Subsidiary 10 (Expand Networks and pursue M&As) Financial Highlights Overseas Representative Office 4 Global Networks 〮 Number of branches under overseas Global Networks Strategy subsidiaries 278 Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 204 Coporate Fact Book ANNUAL REPORT 2017 204 08 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Digital Strategy Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 We are taking the lead in the Digital Banking business in Korea, as the 1st Korean bank that News Highlights launched a comprehensive mobile financial platform. Financial Highlights Business Operations Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business WiBee Bank WiBee Talk WiBee Members WiBee Market Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Korea’s 1st 1st mobile CustomerMobile-based Digital Banking mobile-only messenger from oriented open open marketRisk Management banking a Korean financial membership type shopping service institution service mall Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection May 2015 Jan. 2016 Jul. 2016 Aug. 2016 Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Digital financial Platform Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Feb. Mar. May Sep. Oct. Management's Discussion 2017 and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network WiBee Talk SORi Woori Wibee Bot Pepper Coporate Fact Book Real-time AI banking Robo-Alpha Chatbot First humanoid translation service AI-based service robot used in Woori Bank overview service with voice financial adviser, financial services Vision & Core Values in 16+ recognition providing financial 119 Years of History languages function consultation to Corporate Governance customers Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 205 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 205 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Retail Banking Combined with Global Strategy Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Global Digital Platform Corporate Banking will be utilized to expand SME Banking local operations in Southeast Asia Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business India Investment Banking Myanmar Vietnam Digital Banking Philippines Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Indonesia Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Leading the 4th Industrial Revolution Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Big Data + AI + Block-chain Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 206 Coporate Fact Book ANNUAL REPORT 2017 206 09 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance A Trust-worthy Partner Company Structure A reliable partner for major Government Institutions and Large Enterprises. Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Public Institutions National Pension Service Retail Banking Acting as a custodial bank for equity investment assets Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business In 2017, Woori Bank was selected as the primary banking partner by the National Pension Service, the world’s third largest pension fund in size, and will be managing a total of KRW 600 Corporate Banking trillion of funds for three years starting in March 2018. SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business National Housing Urban Fund Korea Land & Housing Corporation Acting as the managing custodian bank Acting as the primary bank for funds Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Primary Banking Social Contribution Activities Relationship Partners Woori Smile Microcredit Since 1969 Since 1963 Since 1971 Since 1933 Since 1952 Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Number of Large Independent Auditors' Enterprises that utilize Report Woori Bank as a Major Creditor Bank 13 Woori Bank 5 4 3 Organizational Chart (as of 2017) H Bank S Bank K Bank Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Major Universities Vision & Core Values & Hospitals 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 207 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 207 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business Awards International Trade Business Financial Market Business The Bank of the Year 2017 Asia-Pacific The Banker Investment Banking Best Transaction Bank Award, The Future of Finance Summit Asian Banker Digital Banking Risk Management Best Cash Management Bank, The Future of Finance Summit Asian Banker 2017 Presidential Commendation for Services in Social Ministry of Employment and Labor Corporate Social Enterprise Incubation Responsibility Best Bank in Preventing Voice Phishing Damages, 2017 First Half Financial Supervisory Service 11th National Sustainable Management Award Ministry of Strategy and Finance Ethical Management Consumer Protection Consumer’s Choice Star Brand Grand Prize in Integrated Maekyung Media Group Financial Membership Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Minister’s Prize in Service, the 4th Korea Big Data Awards Maeil Business Newspaper, Ministry of Science and ICT Woori Smile Microcredit Governance Award, Best Company in Governance The Maeil Business Newspaper, (Board of Directors) Daishin Economic Research Institute Financial Review Excellence in Banking Sector, the 4th Korea Retirement Mercer Korea Pension Award Management's Discussion and Analysis Commendation by Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (for Promotion of Expert) Independent Auditors' Report Grand Prize, Korea’s Best Banker The Seoul Economic Daily 2017 Business Supporting the Employment of Multicultural Families Seoul Metropolitan Government Organizational Chart Best Bank in Cutting Edge Banking, 2017 Asia Today Financial Asia Today Grand Prize Global Network Grand Prize, 2017 Risk Manager Awards Money Today thebell (FSS [Financial Supervisory Service] Chairman’s Award, awarded to one company out of all categories) Coporate Fact Book Chairman’s Award of the Korea Commission for Corporate The Korean Academic Society of Partnership, the 4th CSV Awards Business Administration Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values Excellence Prize, HK Wow TV Global Financial Grand Prize HK Wow TV 119 Years of History 2017 Customer Satisfaction + Awards (Hall of Fame in Banking) The Korean Economic Daily Corporate Governance Chief Information Security Officer(CISO) of the Year Korea Forum of Chief Information Financial Highlights Officers, the Federation of Korean Global Networks Information Industries Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 208 Coporate Fact Book ANNUAL REPORT 2017 208 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business A Leading Bank Shaping the Future International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights 51, Sogong-ro(203, Hoehyeon-dong 1-ga), Jung-gu, Seoul, 04632, Korea Tel. +82-2-1599-2288 / +82-2-2002-3000 Global Networks www.wooribank.com Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy A Trust-worthy Partner WOORI BANK 209 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 209 Woori Overview Message from the CEO Board of Directors Corporate Governance Company Structure Woori Bank Awards 2017 News Highlights Financial Highlights Business Operations Retail Banking Wealth Management Trust & Pension Business Corporate Banking SME Banking Institutional Banking Real Estate Finance Global Business International Trade Business Financial Market Business Investment Banking Digital Banking Risk Management Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical Management Consumer Protection Employee Satisfaction Social Contribution Activities Woori Smile Microcredit Financial Review Management's Discussion and Analysis Independent Auditors' Report Organizational Chart Global Network Coporate Fact Book Woori Bank overview Vision & Core Values 119 Years of History Corporate Governance Financial Highlights Global Networks Global Networks Strategy Digital Strategy Directed by Woori Bank Investor Relations Dept. A Trust-worthy Partner IR officer. Kim, So Hee ︱ banker.ksh@wooribank.com ︱ Tel +82-2-2125-2316 ︱ www.wooribank.com Designed by Reddotbranding ︱ Tel +82-2-584-0418 51, Sogong-ro(203, Hoehyeon-dong 1-ga), Jung-gu, Seoul, 04632, Korea Tel. +82-2-1599-2288 / +82-2-2002-3000 www.wooribank.com
