BIG ON COMMUNITY EASY ON ENVIRONMENT 2017 Social Responsibility Report TABLE OF CONTENTS Letter from the President 3 Company Profile 4 About this Report 6 Social 7 Global Workforce Demographics 8 People Matter 9 Training & Hiring 10 Community Involvement 11 Health & Safety 12 Ethics & Supply Chain 13 Environment 14 GRI Content Index 15 2 LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT In 2017, Samtec, Inc. sales reached a record $700 million. To accommodate this book drive, or participating in both local and national fundraising events, Samtec sales growth, we increased our global footprint adding new manufacturing facilities stands committed to these activities. We also encourage our employees around the and over 800 employees worldwide. We also expanded our already broad product world to be engaged and active outside of work with local organizations within the line giving us the opportunity to serve new customers and applications. communities that they live. We are happy to report that we did these great and exciting things without At our major manufacturing facilities, we are working to improve trash collection sacrificing our efforts to increase the quality of life of our employees around the and recycling efforts. These efforts include streamlining and spearheading our world, make our neighboring communities better places to live, or reduce our processes currently in place and implementing new ones. A significant portion of our environmental impact. water is reused to reduce the overall waste volume. Samtec has continued to make improvements to ensure that the water we use is not wasted and returned to the We submit our Samtec Sustainability Report for 2017 along with nearly 13,000 community cleaner than it was received. signatories from more than 170 countries around the globe who are in support of the UNGC’s ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the While it is very likely that our business and the industries we serve will continue to environment and anti-corruption. evolve and change over the course of time, we will stay committed to the United Nations Global Compact’s core efforts and our similarly shared Sustainability efforts. This is our 6th year as a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), We will remain committed to finding ways to do more for the greater good of our and Samtec, Inc. is excited about the progress we have made during the past year to employees, our neighboring communities, our environment and our world. better our efforts to become a more sustainable global company. Thank you for your continued interest in our company and our efforts to make our This year, Samtec is pleased to report on 26 Specific Standard Disclosures and 15 business socially and environmentally sustainable for years to come. Please direct General Disclosures that encompass the UNGC ten principles. As a service-minded any comments or questions about this report to social.responsibility@samtec.com. company, we believe that the care and support of our employees, our neighboring communities and our environment are key to becoming a more sustainable company. Following the UNGC ten principles, along with the values and beliefs of the RBA (formally the EICC) in the planning and development of our standards and practices, help guide us in our efforts. Samtec employees share our values and are committed to Samtec’s success not only in business, but also within our communities. We continue to invest in our employees by providing training, education support and computer grants along with many other benefits like retirement, estate planning, health insurance and parental leave. The continued remodel and modernization of our older manufacturing sites have created a state-of-the-art working environment for our employees around the world. John Shine, President Global community outreach and philanthropic activities are extremely important to the happiness and fulfillment of our employees. Whether it is a local blood, food or 3 COMPANY PROFILE Founded in 1976, Samtec is a privately held, In 2017, Samtec invested heavily to continue our As our need for expanded high-speed RF capabilities $700 million global manufacturer of a broad line role as the Signal Integrity leader in the interconnect increased in Asia Pacific, it made the most sense to of electronic interconnect solutions, including industry. As technology continues to advance, Signal combine all these resources together in one location. Microelectronics / Glass Core Technology, HighIntegrity concerns no longer simply apply to the Consolidating within the TDC not only leveraged our Speed Board-to-Board, High-Speed Cables, Midconnector, but encompass the entire signal path from existing technical resources, but also gave us synergy Board and Panel Optics, Flexible Stacking and the IC, to the panel, and every point in between. across multiple functions. Micro / Rugged connectors and cables. Samtec is headquartered in New Albany, Indiana, with To further support these increasingly complex system Samtec is Sudden Service® providing an unparalleled international offices in more than 24 countries demands, Samtec opened three new Technology / customer service experience. We received the employing over 5,000 Associates globally. Design Centers last year: highest overall rating in the latest Bishop + Associates U.S. Customer Survey of the Electronic Much more than just another connector company, Delaware Design Center (DDC) is where our Connector Industry. Samtec puts people first with a commitment to Active System Hub is located. This hub’s exceptional service, quality products and convenient concentration is on schematics, coding, debug / This was the 16th time Samtec has been rated as the design tools, and has grown from a commodity testing and prototype manufacturing. DDC designs #1 Connector Company in North America. Samtec component manufacturer into a company that active compliance and evaluation boards for trade was also recently ranked #1 in the Europe report that develops leading edge solutions for the most shows and customer consumption. was completed in July 2017, and the last Asia report demanding electronics applications in the world. as well. Arizona Design Center (ADC) provides Precision Samtec serves more than 23,000 customers spanning RF design and gives us another location that will Samtec’s underlying philosophies, our DNA, are all industries, from well-known global tech giants to concentrate on package layout. The addition of Speed, Innovation, Flexibility and Win / Win. We small start-ups, and everyone in between. ADC in Tempe also gives us scalability as our need believe that people matter, and that taking care of for layout resources continues to increase. our customers, and our employees, is paramount in By integrating specialized Technology Centers led by how we approach our business. This belief is deeply industry experts working side-by-side, Samtec fosters Taiwan Design Center (TDC). Taiwan’s infrastructure ingrained throughout the organization, so together, a unique environment conducive to true innovation is the foundation of our high-speed RF component we can take the industry further faster. and collaboration, along with the ability to provide and cable assembly design, development, testing the most complete level of service and support and manufacturing. Previously, our AP Automation for interconnect system design, development and Group (APAG) and our Taiwan Sales / Asia production in the industry. Engineering Group (AEG) were in separate locations. Founded Headquartered in 5,100 2017 Revenue D&B Rating ISO-9001 TS 16949 ISO ITAR in 1976 New Albany, IN Associates $700 Million 5-A1 Certified Certified 14001 Registered 4 COMPANY PROFILE 39 LOCATIONS • OVER 5,000 ASSOCIATES Signal Integrity Group Samtec Teraspeed Consulting Samtec Cable Samtec Optical Group Signal Integrity Group Samtec Microelectronics Samtec Tool Samtec Taiwan Samtec Donnguan Samtec USA Signal Integrity Group Samtec Huizhou Samtec Costa Rica Samtec Vietnam Samtec Penang Sales Samtec Johor Samtec Singapore Manufacturing Support CUSTOMER SEGMENTS 9% 7% 7% 3% 10% With more than 23,000 customers in 21% 15% 29% Aerospace / Medical more than 125 countries and spanning all Defense industries, Samtec serves the well-known Computer / global tech giants, small start-ups, and Semiconductor everyone in between. Automotive / Industrial Datacom Instrumentation Transportation Consumer 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT 19% CHINA 15% UNITED MIX The Samtec Sustainability Report is generated annually and represents a 12-month The data presented in this report STATES MANUFACTURING reporting period. Beginning at the end of each calendar year, data is collected has been generated by our internal and eventually processed into the final report. Last Year’s Sustainability Report was management systems and have not 46% submitted June 2017. been assured by an external agency. MALAYSIA With this year’s report, we aimed to become more closely aligned with the GRI G4 process. Internal stakeholders are identified by the major departments influencing Please direct any comments or 20% COSTA RICA questions about this report to the data gathering and results, including Human Resources, Quality, Environmental social.responsibility@samtec.com. Services, Health and Safety, Learning and Development as well as the Marketing Department. Discussions with each stakeholder were held to determine materiality aspects and priorities. Samtec will also continue to informally reference EICC ENVIRONMENTAL standards so that the questions are more closely aligned with EICC concerns. Samtec continually strives to reduce our environmental impact by integrating On July 1st of 2018, the G4 guidelines will be superseded by the GRI Sustainability environmentally-conscious practices into our product design and manufacturing Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). Our plan is to engage and inform both primary processes as well as actions of our employees. and secondary stakeholders of this change so that we can seamlessly align with the new standards, while continuing to broaden the scope of GRI questions answered, 65% of our manufacturing is done in Asia, with 20% in Central America and 15% in and improving the depth of those answers as well. North America. Over 85% of our products are manufactured in low cost regions. We As we have done in previous reports, many of the indicators will be re-stated to begin aim to source 35% of our BOM in Asia and 65% in the United States. the process of creating year-to-year tracking to establish a trend history line for the We are proud to report that we have had zero significant environmental breaches nor measured indicators. Also, many indicators and locations are still in the process of have we received any fines and/or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with coming online, so some, but not all, indicators will show some new data not previously environmental laws and regulations. 6 available in the years before. SOCIAL We care about the communities in which we live. We strive to make our communities better places to live, work, play and go to school. We find ways to lend Samtec contributes up to 17% of a qualifying a hand – both in time and money. Our efforts span employee’s salary into a retirement fund, and philanthropic activities with charities around the world, 91% of Samtec employees voluntarily and fully environmental initiatives, health and safety projects and participate in the company’s retirement plan. stringent ethics and social responsibility policies. We hire locally when we can Because of the many benefits that Samtec within a 50 mile radius of a specific location. offers employees, turnover is very low, and tenure is very high. Corporate turnover was Over 80% of senior management positions 1.7% in 2017, and almost 40% of our Associates are local to the specific facility: globally have been with the company for over 5 years. At Samtec HQ in Indiana, almost 75% of Senior management is primarily defined by level all Associates have over 5 years tenure. of responsibility, and not necessarily by tenure. Senior managers have global responsibility in terms of establishing direction or priority within their area of expertise. Senior managers work cross-functionally with other areas of the company to establish strategic direction related to the core elements of our business: product design, sales strategy, financial management, operational tactics, etc. Employee Retention Rate for 2017: 96.83% 7 GLOBAL WORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS Total Workforce: 5,100 DIRECT LABOR INDIRECT LABOR *as of January 2018 44.7% 55.3% 56.6% 43.4% Breakdown by Gender Breakdown by Region Region Associates by Center / Department (Based on Region) 1701 1018 856 1120 842 1249 627 147 204 0 125 47 0 72 41 1 136 33 0 66 84 7 79 21 30 9 0 0 69 24 5 86 61 31 0 8 561 440 30 / 55 Operations Supply Chain Quality Engineering Sal es Marketing Administration Mgmt Info 55 30 NORTH AMERICA CENTRAL AMERICA EUROPE ASIA Systems (MIS) MALE FEMALE North Ameri ca Central America Europe Asia 2017 Percentage Percentage Length Length of Service of Service 2017 Turnover Turnover by by Region Region 2017 Overall Overall Turnover Turnover 2.38% 3.10% 38.20% 2.64% 2.32% 1.71% 2.13% 19.90% 17.60% 1.18% 0.96% 0.85% 0.82% 11.50% 12.70% 0.66% 0.68% 0.32% DL IL Total DL IL Total Total DL IL Total 0-90 Days 3-12 Months 12-36 Months 36-60 Months 60+ Months North Ameri ca Central America Europe Asia Direct Labor Indirect Labor Total 8 PEOPLE MATTER Samtec walks the “Sudden Service” talk, as we strive to service our employees programs including counseling sessions, school supplies / uniforms as well as around the globe in every capacity that we can including career growth medical support. opportunities, on-the-job training, education expenses and countless opportunities to improve their physical and financial well-being. We treat each Samtec features a relatively flat organization structure which makes global sharing other like family. By helping each other, we also help our company, our customers of ideas related to operational processes, work environmental improvements, and the communities in which we live, play and work. associate recognition methods and global communication tools easy. Continuing education is important to employees as well as management at Samtec. Tuition reimbursement for employees around the world in 2017 was nearly $500,000. In Costa Rica, scholarships included English (23 Associates), Career-Based (68 Associates), and All Aboard (7 graduated from high school). Samtec also offers grants to employees to assist them in purchasing a new home computer. In 2017, almost $55,000 was distributed in computer grants. All Associates around the globe have access to paid parental leave, both maternity and paternity, from Samtec. Providing this type of support helps Samtec achieve a very high return to work and retention rate after parental leave. Our return to work rate globally is 95%, and our one-year retention rate after parental leave is 94% worldwide. We encourage a healthy lifestyle both physically and mentally with our annual Health Fair and opportunities for stress relaxation with free massages provided periodically through-out the year. Samtec also provides monthly free financial planning to employees at HQ in New Albany, IN, and offers free information 9 on Estate and Will Planning. In Costa Rica, we offer comprehensive wellness TRAINING & HIRING 2017 Training Hours by Type 2017 Training Hours by Job Type 2017 Training Hours by Gender Compliance Professional Salaried Female 25,622 13,190 34,335 Associates 148,869 Male Job Related Hourly Associates 267,039 271,515 156,982 Job Related** Compl iance* Professional*** Hourly Associates Sal aried Associates Male Associates Female Associ ates *JOB = training required to perform the functions of the job. 305,850 = Total Training Hours in 2017 **COMPLIANCE = compliance or mandatory training dictated by Samtec policy, industry regulations, customer requirements, or the laws of the countries in 50.4 = Average Training Hours Per Associate in 2017 which Samtec operates. ***PROFESSIONAL = training provided for individual and professional growth. 8,983 35 143 252 36 Number of Average Number Number of Jobs / No. of New Jobs / Number of Jobs or Job Applications of Applicants Positions Filled Positions Added Positions Filled Internally in Past 12 Months* per Opening Over Past 12 Months** in Past 12 Months Over Past 12 Months *Excluding current employees. **New and current jobs / positions. 10 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Samtec Costa Rica Samtec New Albany Maker Mobile Books for All Program Big Brothers Big Sisters School to Work Program VEX World Robotics Competition Samtec supports global projects and initiatives that enable economic development and stimulate economic growth around the world like water • 20.78% ARE purification systems in third world countries, alternative energy solutions, advanced agricultural technology, low cost housing refurbishment, life HC ER CO LT EA OT H skills development training, support of entrepreneurial start-ups – and so much more. REACH • 57 H OUT TION • 18.2 .51 ITY SAMTEC NEW ALBANY SAMTEC COSTA RICA Samtec UCA % 0% UN Global Giving ED Samtec supports the local Big Brothers Big Sisters School to Work Program. Employee In 2017, Samtec Costa Rica once again supported Initiatives M volunteers were matched with scholars from a local high school and meet once a month the Maurilio Soto School in nearby Alajuela with M at Samtec to give students exposure to workplace skills and career opportunities. Samtec books. Our Costa Rica Associates also participated 2017 also supports the Mentor Mii Program with volunteers who are matched with students in volunteering events including 180 man hours / from a second local school. Some of the other organizations that we supported include: 30 volunteers who supported the Volcano Arenal National Park as well as 240 man hours / 40 volunteers ONE SOUTHERN INDIANA FOUNDATION FOR GLOBAL IMPACT who helped cleaned the beach on San Lucas Island. Our Associates have supported the Children Palliative Care Lead Economic Development Organization Provides vital financial, operational and Foundation in San Jose through their 8 Hours of Love program. Samtec CR also hosted and Chamber of Commerce for Floyd programmatic support to the United Nations a Christmas Party for a nearby community in need, supplying over 200 Christmas County which provides connections, Global Compact Office and its activities presents for children and their families. resources and services that help businesses around the world innovate and thrive in Southern Indiana SAMTEC MALAYSIA KDF FOUNDATION ROBO RUMBLE PHYSIO FOUNDATION Local tournament that challenges students Both our facilities in Malaysia, Samtec Johor and Samtec Penang, assisted blood drives A non-profit organization designed to and teams from Jefferson County schools in order to help their local communities, collecting a total of over 140 packets. engage and mobilize communities and surrounding regions to design, build and compete with robots SAMTEC HUIZHOU Samtec is also proud to support the non-profit, Maker Mobile program through both Associates of our Samtec Huizhou facility again visited the elderly in local Nursing employee volunteer hours and funding for visits to regional fairs and events. Its purpose Homes during the Mid-Autumn Festival and volunteered several other times for local is to educate and inspire local communities to create and build, which leads to a more public activities. skilled work force. The Maker Mobile improves engagement in STEM related fields of study using an interactive, hands-on environment. With Samtec’s support, the Maker SAMTEC SINGAPORE Mobile is helping hundreds of students learn 21st century skills in a fun and engaging 11 way that will prepare them for future careers. Samtec Singapore donated to the Children Cancer Foundation in Singapore. HEALTH & SAFETY The health and safety of our employees is of utmost concern. Workplace safety rules Samtec Costa Rica holds an internal vaccination campaign against influenza, and created in accordance with applicable laws are communicated to employees to ensure prevention campaigns are promoted on bulletin boards and other communication their well-being. Samtec Associates are expected to perform their duties in a safe manner channels. Costa Rica also hosts blood drives, and last year, 68 Associates donated blood. and to advise a manager of an unsafe situation in the workplace. As a result, 272 people within the local community benefited from these donations. While there is no formal program in place regarding serious diseases, Samtec New Albany While Johor and Penang have no formal programs in place regarding serious diseases, has created a Travel Guidelines area on our intranet where we post awareness to travelers both locations have hosted at least one blood donation drive in the past year. Over 140 of any areas/regions of concern. Samtec New Albany also hosts a blood drive once every packets of blood were collected from generous Samtec Associates. quarter and provides Associates the opportunity to get free flu shots just prior to the start of the “flu season.” In addition, New Albany provides yearly training on “Active Shooter Although Singapore Workmen Compensation (Work Injury) is a compulsory statutory Situation” protocol. insurance coverage, Samtec Singapore also purchases hospital / surgical and personal accident insurance for all employees as well. Singapore also encourages employees and Samtec Huizhou has purchased business insurance, including accident and serious dependents to engage a panel clinic provider when unwell. The fees for all consultations disease, for all Associates. Huizhou has recently started a new employee physical and medications are borne by Samtec. examination and an annual physical examination of existing employees to help identify infectious diseases before they can be spread. Huizhou has a H7N9 Contingency Plan for Singapore also has contingency plans in the event of an outbreak of disease which the prevention of viral transmission of H7N9 influenza which includes the canteen as well includes distributing SARS thermometers and log books to employees to take and record as manufacturing and office areas. their temperature daily. Samtec Malaysia Blood Drive The injury rates for the industry are the average rate for connector manufacturers according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. This is a rate that OSHA would compare us to. 12 ETHICS & SUPPLY CHAIN Since Samtec’s culture reflects, for the most part, a “learning organization,” we Our Purchase Orders, Component Prints, Supplier Quality Assurance Manual and have tried to remove many of the barriers of organizational learning. Samtec the Terms and Conditions found on our Legal / Compliance area of our website employees are asked every year to review our Sexual Harassment, Workplace summarize our policies for transparency with our customers and suppliers. Violence, C-TPAT, Diversity and Company Policy e-learning modules for yearly compliance. Employees are also given the opportunity to choose their own Samtec has never been subjected to legal action, fined or received nontraining courses for the upcoming year. monetary sanctions for grievances related to noncompliance with laws and regulations, discrimination, human rights, environmental regulations, child labor, Samtec is constantly evaluating factors such as location of operation, types of anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust or monopolistic practices. products and services provided, child labor avoidance practices, working hour management, pay and compensation practices, as well as ethics management Our product offering now includes tip-of-the-spear, micro optical engines and policies and engagement. We continue to expand awareness and understanding next generation microelectronics that integrate advanced chip technology and across all our global facilities as well as our supply chain that we depend on and miniaturization. In order to keep up with the demands of these new technologies engage with every day. and address their complex world of legal requirements, we have expanded our legal team to include a full time patent attorney, senior attorney and corporate Samtec relies on a global supply chain to support the manufacturing of our law paralegal. products in each of our locations. We survey all our vendors yearly regarding quality, environmental consciousness, and social responsibility. Over 95% of our vendors comply with Samtec’s standards, and 100% of our new suppliers are screened using human rights criteria. All Samtec employees comply with the limitations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar laws of the countries where we operate. We require suppliers to provide information regarding their own suppliers and subcontractors to verify that the extended supply chain related to Samtec products operates in a manner consistent with Samtec’s expected code of conduct and commitment to its environmental and social principles. Samtec will not tolerate Human Trafficking and/or Slavery crimes within Samtec or the suppliers with which we do business. We comply with the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act and the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015. Samtec has a regular audit schedule of its supplier base, which must allow Samtec and its agents (including third parties) to engage in assessment activities to confirm compliance with these standards. We reserve the right, when the standards are not met and/or corrected in a timely fashion, to cancel outstanding orders, suspend future orders or terminate our relationship with the supplier, as circumstances demand. We currently have zero suppliers who have undergone Samtec Headquarters New Albany, Indiana, USA human rights screening, are a significant risk for incidents of child labor or are involved in human trafficking. 13 ENVIRONMENT Samtec continually strives to reduce our environmental minerals: Tantalum (derived from Columbite-Tantalite), Employees at Samtec Costa Rica participated in impact by integrating environmentally-conscious Tungsten (derived from Wolframite), Tin (derived environmental volunteering events including 180 man practices into our product design and manufacturing from Cassiterite), and Gold) and/or finished materials hours / 30 volunteers who supported the Volcano processes as well as the actions of our employees. We originating, sourced, and/or smelted from the Arenal National Park as well as 240 man hours / 40 are proud to report that we have had zero significant Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. volunteers who helped cleaned the beach on San environmental breaches nor have we received any fines Lucas Island. and/or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with At our New Albany facility, we started recovering environmental laws and regulations. and recycling pin reel interleaf paper. This newly Samtec’s Carbon Footprint (CF), the total greenhouse implemented action has contributed to roughly 52,000 gas (GHG) emissions caused directly and indirectly by Our Environmental Management System (EMS) is an pounds of paper being recycled which, in past years, our manufacturing, increased 12.4% in 2017. 80-90% important aspect of manufacturing at Samtec — from had been sent to landfill. of our carbon footprint is built around the gas and the selection of the materials in our products, to electricity used at our manufacturing locations. The the efficient use of natural resources and the careful In 2017, our Costa Rica facility saw an electricity increase in Carbon Footprint is likely a combination control of facility wastes. expense which was decreased by 12%. This is due of adding new facilities as well as the addition of to the combination of installing a hot gas bypass to new boilers during the remodel of the company Samtec does not allow Conflict Resources to be used control thermal load and avoid multiple startups of the headquarters in New Albany. within our products or supply chain or the sourcing chiller, adjusting of control parameters and changing of any of the following materials that contain 3TG of conventional bulbs to LED. WASTE DISPOSAL 2017 Total Waste Disposal (lbs) North America 2017 Total Waste Disposal (lbs) Asia 2017 Total Waste Disposal (lbs) Central America 465,600 634,779 357,810 294,209 334,934 183,925 158,921 186,471 91,018 64,368 28,947 30,348 12,513 445 4,320 4,387 56,829 Paper Cardboard Plastic Landfill Hazardous Plastics Scrap Metal 18,564 Recycle Recycle Bottles / Waste Waste Recycle Paper & Tubes / Plastic Bottles Landfill Waste Hazardous Pocket Tape Scrap Metal Plastics Aluminum Cardboard Plastics / Pink / Aluminum Waste (Plastic) Recycle Cans Foam / Bodies Landfill Trash Hazardous Waste Recycling Materials WATER RECYCLING • We are proud to report that we have had zero significant volume spills at each of our facilities. Samtec New Albany: water is recycled at 247,104 gallons per month, and we discharge Samtec Huizhou: water is recycled at 239,317 gallons per approximately 1,829,040 gallons per month at our New Albany Waste Water Treatment facility. month, and we discharge approximately 173,160 gallons per month. Samtec Huizhou has set a target of reused water usage Samtec Costa Rica: water is recycled at 319,428 gallons per month, and we discharge to a minimum 40% every year. We met our goal again in 2017 approximately 188.462 gallons per month at our Costa Rica Waste Water Treatment Facility. with a 47.3% reuse water rate. 14 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4.1 Indicator Description Location Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement 3 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 4 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 4 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 4 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 4 2.7 Markets served by the organization 5 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 6 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting Period 6 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 6 3.3 Reporting cycle 6 3.4 Contact point for questions 6 3.5 Process for defining report content 6 3.6 Boundary of the report none 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report none 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, none outsourced operations and other entities 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information none provided in earlier reports, and the reason for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods none 15 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4.1 Indicator Description EC3 Policy coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from local community at locations of significant operations EC9 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused EN22 Total water discharge by quantity EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills EN27 Initiative to mitigate environment impacts of products and services and extent of impact mitigation EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations HR2 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations including the percentage of employees trained HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor HR10 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening and actions taken HR12 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms LA1 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender LA6 Rates of injury, occupation diseases, lost days and absenteeism and number of work related fatalities by region and by gender LA7 Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce member, their families or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and employee category LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age, minority group and other indicators of diversity PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs SO4 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures – SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region, broken down by gender 16 SUDDEN SERVICE® UNITED STATES • NORTHERN CALIFORNIA • SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA • SOUTH AMERICA • UNITED KINGDOM GERMANY • FRANCE • ITALY • NORDIC/BALTIC • BENELUX • ISRAEL • INDIA • AUSTRALIA / NEW ZEALAND SINGAPORE • JAPAN • SHANGHAI • SHENZHEN • TAIWAN • HONG KONG • KOREA © 2018 SAMTEC, INC.
