To our stakeholders: I am very pleased to confirm that M9 Public Company Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely Yours, Shwe Koon Vice President Human RigHts 1. Our employees and all our stakeholders respect the universal declaration of human rights and environmental protection. Based on our commitment, our company is providing safe, healthy and convenient working conditions to our employees. We also encourage our business partners and suppliers to obey to Global Compact Principles on Human Rights. In our country, Human Right is still developing. Our Goal is collaborating each other and work happily. 2. We place Suggestion Box at our reception counter and there is also a counselor for the staff to tell their feeling frankly. There is also Coffee Morning Event once a month and every one can share their knowledge and their feeling frankly and make fellowship. Besides, we give staff awareness training belongs to Human Rights. We consult with stakeholders and affected parties if it is required. We allocate duties for the protection of Human Rights within the company. Our Human Resource Policies and Procedures supporting Human Rights. ■ In the past reporting period, it is sure that specific progress made in the area of Human Rights. Our company adhere Human Rights and care Staff. There is no broken rules and legal cases and other relevant events related to Human Rights. External Audits of Human Rights check every week. Labour 3. M9 has established a work culture that supporting country’ law and labor principles. In order to make awareness on labor rights and policies, we have trained staff training and raised human right awareness. We respect ILO Core Conventions and other international instruments. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. We have no discrimination with gender, ethnicity and age. Every one who has the opportunity to get promotion if he really tries hard. We apply the Global Compact Labour Principles. We have to report the government regularly with our labour reports. 5. We do not accept labor under 18-year-old ones. We give maternal leave according to ILO's Law. If there is overtime, we give overtime fees to staff. 6. We offer our employees with great working conditions like appropriate working hours, overtime, allowance, uniform, individual office facilities. We provide our employees with a safe working condition by accessing fees to Social Security Board (SSB) individually from company. From this, our employees have free medical coverage for every case he or she has suffered in working environment. Environment 7. We use recycle bags for the environment and we also clean our campus for the environment issue. It is sure that we negotiate our business partners to adhere the Global Compact Environmental Principles. We don't use plastic bags and don't use the behavior which harm the environmental issues. 8. We always donate blood to our environment once in every 2 month to the hospital We also donate the water purify device to the village. Beside, we care our society by donating the flooded area and the required regions. 9. We don't have legal cases, rulings with our environmental issues until now. Our Company Limited obeys the environmental rules. Anti Corruption 10. We raise staff training of corruption and give awareness with it. Our company is strongly prohibited to make company sources documents imitation. Besides, we are not strongly permitted legally corruption and strongly prohibit to bribe. The bribery will be taken action legally and extortion is also not allowed. We M9 Group Company Limited allows UN Convention Against Corruption and Global Compact anti-corruption principles. We also encourage our business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Global Compact Anticorruption principles.
