CSR RAPPORT 2017 F. Uhrenholt Holding A/S F. UHRENHOLT HOLDING A/S CSR report 2017 Welcome to the Uhrenholt CSR report 2017 3 Message from the CEO 4 About Uhrenholt Uhrenholt Global Organisation 6 8 WELCOME Sustainability with the UN Global Compact 10 to the Uhrenholt CSR report 2017 Business areas and product portfolio 12 It provides you with an insight and a review on the way we handle and integrate Our vision and values 14 our corporate social responsibility in our daily business. CSR Focus Areas 16 20 The Uhrenholt CSR report is prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial LABOR/HUMAN RIGHTS Statement Act § 99 a. Flexible working 20 Student work and internships 23 In addition Uhrenholt is a signatory member of the UN Global Compact meaning that our CSR work is structured along with the Global Compact set of values and Firstaid and defibrillator 23 principles regarding human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Supplier management 24 Our annual report is uploaded as Communication of Progress at www.unglobalcompact.org. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 26 Sustainable palm oil 26 Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate responsibility initiative with more 27 than 12,000 voluntary business and non-business participants in 170 countries. Healty living Transport 28 March 2018 Food waste 29 Grøndal Dairy 32 BUSINESS ETHICS 34 Business principles 34 Code of conduct 34 AEO certified 35 Fraud fighting 35 Partnership development 36 Local production 37 Charity 37 Progress 2017 38 CSR 2018 39 Thanks 40 2 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Dear Reader Awakened in the middle of the night we may not all be able to reel of the 17 UN sustainable development goals. But what counts to Uhrenholt is that the spirit and content of a good deal of the goals form the backbone in what we do at day time all year round. We are a food company supplying high standard products to more than 80 countries on all continents. We are not saving the world with our activities, but we see ourselves as ambassadors that communicate the UN messages and the Global Compact principles everytime we close an order. First of all by bringing sustainably produced, safe and healthy food products around the world. But also by setting new standards in our markets by offering our partners and consumers what we call affordable premium products. Our ambition is to provide a broader segment also in developing countries with high quality food products manufactured in compliance with the UN goals and principles. They do not need to be produced in Europe under the restrictions and control of the most environmental friendly legislation in the world. We will gradually focus more on the opportunities to produce locally in some of these markets. We will not compromise on our demands to standards and production methods but we will add elements like less transport and local development of farmers, companies and society to our sustainability backbone. Enjoy reading our 2017 report. 4 5 ABOUT UHRENHOLT FACTS Uhrenholt A/S is a global food company supplying mainly dairy products and frozen vegetables to a broad range Founded: 1978 by Frank Uhrenholt of retail, wholesale, foodservice and industrial customers in more than 80 countries around the world. While our Number of employees: 450+ head office is situated in Denmark, we have offices and representatives in more than 20 countries and employ more than 450 dedicated people on a global scale. Our products are sold under the brand names Emborg™, Ownership: F. Uhrenholt Holding A/S is a 100% family owned business Friendship™ and Amigo™ or as commodities and industrial sales. CEO: Sune Uhrenholt Uhrenholt was founded April 1 1978 in Denmark by Frank Uhrenholt. The main business was international trading Location Denmark: Head office in Middelfart of table cheeses and cheese for processing and soon Uhrenholt became one of the largest privately owned dairy Location worldwide: Represented in more than 20 countries companies in Denmark. Sales: Selling products in more than 80 countries across the world In 2005 Uhrenholt acquired Emborg Foods A/S and in 2009 all activities of the former Uhrenholt and Emborg Foods companies were merged and marketed under the Uhrenholt name. In 2007 Sune Uhrenholt took over the role as CEO and has undertaken a restructuring of the company to include sales to the retail channel and focus on branded products. Frank Uhrenholt created the original ship logo in 1978 by folding a paper ship from a newspaper page and painting it red and white. He was inspired by the Hans Christian Andersen fairytale, The Steadfast Tin Soldier, who went to conquer the world in a ship of paper. Today the logo has been simplified and is mirrored in the water. This visualizes that Uhrenholt is a modern food company and all our actions are agile reflections of the surrounding world and the opportunities it offers. 6 7 CEO GLOBAL ORGANISATION Commercial Structure Corporate Uhrenholts commercial organisation is structured in four regions: Russia & CIS, Middle East & Africa, Asia and Russia and CIS Asia and Oceania Human Resource Global Marketing Europe (including Oceania and Americas). Our Global Trading section focusing on commodities and industrial sales are integrated in the Europe Division. Middle East Logistics and Legal and All regions are supported by our expert corporate functions including Legal and Risk Management, Quality Europe and Africa Transportation Risk Management Assurance, Procurement, Portfolio Management, Marketing, Logistics & Transportation, HR, Finance and IT to secure that we deliver the highest quality and standards and meet the diversity demands worldwide. Americas Global Trading Finance Business Excellence The commercial organisation is responsible for sales in the regions and divisions as mentioned above. The regions are apart from the geographical differences also different in terms of business focus. Unique for the region Russia & CIS is the large distribution setup in Moscow. Here Uhrenholt distribute own Procurement IT products and external brands to the retailand foodservice channel. Quality Assurance 8 9 AB ILIT Y N SUSTAI HE W ITH T O M P ACT LOB ALC UN G 10 11 BUSINESS AREAS AND DAIRY PRODUCT PORTFOLIO We supply a full range of dairy products sourced from around the world. To obtain the best quality, we aim to source cheese from local origin. All products are packaged in various shapes and sizes according to consumer and market needs. Uhrenholt has a long tradition and experience within sales of food products B2B and B2C. Reliability, At our Grøndal Dairy we produce approx. 5,000 tons per year of cheeses like Fontina, Havarti and Kefalotyri. tailor-made service and the ability to spot and seize opportunities together with our partners and customers The Uhrenholt dairy portfolio also contains whey products, lactose, butter, yogurt, UHT-milk and cream. has made Uhrenholt a preferred business partner for many years. Our partners and customers benefit from the Uhrenholt extensive global network of selected suppliers. This enables us to offer unique tailored food solutions across the entire portfolio. FRUITS AND VEGETABLES Uhrenholt is a proud supplier of delicious fruits and vegetables. In keeping with our focus on healthy-living, we are offering a range of fruit and berry products. This also includes smoothies and dairy-based products. We offer a range of classic vegetables individually quick-frozen, for example peas, peas & carrots, sweet corn, beans and mixed vegetables. In addition, we have an exciting range of different vegetable mixes, grilled vegetables and breaded onion rings. In dairy as well as in fruits and vegetables we have introduced a range of organic products and this year we have added a number of non-dairy vegan products to our portfolio. For more information about Uhrenholt please visit uhrenholt.com. 12 13 OUR VISION AND VALUES Being part of a worldwide food industry, we touch many lives in one way or another on a daily basis. To create attractive food solutions, we firmly believe in strong partnerships and networks, We want to continuously improve our business and the way we navigate in the global market place. and for 40 years this has been our main focus around the world. We firmly believe that our shared corporate values serve as a compass and lead the way for our We are a partnership-driven corporation and consider knowledge-based partnerships as the actions and daily work. We strive to follow them in everything we do to the benefit of our customers, core of our business engine. Through close cooperation with our partners, we are able to our employees, our business and society as a whole. deliver a wide variety of competitive, high-quality goods and services to a global audience. A value chain of the best companies working closely together for a common goal is always stronger than any individual company by itself. WINNING PARTNERING Partnership for Growth Teaming up with the best players in the market enables us to collectively add value and We value partnerships and win-win Our business is based on long-term growth to our mutual businesses. That is why we strongly promote Partnership for Growth, solutions in everything we do – when partnerships with customers and through which we create easy, fast and efficient access to affordable and attractive food we develop great products, provide service suppliers around the world. solutions. We are able to do so because we are independent, market-driven and have to our customers and work together with We strive to add value in our partnerships strong, global partnerships. suppliers. Our goal is to create an environby continuously exploring new opportunities ment where we are inspired to perform our and by working together to create mutual, very best together. sustainable value. THIS IS OUR PARTNERSHIP PROMISE EXCELLENCE PASSION Attractive Products and Tailored Solutions We aim to grow our partners’ businesses by identifying consumer needs, providing Professionalism and commercial excellence We are passionate about food and enjoy attractive food products and flexible solutions according to market demand. is the foundation for our behaviour internally an exciting and dynamic atmosphere in and externally. our daily work. Attractive Business Opportunities We deliver results through strong solutions Our enthusiasm is reflected in our way We help to grow our partners’ businesses by developing attractive market for our customers and our organisation. of working with markets, products, opportunities and making the route-to-market more efficient. partners and colleagues. 14 15 CSR FOCUS AREAS HUMAN RIGHTS Our philosophy is to use our global network to learn from and influence all partners involved. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and We will build bridges between our different projects making sure that we bring out the best practice to all corners of the world. We will take the role also as the link between producers and customers/end-users. Our ambition is to invent sustainable solutions with the highest food safety standards that respect the Global Compact principles Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The ten principles of Global Compact complement our work and activities and therefore we describe our progress and efforts in these areas. LABOR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. BUSINESS ETHICS Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. 16 17 We work to create a culture where everyone feels welcomed, valued, respected, and empowered 18 19 LABOR / HUMAN RIGHTS AN INCLUSIVE AND DIVERSE CULTURE BASED ON VALUES In Uhrenholt we harness our people’s diverse experiences and backgrounds to better understand the needs of global customers, drive innovation, and enhance employee engagement. We work to create a culture where everyone feels welcomed, valued, respected, and empowered. Diversity has always been an important trademark of Uhrenholt. We are represented in more than 20 countries and have 25 nationalities employed. We want to reflect the variety in society in terms of culture and way of thinking. At the same time our focus is on ensuring that our partners, customers and consumers experience a high level of service whoever they address. In Uhrenholt we want to promote not least gender diversity at all levels of management. In 2015 we reached our goal to increase the proportion of female managers to at least 40% and we are close to reaching our goal of 25% female directors. We continuously focus on upgrading the competences among the sales force. Internal and external people within commercial sale have been through our internal Uhrenholt sales training course – these costs are not part of the figures invested in education and training. After finishing the course, the skills are maintained through consistent and structured follow-up by the trainer and the board of directors. FLEXIBLE WORKING Total employees 2015 537 2016 479 2017 464 We respect and care for each other through an open environment that offers our employees opportunities to Female 43% 44% 47% learn and grow. Open communication within offices and across countries, helps us work well together and always Male 57% 56% 53% strive to do the right thing. Collaboration is at the heart of our culture. Average age 40,7 41,2 40,6 Uhrenholts technologies enable people to collaborate with colleagues around the world. Employees share ideas, Average seniority 4,1 6,3 5,5 brainstorm solutions, and recognize achievements to help us succeed together. Sick leave percentage 1,6% 2,5% 2,9% Our Global Brand Team is just one example. It was established cross regions to collaborate on new initiatives and Number of promotions (next level promotions) 25 20 10 ensure knowledge sharing globally, thereby creating a level playing field regarding new product introductions, Female managers 40% 49% 63% sales and marketing. By conduction monthly conference calls the team ensures dissemination of information and Male managers 60% 51% 37% alignment on joint decisions going forward aiming to achieve greater focus, synergy and added value to each emFemale directors 15% 23% 23% ployee, our company and our partners. Male directors 85% 77% 77% Generally, our technologies promote flexible working that can enhance health and well-being by enabling people Investment in education and training (external) € per, employee 112 227 87 to better balance work and personal commitments. In addition, flexible work practices also help us meet our enviNumber of nationalities 21 23 25 ronmental goals by reducing the need for air and car travel. 20 | LABOR / HUMAN RIGHTS 21 STUDENT WORK AND INTERNSHIPS At Uhrenholt we continue our work in educating apprentices in 2-year apprenticeships. Approx. 80 apprentices – 3-4 at a time have over the years been trained, primarily within sales, sales coordination, purchasing, finance and media graphic design. We strive to maintain some of the apprentices in the company after finishing the apprenticeship and giving them the possibility to grow and make solid careers. Besides the apprenticeship program, Uhrenholt offer students at universities and business schools and recent graduates the possibility for writing their master thesis with our assistance or giving them the possibility for shorter or longer internships at our HQ or at one of the regional offices. This teaches them to put theory into practice and give them a better understanding of the work life they are about to enter. FIRST AID AND DEFIBRILLATOR More and more companies choose to invest in an AED (defibrillator). Shock from an AED is the most effective treatment of heart failure and increases the survival chances significantly. Every minute is vital when someone suffers a cardiac arrest and it happens for approximately 3,500 Danes outside the hospital every year. At Uhrenholt's head office and at our Danish department in Aalborg, we have set up AEDs. These are also registered on TrygFondens list of AEDs in Denmark which means that other people can find them in emergency. 22 LABOR / HUMAN RIGHTS | 23 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT UHRENHOLT SUPPLIER REQUIREMENTS COVERS THE FOLLOWING ELEMENTS: FOOD SAFETY AND QUALITY ASSURANCE: • Compliance with laws and regulations UHRENHOLT COOPERATES WITH A GLOBAL NETWORK OF SUPPLIERS • Food safety management system It is crucial that our suppliers demonstrate professional care for our interests ensuring that products delivered to • Product specification Uhrenholt are safe and produced under secure and responsible conditions in all aspects. • Food contact packaging materials Therefore our suppliers undergo critical risk assessment regarding food safety, quality assurance and corporate • Genetically Modified Organism (GMO) social responsibility including elements which are part of our AEO approval. • Irradiation • Allergens Risk assessment of suppliers is based on the following criterias: • Chemical, physical and microbiological contamination • Certificate of Conformance COC / Certificate of Analysis COA • Duly signed ”Uhrenholt Supplier Requirements” • Handling of claims • Level of food safety and quality assurance management at the supplier • Crisis management and recall/withdrawal of products • Food safety risk profile of the products to be produced by the supplier • Country of production CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: • Brands to be produced at the supplier / overall commercial impact for Uhrenholt • Human rights • Labour standards Based on risk assessment, onsite audit at the supplier’s production and storage facilities can take place by Uhren• Environment holt to ensure compliance with our requirements. • Workplace environment • Anti-corruption AUTHORISED ECONOMIC OPERATORS (AEO): • Secure premises and conditions • Reliable staff • Protection against unauthorised interference Uhrenholt prefers suppliers holding a food safety certificate approved by GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative) like BRC Global Standard, IFS Food Standard, FSSC 22000, SQF 2000 level 2 and others. Suppliers not holding a food safety certificate approved by GFSI are required to answer the Uhrenholt Supplier Self-Assessment Questionnaire which could very well be followed by an onsite audit. The Uhrenholt supplier network is continuously developing and consequently the supplier risk assessment and approval process is ongoing. Per 31.12.2017 the following numbers of our suppliers have signed the Uhrenholt Supplier Requirements and passed our supplier risk assessment: 90% of the total number of suppliers (75% in 2016) 92% of the top 100 suppliers measured on purchase value (86% in 2016) 97% of the suppliers representing 90% of the GM (96% in 2016) In 2018 our goal is to increase further the number of suppliers who have signed the Uhrenholt Supplier Requirements and passed our supplier risk assessment: Suppliers who have signed the Uhrenholt Supplier Requirements and 2015 2016 2017 passed our supplier risk assessment % of total number of suppliers measured on purchase value 71% 75% 90% % of the 100 suppliers measured on purchase value 91% 86% 92% % of the suppliers representing 90% of the GM 91% 96% 97% 24 LABOR / HUMAN RIGHTS | 25 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE HEALTHY LIVING na tu rally grow n At Uhrenholt we want to minimize our impact on the environment which means that we always are looking for EMBORG IS FOCUSING ON INNOVATION (AND FULFILLING sustainable and environmental friendly solutions and routes-to-market. THE GROWING TREND OF “HEALTHY LIVING”) With the growing health-consciousness of consumers, we face an increased demand Environmental responsibility is a moral obligation for any commercial business. Protection of our nature including for efficient and functional healthy products that can fit easily within a healthy lifestyle. 10 0% c biological diversity on earth is an important issue when reviewing different business areas. As a market leader we are committed to respond to our global consumers’ emerging o r g a ni Uhrenholt follows the environmental legislation in the countries we are placed, but acknowledge that our responneeds for a healthier lifestyle. sibility includes our business in other countries and an effort for further improvement. Our company structure leads to different areas on which we can influence the environment. These include our offices around the world, our cooperation with food producers and suppliers worldwide and of cause our own A WIDER ORGANIC EMBORG ASSORTMENT dairy plant Grøndal. Since we became members of Denmark’s two leading trade organisations, Økologisk Landsforening (Organic Denmark) and Bio aus Dänemark, back in 2015 we have experienced a continued growth in production and an increase in sales of organic dairy products. SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL As a result, today we are representing a wide range of Danish-produced organic dairy products that we are mainly selling in the Scandinavian countries as well as in Germany. In addition to this, in 2017 we launched our first Emborg organic vegetable products worldwide and have benefited from the rising demand within this category – so that this year The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) unites stakeholders from the palm oil industry: Oil palm producers, we are able to launch additional products within our Emborg organic assortment. processors or traders, consumer goods manufacturers, retailers, banks/investors, and environmental and social non-governmental organisations (NGOs), to develop and implement global standards for sustainable palm oil. The RSPO has developed a set of environmental and social criteria which companies must comply with in order EMBORG ARE NOW EXTENDING WITH VEGAN (SUITABLE) PRODUCTS to produce Certified Sustainable Palm Oil (CSPO). When they are properly applied, these criteria can help to Veganism was originally born of a desire to live in harmony with animals and the natural environment whilst minimize the negative impact of palm oil cultivation on the environment and communities in palm oil-producing being good to yourself. regions. The RSPO has more than 1,700 members worldwide who represent all links along the palm oil supply chain. They Nowadays though, we understand that there are other reasons why consumers might be seeking dairy-free have committed to produce, source and/or use sustainable palm oil certified by the RSPO. Totally 20% of palm oil alternatives to cheese, like allergies or intolerances. globally is certified by RSPO (2015). So, whether consumers are already living a vegan lifestyle, or are enjoying a more flexitarian way of living, Palm oil is used in some Uhrenholt products mainly because of excellent technical functionalities of palm oil in Emborg is also now accommodating this with our new Emborg Vegan assortment. many food applications. Our aim is to use Certified Sustainable Palm oil wherever possible. This work continues All our new plant-based vegan products are free from lactose, gluten as well as being soy and nut free together with our suppliers in 2018. – meaning that our products are safe for those with lactose, gluten, nut and soy intolerance. We are confident that we offer our consumers a tasty assortment that will fulfill their taste buds and needs. We have not made any compromise on taste, quality or consistency and are excited to launch three types of sliced products and three types of shredded products within our vegan assortment. 26 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE | 27 TRANSPORT FOOD WASTE Uhrenholt has a huge focus on optimizing the transportation need and aim for using the most direct way to the Avoiding food waste is essential in our private household but also at Uhrenholt we care. customer, which gives the lowest impact on the environment with less CO2 emission. There is an increased foWith almost 150 items, 9,000 MT being rotated yearly through our warehouse in Padborg and distributed to more cus on developing more environmental trucks, and the trucking companies we are using must live up to the CO2 than 50 countries worldwide, it is unavoidable that some volumes do not get rotated within sufficient time to live norm valid for the involved countries. up with customers shelf life requirements. A big part of our volumes is shipped in containers by sea, and the vessel operators have a big focus on using fuel Together with the warehouse Uhrenholt has found a local organisation which helps the homeless and families in with less climate impact, and further developing vessels which have a very low fuel consumption. need. They cook a daily meal for the homeless and make sure to distribute any access food to families in need. In a still increasing number of countries, the authorities are implementing rules demanding for the use of low sulWhen we at Uhrenholt have some products which are close to expiry we inform the warehouse to give these phur fuel, with a lower impact on the climate. This makes the use of transport by sea even more environmentally products away. This way we help people and families in need and we avoid food waste. friendly. 28 | ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE We believe in close partnerships and networks 30 31 GRØNDAL DAIRY Since 2012, Grøndal Dairy has maintained certification in concordance with FSSC 22.000. As a result of the certification and the work with continuous improvement of quality and food safety, the dairy has had success in: • Upgrading the whole organisation with knowledge and awareness on food safety • Signal that our management system to control food safety is in place and up to date • Ensuring ongoing focus internally on continuous improvements The work continues towards improvements to maintain the highest food safety and quality of the products. We are constantly developing our cheese production facilities at Grøndal Dairy. In August 2016 we implemented a new whey concentration plant to utilize the biproduct from the cheese production in the best possible way. It allows us to recycle whey in a much more sustainable way as it is changed into a valuable raw material. However, regarding the benchmark of our use of energy, water resources, CO2 emissions and garbage production, this new equipment of course distort the image of 2017 compared with the previous year. Cheese production in 2017 was slightly lower than in 2016 but at the same time we had a full year with retentate (whey concentrate) production. RESULTS 2017 Production 2016 Production 2017 Cheese 4,705 m.t. 4,331 m.t -7.9% Whey concentrate 2,539 m.t 6,997 m.t +276.6% Total use 2016 Total use 2017 Use 2016 vs. 2015 pr kg cheese produced CO2 1,336 Mt 1,348 Mt +12.7% Electricity 2,955 Mwh 2,983 Mwh +8.8% Gas 518,280 Nm3 573,478 Nm3 +16.8% Water 108,649 m3 115,112 m3 +13.1% Waste 91,920 kg 77,010 kg -9.8% 32 | ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE BUSINESS ETHICS BUSINESS UHRENHOLT A/S IS AN PRINCIPLES AEO CERTIFIED COMPANY The core competence of Uhrenholt is the ability to source, sell, In December 2012, Uhrenholt A/S officially received the AEO certificate proving our status as an Authorized distribute and market food products in a way that respect all the Economic Operator (AEO). In 2017 our compliance has been reviewed and sustained by the Danish Tax Authorities. regulations and red tape that follows international food business. It is our promise to our stakeholders, partners, consumers and the The AEO certificate confirms that Uhrenholt A/S is a reliable partner in all societies in which we operate that we continuously develop our economic, custom and safety related operations. Uhrenholt A/S meets all procedures to maintain this status. the common criteria regarding: Uhrenholt • security and safety standards Business The traditional skills required of the individual trader remain – but • record of compliance with customs requirements Principles every day the surrounding commercial world changes and the • satisfactory system of managing commercial and transport records, 2017 / 2018 POLICIES AND GUIDELINES FOR BUSINESS CONDUCT administrative burden is increasing. To cope with this our Uhrenholt which allows appropriate customs controls WITHIN UHRENHOLT GROUP Business Principles for internal use serves to frame and codify our • proven financial solvency key commercial rules and habits. To the benefit of our partners, the AEO certificate allows goods handled by Uhrenholt a preferential treatment in All together the Uhrenholt Business Principles concerns the way we care about our image, brands, employees, certain procedures of customs control of goods and documents. First of all at the EU level, but in the long term it compliance, documents and not least our money. As more colleagues join our company across our global market will become much more global. So far mutual recognition is in place with USA, China, Japan, Norway and Switzerthe Uhrenholt Business Principles also clearly define how we expect employees to behave, act and work together land. internally and externally. Uhrenholt is among the frontrunners in the Danish food sector to obtain the AEO certificate and as such we are in It is reviewed regularly and employees are urged to familiarize with those parts that are relevant in their due time to face the future. Companies with AEO status are recognized as safe, secure and compliant business specific position. partners in international trade. CODE OF CONDUCT FRAUD FIGHTING As we operate in more than 80 countries it is only natural that employees working in the frontline find our busiUnfortunately attempts of fraud and scam have become part of daily life in the international food sector trading. ness ethics challenged from time to time. It is of paramount importance that all employees share Uhrenholt’s To combat these crimes and protect members and their partners against identity theft and fake companies interpretation of moral and ethical values. Serving as an educational tool, as a moral obligation and as a support in Eucolait – the European organisation of trading companies in the dairy sector – has initiated a warning system. daily decision making our Code of Conduct is perceived as an important tool. All employees have signed the Code of Conduct. All members are strongly encouraged to share any information about fraud cases as quickly as possible with the Eucolait secretariat for further distribution among the members. Uhrenholt will continuously seek to improve the level of business ethics even further. We care about choosing business partners, whose business standards and ethics match ours. In Uhrenholt we fully support these efforts. Being a global trading company we inevitably also operate in a number of countries that according to the corruption index developed by Transparency International are high risk areas. There is a close link between these Business Principles and our Code of Conduct. 34 | BUSINESS ETHICS BUSINESS ETHICS | 35 PARTNERSHIP DEVELOPMENT COLD CHAIN IN AFRICA Year by year we increase and develop our activities and collaboration with partners primarily in Africa. In 2012 we launched our unbroken cold chain project in Africa. Ever since it has been developed further and today freezers have been distributed to local business partners in 11 countries. THE PROJECT CONTINUOUSLY AIMS AT: • Improving food safety and developing our access to market • Allowing the retail stores to store frozen products correctly and offer products from an unbroken cold chain • Allowing our local business partners to offer a broader range of products, which are stored correctly and with due respect to food safety principles • Supplying freezers that have been assessed from an environmental view to avoid excessive electricity consumption • Providing freezers that are purchased and serviced locally The envisaged target of creating 2-3 more workplaces per country involved has been achieved. LOCAL PRODUCTION Assisted by the Danida Explorer program we were able to make further progress in our efforts to complement our exports to the African market with products sourced and processed locally. We aim for partnerships with local dairy companies that are likely to have access to increasing amounts of raw milk and who we can join to develop the African dairy market in terms of scale, assortment and quality. The Explorer project enabled us to map the opportunities in the East and South African region for local processing of dairy products based on local raw material to be marketed at payable prices. Realization of local production in Uhrenholt brands will initially focus on long shelf life liquid products – white milk, flavored milk and yoghurt. Cheese is an option for the long term but is a much more demanding challenge. We gained our first experiences from a smallscale production in Kigali, Rwanda that was started in 2016. Today we are exporting UHT-milk from Rwanda to Uganda and Tanzania. Next step will be realized in 2018 with production in Nairobi, Kenya. In cooperation with our local partner we plan to market 20 SKUs within the categories white milk, flavoured milk, drinking yoghurt and yoghurt. There is a huge potential for the local farmers and industries to grow in these regions and increase self-sufficiency. However, it takes time and patience to build the necessary bridges to develop trustful partnerships and joint ventures between low technology local industries and external investors. CHARITY THE 2017 UHRENHOLT CHRISTMAS DONATION By tradition, Uhrenholt donates DKK 100,000 to a humanitarian cause rather than giving away Christmas presents. This year, the donation went to WWF (World Wide Fund for Nature), which is the world’s leading conservation organisation working in over 100 countries. WWF's unique way of working combines global reach with a foundation in science, involves action at every level from local to global, and ensures the delivery of innovative solutions that meet the needs of both people and nature. The Uhrenholt donation was given to a Major Donor Group programme that seeks to support the goals of WWF Denmark's new strategy 2018-2021. 36 37 PROGRESS 2017 CSR 2018 FOCUS AREA ACTIVITY AND GOAL 2017 RESULT 2017 FOCUS AREA ACTIVITY AND GOAL 2018 Business Ethics Employees Written catalogue evaluated and updated for Define and begin implementation including leadership development, competence Uhrenholt Business Principles Global HR-strategy stakeholders and employees development, talent management and succession planning Allowing university students and recent graduates the possibility for shorter AEO certificate Maintenance and renewal Internships or longer internships at our HQ or at one of the regional offices Labour/Human rights Business Ethics Uhrenholt 90 % of the total Written catalogue to be evaluated and maintained annually Business Principles number of suppliers (75% in 2016) AEO certificate Recertification and audition expected in 2018 92 % of the top Human Rights/Labour 100 suppliers Further improve the score of suppliers who Uhrenholt Quality AssurFurther improve the score of suppliers who have signed and perform in measured on purSupplier Management have signed and perform in accordance with ance for suppliers accordance with the Uhrenholt Supplier requirements chase value (92% the Uhrenholt Supplier requirements in 2016) Environment/Climate 97 % of the suppliers representing Review the 2020 environment goals and action plan after the implementation Grøndal Dairy 90% of the GM of our whey concentration plant (96% in 2016) Organic Further develop our organic assortment in dairy and frozen vegetables Reach our goals of Vegan Launch our assortment of dairy free alternatives Gender diversity • 40% female managers • 25% female directors (almost) Partnership Development Partnership Development Local sourcing Further identify and implement local sourcing in selected key markets Enhance our conscious approach to halal and Accommodate customers religious Accommodate customers kosher products to accommodate religious Enhance our conscious approach to halal and kosher products to accommodate and cultural preferences religious and cultural and cultural preferences of customers religious and cultural preferences of customers preferences Continue to expand and develop business Cold chain Africa through the cold storage facilities Make at least one more partnership ready Local sourcing Africa to fly in 2017 The annual Christmas donation given to Donation WWF Denmark Environment/Climate New whey concentration plant into use to ad Grøndal Dairy value to the biproduct and recycle it in a more sustainable way Organic Further develop our organic assortment 38 39 C00124 CSR 2017, English, Print and layout 04/2018 THANKS The CSR team would like to thank all partners and employees for inspiration and support to the 2017 CSR report. Special thanks to Christa Desberg and Pia Mathiasen for again giving assistance to complete the report. The CSR team 2017 Kate Bonne Larsen (Group HR) Mette Møller Sørensen (Quality Assurance) Charlotte Kaasing Skougaard (Global Trading) Anette Gjørtsvang Kock (Legal and Risk Management) Edgar Marchl (Procurement) Jørgen Jeppe Hansen (Transport) and Keld Winther Rasmussen (Global Trading, editor). Uhrenholt A/S | Teglgårdsparken 106 | DK-5500 Middelfart | Denmark +45 64 41 40 41 | Fax: +45 64 21 21 26 | info@uhrenholt.com | uhrenholt.com
