COP – Communication on Progress in AKTOR SA 2017 AKTOR, subsidiary of ELLAKTOR Group, publishes its environmental, social and business performance through its Integrated Sustainability Reports that are issued every year by ELLAKTOR. The last version of Integrated Sustainability Report for the year 2016 has been published in the web sites www.aktor.gr and www.ellaktor.gr , while the Integrated Sustainability Report for the year 2017 is being composed and will be published during June 2018 in the above mentioned web sites. The Sustainability Report 2017 for ELLAKTOR / AKTOR conforms to the criteria and requirements of UN Global Compact (UNGC) G4. Through the publication of the Sustainability Reports, a continuous contact with the stakeholders is pursued, aiming at the information about subjects relative to the environment, the human-employee and the financial development. AKTOR’s performances are measured and reported in each annual Sustainability Report including the actions of adopting and implementing the 10 Principles of UN Global Compact (UNGC) and every commitment against these principles. Therefore, concerning the actions taken for the support – implementation of the UNGC 10 Principles, AKTOR presents a continuous improvement in environmental, labor and social subjects. Especially, concerning to:  The acceptance of human rights and their violation as reported in the UNGC Principles 1, 2 and 3, AKTOR has adopted the aspects of human rights declaration, preventing violations of human rights, while equal opportunities are given to all employees. These commitments are stated on the ELLAKTOR’s Sustainability Report 2017, chapter Employment and Employees.  Discriminations in employment, child and forced labor prohibition, as mentioned in Principles 4, 5 and 6 of the UNGC, in AKTOR child and forced labor as well as any discrimination in employment are forbidden. These commitments are stated on the ELLAKTOR’s Sustainability Report 2017, chapter Employment and Employees.  Initiatives for the encouragement of further environmental responsibility as it is mentioned in the UNGC Principles 7, 8 and 9, AKTOR implements Environmental Management System, verified by EMAS III and certified by ISO 14001:2015 and publishes the environmental actions and benefits for the environment and the Corporate Responsibility, in the Sustainability Report 2017, chapter Environment.  AKTOR complies with the ELLAKTOR GROUP S.A. Code of Conduct, which was approved in July 2016 by the Board of Directors. Based on the Code of Conduct, the Group promotes and encourages behaviors based on the best principles of business ethics, as well as on the 10 principles of UN Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of human rights, of labor conditions, of the environment and the fight against corruption. In the context of strengthening ethical behavior and principles, the Group’s and its subsidiaries’ Ethical and Regulatory Compliance Program was approved for implementation. In the context of the company’s concern about the impacts on the planet from energy consumption, AKTOR proceeded with the implementation of an Energy Management System, which was certified by ISO 50001:2011 in the year 2017. The main target of the above is the integrated management of every form of energy and the energy saving, where possible, through the appropriate actions. Through energy saving, AKTOR achieves the reduction of CO2 emissions and company’s contribution to greenhouse effect containment and fewer burdens on planet earth. Timos Karefyllakis VicePresident of AKTOR Athens, June 2018
