Report Contents Editorial Policy ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p1 Prominence in Human Resources ‥ ‥‥ p128 Scope of the CSR Report 2018 ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥ p2 Diversity Management ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p129 Building a Diverse Organizational Top Message ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p3 Structure ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p134 Allowing Diverse Human Resources Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR to Excel ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p140 Our Company ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p5 Basis for Fostering Personnel ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p155 Our Approach to CSR ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p9 Data on Employees ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p160 CSR Management Promotion System ‥‥‥‥ p10 CSR Management Policies ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p11 Pledge to Society ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p163 Key CSR Issues ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p17 Working Environments ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p164 CSR Medium-term Plan ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p21 Safety ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p171 SDGs Initiatives ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p26 Compliance and Respect for Human Rights ‥p184 Prominence in Environment ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥ p28 Stakeholder Engagement ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥ p195 Promotion System ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p29 External Evaluation ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p201 Long-term Environmental Management Vision Sekisui Environment Sustainability Governance‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p203 Vision 2030 ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p30 Governance / Internal Control ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥ p203 Environmental Medium-Term Plan Risk Management ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p205 Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Cyber Security ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p210 Accelerate Respect for International Norms ‥ ‥‥‥‥ p213 (fiscal 2017-2019) ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p31 Integrated Index Sekisui Environmental Social Contribution Activities ‥ ‥‥‥‥ p214 Sustainability Index ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p38 Environment ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p220 Environmental Management System ‥ ‥‥ p42 Next Generation ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p226 Environmental Education ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p48 Local Communities ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p236 Environmental Accounting ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p55 Special Topic ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p245 Usage of Environmental Capital ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥ p59 Climate Change ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p60 GRI Standard Context Index ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p247 Efficient Use of Resources ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p74 Independent Practitioner's Assurance Conservation of Water Resources ‥‥‥‥‥ p80 Report ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p304 Chemical Substance Management ‥ ‥‥‥ p85 Environmental Impact Assessment ‥ ‥‥‥ p91 References ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p305 Material Balance ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p92 Contributing to Return of Natural Capital ‥ p93 Environment-contributing Products ‥‥‥‥ p94 Conserving the Natural Environment ‥ ‥ p100 Prominence in CS & Quality ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥ p106 Medium-term Plan ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p109 Creating Attractive Products and Services ‥p112 Improving Quality ‥ ‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥‥ p120 Editorial Policy Editorial Policy ・The CSR Report 2018 is published with the goals of informing stakeholders about the Sekisui Chemical Group's social responsibilities and the various initiatives in which it is involved to resolve social issues and of increasing public understanding of the group's activities. ・The report consists of the CSR philosophies set forth in the CSR Medium-term Plan drawn up in 2017, namely “Three Prominences (“the environment,” “CS & quality,” and “human resources”),” “Pledge to Society” (“working environments,” “safety,” and “compliance and respect for human rights”), “Stakeholder Engagement,” and “Governance”—along which lines this site has been built. ・The information posted here has been decided upon in reference to various report-drafting guidelines, based on internal and external surveys and third-party reviews, and in consideration of what is important for both society and the Sekisui Chemical Group. ・The CSR Report 2018 has been edited with an anticipated readership of all stakeholders involved with the Sekisui Chemical Group, particularly institutions that evaluate ESG and long-term investors. ・The “pamphlet edition” that was published through fiscal year 2017 has been done away with; all information relating to the CSR activities of the Sekisui Chemical Group are posted on this website as the “CSR Report 2018 Web Edition.” The “CSR Report 2018 PDF Edition,” which has the same content as the Web Edition, can also be downloaded from the PDF download page. ・The standards used for calculating the major reported performance indicators are compiled together and listed after each set of performance data. ・To ensure reliability, the environmental and social information in the Japanese version of CSR Report 2018 PDF Edition has been assured by a third-party organization. Guidelines Used for Reference, etc. ・The CSR Report 2018 was written following the Core options of the GRI Standards. ・The Ministry of the Environment's Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Edition)” were also used as a reference. 1 Scope of the CSR Report 2018 Scope of This Report Entities Encompassed by This Report :The basic function of this report is to comment on the activities of the Sekisui Chemical Group, focusing chiefly on the business facilities that play key roles in those activities. Timeframe Encompassed by This Report : April 2017-March 2018 (Includes some activities that occurred outside this timeframe.) Published :July 2018 (Previous report was published June 2017 / Next report is scheduled publication in July 2019) Scope of Independent Practitioner's Assurance The environmental and social information in the Japanese version of CSR Report 2018 PDF Edition has been assured by third-party organization. Information that falls within the scope of independent practitioner's assurance is identified by mark. Further, for Independent Practitioner's Assurance Report, see the posting on Page 304 on Independent Practitioner's Assurance Report. Disclaimer Readers are requested to note the following: The information in the CSR Report 2018 includes not only past and present facts concerning Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd, and its affiliates but also future forecasts based on current plans and projections and management plans and management policies as of the time of publication. Changes in various factors could cause the results of business activities in the future and other circumstances to differ from these forecasts. Also, since the figures in the tables and graphs contained in this report have been adjusted through rounding off and other means, in some cases total figures may not be equal to the sums of their parts. In addition, for some items data for past fiscal years has been revised in line with expansion in the scope of summation, revision of calculation methods, and changes to environmental load coefficients. 2 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Top Message The Sekisui Chemical Group is involved in social issues through our outstanding technology and quality based on our Group vision of contributing to the improvement of people's lives around the world and the Earth's environment, with the aim of managing the creation of social value while balancing the environmental, social, and economic aspects, and implementing business activities accordingly. We aim to further increase our corporate value, based on the understanding that it is equal to economic value plus the value of the positive and negative impacts on the environment and society caused by corporate activities. In our medium-term management plan “SHIFT 2019 -Fusion-,” we are engaged in the following initiatives: “Sustainable : Establish sustainable business base from E/S/G viewpoint,” “Human Resources : Empowerment of diverse employees who support the business,” “Innovation : Create new products and new businesses with prominent technologies and quality,” “Frontier : Develop new fields, new area, and new applications,” and “Transformation : Promote transformation (strengthening earnings power) and establish strong business structure.” Concerning our business performance in terms of economic value, in fiscal year 2017, we achieved record-high levels of profit at all stages through expanding sales of high-value added products and other means, even against headwinds, such as a rise in raw material costs. Just as planned, we were also able to pursue initiatives aimed at future growth, including launching new products, venturing into new fields, and making investments (M&A, general investments, capital expenditures, and research and development). The core keyword we are emphasizing as we proceed with our medium-term management plan is “Fusion.” We are encouraging going beyond the silos of each Company and fusing their technologies, business opportunities, talent, and other resources together within the entire Group, and we have fully laid out the results that can be expected in the future for endeavors such as the “SEKISUI Safe & Sound Project” for urban development, which brings together the total capabilities of the Sekisui Chemical Group. Top Message 3 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Meanwhile, concerning the fiscal year 2017 CSR activities that affected our impact on the environment and society, we revised the definition and scope of contribution of our Environment-contributing Products—which also respond to what is called for in the SDGs—established an investment framework for contributing to the environment and reducing our environmental impact, created a declaration on work-style reforms, shored up our Group governance through the establishment of a new regional headquarters in Thailand, engaged in activities for making our facilities safe at the essential level, and implemented various other measures. Progress toward our fiscal year 2017 targets in the CSR Medium-term Plan is somewhat behind schedule, but we will aim to attain our current medium-term targets through the measures we have implemented thus far and those that we will implement in fiscal year 2018 onward. The next 30 years will see rapid changes, and it will be an era in which it is extremely unclear what might happen. However, it is certain that there will always be a need for products and services that underpin healthy lifestyles for people. Clean water, clean air, disaster-resistant and clean houses and towns, healthy bodies. It will continue to be the Sekisui Chemical Group's mission to contribute to resolving issues related to these things that no one can do without through our prominent technology and quality. We will hold fast to our will to contribute to “people’s lives and the environment” through prominent technology and quality and act on that will. This will take the form of putting our Corporate Philosophy of the “3S Principles” and our Group Vision into practice, in line with the essence of the Sekisui Chemical Group. We will continue to put the essence of the Sekisui Chemical Group on full display as we contribute to building a sustainable society. We would like to thank all our stakeholders in advance for the continued support. Top Message 4 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Our Company Globally rolling out diverse businesses that create social value based on 3 Group companies Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Plastics Company Environmental Products Company Housing Company Housing business :Steel-framed unit housing Sekisui Heim, wooden-framed unit housing Sekisui Two-U Home, land for sale in lots Remodeling business : Sekisui Fami-S Real estate business :Second-hand distribution, rental management Home lifestyle service business :Homes for the elderly with services, interiors, exteriors, etc. Business Value Chain Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 5 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Pipes and infrastructure fields :PVC pipes and joints, polyethylene pipes and joints, plastic valves, pipe rehabilitation materials and methods, reinforced plastic complex pipes, water tanks Construction and housing environment fields :Construction materials (guttering, exterior materials), heat-resistant materials, functional mats, care instruments, bathroom units Functional materials field :Decorative seats, synthetic wood (FFU), thermoplastic CFRP, soundproof vibration-suppressing materials, blow containers, farming and construction materials Business Value Chain Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 6 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index High Performance Plastics Company Electronics field :Liquid crystal particles, photosensitive materials, semiconductor materials, optical film, industrial tape Vehicle and shipping fields :Interlayer film for laminated glass, foam polyolefins, vehicle resin and rubber molded products, industrial tape, heat dissipation materials (grease and sheets) Housing infrastructure materials field :Functional resin for infrastructure materials, flame-resistant materials, foam polyolefins, non-flammable polyurethane, polyurethane, livestock panels Life science field :Reagents, examination instruments, pharmaceuticals, drug manufacture support business, hygiene materials Other industrial fields :Adhesives, wrapping tape, plastic containers, polyvinyl alcohol resin Business Value Chain Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 7 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Sekisui Chemical Group Worldwide * Figures current as of the end of March 31, 2018 (on a consolidated basis) Business Data No. of employees by region Sales by region See the fact book for details of the management indices. Fact Book http://www.sekisuichemical.com/ir/library/fact/index.html Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 8 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Our Approach to CSR Promoting Activities That are in Tune with Business Strategies as Part and Parcel of Efforts to Put into Effect the “3S Principles” of the Group’s Corporate Philosophy Basic Stance CSR at the Heart of the Group’s Management Strategy Contributing to society and creating value through its business activities, lies at the heart of the Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR activities. Put another way, promoting CSR activities is essential to realizing the Group’s vision and the “3S Principles.” By positioning CSR at the center of our management strategy, and promoting CSR management, we remain convinced that we will raise the quality of corporate management. With this understanding, we proactively engage in CSR management regardless of the business environment in order to achieve sustainable growth and innovation in our businesses. We must continue to change and evolve. Key Themes Three Prominences, Pledge to Society, Governance, and Stakeholder Engagement The Sekisui Chemical Group has positioned CSR, and in particular resolving social issues through business activities as well as promoting social responsibility in business practices at the heart of its management strategy. Through constructive dialogue with stakeholders, who we see as partners in the creation of value, we are working to incorporate expectations and demands into our management and operations. Recognizing that governance provides the underlying strength for all of the Group’s operations, we are building the necessary structure and systems to earn the trust of society. With a robust governance structure and systems as its platform, the Sekisui Chemical Group maintains its pledge to society to act responsibly in terms of safety, compliance and respect for human rights, and its working environment across all business processes. Moreover, the Group will endeavor to resolve social issues through its business activities across its Three Prominences in the environment, CS & Quality, and human resources. In this manner, the Sekisui Chemical Group will realize its Group Vision. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 9 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index CSR Management Promotion System Promoting CSR Management Across the Group as a Whole in an Effort to Increase Corporate Value CSR Committee / Subcommittee Structure The CSR Committee, with Participation by Top Management and Employee Representatives As a venue for deliberation on CSR management, the Sekisui Chemical Group has set up the CSR Committee. Under the umbrella of this Committee, the Group has established five subcommittees covering the environment, CS & Quality, human resources, safety, and compliance. Chaired by the President, the CSR Committee's membership also includes the executive officer responsible for the Business Strategy Department serving as deputy chairperson, the president of each division company, headquarters directors, and three employee representatives including the chairperson of the central executive committee of the Sekisui Chemical Labor Union. All members of the CSR Committee are working diligently to improve committee deliberations and measures. CSR Committee / Subcommittee Structure Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 10 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index CSR Management Policies We have determined all management policies that presume CSR activities such as environmental management, CS & Quality management, and personnel and human rights policies, etc. Sekisui Chemical Group Environmental Management Policy Mission We, Sekisui Chemical Group, aim to be a Global Environmental Top Runner that contributes to the realization of a sustainable society by enabling the continuous growth and co-existence of ecology and the economy. Basic Policy Each company in Sekisui Chemical Group advances approaches that contribute to the prevention of global warming, the preservation of biological diversity and the construction of a recycling-based society in all countries and regions where they have operations, in order to leave this beautiful earth for our children in the future. 1. We contribute to the environment through our products and services, with consideration given to the environment in all stages of the product life cycle from research to procurement, production, sales, use, and disposal as waste. 2. We carry out environmentally conscious business activities in all our workplaces and offices, and promote our approach to the environment through cooperation with our customers and business partners. 3. We make efforts to reduce the environmental impact of greenhouse gas emissions and hazardous chemicals, etc., and to prevent pollution by promoting the effective use of limited resources and energy. 4. We observe the related laws, regulations, international rules, etc. 5. We make efforts to improve environmental consciousness through education, and advance continual improvements by setting our own objectives and targets. 6. We enhance confidence through close communications with society. 7. We aggressively work on social contribution activities such as nature conservation activities in each region. Sekisui Chemical Group CS & Quality Management Policy Mission We, Sekisui Chemical Group, consider CS & Quality as our central concept of management and will consistently innovate to maintain the quality of products throughout all our activities, continuously provide values (goods and services) that meet customer expectations, strive for selection by our customers on an ongoing basis, and develop and grow with the customer over the long time. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 11 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Basic Policy We, Sekisui Chemical Group, consider Customer's Feedback as precious resources for management and strive to innovate about Quality of Products, Quality of People and Quality of Systems based on the motto We consider customer's feedback as the beginning of our manufacturing. Furthermore, we contribute to the realization of a safe and affluent society by continuously providing our customers and their communities with new value. 1. Ensuring basic qualities To ensure the reliability and safety of our manufactured products, which form the basis of Product Quality, we effectively leverage customer's feedback and dedicate ourselves with a strong belief in forestalling any potential trouble and preventing any future recurrence throughout our entire value chain. 2. Creating attractive qualities We aim to share the emotional values of our customers by thoroughly pursuing what the customer value and constantly creating attractive products and services that should realize such customer values. 3. Upgrading technological capabilities For the sake of ensuring Basic Qualities and for creating Attractive Qualities, we are upgrading our technological capabilities in all fields in order to achieve superb manufacturing development. 4. Enhancing communications We value communication with our customers and the community and make sincere efforts when dealing with them as well as complying with the relevant laws and regulations in each country and region. We place special emphasis on resolving customer complaints or claims at an early stage by responding promptly and empathetically. 5. Providing thorough employee education To gain and maintain the full trust and impression of our customers, we provide employees with continuous CS & Quality education as well as motivating our employees to achieve self-realization through customer satisfaction. Sekisui Chemical Group Personnel and Human Rights Policy Mission Based on our belief that employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society, we, Sekisui Chemical Group, are committed to developing an environment where employees can work enthusiastically. We also offer various opportunities through which we help individual employees enhance their specialties and grow personally. With the recognition that it is our social responsibility to protect individual human rights, we respect the diversity, personality and individuality of each person, and promote various working styles as well as creating safe and secure work environments in response to conditions in each country and region. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 12 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Basic Policy on Human Resources 1. Creating opportunities for employees to take on new challenges We encourage employees to exceed their performance goals and actively take on new challenges. 2. Culture that empowers employees to learn and grow independently We strive to enrich our education/training programs and develop a culture where employees learn and grow independently. 3. Continuous enhancement of performance and remuneration systems We recognize our employees’ personal commitment and strive to constantly improve the fairness and acceptance of our assessment systems regarding performance and processes. 4. Understanding and inclusivity of various working styles We respect various values and working styles and strive to provide an environment where every employee can work with enthusiasm and achieve a balance between life and work. 5. Creating safe and secure work environments We ensure that our employees work in a safe environment. Workplaces that support teamwork and communication We strive to offer an environment where all colleagues can work effectively and communicate together with respect. Basic Policy on Human Rights 1. Respect for human rights and the prohibition of discrimination Being aware of our position as a member of the international community, we appreciate and respect the cultures, customs, and values of each region and neither violate human rights ourselves nor participate in any such violations. We also never become involved in any conduct that might lead to discrimination. We never discriminate on the grounds of race, color, gender, age, language, religion, creed, disability, sexual orientation, nationality, geographical or social origin, property, or other status or any similar basis, and we neither violate human rights ourselves nor participate in any such violations. 2. Prohibition of harassment We never commit sexual harassment or other actions that stain personal character. 1. We do not commit sexual harassment or any conduct that might be misunderstood as sexual harassment. 2. We do not misuse the power of a superior position nor use any language or conduct that could sexually annoy any person. In addition, we prevent other employees from using such offensive language or conduct. 3. Prohibition of forced labor and child labor We shall never accept forced labor or child labor in any country or region. 1. We comply with the laws for the minimum working age and other relevant regulations in each country and region and do not use child labor. 2. We do not carry out any form of forced labor in any of our corporate activities. 4. Respect for basic labor rights We respect basic labor rights, including the right of workers to organize and to bargain, in accordance with the laws and customs of each country or region, and do not infringe on these rights. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 13 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Diversity Management Policy Diversity is essential to maintain our strong corporate presence for 100 years and beyond. We understand and recognize that every employee’s orientation to work and life, and their personal strengths are different and thus we use this to our advantage. Through employee dialogue, we will strengthen our organizational culture by providing employment, opportunities for development and an enhanced work environment to support growth. Statement of Work Style Reform We determine work methods that promote growth over time to enable each and every individual employee to manifest their personal characteristics, and pursue highly productive work methods that maximize success. In order to improve productivity, the Company actively invests in management resources, and unify the managers and workers to coalesce their wisdom company-wide. We nurture work worth doing by improving the quality of the job, and promote diverse HR activities by returning revolutionary successes to the workers. Sekisui Chemical Group Safety Policy Mission We, Sekisui Chemical Group, recognize that employee safety is essential to achieving sustainable growth. We aim to be a Safe and Secure enterprise that establishes safe and secure work environments and has the full trust of its customers and the community as well as its employees. Basic Policy Based on the concept of human dignity that everyone is invaluable, we prioritize safety over anything else as a basic rule in all of our business activities from development, production, construction to servicing. We are committed to promoting comprehensive safety activities with the aim of achieving zero industrial accidents, facility accidents, commuting accidents or long-term sick leave. 1. We strive to develop a safe and comfortable workplace where everyone is taken care of both mentally and physically, which should lead to good health for each of our employees whom we highly value. 2. We thoroughly disseminate the legal requirements concerning health and safety/disaster prevention to our employees to ensure compliance. 3. We carry out risk assessment and promote risk reduction measures in a systematic way to eliminate hazardous factors that compromise health and safety/disaster prevention. 4. We strive to raise awareness regarding health and safety/disaster prevention through employee education/training and promote continuous improvements by setting voluntary objectives/goals. 5. We proactively disclose any necessary information as well as gain a higher level of trust by having close communication with public administrations and local communities. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 14 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Sekisui Chemical Group Social Contribution Activities Policy As a good corporate citizen, we, Sekisui Chemical Group, engage in activities that focus on the Environment, the Next Generation, and Local Communities, and contribute not only to business activities but also to society. All employees working for Sekisui Chemical Group are proactively involved in the society and act so that they can serve as prominent human resources in society as well. In addition, their activities are supported by each company of the Group in order to generate synergistic effects. Sekisui Chemical Group Basic Procurement Policy Sekisui Chemical Group will perform its procurement of goods according to the following five basic ideas (openness, impartiality and fairness, compliance with laws and regulations, mutual trust and environmental considerations). We will strengthen our harmonious and mutually beneficial partnership with our business partners through fair transactions. Also, Sekisui Chemical Group will engage in the promotion of CSR activities through the cooperation of business partners in the Group's procurement activities. 1-1. Procurement Policy Openness Sekisui Chemical Group opens its doors not only to domestic companies but also widely to overseas companies. Impartiality and fairness Sekisui Chemical Group selects business partners based on impartial and fair evaluation standards with emphasis on quality, price and delivery lead-time, services, etc., as well as environmental considerations. Compliance with laws and regulations When engaging in purchasing transactions, Sekisui Chemical Group will comply with relevant laws, regulations and administrative instructions in Japan and overseas. Mutual trust Along with conducting transactions with mutual trust and in fulfillment of contractual obligations, we will build and maintain relationships with our business partners that allow for our mutual profitability. Environmental considerations Sekisui Chemical Group will further promote the purchase of raw materials and goods that have minimal negative impact on the environment and strive to establish a resource-recycling society through concerted efforts with business partners. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 15 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index 1-2. Request for Cooperation to Business Partners Regarding Procurement The Group is aware of CSR in all spheres of its business operations based on its philosophy of contributing to society through its business activities. To do so, it is absolutely necessary to engage in activities in mutual cooperation with business partners. We ask all business partners to carry out the following activities proactively. (1) Securing excellent Product quality Establish a quality assurance system to improve and maintain the quality of products offered to customers ·Establish a quality assurance system in conformity with ISO 9000 (2) Environmental considerations Sekisui Chemical Group is working to reduce negative impact of its products on the environment from the development and production stages to disposal. To do so, the environmental consideration of our suppliers concerning raw materials and goods is essential. ·Environmental management system in conformity with ISO 14001 ·Reduction of harmful chemical substances, etc.; procurement of goods and materials with minimal environmental impact (3) Compliance with laws, Regulations,and social customs Business partners are requested to ensure compliance with relevant laws, regulations, and appropriate social norms of the countries and regions where their business operations are conducted. ·Comply with relevant laws and regulations in the business operations ·Prohibit forced labor ·Prohibit child labor ·Prohibit discrimination against employees (4) Safety and hygiene Quality is built through human resources and facilities. The safety management of these resources is the basis of production. Business partners are requested to perform the following. ·Safety and hygiene control of the workplace and maintenance of employee health ·Machine safeguarding and safety and hygiene control of facilities ·Appropriate response to occupational accidents, facility disasters, accidents, etc. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 16 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Key CSR Issues Sekisui Chemical Group Has Defined the Key Issues in Becoming Involved with CSR Activities Identification of important issues Defining Key CSR Issues (materiality) We reviewed our involvement issues in CSR management in the midterm management plan SHIFT2019 -Fusion-, which started in FY2017, and defined the important issues (materiality). Definition Process for Key CSR Issues Key CSR issues were defined for the CRS Medium-term Plan based on the following processes. Step 1. Discussing issues from the global guidelines, etc. (1) Identify candidate issues from the UN global compact (GC) and ISO26000 While adhering to the 10 principles in the GC, we examined the involvement status within the Group for relevant activities and aspirations concerning each of the 7 main core issues in ISO26000, and identified the points where involvement was insufficient. (2) We identified candidate issues by considering the boundaries both inside and outside the Group while considering the relationship between Sekisui Chemical Group and business regarding the economics, environmental, and social items described in the GRI standard. (3) We analyzed the social issues described in SDGs, and selected the issues that provide business opportunities for Sekisui Chemical Group. In contributing to these solutions, we identified the necessary involvements. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 17 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Step 2. Identifying issues from SRI surveys and other companies' trends (1) Identifying candidate issues from SRI surveys We analyzed the issues based on the details of the replies and evaluation results to each SRI and CSR survey, and identified candidate key CSR issues where future involvement can be considered important. (2) Analysis of other companies' CSR involvement and information disclosure trends We examined CSR involvement by other advanced CSR companies and trends in their disclosure using CSR repots, etc., and identified issues where improvements to the Sekisui Chemical Group's future involvement and information disclosure are to be desired. Step 3. Analysis of stakeholder opinions and expectations (1) Sorting the major stakeholder opinions We collected and sorted the main opinions regarding CSR from the results of talking to various stakeholders such as customers, shareholders, investors, employees, trading partners, and local communities, etc. (2) Analysis of major expectations by stakeholder We took in the main opinions from the various stakeholders described in (1) above, and analyzed the main stakeholder expectations from their relationship to Sekisui Chemical Group business and CSR involvement. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 18 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Step 4. Identifying key CSR issues / Establishing CSR Medium-term Plan (1) Sorting key CSR candidate issues We added the CSR issues in which we have been strategically involved from before to candidate CSR issues identified in steps 1 to 3 above, and sorted the future key CSR candidate issues. (2) Evaluating the importance of key CSR candidate issues We comprehensively evaluated the key CSR candidate issues sorted in (1) along 2 axes: A. Important for stakeholders and B. Important for managing the Sekisui Chemical Group, and identified the key CSR issues. Further, we ranked the key CSR issues that had been identified by priority. A. Important for stakeholders was evaluated from the viewpoints of stakeholder expectations, global trends, and positive and negative impact on the planet and society, and B. Important for managing the Sekisui Chemical Group was identified from the viewpoints of Conformance to management policy and management strategy, extent of compliance with CSR issue, risk and reputation, and priority considered on the time axis. (3) Establishing CSR Medium-term Plan The objectives (KPI, etc.) for the designated key CSR issues were discussed by the main departments after deliberation by the CSR committee, and are reflected in the (draft) CSR Medium-term Plan. Finally, they were approved by the CSR committee and the CSR Medium-term Plan was verified. Reflecting the key CSR issues surely and certainly in the CSR Medium-term Plan enables them to be managed suitably through the PDCA cycle. The key CSR issues will also be reviewed when the midterm management plans are created every 3 years, and while on the one hand as a rule the midterm CSR targets will be set, on the other, the necessity of revisions will be discussed annually in light of social expectations and demands, and the business situation, etc. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 19 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Classifying key CSR issues Issues where the importance for stakeholders is extremely high, and is also extremely high for management of the Sekisui Chemical Group ·Permeation of CSR management throughout the entire Group ·Sales expansion of Environment-contributing Products Expansion of development and spread of Environment-contributing Products ·Reduction of environmental impact Reinforcement of climate change countermeasures ·Conserving the natural environment Promotion of involvement in preserving biodiversity ·Polishing up basic quality Eliminating important quality problems ·Polishing up attractive qualities Expanding products linked to solving social issues ·Global HR creation ·Promotion of diversity ·Reduction of work accidents ·Promotion of pollution prevention and illegalities ·Elimination of important compliance problems ·Thorough prevention in advance Expansion of BCP policies ·Reinforcement of crisis management systems ·Expansion of dialog with stakeholders ·Reinforcement of global governance Issues where the importance for stakeholders is high, and is also high for management of the Sekisui Chemical Group ·Reinforcement of information security ·Reduction of long work hours ·Maintenance of water resources ·Promotion of the sustainable use of resources ·Manage risks related to global labor ·Implementation of human rights due diligence ·Disclosure of the important issues identification process and identification results ·Promotion of social contribution activities Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 20 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index CSR Medium-term Plan Promoting CSR Management That is in Tune with Business Activities CSR Medium-term Plan (Fiscal 2017 to Fiscal 2019) In its Medium-term Management Plan SHIFT 2019 -Fusionthe Sekisui Chemical Group places considerable emphasis on balancing the needs to secure both social and corporate value. The main thrust throughout the period of the Plan is therefore to engage in CSR management that is in tune with business activities. In addition to creating social value, the Group is conscious of the need to identify what is required to fulfill its corporate social responsibility while promoting long-term growth. With this in mind, we have positioned the Three Prominences of the environment, customer service (CS) & quality, and human resources, our pledge to society encompassing safety, compliance and respect for human rights, and the workplace environment, as well as governance and stakeholder engagement as key issues. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 21 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Three Prominences Medium-term Key Measures FY2017 Targets FY2017 Results Targets Secure a rate of 1. Manage progress using Secure a rate of Secured a rate of return on natural integrated indices return on natural return on natural capital of 90% or (sustainability index) capital of 85% capital of 84.1% more 1) Environment2. Expand contributing 60% or more 50% 50.2% and create product sales markets for ratio environment2) Number contributing of newly products 30 or more 10 24 registered products 1) Reduce 6% or more 3% 1.5% greenhouse (vs. FY2013) (vs. FY2013) (vs. FY2013) gas emissions Environment ① Reduce water ① Reduce water ① Increased water usage by 3% or more usage by 1% usage by 3.1% (vs. (vs. FY2016) (vs. FY2016) FY2016), with an 3. Reduce increase of 1.9% in environmental Japan and an increase impact 2) Maintain of 6.6% overseas water ② Reduce the total ② Reduce the total ② Increased the resources amount of river amount of river total amount of river discharge water discharge water discharge water chemical oxygen chemical oxygen chemical oxygen demand (COD) by demand (COD) by demand (COD) by 3% or more (vs 1% (vs FY2016) 28% (vs. FY2016) FY2016) Secure an employee Secure an employee Secured an employee 4. Conserve the natural participation rate in participation rate in participation rate in environment SEKISUI Environment SEKISUI Environment SEKISUI Environment Week of 100% Week of 85% Week of 84.9% Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 22 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Three Prominences Medium-term Key Measures FY2017 Targets FY2017 Results Targets 1) Reduce the 1) Reduce the 1) There were two number of major number of major major quality issues quality issues to zero quality issues to zero 2) New definitions 1. Improve basic qualities were finalized at two 2) Clarify the 2) Reduce new Companies, while CS & definition of new product external one Company is Quality product external failure costs to zero continuing to work failure cost toward clarifying its definition Introduce nine new Introduce three new Introduce two new 2. Improve attractive qualities attractive quality attractive quality attractive quality products products products ① Raise the ratio of ① Maintain the ratio ① Maintained the women to total hires of women to total ratio of women to to 35% hires at 30–39% total hires at 30% 1)Empower ② Raise the ② Raise the ② The number women number of women number of women of women in Human Promote in management in management management Resources diversity positions to 200 positions to 145 positions: 138 Raise the number Raise the number The number of 2)Develop of participants in of participants in participants in the global talent the Global Trainee the Global Trainee Global Trainee employees Program to 20 Program to 10 Program: 10 Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 23 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Pledge to Society Medium-term Key Measures FY2017 Targets FY2017 Results Targets The incidence Halve the incidence of occupational Reduce the incidence of occupational injuries attributable Reduce the incidence of occupational injuries attributable to machinery and Safety of occupational injuries attributable to machinery and equipment was injuries to machinery and equipment (vs. down by one, at equipment to zero FY2016) 19 cases (vs. the 20 cases in FY2016) Reduced the Reduce the incidence Reduce the incidence 1.Prevent major incidence of major of major violations of of major violations of violations of laws violations of laws laws and ordinances laws and ordinances and ordinances and ordinances that Compliance that impact society that impact society and Respect for that impact society impact society to to zero to zero Human Rights zero 2.Expand the area Undertake CSR Undertake CSR Undertook CSR and scope of CSR procurement in five procurement in the procurement in the procurement global areas China area China area Reduce the number Reduce the number Reduced the number 1.Manage and of Group companies of Group companies of Group companies control prolonged where employees where employees where employees working hours (in work more than work more than work more than excess of 2,000 2,000 hours on an 2,000 hours on an 2,000 hours on an hours annually) annual basis by 30% annual basis by 20% annual basis by 2% (vs. FY2016)* (vs. FY2016) (vs. FY2016) Raise the number of Raise the number of Raised the Working Group companies Group companies number of Group Environment certified as an certified as an companies certified Excellent Enterprise Excellent Enterprise as an Excellent of Health and of Health and Enterprise of Health 2.Promote health Productivity Productivity and Productivity management Management . Management . Management . White 500 by Japan’s White 500 by Japan’s White 500 by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry to Trade and Industry to Trade and Industry to 21 four five * The medium-term target was revised, because it required more time than anticipated to formulate a policy and publicize the activities. Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 24 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Governance Medium-term Key Measures FY2017 Targets FY2017 Results Targets 1. Put in place Establish a structure a structure of Established a regional Complete area and systems for the overseas regional headquarters in coverage Asia and Oceania management Thailand Governance regions companies 2. Increase the effectiveness of Achieve effectiveness Achieve effectiveness Achieved risk management of 70% or more of 60% effectiveness of 55% (prevent risks before they occur) Stakeholder Engagement Medium-term Key Measures FY2017 Targets FY2017 Results Targets Ensure that investors and management engage in dialogues Stakeholder Promote active Ensure that investors Ensured that investors Engagement on a cumulative total engagement between and management and management of 200 occasions investors and engage on 60 engage on 88 throughout the management occasions occasions period set forth for the medium-term target Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 25 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index SDGs Initiatives The Sekisui Chemical Group's Contributions to the SDGs through its Business In its Group Vision statement, the Sekisui Chemical Group has declared that it will contribute, through its primary business activities, to “improving the global environment” and “and improving the lives of people around the globe”—that is, the resolution of issues called for in the SDGs. Hitherto, we designated products with a high degree of contribution to issue resolution as Environment-contributing Products, and strove to create and expand markets where we should increase contributions to “improving the Earth’s environment” (resolutions to issues described in SDGs Nos. 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, and 15). Since FY2017, we have looked back on changes to business content and the social environment, and have declared the creation and expansion of products that heighten contributions to “improving life for everyone around the world” (resolutions to issues described in SDGs Nos. 3, 9, and 11). We will also further accelerate contributions to actualizing a sustainable world. Involvement History Environment-Contributing Products – About Expanded Definition Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 26 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index SHIFT on Approach to Contributions Made by Environment-Contributing Products SHIFT on Approach to Contributions Made by Environment-Contributing Products Sekisui Chemical Group's CSR 27 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Prominence in Environment Continuing to Provide Prominent Value Toward the Realization of a Planet where Biodiversity is Preserved Management Approach Our Philosophy The Sekisui Chemical Group aims for a planet in which the air, water and land provide a healthy living environment for its inhabitants and fosters robust biodiversity. Our daily lives and economic activities are sustained by the natural capital* provided by our planet. The Sekisui Chemical Group envisions a planet and society like this. We are engaged in our daily business activities with the aims of halting the deterioration of natural capital, such as by reducing emissions of greenhouse gases, promoting the use of recycled use of resources, and decreasing impacts on ecosystems; contributing to making returns to natural capital through such means as expanding sales of Environment-contributing Products; and achieving a world in which biodiversity is preserved. * Natural capital: A term that refers to physical capital, such as soil, air, water, minerals, flora and fauna, as well as biological capital, human capital and social capital. Prominence in Environment 28 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Promotion System Building Management Systems to Help Activities Progress and to Achieve Targets The Sekisui Chemical Group formulated the Long-term Environmental Management Vision, the basis of its environmental activities, to advance environmental management. Under the three-year medium-term plan, we are making progress toward specific targets set to achieve our Longterm Environmental Management Vision. Long-term Environmental Management Vision Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 Established in fiscal 2013, the Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 is our policy for advancing environmental management. Environmental Medium-term Plan Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate We provide details of the Environmental Medium-term Plan Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate that covers the period from fiscal 2017 to fiscal 2019. Integrated Indicator Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index The Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index is a single indicator of the level of impact on the environment by the corporate activities of the Sekisui Chemical Group (i.e. use of natural capital) and the degree of contribution back to the environment (i.e. return of natural capital). Environmental Management System We promote environmental activities through an environment management system based on ISO 14001. Environmental Education The Sekisui Chemical Group implements environmental training programs with the aim of fostering ideal employees who can take one step closer to achieving its long-term vision. Environmental Accounting To express our posture as a company engaged in environmental activities, we quantitatively assess our environmental investments, costs and outcomes, such as reducing environmental impact. Prominence in Environment 29 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Long-term Environmental Management Vision Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 Toward the Realization of “a Planet Where Biodiversity Is Preserved” The Sekisui Chemical Group is aware that its business activities depend on resources (natural capital). Each and every executive and employee is working to develop into talented personnel with excellent environmental activity promotional skills and will engage in environmental management based on contributions in three areas to “give back more to the Earth than is taken” by 2030. Expand and create markets for Environment-contributing Products Reduce environmental impact Conserve the natural environment With a view toward the return of natural capital, energies will continue to be directed toward creating prominent value as a part of efforts to realize a planet where biodiversity is preserved. By continuing to create this kind of value, we are confident in our ability to help resolve various issues raised as Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the United Nations. Prominence in Environment 30 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environmental Medium-Term Plan Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate (fiscal 2017-2019) Targets for Crucial Items to Implement within the Environmental Medium-term Plan “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate” (2017-2019) ・Increasing the percentage of revenue from Environment-contributing Products: at least 60% ・Reductions in greenhouse gas emissions: at least 6% (compared to fiscal year 2013) ・Preservation of water resources (quality and decrease in quantity used): Quantity used 3% or more reduction, COD total quantity 3% or more reduction (compared to fiscal year 2016) ・“SEKISUI Environment Week”: Participation at all business sites and by all employees ・Monitoring of progress in respect to integrated index “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index”: Return of at least 90% to natural capital Prominence in Environment 31 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Implementing a Two-Stage Environmental Medium-term Plan Based on Backcasting from Our Long-Term Vision We have established and are implementing a three-year Environmental Medium-term Plan for fiscal years 2017 through 2019. As its name suggests, this Environmental Medium-term Plan, “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate,” will accelerate various initiatives aimed at achieving the posture we have depicted for 2030 in our long-term environmental vision. Initiatives of particular focus include reducing greenhouse gases and expanding Environment-contributing Products. In the Paris Accords, adopted at the COP 21* meeting held in 2015, each country has promised to achieve country-level CO2 emissions reductions targets; Japan has set a target of reductions of 26%, compared to fiscal year 2013, by 2030. To fulfill its responsibilities as a Japanese company, the Sekisui Chemical Group has indicated reduction targets equal to or greater than the state targets and intends to willingly strive to reach them. Concerning greenhouse gas reductions, the environmental medium-term plan lays out a target of reductions of 6% from the total amount of CO2 emissions released during business activities, even as the group is aiming to expand its business even further. To ensure that this target is reached, the group has planned for aggressive capital expenditures and has instituted internal investment promotion policies on the scale of 12 billion yen, equivalent to 0.3% of revenue. Concerning Environment-Contributing Products, the group aims to expand upon the current environmental medium-term plan to change the criteria for recognizing Environment-contributing Products, as well as their degree of contribution, from only looking at the natural environment to embracing a framework that includes contributions to the social environment, encompassing human capital and social capital. The Sekisui Chemical Group aims to improve the lives of the people and the Earth's environment. In terms of improving the lives of the people, it will be essential to resolve the issues noted in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the UN in 2015, including “promoting welfare and health” and “securing robust infrastructure.” In terms of the Earth's environment, it will be essential to resolve the issues presented in the SDGs of “mitigating and adapting to climate change” and others. The group intends to produce products and services that display considerable abilities to resolve such issues and to further accelerate the expansion of the market for Environment-Contributing Products. * COP 21: The 21st meeting of the parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. Prominence in Environment 32 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Fiscal Year 2017 Results in Respect to the Environmental Medium-term Plan Fiscal year 2017 results in respect to the Environmental Medium-term Plan are provided below: The Creation and Expansion of the Market for Environment-contributing Products Number of new registrations: Fiscal year 2017 target of 50% of revenue Fiscal year 2017 target of 10 registrations or more Target achieved, with 24 new registrations Target achieved at 50.2% in fiscal year 2017 ＜Factor Analysis＞ ・With the expansion of the definition of Environment-contributing Products, we reaffirmed our commitment to contribute in terms of more diverse perspectives Changes and matters under consideration in the Environmental Medium-term Plan through fiscal year 2016: ・Introduction of the concept of area contributions ・Consideration of expanding the scope of evaluation to include contributions to resolving issues relating to matters such as disaster preparedness and damage mitigation ・Visualization of environmental evaluations (degrees of contribution) of products and business using LCIA evaluations (implemented in relation to the equivalent of around 90% of revenue from Environment-contributing Products) Going forward, the group will consider as contributions to natural capital those based on resolving issues relating to human and social capital and other aspects of the social environment, as well as those based on resolving issues relating to the natural environment, and will expand its range of products that can contribute by returning to natural capital. Furthermore, the group will leverage the environmental value (degree of contribution) of visualized products and lines of business to release information, raise awareness in society, and step up its activities that allow it receive feedback about its business. Prominence in Environment 33 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Reducing Environmental Impact GHG emissions: Fiscal year 2017 target of reductions of 3% or more (relative to a fiscal-year 2013 benchmark) Target not achieved, with reductions of 1.5% Energy savings: Fiscal year 2017 target of reductions of 1% of energy consumption per unit of output (based on a benchmark of fiscal year 2016) Target achieved, with reductions of 1.2% (4.1% reduction in Japan and 2.0% increase overseas) ＜Factor Analysis＞ ・We are unable to cover the increase in GHG emissions from M&A and production increases through reduction activities Going forward, the group intends to step up its energy-saving efforts at business sites in Japan and overseas while visualizing its impact on the environment, and to expand reductions by shoring up ECO-JIT and related activities. Amount of Waste Generated: Fiscal year 2017 target of reductions of 1% from per unit of output (relative to a fiscal-year 2016 benchmark) Target not reached, with an increase of 0.4% (down 0.6% in Japan, up 3.1% overseas) ＜Factor Analysis＞ ・Japan: More composite products because of expansion of manufacturing of, and higher functionality for, chemical-related business Waste material volumes increased because of the moving in-house of the production of materials previously produced through outsourced processes in our housing business ・Overseas: Roll-outs of measures are at this stage underway but unfinished Going forward, the group will strive for even greater reductions in waste materials by promoting more-stable manufacturing, developing recycling technologies, decreasing the rate of defects, recycling end materials, and promoting zero-emission activities in overseas business sites. Prominence in Environment 34 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Conserving the Natural Environment SEKISUI Environment Week SEKISUI Environment Week: Fiscal year 2017 target for participation rate among employees of 85% Target not reached with participation rate among employees of 84.9% ＜Factor Analysis＞ ・Insufficient promotion of individual action Going forward, we will roll out positive examples of all-employee participation-based activities to all sites while announcing and publicizing examples of activities by individuals to make the idea of participation by all in both business site-held events and individual actions a more integral part of the corporate culture. Prominence in Environment 35 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environmental Medium-term Plan “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate” (fiscal years 2017-2019) Prominence in Environment 36 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environmental Medium-term Plan “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Accelerate” (fiscal years 2017-2019) Prominence in Environment 37 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Integrated Index Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index What is the Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index? The Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index represents the impact on the environment of the activities of Sekisui Chemical Group companies (the use of natural capital) and their degree of contribution to the environment (returns to natural capital) as a single indicator. The major items for implementation in the medium-term plan—reducing various impacts on the environment, conserving the natural environment, and so forth—were integrated into this indicator; the group began trial calculations in fiscal year 2014. Starting in fiscal year 2017, the “rate of return to natural capital,” as reflected in this index, is being used as a KPI to manage the overall progress of group companies’ environmental management. The group aims to achieve 85% in fiscal year 2017 and 90% over the three-year period of the medium-term plan and has established returns of 100% or higher as its target for 2030. Results of Calculation The results of calculating the Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index, utilizing results from fiscal year 2017, are provided below: Setting the use of natural capital (the impact on the environment) at 100, the return of natural capital (contributions to the environment) were 84.1%. Therefore, fiscal year 2017 results did not reach the target of 85%, but returns are steadily increasing. We plan to further increase the effectiveness of our various initiatives with the aim of achieving returns of 90% in 2019. We aim for a “world in which biodiversity is conserved” by reaching a return rate to natural capital of 100% or higher by 2030 and thus achieving sustainable use of the earth’s natural capital. After compiling the raw data in (1), above, the damage calculation-based impact assessment method “LIME2,” developed for use in Japan by Professor Norihiro Itsubo of Tokyo City University, was employed for the calculations in stages (2) and (3). Prominence in Environment 38 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Indicator Calculation Method Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index: Overall volume of returns of natural capital by the group / Overall volume of usage of natural capital by the group Calculating the usage and return volumes of natural capital Employing LIME2 (a damage calculation-based impact assessment method developed for use in Japan by Professor Norihiro Itsubo of Tokyo City University) and covering all the criteria for conservation defined by LIME2, the impacts on each of “human health (including the effects of global warming),” “societal assets (including the effects of global warming),” “the effects on plants (reducing interference with growth),” and “the effects on life (restricting the extinction of living species)” were evaluated and then made into a single indicator*1 The amount of return to natural capital was calculated as the reduction in the risk of harm to natural capital because of the whole group’s various initiatives that contribute to the environment, relative to if these initiatives had not been implemented Sekisui *1 In the previous medium-term plan, the scope of contributions to the environment was Environmental limited to the natural environment. Therefore, the calculation of returns to natural capital Sustainability consisted only of the combination of three targets directly related to the natural environment: Index “curtailing global warming (the effects on human health only),” “the effects on plants (reducing interference with growth),” and “the effects on life (restricting the extinction of living species)” Starting with the current medium-term plan of fiscal year 2017, criteria for environmental contributions were extended to included contributions to the social environment, thereby adding impacts on “societal assets” to returns to natural capital. Items included in the calculation of the amount of natural capital used Direct usage: Use of land, greenhouse gases, amounts of emissions into the air of PRTR substances and air pollutants, the COD volume of discharges into bodies of water Indirect usage: Purchased raw materials, energy use, amount of water used, amount of waste material emitted, amount of GHGs emitted indirectly in supply chains (Scope 3) Items included in the calculation of returns to natural capital Amount of contributions to reducing usage of natural capital through Environment-contributing Products, the amount of contribution from environmental conservation activities, environmentrelated donations, mega-solar power generation output Prominence in Environment 39 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Indicator Calculation Method Scope of Calculation / Listing by category of calculation: Trial calculations were conducted using the following assumed conditions: ・Raw materials: Purchased raw materials covered; estimates incorporated into calculations Concerning housing, the calculation includes the constituent raw materials for one structure multiplied by the number of structures manufactured ・Manufacturing / Emissions of harmful chemical substances:〈Japan〉emissions of 1 t per year or more of substances covered under PRTR are included in the calculation.〈Overseas〉Not included ・Manufacturing / Land maintenance: Domestic Japanese and overseas plants and research facilities were incorporated into the calculation using the area of the premises, generally considered in terms of the land used for buildings.* 2 The areas of the premises of overseas plants were estimated. The effects of land usage are included in the calculation based on the 30-year period after the purchase of Sekisui the land Environmental *2 Concerning land usage, starting with the current medium-term plan (2017-19), improvements Sustainability to soil quality in the “JBIB Land Use Score Card®” were deemed as reductions of the impact of Index land usage, weighted accordingly, and included in the calculation. ・Others: Capital goods in supply chains, other fueland energy-related activities, transport and shipping, waste, business trips, commuting by employees, leased assets (downstream), processing/use/disposal of sold products Business trips and commuting by employees: Covers consolidated numbers of employees and includes some estimation Use of sold products: Covers housing sold during the fiscal year, and included in the calculation with assumed energy usage for 60 years into the future Processing of sold products: Energy usage by customers while processing products anticipated to consume large amounts of energy was estimated and included in the calculation Disposal of sold products: Major raw materials for each fiscal year were covered and included in the calculation based on the assumption that they would be made into products and disposed of during that fiscal year Prominence in Environment 40 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Indicator Calculation Method ・Product contributions: (1) The differences in contribution to the environment between the relevant products and previous technologies were evaluated qualitatively for each criterion, based on the contribution to the natural and social environments for each life-cycle (the five stages of procurement of raw materials, manufacturing, distribution, usage/maintenance, disposal, and recycling) in terms of CO 2 reductions and energy savings, reductions in waste materials, resource savings, water-savings and the water cycle, preventing pollution, direct preservation of biodiversity, QOL improvements, and other factors. For factors for which a significant difference was estimated, data per product unit was investigated. (2) Based on the results of these investigations, a coefficient for calculating the impact on the environment for each series of data was multiplied by the data, yielding a calculation of the degree of contribution to the environment of each product unit. (3) The sales results for products in each fiscal year were multiplied by the results found in (2) to calculate the degree of contribution to the environment for each product, and the results were included in the calculation. Trial calculation performed on the effects of products equivalent to around 90% of Environment-contributing Products ・Direct contribution / Contribution from activities reducing environmental impacts: Sekisui The effects on the environment relating to production for each fiscal Environmental year were compared to “the effects on the environment relating to Sustainability manufacturing in fiscal year 2016 × (revenue in that fiscal year / revenue Index in fiscal year 2016),” and the difference was included in the calculation. There was a proportional relationship between revenue and the effects on the environment relating to manufacturing, based on the idea that the difference was the result of efforts undertaken in the group's activities. ・Direct contribution / Conservation of the natural environment: The group keeps track of the number of participants and the amount of time spent on each activity. In the case of planting cedar trees, a fixed amount of CO2 (1.1 t-CO2/person-hour) was multiplied by the number of people and the amount of time spent and incorporated into the calculation. Because, starting with the current medium-term plan (201719), improving the sustainability of activities through local cooperation and by making them stand on their own (autonomous) were made a target, the groups ability to work toward this target was weighted against the growth axis and included in the calculation ・Direct contributions / donations: The amount intended to be paid for conservation was deemed equal to the amount of money calculated for damage caused and included in the calculation. ・Direct contribution / Mega-solar: Amount of electricity generated included in the calculation as generated energy converted to a CO2 basis Prominence in Environment 41 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environmental Management System Building an Environmental Management System based on ISO 14001 Management Approach Environmental Management System Establishing a Subcommittee Structure That Reports to the CSR Committee Shared among all of the Group’s companies, Sekisui Chemical has positioned its Environmental Management Policy at the heart of the Group’s environmental management. The CSR Committee, headed by the president, and the Environmental Subcommittee of Sekisui Chemical Group meet twice a year to decide on the major policies that guide the activities of the entire Group. Matters decided by these two bodies are then transformed into specific action plans in meetings of environmental managers from headquarters and each division company. Each business site manages its environmental activities through an environment management system based on ISO 14001. System for Promoting Environmental Management Prominence in Environment 42 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environmental Management across the Supply Chain Support for Obtaining ISO14001 and Eco-Action 21 Certification The Sekisui Chemical Group encourages and provides support to its suppliers to acquire ISO 14001 and Eco-Action 21* certification. Through its procurement policy, the Sekisui Chemical Group also works to enhance the understanding of suppliers toward its Environmental Management Policy and to convey the Group’s requirements regarding awareness toward the environment. * Eco-Action 21: An environmental management system created by the Ministry of the Environment. Utilizing EMS in the Eco-activities of Offices Promoting Environmental Activities in Offices in line with the Group EMS The Sekisui Chemical Group encourages environmental activities in its offices in accordance with its Environmental Management System. At the headquarters buildings and offices located throughout Japan, we refer to the EMS for guidance on environmental activities, such as turning off lights during lunch breaks and other steps to conserve energy and reducing the use of paper. Complying with Environmental Laws and Regulations Working to Prevent Risks before They Occur by Setting Self-management Targets That Are Tougher than Regulations The Sekisui Chemical Group has set its own environmental management targets, such as for reducing emissions into the atmosphere and water environments, that are tougher than legal regulations. Each business site strictly follows these internal targets. We aim to prevent environmental accidents before they occur by conducting internal environmental audits to unveil latent environmental risks. The latest regulatory trends and case studies of accidents at other companies are shared within the Group as a part of comprehensive environmental activities. In fiscal 2017, the Sekisui Chemical Group had zero environmental accidents, and zero incidents involving administrative guidance from the government. The Sekisui Chemical Group makes every effort to comply with laws and regulations. Major Initiatives Expansion of EMS Overseas Promoting ISO Certification and Zero Waste Emissions At our overseas bases, we are also expanding the implementation of environmental management systems (EMS) with similar policies to Japan. We are putting in place systems for obtaining environmental impact data and taking initiatives to reduce environmental impact based on this data. As of the end of March 2018, 46 business sites in Japan and 36 business sites overseas had acquired ISO 14001 or other certifications. The proportion of all business sites within the Sekisui Chemical Group that have been certified is now 47%. Additionally, the group aims to achieve ISO 14001 certification and zero emissions at all major business sites. See pages 74, 75, and 79 of Efficient Use of Resources for more information about the standards for the zero emissions achievement criteria and accreditation system. Prominence in Environment 43 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Scope of Tabulation for Environmental Performance Data * All of Sekisui Chemical's (consolidated) offices (100% of produced sales amounts) are subject to environmental reporting. Scope of Tabulation for Environmental Performance Data (Overseas) Prominence in Environment 44 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Business Sites that Have Received Third-Party Certification for Their Environment Management Systems Prominence in Environment 45 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Indicator Calculation Method Number of business sites that received external EMS certification in Number of EMS-certified business sites each fiscal year External EMS certification: ISO 14001, Eco-Action 21, etc. The proportion of all business sites within the Sekisui Chemical The proportion of all business sites within Group that have received external EMS certification = Σ[Number the Sekisui Chemical Group that have of employees at business sites that have received external EMS received external EMS certification certification] / Consolidated number of employees: Number of employees on the final day of the relevant fiscal year Number of Issues Noted by Environmental Auditors During Fiscal Year 2017 Prominence in Environment 46 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environment-related Complaints, etc. Content Response Small, contained fires occurring during Installation of sprinklers and Fire Accident raw-materials processes monitoring cameras Leaks Flow of caustic soda into waterways Closure of wastewater routes Installation of soundproof wall in Noise Noise from exhaust blowers exhaust hoods Complaints Leaving of weeds growing across Others the boundary lines into neighboring Periodic weeding companies’ properties In fiscal year 2017, there were two environment-related accidents and two environment-related complaints; we have implemented measures to prevent reocurrence for each case. Prominence in Environment 47 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environmental Education Fostering Human Resources Who Can Think About the Importance of Environmental Activities and Act on Their Own Management Approach Educational Plans and System The Creation of an Environmental Education System that Follows the Policies of Our Long-Term Vision The Sekisui Chemical Group has created an education system to enable it to achieve the “ideal model of environmental human resources” in respect to employees, as drawn up as a means of achieving the group’s Vision. Education based on this system began being conducted in 2014. Through their work, all employees consider on their own what actions they can take to contribute to the environment with the aim of creating “a world in biodiversity is conserved. The foundation for human resources who think and act in this way is build through environmental education. Conducting Education and Training Concept for Running Environmental Education and Training for the Long Term In furtherance of achieving the ideal environmentally conscious human resources that the group has decided should exist by 2030, the core of the education program will be gradually transitioned from improving basic knowledge to creating hands-on opportunities. Prominence in Environment 48 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Medium-Term Plan Philosophy for Environmental Education in the Environmental Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) 1) A program to assist the transformation to “hands-on” action Based on monitoring the levels of environmental knowledge and consciousness at the Company (organization) level throughout the period of the Environmental Medium-term Plan that was implemented through fiscal year 2016, differences based on job type and responsibilities were apparent, but there was almost no difference among regions. In the Environmental Medium-term Plan (2017-2019), the group will create tools to allow it to monitor individual-level levels of knowledge and degrees of participation so that studies of individual employees can serve as indicators and will create mechanisms that allow employees to engage in activities “hands-on.” 2) Creation of educational packages for mid-career hires To have all Sekisui Chemical Group employees share the same understanding of the environment, the group will distribute various educational tools (booklets, DVDs, etc.) compiled into a set to newly joined group companies and employees joining the group as mid-career hires. 3) Others The programs that proved effective among the various education programs instituted as part of the Environmental Medium-term Plan followed until the 2016 fiscal year will continue to be implemented in the current Environmental Medium-term Plan, with some revisions to their content. Prominence in Environment 49 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environmental Education Program Covered job Category of FY2017 results FY2018 plan Educational program name responsibilities, job education Japan Overseas Japan Overseas types, etc. 1 Environment e-learning 1 ②③⑤ P P Management 2 Environment e-learning 2 ②③ P P All employees Newly appointed 3 Workshop Meeting 1 ④ P people in charge of environmental affairs People in charge of 4 Workshop Meeting 2 ④⑤ P P P P environmental affairs Production sites, research 5 EMS Content Distribution (DVD) ①④⑤ P P facilities Training for the Revised ISO Production sites, research 6 ④⑤ P 14001 (skill improvements) facilities Training for Fostering Internal Production sites, research 7 ④⑤ P Environmental Auditors facilities 8 CSR Training 1 ①② P New company employees Newly appointed people 9 CSR Training 2 ②③ P in management positions Environmental Human 10 ①⑤ P P △ All employees Resources Check Pamphlets on Environment11 ①②③ P △ All employees contributing Products Booklet for Publicizing the New 12 Environmental Medium-term ①②③ P P All employees Plan (Vision Guidebook) * For Education Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5), see the diagram for Concept for Running Environmental Education and Training for the Long Term. Prominence in Environment 50 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Major Initiatives Creating indicators for environmental human resources In the surveys on environmental consciousness conducted as part of the Environmental Medium-term Plan followed through fiscal year 2016, the level of knowledge was demonstrated to go up. However, there was a problem in that this could not be incorporated into an indicator of individual changes in behavior. Thus, in fiscal year 2017, to “visualize” changes in behavior putting knowledge into practice and the change in the level of knowledge, an environmentally conscious human resources indicator was created to monitor employees’ current levels of environmental knowledge and the status of their behavior and to serve as a progress chart to encourage individuals to engage in self-study. By having employees regularly perform “Environmental Human Resources Checks” on the system, they are able to check the degree to which they, themselves, are environmental human resources and to find issues that they should study. Because this check system also allows issues to be monitored at the business site, overall company, or other organizational level, it can be leveraged in PDCA cycles for environmental education. (1) Environmental Human Resources Check Overview To monitor employees’ current levels of environmental knowledge and the status of their 1. Purpose behavior and to serve as a progress chart to encourage individuals to engage in self-study 2. Target All domestic Japanese employees of the Sekisui Chemical Group 3. Number of 15 questions questions and About conditions in society (natural capital and the SDGs), company policies, and Sekisui content Chemical’s environmental initiatives •The following two questions have been established 4. Features of the (1) Do they know the meanings of words and the purposes of activities? questions (2) Are they taking actions? •15 questions divided among six fields are tabulated, and points are shown for each field 5. Implementation Conducted via an online site method (2) Medium-Term Plan Target and Results Environmental Medium-term Plan target Results (out of a perfect score of 100) FY2017 Benchmark monitoring 39 points*1 +10 points FY2018 (Compared to fiscal year 2017 results) +20 points FY2019 (Compared to fiscal year 2017 results)*2 *1 Result point values are the average of all respondents *2 Because we decided to start measuring human resources indicators in fiscal year 2017, the base year was changed to fiscal year 2017 Prominence in Environment 51 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Distribution of Point Scores (by Job Responsibility) Peaks of the Distributions of Numbers of People Section chief or higher 41 to 60 points General employees 21 to 40 points Temporary employees, contracted employees 21 to 40 points We found that those in management positions were distributed in a higher point-scoring range than employees in General employees and other Temporary employees and contracted employees, having greater knowledge of the environment and greater capabilities to act. Based on these findings, we were able to determine that those in management positions were leading the way for employees in general employees and those working on contract or temp bases. We will continue to institute environmental education targeting those in upper management positions so that corporate management and others in managerial-level positions can take the lead in promoting environmental activities. Status by Field Prominence in Environment 52 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Fields with High / Low Knowledge and Acting Capabilities High Reducing Environmental Impact Low Social Conditions Although knowledge and the ability to act regarding reductions in greenhouse gases and waste and other means of decreasing the impact on the environment were found to be high-level, the results also suggested that knowledge and the ability to act in relation to that knowledge were at low levels in respect to societal trends relating to the environment, including the SDGs and natural capital. Going forward, we will consider the content of the education we offer, putting an emphasis on publicizing what social trends relating to the environment there are and what actions connected to those trends are being taken. Difference Between Knowledge Capabilities and Acting Capabilities Small Company Policies Large Conserving the Natural Environment The graph shown above suggests almost no difference in the levels of knowledge and the ability to act regarding environmental policies, such as the Environmental Medium-term Plan and the Long-Term Environmental Vision. However, the graph also shows a considerable gap between knowledge and behavior regarding conservation activities for the natural environment; employees “know what the objectives are, but have not taken action.” Going forward, we will promote unity between thought and action through consciousness-raising opportunities in which large numbers of employees can participate, such as “SEKISUI Environment Week.” Reference: Comparison with the Cabinet Office's “Public Survey on Measures to Combat Global Warming” In the “Social Conditions” portion of the Environmental Human Resources Check, the same questions are asked as those found in the Cabinet Office's “Public Survey on Measures to Combat Global Warming,” and the results of the check were compared against those of the public survey. <Question> “Do you know of the ‘Paris Agreement,’ a new international framework for reducing greenhouse gases and other purposes that was adopted at the COP 21 international conference held in Paris, France?” Source: Overview of the Cabinet Office's “Public Survey on Measures to Combat Global Warming” (2016) Sekisui employees’ knowledge scores relating to global warming were 1.3 times those found in the public survey. The fiscal year 2017 Environmental Human Resources Check, was a system for checking the knowledge of employees based within Japan. Going forward, we plan to consider developing a system that can be rolled out globally after finding out the IT infrastructure situation in overseas business sites. Prominence in Environment 53 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Revision of the Environmental Education Booklet “Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Vision 2030 Vision Guidebook” To make the long-term environmental vision the “Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030” the common goal for all the Sekisui Chemical Group and to make it an integral part of the experience of the Group's employees, a booklet has been compiled detailing the group's initiatives in the areas touched upon in the Vision of biodiversity and natural capital. In tandem with the launch of the new Environmental Medium-term Plan in fiscal year 2017, the content prepared during the previous medium-term plan was reviewed, and an updated edition was created. Based on Environmental Human Resources Checks, it can be shown that Sekisui Chemical Group employees lack knowledge relating natural capital and other “societal conditions.” Therefore, the revised edition has explanations with a focus on items related to that topic. To increase understanding of the Vision Guidebook, e-learning with content based on the guidebook is also available on the group intranet. Vision Guidebook (Comprehension Volume) Environment e-learning screen 2nd Edition Workshop Meetings for People in Charge of Environmental Affairs During fiscal year 2017, workshop meetings for people in charge of environmental affairs were held in four areas: North America, Japan, China, and Europe. In all areas, activities such as evaluating energy-saving policies in model business sites were conducted as group work under the theme of reducing greenhouse gases—a crucial item for implementation in the Environmental Medium-term Plan. A scene at the European workshop meetings for people in charge of environmental affairs Prominence in Environment 54 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environmental Accounting We compile data on the cost and benefits of our environmental conservation activities. Management Approach Compilation Method The Sekisui Chemical Group Refers to Public Guidelines and Adds Its Own Concepts To fulfill our reporting responsibilities as a company and promote efficient environmental management, we employ environmental accounting that is capable of identifying the cost and benefits of our environmental conservation activities. Calculation is conducted by referring to the Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 issued by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment, with the addition of the Sekisui Chemical Group’s own concepts, such as external economic benefits (estimated effects). Performance Data 【Scope of Environmental Accounting】 (1) Summation period: April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018 (2) Scope of tabulation: 42 production sites + 5 research facilities + various departments in headquarters + indirect divisions of Companies + 15 housing sales companies In fiscal year 2015, the scope of tabulation consisted of 45 production sites + 5 research facilities + various departments in headquarters + indirect divisions of Companies + 14 housing sales companies. Deleted: Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant (plant closed), Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant (plant closed) Because of the effects of the Kumamoto Earthquake, it was impossible to tabulate data for a housing sales company and Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd. in fiscal year 2015. In fiscal year 2016, the scope of tabulation consisted of 40 production sites + 5 research facilities + various departments in headquarters + indirect divisions of Companies + 15 housing sales companies. Deleted: Four Sekisui Film production sites (outside the scope of consolidation), Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant (business transferred) The business sites added to the scope of tabulation in 2017 are as follows: Addition: Hanyu Sekisui Co., Ltd. Tohoku Office, Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Ami Office Prominence in Environment 55 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index (3) Approach toward summation ・Depreciation amounts are the same as those for financial accounting. ・Investment amounts are based on budget approvals during the summation period. ・Expenditures and investments that contain other than environmental conservation activities are distributed pro-rata in 10% increments. During fiscal year 2017, the number of business sites counted as production sites increased. Concerning costs, upstream and downstream costs, management activity costs, and R&D costs rose, while social activity and other costs decreased, but total costs amounted to more than in the previous fiscal year. Meanwhile, in terms of investment, there was increased investment in measures countering global warming and on waste material reductions, and investment in R&D increased; thus the total amount exceeded that of the previous fiscal year. In terms of economic effects, profit on the sale of valuables increased, as did profits from the sale of mega-solar electricity. Additionally, the amount saved on costs from energy-saving activities decreased, while the amount of costs saved from waste material reduction activities and other efforts increased. The external economic effects from housing equipped with solar power-generation systems and so forth are growing steadily. Environmental Conservation Costs (Sekisui Chemical Group) Environmental Conservation Benefits (Sekisui Chemical Group) Prominence in Environment 56 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Economic Benefits of Environmental Conservation Measures (Sekisui Chemical Group) Environmental Conservation Costs (by Company) Environmental Conservation Costs (by Environmental Conservation Measure) Prominence in Environment 57 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environmental Conservation Benefits (by Company) Economic Benefits of Environmental Conservation Measures (by Company) Indicator Calculation Method Calculation based on referring to the Ministry of the Environment's “Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 Edition” and adding Sekisui's own concepts, such as external economic effects (estimated effects) Environmental Among the economic effects attendant with environmental conservation measures, the Accounting external economic effect consist of the effects of energy-savings from sales of housing equipped with solar power-generation systems and the effects of non-digging renovation methods for sewers, and so forth, converted to a monetary value Prominence in Environment 58 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Usage of Environmental Capital Initiatives by the Sekisui Chemical Group to Reduce its Impact on the Environment The Sekisui Chemical Group is involved in business that utilizes fossil fuels, lumber, and other resources of the earth (natural capital). To balance the irreplaceable global environment with sustainable business, Sekisui's initiatives for “reducing the impact on the environment” are explained here. Dealing with climate change Sekisui is engaged in reducing greenhouse gas emissions in all stages from the procurement of raw materials to development, manufacturing, transport, and use. Effective use of resources Sekisui strives to thoroughly implement the “3 Rs” (reduce, reuse, and recycle) throughout entire lifecycles and to achieve zero emissions from its business sites. Conservation of water resources Sekisui monitors the impact of water resources on business continuity and reflects its findings in its business plans. Managing chemical substances Sekisui establishes its own targets and strives to reduce the amount of runoff of chemical substances and the amount transported among sites. Evaluation of the degree of effects on the environment Sekisui runs systems that evaluate the environmental effects of products in all stages from product planning, development, and mass prototyping to marketing and initial distribution. Material governance Sekisui releases information on the resources and energy used in its business activities (inputs) and on the impact on the environment from those activities (outputs). Prominence in Environment 59 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Climate Change Efforts to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions throughout the Supply Chain Management Approach Basic Concept Reducing Emissions Throughout the Entire Supply Chain The Sekisui Chemical Group has formulated a medium-term greenhouse gas emission reduction plan to help ensure that the rise in the global temperature is limited to below 2ºC, as called for by the Paris Agreement. Based on a scenario in accordance with the Science Based Targets (SBTs), we identify and disclose the risks and opportunities from the impact of climate change on business continuity under the scenario of keeping the rise in the global temperature under 2ºC. Moreover, we reflect these factors into our business plans and emission reduction targets. Concerning emissions, Sekisui is engaged in reducing greenhouse gas emissions in all stages from the procurement of raw materials to development, manufacturing, transport, and use. We monitor these emissions throughout the entire supply chain, including not just our own business sites but also raw material suppliers and the use of our products after being sold, and publish our findings. Combating Climate Change Steadily Reducing Greenhouse Gases in All Business Activities Under the Environmental Medium-term Plan that we have been implementing since fiscal year 2017, we have widened the scope for setting targets for greenhouse gas emissions to extend beyond production to encompass all aspects of our business activities; we have set a reduction target of 6% reductions for emissions from business activities versus fiscal year 2013 levels by fiscal year 2019. Sekisui Chemical is also actively engaged in environment-contributing investments that contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from its production divisions. Looking ahead, we will continue reducing greenhouse gases at every stage of our business activities, with the COP 21 (Paris Agreement) objectives at the forefront of our decision-making. Prominence in Environment 60 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Climate Change and Our Business Risks and Opportunities Presented by Climate Change for Our Businesses The Sekisui Chemical Group recognizes that global warming and other forms of climate change are a global problem for society. The Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 created in fiscal 2013 aims to realize “a planet where biodiversity is preserved.” Our concept of “a planet where biodiversity is preserved” is a vision where the earth has achieved a state of having solved global-scale social issues, such as climate change, resource depletion and ecosystem degradation. We also strive to understand the risks and opportunities that climate change presents to the operations of the Sekisui Chemical Group, in terms of their magnitude, scope of impact and other matters. For identified risks, the Sekisui Chemical Group examines measures to mitigate the risks, and for identified opportunities, it considers the creation of new businesses by developing products and services. Through this kind of management, we believe it is possible to remain a company that meets the demands of society through sustainable business development. An Example of Risks and Opportunities Recognized by the Sekisui Chemical Group ・Higher costs in procurement, production, facilities and distribution from regulations designed to prevent and lessen the effects of climate change ・Costs to replace cooling equipment, vehicles and substances used in order to comply with changes in regulations for coolants ・Higher costs for building facilities and systems in order to calculate the emission of substances such as CO2 that cause climate change ・New taxes, such as carbon tax, for restricting the greenhouse gas emissions and costs to acquire emission credits ・Higher energy costs due to the greater use of renewable energy ・Additional costs in manufacturing and R&D from new standards or tougher standards for insulation and energy-saving functions of housing products ・Changes in market needs alongside climate change (fluctuations in demand for smart Business Risks houses, insulation, agricultural film and other Environment-contributing Products) from Climate ・Costs to calculate and disclose environmental performance required by regulations, such as Change the energy-saving performance of products and disclosing our carbon footprint ・Decline in relative cost competitiveness as a result of higher production costs from the tightening of environmental regulations in regions where production sites are located ・Loss of advantages in the Company’s Environment-contributing Products in regions lacking relevant environmental regulation ・Decline in advantages of the Company’s products due to weaker demand for high-insulation properties due to changes in average temperatures ・Increase in energy costs in regions that have regulated targets for introducing renewable energy ・A worsening in employment conditions if temperatures increase due to global warming (increased risk of heatstroke, etc.) ・Inability to operate factories located in low-lying regions due to flooding and rising sea levels Prominence in Environment 61 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index An Example of Risks and Opportunities Recognized by the Sekisui Chemical Group ・Loss of business operations due to increase in employees unable to commute to work due to severe weather such as typhoons, heavy rainfall and strong winds Business Risks ・Temporary suspension of procurement and logistics due to severe weather such as typhoons, from Climate heavy rainfall and strong winds Change ・ Decline in number of available construction days at housing construction sites and waterworks infrastructure projects due to sharp increase in rainfall ・Expand world market for Environment-contributing Products as environmental awareness increases in emerging countries ・Increase demand for Environment-contributing Technologies and Environment-contributing Products in tandem with changes in temperatures and rainfall and more frequent occurrence of natural disasters ・Stronger demand for Environment-contributing Products as regulations and tax codes are established to prevent and mitigate climate change Business ・Growth in Environment-contributing Products from stronger needs to reduce energy costs Opportunities and greater awareness of energy conservation among consumers around the world from Climate ・Increase in sales opportunities for the Company’s products for which information can be Change provided via labeling that assesses the use of natural capital as a result of the introduction of environmental labeling system, such as for energy-saving performance ・Competitive advantages from being able to produce at minimal cost even if tighter environmental regulations are made, thanks to ongoing efforts to reduce environmental load at production sites ・Improvement in corporate image from environmental activities and availability of Environment-contributing Products Risks brought on by climate change can be broadly put into three categories: higher costs to address climate change, changes in market needs alongside climate change, and deterioration in plant operation and working conditions from an increase in temperatures and natural disasters. Meanwhile, the main opportunity presented by climate change is stronger demand for Environment-contributing Products. Every effort is being made to avoid risk through effective management. The Sekisui Chemical Group also recognizes the importance of continuously carrying out the three missions stipulated under the Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030, namely expanding and creating markets for Environment-contributing Products, reducing environmental impact, and conserving the natural environment in order to steadfastly grasp opportunities. Prominence in Environment 62 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Higher Costs to Address Climate Change Can Be Met with Reductions in Environmental Impact As an initiative to reduce environmental impact, the Sekisui Chemical Group aims to visualize its energy usage and reduce the volume used through its Manufacturing Development Innovation Center, which was established for the purpose of greatly increasing energy efficiency in production processes. We also created a system where employees can select an eco-car from the list of company-owned vehicles and conduct environmental impact assessments and energy conservation assessments when installing new equipment in our plants. Through these and other efforts, the Sekisui Chemical Group has put in place a structure that allows it to meet new environmental regulations around the world at minimal cost. Changes in Market Needs and Stronger Demand for Environmental Products Can Be Addressed by Improving Environment-contributing Products We manage risks that arise from climate change and other global social issues by continuing to develop Environment-contributing Products and disclosing and distributing detailed data on outcomes, and this also allows us to precisely identify opportunities arising from strengthening demand. In particular, we believe it is possible to magnify the impact of the products and services we create by quantifying as much as possible the size of their contribution to solving social issues, which leads to opportunities to create and transform markets in ways that help solve global issues and change the awareness of consumers. Deterioration in Operating and Working Conditions Can Be Addressed on a Case-byCase Basis If climate change becomes a grave problem and significantly increases the highest and lowest temperatures, it is possible that people in manufacturing and construction would be unable to work as much. Since climates vary by region, it may be possible to minimize the effects of climate change by proposing to do construction work and projects during the more favorable seasons in the region. Each company division and Group company has formulated its own BCP based on their unique situation as a means of avoiding as much as possible the risk of loss in operations and work availability due to natural disasters. See page 305, References, for a list of business risks and opportunities related to climate change. Prominence in Environment 63 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Major Initiatives Acquisition of SBT Certification Acquisition of Certification Under the SBT* Initiative (a World-First in the Chemistry Industry) Relating to Greenhouse Gas Reduction Targets To commit, before society, its stance of actively engaging in corporate efforts to resolve issues of climate change, the Sekisui Chemical Group publicly releases CSR reports and other materials relating to its targets. Additionally, in fiscal year 2017, the Group applied for certification under the SBT Initiative to demonstrate that its medium-term targets announced for its overall business and for its supply chains reach a scientifically grounded, ambitious level aimed at helping to achieve the Paris Agreement’s 2°C target. The group then became the first in the chemical industry worldwide to receive this certification. ＜Certified targets＞ SCOPE 1+2: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 26%, relative to fiscal year 2013, by 2030 SCOPE 3: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 27%, relative to fiscal year 2016, by 2030 The Group will continue to affirm its growing responsibility to play its role as an industry leader and will strive to engage in activities leading and imploring society as a whole to work on measures to combat climate change. * SBT: Short for Science Based Targets Called for by joint initiatives, including the UN Global Compact, in response to the adoption of the Paris Agreement. Through the SBT Initiative, greenhouse gas reduction targets established by companies are certified as science-based targets (SBTs) that contribute to long-term measures combating climate change. Environment-contributing Investments Environment-contributing Investment Framework Newly Created to Advance Measures for Combating Global Warming It will first be necessary to steadily achieve the backcasting-based targets set forth in the Environmental Medium-term Plan that the Group has been implementing since fiscal year 2017 to achieve the Group’s 2030 targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The Group is already implementing extremely high-level initiatives for reducing emissions at its production sites. To achieve its targets of wide-ranging reductions, the Group believes that bold capital expenditures, in addition to mere changes to its operations in production sites, will be essential. To promote capital expenditures that contribute to energy savings, the Group has set a new Environment-contributing Investment Framework, and has established internal systems that support production sites upgrade or replace equipment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In fiscal year 2017, the effectiveness of these initiatives steadily emerged, as demonstrated, for instance, by our undertaking of capital expenditures that had been previously delayed because of unprofitableness. By upgrading older types of manufacturing equipment and utilities, switching lighting to LEDs, and making other investments, the Group is on track to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions from projects already ordered by 20,000 metric tons, and, with the further spending based on this support system, we aim to achieve total reductions of 40,000 metric tons. Prominence in Environment 64 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Supply Chain Initiatives (Scope 3) Reducing Greenhouse Gases at the Supply Chain Stage In the case of Sekisui, we were able to determine that greenhouse gas emissions falling under SCOPE 3 are highest at the raw materials procurement and product usage stages. The reason that emissions are high in the raw materials procurement stage is understood to be due to the characteristics of our business as a chemicals manufacturer. Meanwhile, the emissions from the product-usage stage arise from the large volumes of greenhouse gases emitted as the result of energy consumed in the houses that we sell. Concerning raw materials, going forward, we will revise our selection criteria for new materials at the time of their adoption and reduce the use of four resins known to be raw materials that result in high levels of emissions to reduce the amount of greenhouse gases that are emitted. Thus, we will act to include the entire supply chain, achieving reductions of 20%, relative to fiscal year 2016. In terms of emissions at the stage of product usage, we will contribute to energy usage reductions from occupied housing by increasing the proportion of net-zero energy houses (ZEH) among the housing units that we sell, achieving 50% reductions, relative to fiscal year 2016, by fiscal year 2030. Renewable Energy Use Promoting Household Use of Solar Panels Sekisui Chemical has been promoting the use of renewable energy by installing solar power generators at our domestic and overseas production sites. In fiscal year 2017, solar-derived energy usage amounted to 1,173 MWh, which is equivalent to 0.17% of our total energy usage, including purchased electricity. Sekisui will continue to monitor the proportion of renewable energy out of its total amount of electricity consumed, including purchased electricity, and to strive to increase that proportion to help achieve its Environmental Sustainability Vision 2030 targets. Prominence in Environment 65 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Starting with the current Environmental Medium-term Plan (2017-2019) we have revised the CO2 emissions coefficient and amount of heat generated per unit of output, resulting in revisions to figures for previous fiscal years. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions That Arise from Business Activities Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions During Manufacturing Energy Usage and per Unit of Output* (Index) During / Japan Manufacturing / Japan Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions During Manufacturing Energy Usage and per Unit of Output* (Index) During / Overseas Manufacturing / Overseas Prominence in Environment 66 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Breakdown of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions During Breakdown of Energy Usage During Manufacturing Manufacturing / Japan / Japan Breakdown of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions During Breakdown of Energy Usage During Manufacturing Manufacturing / Overseas / Overseas Amount of Electricity Purchased During Manufacturing Amount of Solar Power Generated for In-House Use / Japan and Overseas During Manufacturing / Japan and Overseas Prominence in Environment 67 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index GHG Emissions at Research Facilities Energy Usage and per Unit of Output* (Index) at Research Facilities Energy Usage and per Unit of Output* (Index) at Offices Note: For Japan, electricity and fuel for company cars are tabulated, while only electricity is tabulated for overseas. Prominence in Environment 68 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Indicator Calculation Method GHG emissions = Σ[fuel usage, purchased electricity, purchased steam × CO 2 emissions coefficient] + greenhouse gas emissions not arising from energy consumption Greenhouse gas emissions not arising from energy consumption = CO2 emissions not arising from energy consumption* + Σ[emissions of non-CO2 greenhouse gases × global warming coefficient] *Includes CO2 emissions from the burning of non-fuel matter based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, both inside Japan and overseas [CO2 Emissions Coefficient] Purchased Electricity: In Japan, the coefficient provided in notices pursuant to the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures is applied to the latest Greenhouse data at the start of each fiscal year Gas Overseas, coefficients obtained from suppliers are applied to the latest Emissions data at the start of each fiscal year If a coefficient cannot be obtained in this manner, it is based on the GHG Protocol and EPA eGRID 2014 City Gas and Purchased Steam: Coefficients obtained from suppliers are applied to the latest data at the start of each fiscal year If a coefficient cannot be obtained in this manner, it is based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures Fuel Other than the Above: Based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures Global warming coefficient: An emissions coefficient determined based on a system of greenhouse gas emission calculations, reports, and official disclosures Energy usage = Σ[amount of fuel used, amount of electricity purchased, amount of steam purchased × amount of heat generated per unit] Energy Usage [Amount of Heat Generated per Unit] Purchased Electricity: 3.60 MJ/kWh Fuel, Purchased Steam: Based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy Prominence in Environment 69 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Transportation Volumes and Energy per Unit of Output* CO2 Emissions During the Transport Stage / Japan (Index) During Transportation / Japan Indicator Calculation Method The calculation is the CO2 emissions yielded by combining the fuel method (transport of housing units, etc.) and the metric ton-kilo method (other than transport of housing units, etc.) CO2 CO2 emissions = Σ[fuel usage × CO2 emissions coefficient] + Σ[amount transported (metric tons) Emissions × distance transported (km) × fuel usage per unit of output × CO2 emissions coefficient] During the Transport Fuel usage per unit of output is the value used in the reporting system for specified freight carriers under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy Domestic distribution (shipment of products) is covered Prominence in Environment 70 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Greenhouse Gas Emissions Throughout Supply Chain (Scope 3) Note: Since the 2016 fiscal year, the scope of tabulation of purchased products and services has been expanded; this resulted in the emissions increasing substantially from the previous fiscal year following review of the values for the 2016 fiscal year. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Throughout Supply Chain as a Whole (Classified by Scope) Note: Since fiscal year 2016, the scope of tabulation of purchased products and services has been expanded in relation to SCOPE 3; this resulted in the emissions known increasing substantially from the previous fiscal year. Prominence in Environment 71 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Indicator Calculation Method CO2 emissions = ∑[(amount of major raw materials used as listed in Material Purchased Balance section of this report + estimated values for other raw materials) × emission Products and coefficient (IDEA v 2.2 (a GHG emissions database by the National Institute Services of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology and the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry))] CO2 emissions = ∑[(amount of spending on capital expenditures authorized for the given fiscal year for buildings, structures, mechanical equipment, and transport Capital Goods vehicles) × emissions coefficient (per unit emissions database for calculating organizational greenhouse gas emissions, etc., arising from supply chains (Ver. 2.0) (Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of the Economy, Trade and Industry))] CO2 emissions = ∑[(fuel usage, amount of purchased electricity, and amount of purchased steam) × emissions coefficient] Fuel and The emissions coefficients used are as follows. For fuel, IDEA v 2.1 (a GHG emissions Energy-Related database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology Activities Not and the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry); for purchased Included in electricity and steam, per unit emission database for calculating greenhouse gas Scopes 1 and emissions by organizations, etc., arising from supply chains (Ver. 2.0) (Ministry of the 2 Environment and Ministry of the Economy, Trade and Industry). Applicable to production sites, laboratories, and offices both inside Japan and overseas CO2 emissions = ∑[amount of major raw materials used as listed in the Material Greenhouse Gas Balance section of this report × transport distance × emission coefficient (IDEA v Emissions Transport 2.1 (a GHG emissions database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial throughout (Upstream) Science and Technology and the Japan Environmental Management Association for Supply Chain Industry))] (Calculated assuming that the uniform transport distance was 200 km) CO2 emissions = ∑[amount of waste materials generated (by type) × emission Waste Material coefficient (IDEA v 2.1 (a GHG emissions database by the National Institute Generated of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology and the Japan Environmental as Part of Management Association for Industry))] Covers major production sites and research Business facilities in Japan and overseas CO 2 emissions = Σ[transportation costs by method of transport × emissions coefficient (per unit emissions database for calculating organizational greenhouse gas emissions, etc., arising from supply chains (Ver. 2.0) (Ministry of the Environment Business Trips and Ministry of the Economy, Trade and Industry))] (Includes estimates of transportation costs for group companies) Covers group companies in Japan and overseas CO2 emissions = Σ[amount spent on commuting assistance × emissions coefficient (per unit emissions database for calculating organizational greenhouse gas emissions, etc., arising from supply chains (Ver. 2.0) (Ministry of the Environment Commuting by and Ministry of the Economy, Trade and Industry))] Employees (Calculated based on the assumption that all commuting is done by passenger train) (Group company commuting costs include estimates) Group companies in Japan and overseas all covered Prominence in Environment 72 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Indicator Calculation Method The calculation is the total amount of CO2 emissions yielded by combining the fuel method (transport of housing units, etc.) and the metric ton-kilo method (other than transport of housing unit, etc.) CO 2 emissions = Σ[fuel usage × CO 2 emissions coefficient] + Σ[amount Transport transported (metric tons) × distance transported (km) × fuel usage per unit (Downstream) of output × CO2 emissions coefficient (value used in the reporting system for specified freight carriers under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy)] (Estimates used for overseas) Covers shipments of products by group companies in Japan and overseas CO2 emissions = Σ[production volume of relevant products × emission coefficient at the time of processing the relevant products (IDEA v 2.1 (a GHG emissions Processing of database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology Sold Products and the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry))] Covers products for the automotive industry by group companies in Japan and overseas CO2 emissions = Σ[number of structures sold as housing during the relevant fiscal year × amount of electricity purchased from power companies throughout a year × 60 years × electricity-based emissions coefficient] Greenhouse The effects of solar power-generation systems are included in the calculation Gas The amount of electricity purchased from power companies throughout a year is Emissions throughout based on the Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. press release (March 13, 2014) “A Survey Usage of Sold Supply Chain of Electric Power Input-Output Balance of Actual Residences Equipped with Solar Products Power-Generation Systems (2013).” The electricity-based emissions coefficient employed is the emissions coefficient from the 2018 report produced by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures reporting system (alternate value), equal to 0.512 metric tons-CO2/MWh. The calculation is performed under the assumption that housing will be used for 60 years. Housing sold within Japan for the fiscal year relevant to the calculation is covered CO2 emissions = Σ[amount of major raw materials used in the products sold during the relevant fiscal year × emission coefficient (IDEA v 2.1 (a GHG Disposal of emissions database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Sold Products Technology and the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry))] The calculation assumes that products sold during a given fiscal year are disposed of during the same fiscal year Calculated to cover construction related to the installation of machinery leased by Sekisui Leased Assets CO2 emissions = Σ[relevant installation units × emission coefficient (IDEA v 2.1 (a (Downstream) GHG emissions database by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology and the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry))] Prominence in Environment 73 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Efficient Use of Resources Working to Reduce Waste and Increase Recycling Throughout the Product Life Cycle Management Approach Basic Concept Pursuing the Three R's (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle) Throughout the Product Life Cycle The Sekisui Chemical Group strives to thoroughly implement the “3 Rs” (reduce, reuse, and recycle) throughout entire lifecycles. We also engage in Zero Waste Emissions Activities with the intention of reusing as resources all the waste we generate from our business activities. Environmental Medium-term Plan targets and Directions for the Future New Waste Reduction Initiatives Under the environmental medium-term plan that began in fiscal 2017, the Sekisui Chemical Group has set a target for reducing the amount of waste generated per unit of output by 1% every year compared with the fiscal 2016 level. Changing our perspective on reducing waste by improving production efficiency, we are taking on the challenge of shifting our emphasis from simply selling waste materials as valuable materials to generating additional value using resin processing technologies developed to date. Zero Waste Emissions Activities are being conducted in our overseas production sites. While domestic Group facilities have been certified under standards calling for zero direct landfill waste and no incineration without heat recovery in Japan, many sites overseas still bury waste. Prominence in Environment 74 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Zero Emissions Zero Emissions Achievement Criteria and Accreditation System of the Sekisui Chemical Group (1) Not engaging in any outside incineration without thermal utilization (thermal recycling), or landfill outside or inside of facilities (recycling ratio: 100%) (2) If the waste quantity is small and it is a type of waste that has never been recycled before, recycling methods and relevant contractors must be identified, and a service agreement must be executed. We also have established uniform evaluation criteria known as the Zero Emissions Achievement Evaluation List. We have established a system designed to conduct internal checks and issue approvals for the status of observance of the evaluation criteria as well as legal compliance, rules and signage for waste segregation and storage, management of related facilities and waste reduction planning and management. The list obliges us to conduct inspection of outside contractors and to clarify treatment routes in order to enhance the management system through these activities. Recycling Construction Materials Promoting the Effective Use of Construction Materials to Fulfill Our Responsibilities as a Housing Manufacturer Sekisui Chemical pursues the industry-wide recycling of construction waste produced when houses are demolished— regardless of whether such houses were built by itself or by a competitor—as part of initiatives under the Japan Prefabricated Construction Suppliers and Manufacturers Association’s environmental action plan “Eco-Action 2020” Reducing Packaging Materials Using Less Product Packaging The Sekisui Chemical Group has long been an environmentally-conscious company, and we are reducing packaging volumes, introducing reusable boxes, and eliminating packaging wherever possible, among other initiatives. Our proactive efforts to reduce packaging since the early 2000s have enabled us to achieve results. We will continue these efforts in the future, taking further steps to reduce packaging waste. We sell a number of products that reduce environmental impact by making packaging reusable, such as folding containers, various plastic containers, and shrink film. Shrink film is a material used for labeling and packaging that shrinks when heat is applied to it. We also offer various packaging products that shrink in low-temperatures, offer excellent tensile strength, and tightly hold the objects packed. Prominence in Environment 75 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Major Initiatives Developing Environment-contributing Products from Waste Materials Using Our Technologies Developed to Date, We Recycle Waste into Not Merely Saleable Materials but into Products, Making Them Much More Valuable The Housing Company has to date engaged in the recycling and selling of wood offcuts produced at our housing production sites as valuable products. In fiscal 2017, the Housing Company began selling newly commercialized woodchips and sawdust made from these wood offcuts. In addition, Sekisui Board Co., Ltd.—which produces modular house exterior walls—separates cement from end materials produced during the manufacturing process and sells it as recycled cement. Moreover, the Sekisui Chemical Group leverages its technologies developed so far to go beyond simply selling waste materials as valuable products to transform them into items that offer even greater value. Thermal Recycling Initiatives Using Chips from Wood Offcuts as Fuel for Boilers At its Chubu facility, Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. promotes the thermal recycling of waste materials produced during its manufacturing processes. Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. crushes wood offcuts generated during the production of wooden modular houses into chips and selling them as boiler fuel. Reduction of Waste Generated at Construction Sites Switching to Factory Production to Reduce Materials That End Up Unused on Site Modular houses are the main pillar of our housing business, and by doing as much as possible at the factory when prefabricating the modules, we are reducing the amount of construction work that has to be done on site. Thus, we are reducing waste from excess materials that end up unused at construction sites. Prominence in Environment 76 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Waste Generated by Production Sites Some past figures have been revised due to improvements in precision. Waste Generated by Production Sites and per Unit of Waste Generated by Production Sites and per Unit of Output (Index) / Japan Output (Index) / Overseas Fiscal 2017 Annual Production Site Waste Generation and Disposal Conditions / Japan Note: Change over previous year is in ( ) and proportion of total waste generation is in [ ]. Prominence in Environment 77 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Breakdown of Waste Generated at Production Sites / Japan Index Calculation method Amount of waste generated = Amount of waste disposal outsourced + Amount recycled (use of incineration heat + materials recycling + sold at a price) + Amount incinerated in the Company; Generated the items below are excluded: waste amount waste generated by demolition of old houses of the clients, left-over materials at construction sites, disposal of facilities, OA equipment, etc., infectious waste generated during medical consultations / medical practices Waste Generated on Construction Sites of New Housing Amount of Waste Generated on Construction Sites of New Housing (per Building) / Japan Note: Because of changes to the waste materials data collection method used by the Housing Company, we are revising the fiscal year 2016 benchmark Index Calculation method Amount Amount of waste generated during construction of new housing = Amount of waste generated of waste during construction of outer walls (at factory) + Amount of waste generated during assembly (at generated factory) + Amount of waste generated at construction site of new housing during construction Amount of waste generated per building during construction of new housing = Amount of waste of new generated during construction of new housing / Number of buildings sold housing Target: housing business in Japan Prominence in Environment 78 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Waste Related to Office Work Amount of Copy Paper Used at Offices per Unit of Output (Index) Waste Disposal Methods / Overseas Waste Disposal Methods at Production Sites Attainment of Zero Waste Emissions Activities Targets 44 plants in Japan and 12 plants overseas, including those of affiliated Production sites companies, achieved the target Research institutes All research institutes achieved the target by fiscal 2012 Construction of new housing All production sites achieved the target by fiscal 2003 Remodeling work All production sites achieved the target by fiscal 2004 Corporate headquarters buildings Achieved the target by fiscal 2005 in Osaka/Tokyo Specified construction materials for the 2017 fiscal year Demolition work Recycling rate (of concrete, wood offcuts, etc.): 99% Indicator Calculation Method Number of production sites that Number of production sites that achieved zero emissions in that year achieved zero emissions Prominence in Environment 79 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Conservation of Water Resources Working to Preserve Water Resources as a Precious Natural Resource Management Approach Basic Concept Identifying the Impact of Water Resources on Business Continuity and Reflecting this into Our BCP The Sekisui Chemical Group is working to reach its targets—contributing to the return of natural capital through products, reducing environmental impacts, and engaging in environment-contributing activities—as envisioned by the Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030, which was formulated in 2014. To this end, the Group has formulated a Environmental Medium-term Plan, in which the following initiatives are considered key issues: reducing water use; identifying water-related risks, including impacts on supply chains and the natural environment; conducting environmental education targeting management and employees; and providing information to stakeholders. In order to supply products for infrastructure for water supply, storage and drainage, the Sekisui Chemical Group recognizes that conveying the importance of safe water supply and water infrastructure to customers is critical for business sustainability. In addition, the Group also realizes that contributions to preserving water resources through its businesses will help achieve one of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): “access to safe drinking water and sanitation.” As for specific initiatives, we have determined the impact (risks and opportunities) of water resources on business continuity and have reflected this into our business and environmental plans. In addition, we conduct surveys of suppliers and procured materials that include water-related risks during procurement, recognizing that such risks pose difficulties for sustaining procurement from suppliers. Assessment of Water-related Risks Conducting Water Risk Surveys at All Production Sites and Research Institutes The Sekisui Chemical Group has conducted water risk surveys at all of its production sites and research institutes since fiscal year 2013 using a mapping tool for water-related risks (Aqueduct: Aqueduct Overall Water Risk map)* based on the water-related information for every location where the Group operates. Regarding water intake, we assess future intake potential, check whether there are water outages, and monitor fluctuations in water quality. We also summarize responses from our own surveys of each of our production sites and research institutes. The surveys mainly concern wastewater drainage destinations, downstream usage of wastewater, water quality regulatory trends, and water quality measurements. The evaluation criteria of the questionnaire used in the surveys are used to collect information regarding water sources, supply restrictions, and more, and are designed to be capable of being used to predict future water shortages. They also include items regarding water quality, information on supply restrictions, costs, wastewater treatment, the water quality of wastewater, trends in regulations, changes in the numbers of businesses and population figures, the possibility of floods, and needs for water-related investments. We hold interviews at each production site or research institute deemed to have high water-related risks based on survey results. Prior to undertaking large-scale developments (such as factory construction), new investment and M&A, we employ the Environmental Safety Check Sheet that is later used to examine capacity expenditures, convene a commission to examine capacity expenditures that include environmental considerations, and conduct other environmental assessments that include water risks. In development of new products also, we implement design reviews based on the Environmental Impact Assessment List to evaluate the impact of our products on the environment. * A global map showing water-related risks / information tool developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) Prominence in Environment 80 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Impact of Water-related Risks on Business Direct Impact on Operations As production sites in Japan manufacturing synthetic resins drain their wastewater directly into rivers or the sea / ocean, even though the water quality of the wastewater complies with the present control levels, we understand that if any changes to, reinforcements of, etc. of the laws and regulations regarding water quality of drainage are implemented in the future, it may cause major impact on the continuity of our business activities. For that reason, we check on a continuous basis the future trends in regulations at every area our business bases are located in, and, at the same time, to improve the water quality of drainage, implement Whole Effluent Toxicity (WET) tests assessing the effect of drainage on the ecological system. If any negative impact is identified with the WET tests, we investigate the causes and strive to eliminate them using the PDCA cycle to reduce the impact of water-related risks as much as possible. Risks Identified, Their Potential Impact on Operations, and Strategies for Mitigation Impact on Supply Chain Manufacturers of steel materials used in the Housing Business and manufacturers of synthetic resins used in the Plastics Business are suppliers of primary materials of the Sekisui Chemical Group that consume large quantities of fresh water during manufacture. Although we do not directly encourage such suppliers to conform to environmental standards, with our Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index we calculate as 'use of natural capital' the environmental impact of the pollutants contained in drainage generated during manufacture of primary materials and monitor it on a continual basis. At the same time, we monitor reduction of impact on water environment made possible through our business activities, expansion of products and services contributing to water environment, and other aspects, through which we contribute to the environment, calculating them as our returns to the natural capital. The goal is to reach the Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index of returns to the natural capital of 100% or more by 2030. Contribution to Reduction of Water-related Risks Through Operations The Sekisui Chemical Group develops a range of businesses related to water infrastructure, such as supply, storage, and drainage of water, contributing to the society not only by technologies and products that help to improve the quality of drainage, such as water treatment systems and drain pipes, but also by creating strong water infrastructure made to withstand natural disasters. In 2017, we entered into a business partnership with TIEN PHONG PLASTIC JOINT STOCK COMPANY, one of the most prominent plastic pipe manufacturers in Vietnam, thus advancing into the infrastructure business in newly emerging nations. This and other initiatives were launched with a view to do our share to reduce water-related risks across the world. By popularizing the high-quality water infrastructure-related products of the Sekisui Chemical Group in newly emerging nations, and in particular by offering highly efficient joint products that reduce the likelihood of leaks and ensure the supply of sanitary water, as well as by preventing inflows of rainwater into sewage disposal plants, we are making our contribution to reducing water-related risks that often plague newly emerging nations. We shall make full use of our production base in Vietnam in the future and strive to promote popularization of high-quality, reliable water infrastructure also in other countries of the ASEAN. Prominence in Environment 81 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Activity Policy and Reduction Targets Target an Annual 1% Reduction in Water Usage, Making Fiscal 2016 the Base Year The Sekisui Chemical Group draws the water it needs to use in its business activities from public water systems, water systems for industrial use, underground reservoirs, and surrounding rivers. With the understanding that water is a precious natural resource shared by everyone in the community, we do our best to reduce the amount of water used, such as by reusing cooling water. Under its Environmental Medium-term Plan, which began in fiscal 2017, the Sekisui Group targets a 1% annual reduction in water usage (intake volume), with fiscal 2016 serving as the base year. At the same time, the Group has set the goal for reducing the impact of wastewater chemical oxygen demand (COD) by 1% annually. Major Initiatives Reduce the Amount of Water Used The Amount of Water Used Increased by 3.1%, Compared to the Base Fiscal Year The amount of water used in fiscal year 2017 increased by 3.1%, relative to results in the base fiscal year of 2016. As a means to understand the impact of wastewater on nature, we have been conducting assessments* on the impact of wastewater discharged from our production sites on living organisms since fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2017, we investigated the reasons behind the impacts identified by surveys conducted at our business facilities. As measures to counter water intake risks, we began conducting for the first time risk assessments focusing on the sustainable use of ground water at business sites that use pumped up ground water. * More details about our assessment of the impact of wastewater on biodiversity is provided on page 100 of Conserving the Natural Environment. Prominence in Environment 82 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Ongoing Monitoring of Water Risks Continuously Assess Water Extracted from Production Sites and Wastewater Risk In fiscal years 2014 and 2015, we surveyed 98 production sites and R&D laboratories around the world to gain a firm understanding of our sources of water, destinations for wastewater, the current and future prospects of continuing to acquire water, and related matters. As a result, we now understand there are major differences in water supply volume and water quality by region, although the in-depth survey did not identify any water supply risks, such as potential increases in costs or restrictions on water sources that would be severe enough to adversely impact production activities. We also found out that there are many business sites that rely on ground water as their main water source. Of particular significance, 18 business sites, accounting for 35% of all business sites in Japan, use ground water or spring water (including industrial water in some cases), and 44% of the total amount of water intake for all domestic business sites depends on ground water or spring water. Although ground water is a cheap and very effective source of water, due to unforeseen factors it may become impossible to use it in the future, and we perceive it as a risk to our business continuity. That is why from fiscal 2017, we started to create a tool for quantitative assessment of ground water risk using our own original method and already launched risk surveys at two business sites to serve as a model for the rest. The assessment tool allows us to apprise the risks from three viewpoints, namely, susceptibility, concerns in the area, and future changes. The tool uses five evaluation criteria of abundance of ground water, amount of water used by the business site, environmental changes in the surrounding area, restrictions by laws and regulations, and changes of amounts used / precipitation; it consists of twelve assessment indices. In fiscal 2018, we shall implement risk assessment at all business sites that use ground water in Japan ensuring that every effort is made to preserve water resources shared in each basin. Example of Ground Water Risk Assessment Water Recycling Recycling Cooling Water Used for Plastic Moldings The Sekisui Chemical Group promotes the reuse of water in its production processes and the use of recycled water in order to reduce the amount of water it draws from water sources. At the production plants of Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company and High Performance Plastics Company, large volumes of cooling water is recycled and reused in manufacturing processes. In fiscal 2017, at production sites in Japan and overseas, we used 105 million cubic meters of recycled water. This is equivalent to 5 times the amount of water drawn from all other sources. The main water supply for Kurohama Lake—which has been designated as a natural conservation area in Saitama Prefecture—is wastewater from the Musashi Plant (located in Hasuda City) that has been purified in accordance with environmental standards. Prominence in Environment 83 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Some past figures have been revised due to improvements in precision. Water Intake Volume at Production Sites / Japan Water Intake Volume at Production Sites / Overseas Water Use by Production Sites in Fiscal 2017 Index Calculation Method Water intake volume = Amount of public water systems + Amount of water for factory use + Amount of underground water taken on site + Amount of Water intake volume rainwater + Other water intake* * Other water intake: Water taken directly from rivers, etc. COD Emission Volume / Japan Index Calculation Method Emission volume = Σ[COD concentration (annual average of measured value) COD emission volume x Drainage volume] Prominence in Environment 84 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Chemical Substance Management Minimizing Environmental Impact Through Proper Control and Emission Reductions of Chemical Substances Management Approach Basic Concept Minimizing Environmental Impact Through Proper Control and Emission Reductions of Chemical Substances While chemical substances make people's lives more convenient, they also could have harmful effects on the environment or on human beings. Therefore, we believe that consideration of product safety, occupational safety and health and environmental impact through proper management of chemical substances is an important responsibility of an enterprise. Since fiscal 1999, the Sekisui Chemical Group has set and worked toward its own targets for reducing emissions and the transfer of chemical substances in addition to implementing efforts such as the Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact*1. and the Green Procurement System*2. Periodically we also review chemical substances, in accordance with the establishment and amendment of relevant laws and regulations. *1 Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact: A system for assessment of the environmental impact of product development all the way from raw material procurement through manufacture, use, disposal, transport and all other stages. *2 Green Procurement System: A system of giving priority to choosing raw materials, parts, etc. with lower levels of environmental impact when procuring them. Prominence in Environment 85 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Major Initiatives Controlling VOC Emissions VOC Emissions Increased by 12.1% Compared with the Fiscal 2016 Level Sekisui Chemical maintains the medium-term target of reducing VOC emissions by more than 3% compared with the fiscal 2016 level. In fiscal 2017, VOC emissions in Japan increased by 12.1% compared with fiscal 2016. Alternative fluorocarbons were fully phased out in fiscal 2008. The reason for the greater emissions was a higher volume of production by the Adhesive Tape Manufacturing Department, which uses solvents Preventing Air and Water Pollution Managing Gas Emissions and Wastewater in Accordance with Regulations The Sekisui Chemical Group complies with the regulatory values under laws and ordinances for the various types of equipment it uses in connection with exhaust gases and water drainage. We also strive to control the discharge of pollutants through appropriate maintenance and management, including periodic inspections. Soil Surveys Surveys of All Planned Business Sites Completed We drew up plans to conduct a self-assessment of soil contamination at our business sites and conducted ongoing surveys. In fiscal 2011, we completed planned surveys of all business sites. Surveys have also been conducted since fiscal 2012 as and when required. In fiscal 2017, conditions did not require any assessments of soil contamination. Disposal and Storage of Devices Containing PCBs and Management of Equipment That Uses Fluorocarbons Properly Storing and Disposing of Devices Containing PCBs in Line with Regulations Transformers and condensers that contain PCBs are being disposed of steadily, where PCB treatment facilities are available. Machines and equipment in storage that contain PCBs are managed strictly and thoroughly, through means including locked storage and periodic inspection. Steps are being taken to enhance awareness toward mandatory requirements regarding equipment that use fluorocarbons in accordance with Japan’s Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons (Freon Emission Control Act) and to ensure thoroughgoing management including periodic inspection. Prominence in Environment 86 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Response in Emergencies Training to Respond to Unforeseen Events That Impact the Environment To prevent and mitigate environmental pollution during an emergency, our employees at each business site are trained at least once a year in emergency procedures and communications for a variety of scenarios unique to each business site. Training for Measures to Be Done / Notices to Be Made in Time of Emergency Prominence in Environment 87 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Aggregated Results Based on the PRTR Law (Substances Handled at the Business Sites Subject to Assessment with Volume of Handling of 1 Ton or More Are Aggregated) Prominence in Environment 88 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Index Calculation Method Volume of chemical Volume of handling of substances subject to regulation by the PRTR Law substances handled Production sites and research institutes in Japan are subject to assessment Volume of Volume of emission / transfer of chemical substances subject to regulation by the PRTR Law emissions / Volume of emissions = Volume of emissions into the air + Volume of emissions into public transfer of waters + Volume of emissions into the soil on-site + Volume disposed by burial on-site chemical Transfer volume = Volume transferred to sewers + Volume transferred as waste material substances Covers production sites and research facilities in Japan Volume of Volume of chemical substances subject to regulation by the PRTR Law subjected to chemical detoxication substances Amount detoxified = Amount consumed in reaction + Amount consumed through subjected to combustion, etc. detoxication Covers production sites and research facilities in Japan Emission and Transfer Volume by Substance Discharge of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) into (PRTR Law) / Japan the Atmosphere / Japan Index Calculation Method Index Calculation Method Volume of emission / transfer of Volume of emission into the chemical substances subject to atmosphere of volatile organic regulation by the PRTR Law VOC compounds (VOC) among the Volume of emission = Volume of emissions substances subject to regulation by emission into the atmosphere + the PRTR Law and Japan Chemical Volume of Volume of emission into the public Industry Association emission / waters + Volume of emission into transfer of the soil on site + Volume disposed chemical of as landfill; Volume of transfer substances = Volume discharged into sewage systems + Volume discharged as waste elsewhere Production sites and research institutes in Japan are subject to assessment Prominence in Environment 89 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index NOx Emissions / Japan SOx Emissions / Japan Index Calculation Method Index Calculation Method NOx emissions =Σ(Amount of SOx SOx emissions =Σ(amount of SOx NOx emissions exhaust gas airflow per year x NOx per year x 64/22.4) emissions concentration x 46/22.4) Soot and Dust Emissions / Japan Some past figures have been revised due to improvements in precision. Index Calculation Method Soot emissions =Σ(amount of exSoot emissions haust gas airflow per year x soot concentration) Prominence in Environment 90 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environmental Impact Assessment Understanding the Impact of Our Products and Services on the Global Environment Management Approach Basic Concept Results of Environmental Impact Assessments for Each Product Reflected in Measures The Sekisui Chemical Group assesses environmental impact at every stage of a product's lifecycle when product processes are developed or changed. Assessment of environmental impact of products Range: all stages of product life cycle Targets: products and processes Prominence in Environment 91 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Material Balance Performance data Shows resources and energy used in business activities (input) and substances that constitute environmental impact (output) generated in connection with business activities. Material balance Prominence in Environment 92 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Contributing to Return of Natural Capital Co-existing with the Global Environment Through Business Activities and Environment-contributing Products Toward the realization of earth with maintained biodiversity, the Sekisui Chemical Group is committed to returning more natural capital back to the planet than it uses through three initiatives: expand and create Environment-Contributing Products, reduce environmental impact*, and conserve the natural environment. * See page 59 of Usage of Environmental Capital for more information. Environment-contributing Products Environment-contributing Products are internally certified products that have demonstrated a high level of environmental contribution when used by customers. Conservation of Natural Environment The Sekisui Chemical Group improves the quality of green spaces on its business sites in order to coexist in harmony with the local environment. To prevent negative effects on and ensure the safety of the water environment for aquatic life in the places where wastewater flows, the Group conducts assessments of impact of wastewater on aquatic life. Prominence in Environment 93 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environment-contributing Products Create and Expand Markets for Products That Display Significant Environmental Contribution Effectiveness During Customer Use Environment-contributing Product Certifications Certifications Based on Proprietary Criteria, and Third-party Evaluations of Validity For the Environment-contributing Products of the Sekisui Chemical Group, the internal certification screening committee undertakes certifications based on criteria established in cooperation with internal committee members while receiving opinions and advice on the criteria, the stance they are based on, and the validity of results from the External Advisory Board. Evolution of Frameworks for Environment-contributing Products Beyond Just the Natural Environment, Expanding into Standards That Include Contributions to the Social Environment We have shifted frameworks for Environment-contributing Products since fiscal 2017. Since the system was first established in 2006, we have focused on products that contribute to solving issues on the Earth’s natural environment and have worked to create and expand such frameworks. On the other hand, in terms of the Company’s business, we also possess many products that contribute to solving matters that concern the social environment. Raising such contributions, we believe, is another mission of the Sekisui Chemical Group. This stance is embodied in the long-held Group vision of “improving the lives of the people of the world and the Earth's environment through its businesses.” Based on this stance, and to extend product contributions beyond the natural environment, we have also included such social environments as human capital and social capital in our efforts, in effect expanding the scope of our work across natural capital as a whole since fiscal 2017. To this end, the Sekisui Chemical Group will begin first and foremost by expanding its contributions to “healthier and longer lives,” “promoting the resiliency and spread of strong social infrastructure” and “safe living and strengthened disaster resistance.” The above issues are in accordance with the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Therefore, the Sekisui Chemical Group will strive to contribute to the realization of the SDGs through tackling these issues. Unwavering Stance Prominence in Environment 94 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index SHIFT of Environment-contributing Products New Environment-contributing Products Perspectives Prominence in Environment 95 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environment-contributing Products PR External Promotional Activities In fiscal 2017, Sekisui Chemical participated in the Eco Products 2017 exhibition, an environment-focused tradeshow. The Company showcased Environment-contributing Products and introduced the dual perspectives of contributing to both the natural environment and social environment, while providing explanations to booth visitors. One of the items exhibited, the InfraGuard series, consists of structure-preservation plastic products that help non-destructively repair and extend the life of degraded concrete, steel, and other structures. These products help halt structural degradation and contribute to the essential strength and durability of structures through the reinforcement of sheets and resin injections, depending on the type of structure, positioning and condition. The InfraGuard series is thus a group of materials that aid in the reduction of waste material while contributing to more robust social infrastructure. This series of products was also praised by the staff of embassies from developing countries, who found time in their busy schedules to visit the Eco Products tradeshow, as a way to repair structures that is both inexpensive and highly reliable, characteristics that are in demand in their own countries. Additionally, there are the resin-based “MIGUSA floor tatami mats,” which are made with highly durable polypropylene and natural inorganic materials. These mats are highly durable and have a long product life, which helps to reduce waste. MIGUSA floor tatami mats do not attract mites or grow mold and are therefore effective in contributing to the social environment, including by extending users’ healthy lifespans. As a product that supports safe, secure, and comfortable lives and that possesses the charm of something that is characteristically Japanese, the mat was honored with the COOL JAPAN AWARD 2017. Exhibition at Eco Products 2017 Prominence in Environment 96 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index External Advisory Board Considering Environmental Contributions of Products from External Perspectives Since fiscal 2012, we have held an External Advisory Board as an opportunity to receive opinions and advice from renowned authorities from outside the Company, with regard to the standards and registration of Environment-contributing Products, positions to take in the future, and other comments. In fiscal year 2017, Advisory Board meetings were held twice. At both meetings, we received advice regarding what stance to take on growing our contributions to social environment issues, the setting of certification standards, and other issues. Based on the advice we received, we shared our position concerning what to do when explaining benefits to society among internal certification screening committee members. In fiscal year 2017, we registered twenty products and lines of businesses as products that contribute to the social environment as part of a new framework. We also registered four products and lines of business as products that contribute to the natural environment under the current framework. At the conclusion of the meeting, we received various comments including the expectations that advisors held with regard to the future of the Sekisui Chemical Group’s Environment-contributing Products. There were a range of perspectives offered, including “Rather than just responding, in a functional way, to changes in the market where the need to make some kind of contribution is on the rise, it is vital that you generate and distribute products with a philosophy or concept,” and “Developing technologies that make ethanol from waste by utilizing the power of microorganisms is the sort of thing that would show that the Sekisui Chemical Group's technology development is moving in a direction that is in line with the needs of society.” External Advisory Board (from the left) ・Minako Oishi, Nippon Association of Consumer Specialists (public corporation), Representative Director, Deputy Chairperson, Environmental Committee ・Juichi Shibusawa, President of the specified non-profit corporation “Network for Coexistence with Nature” ・Masatsugu Taniguchi, Representative of the Resource and Environment Strategic Planning Office ・ Takehisa Kabeya, Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry, Deputy Director, Department of Regional and Industry Support ・Shoichi Saito, Nikkei Business Publications, Executive Director, ESG Forum Prominence in Environment 97 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Visualization of Environmental Contributions Environmental Assessment and Quantification of Environment-contributing Products To clarify the amount of return to natural capital, the Sekisui Chemical Group endeavors to visualize the environmental contribution for each Environment-contributing Product. We calculate and quantify into a single indicator (damage costs) the various contribution vectors in the life cycle of Environment-contributing Products. We multiply the market impact, based on sales, by the environment contribution of each product to arrive at a quantifiable contribution by product, reflected in the Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index. In calculating the impact on the environment for each Environment-contributing Product until fiscal 2016, we broadly classified environmental issues into three areas that should be resolved in our aim to help realize a planet where biodiversity is preserved. However, by broadening the scope of Environment-contributing Products, we have since taken steps to integrate contributions across four areas adding the area of human health / social capital. From Fiscal Year 2017 (1) Human health (includes the effects of global warming) (2) Social assets (includes the effects of global warming) (3) Impacts on plants (reducing interference with growth) (4) Impacts on biodiversity (limiting the extinction of species) How to Visualize Environmental Contribution (1) Determine technologies and products to be compared. (2) Gather quantifiable data related to environmental impact of each stage of a product's lifecycle (from raw materials to production, transport, use and disposal). (3) Apply a coefficient* to calculate environmental impact for each factor affecting the environmental impact data obtained and consolidate the results. (4) Environmental contribution is the difference between the coefficient-derived value in 3. above and the original value. * Coefficient: Calculated using a customized version of MiLCA, a system developed by Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry using LIME2, an environmental impact assessment method created by Professor Norihiro Itsubo at Tokyo City University. Prominence in Environment 98 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Net Sales / Proportion of Environment-contributing Products Revenue from Products That Contribute to the Environment Over Time (Unit: Billions of yen) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Housing Company 306.8 305.8 280.6 290.9 317.6 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental 99.6 99.8 103.5 90.3 93.7 Products Company High Performance Plastics Company 59.1 88.1 99.8 99.4 142.2 Headquarters 1.2 1.4 1.8 0.6 2.4 Company-wide total 466.8 495.1 485.8 481.2 555.9 Index Calculation Method Net sales of Environment-contributing Products = Consolidated sales across the Sekisui Net sales of Chemical Group of products internally certified as Environment-contributing Products EnvironmentAll businesses of the Group in and outside Japan are subject to assessment contributing * See pages 94-95 for a definition of Environment-contributing Products and the way of Products thinking behind them. Proportion in Proportion in net sales of Environment-contributing Products = Net sales of Environmentnet sales of contributing Products / Consolidated sales EnvironmentAll businesses of the Group in and outside Japan are subject to assessment contributing * See pages 94-95 for a definition of Environment-contributing Products and the way of Products thinking behind them. Number of Environment-contributing Products Newly Registered Number of Environment-contributing Products Number of registrations as of the end of March newly registered in FY2017 FY2018 24 142 Prominence in Environment 99 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Conserving the Natural Environment We Strive to Conserve Natural Environments and Biodiversity. Management Approach Basic Concept Lessening the Impact of Business Activities on Biodiversity In April 2008, the Sekisui Chemical Group incorporated items relating to biodiversity into its Environmental Management Policy. In 2011, the Group established a set of guidelines. The Sekisui Chemical Group has striven to conserve the natural environment, including in terms of biodiversity, through both environmentally conscious business activities and actions to preserve the environment undertaken around the world. Prominence in Environment 100 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Biodiversity Assessment Assessing the Environmental Impact and Confirming the Effect on Biodiversity At the Sekisui Chemical Group, the Environmental Subcommittee of the Group, which is positioned under the CSR Committee, headed by the President, meets twice a year to deliberate on biodiversity with regard to the Group’s business activities, and to assess their impact. As a specific method to assess impact on the environment, the Company uses the JBIB Land Use Score Card®*1, a tool for evaluating the level of effort to preserve biodiversity with respect to land use, as well as WET*2, which evaluates the impact on living organisms exerted by waste water. With the Sekisui Chemical’s large-scale land developments including the construction of one of its plants, or when new land is acquired as a result of an M&A or other activity, the Company conducts an environmental impact assessment with regard to the potential effect that the Company’s business could have, including on the air, bodies of water, or soil. Within this environmental impact assessment, we also confirm the impact on biodiversity. *1 JBIB Land Use Score Card®：A tool used to assess the level of effort to preserve biodiversity, developed by the NPO Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity. *2 WET （Whole Effluent Toxicity） ： A test method to assess the toxicity of wastewater in bio-response of fish, water fleas, and algae. Prominence in Environment 101 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Major Initiatives SEKISUI Environment Week Held to Help Develop Human Resources with Excellent Environmental Activity Promotional Skills For a fifth time, in fiscal 2017, a total of 25,277 employees participated in activities. The activities were creatively devised to match each business site and included beautification around the areas, tree planting, energy-conservation in the offices and much more. Initiatives to Improve Green Space Quality Initiatives to Improve Green Space Quality at All Domestic Production Sites and Laboratories We are moving forward with efforts to improve green space quality at business sites with the aim of maintaining flora and fauna habitats, building ecosystem networks that connect regions and business sites and invigorate regional partnerships. Under the environmental medium-term plan (2017-2019), we aimed to improve our score on the JBIB Land Use Score Card® by 5 points compared with fiscal 2016. As a result of planting local seeds and saplings, activities to get rid of invasive alien plants, and other activities, we had improved our average score by 2.6 points (compared with fiscal 2016) in fiscal 2017. ParkFauna and flora observation at greened areas of Taga Plant Prominence in Environment 102 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index An Example of Our Initiatives to Improve Green Space Quality Creating Heim Forest, a Biotope with Its Roots Deep in the Local Area In May, 2017, Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. finished construction of a biotope (named Heim Forest ) the Company had been operating on its business site. The company planted 27 kinds of seeds and sapling native to Tosu, the area the Company is located in, such as Camellia japonica and Cornus kousa, which all grow very well in the region, and created a biodiversity-sensitive, green tract of land inviting all kinds of living things of the surrounding area to live there. During the SEKISUI Environment Week held in fiscal 2017, as a part of the initiative, company employees attached tree name tags to trees in the area. Heim Forest is used by employees on weekdays as a space for relaxation and also by visitors to the factory during factory tours as a resting area. In the future, the Company intends to improve the quality of this green space further and perhaps even make it open to residents of Tosu and other neighboring areas. Panoramic view of Heim Forest Attaching tree name tags during Serving as a space for relaxation the SEKISUI Environment Week for employees on weekdays WET Evaluation of Wastewater Investigation of Causes at Business Sites Where Impact Had Been Confirmed by Previous Surveys The Sekisui Chemical Group strictly follows wastewater standards regulated by laws and ordinances and has set even tougher standards for the management of wastewater from its production sites. To prevent negative effects on and ensure the safety of the water environment for aquatic life in the places where wastewater flows, the Group has conducted WET assessments of wastewater and surveys of the habitat conditions in the rivers where wastewater is released since fiscal 2013. Looking at past surveys, 96% of the water emitted into public water areas by the Sekisui Chemical Group production sites has been checked. In fiscal 2017, the Company conducted investigations into causes at business sites where past surveys have revealed an impact on living organisms. River ecosystem survey Examples of living creatures used in WET assessments (zebra fish) Prominence in Environment 103 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Results from the JBIB Land Use Score Card® FY2017 JBIB Land Use Score Increase by 2.6 points Card® Index Calculation method JBIB Land Use Score Card® is a tool promoted by JBIB, which evaluates the level of effort to preserve biodiversity with respect to the land owned by the Company. It is a sheet for evaluation of every business site regarding the size and quality of its green Points of JBIB Land Use space, management system, etc. on a scale from 0 to 100. Score Card® We implement assessments of every business site for the fiscal year using the JBIB Land Use Score Card® and calculate the increase from the number of points it had in fiscal 2016. The index is the average value of the points increase of all business sites. SEKISUI Environment Week Participation Rate FY2017 Participation rate in the SEKISUI Environment 84.9% Week initiative Index Calculation method Proportion of participants Total number of participants in the SEKISUI Environment Week initiative / total in the SEKISUI Environment number of employees in the business sites participating in the initiative x100 Week initiative Prominence in Environment 104 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Business Sites (Owned, Leased or Managed) in or Adjacent to Protected Areas and in Unprotected Areas of Rich Biodiversity ■SEKISUI MEDICAL CO., LTD. Iwate Plant Address: 4-115 Matsuo, Hachimantai City, Iwate prefecture Surface / subsurface classification: surface Location related to protected area: adjacent to Towada-Hachimantai National Park Business type: manufacturing and production Site area: 0.46km2 Value associated with biodiversity: protected area as defined in Japan’s Natural Parks Act Habitats Protected or Restored Within Reporting Period ■Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Address: 225-1 Yanagishima, Chiyoda-cho, Kanzaki City, Saga prefecture Scale, area: 6,600m2 Details on protection or restoration:creation of a biotope which replicates a natural habitat. Protected within the biotope is the gudgeon, an endangered species of fish, and other precious aquatic life indigenous to the local region. Numbers of IUCN Red List Species and National Conservation List Species with Habitats in Areas Affected by Operations, by Level of Extinction Risk i. Critically Endangered (CR) IA: 1 species ii. Endangered (EN) IB: 2 species iii. Vulnerable (VU) II: 7 species iv. Near Threatened (NT): 21 species v. Least Concern: 0 species Prominence in Environment 105 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Prominence in CS & Quality Pursuing the Quality Always Specified by Customers by Maximizing the Quality of Human Resources, Systems, and Products Management Approach Our Philosophy Since 1999, the Sekisui Chemical Group has practiced customer satisfaction (CS) management. In 2004, we coined the phrase CS & Quality in the belief that customer satisfaction and quality are inseparable. We began CS & Quality Management to consistently deliver value to our customers so that they will always choose our products and services. Mindful of the fact that customer feedback is the wellspring of our manufacturing activities, we are actively honing the Quality of Our People, the Quality of Our Systems, and the Quality of Products and Services. In this manner, the Group is working in unison to consistently deliver the quality that is always specified by customers. The Sekisui Chemical Group’s CS & Quality Management Circulation Diagram Flow of Utilizing Customer Feedback in Management Prominence in CS & Quality 106 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index CS & Quality Management Promotion System CS & Quality Management Promotion System Creating Customer-oriented Products About the Follow-Up Activities for the Self-Declaration for Customer-Oriented Management Sekisui Chemical is in favor of the Consumer Affairs Agency’s initiates for bringing about “Customer-Oriented Management” and made a “Self-Declaration for Customer-Oriented Management,”* expressing Sekisui Chemical philosophy and plans for initiatives, in January 2017. * Companies declare on their own accord to engage in consumer-oriented management, take action based on their declarations and disclose the outcomes of their initiatives. Mindful that customer opinions are a valuable resource for management, we are aggressively pursuing innovations in the Quality of Products and Services, the Quality of Our People, and the Quality of Our Systems, based on the motto “customer feedback is the wellspring of our manufacturing activities.” We aim to contribute to the realization of a worry-free and abundant society by continuing to provide new value to our customers and society. Below are five activities undertaken in FY2017 based on our “Self-declaration for Handling Consumers.” Prominence in CS & Quality 107 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index 1. Ensuring Basic Qualities To ensure the reliability and safety of our products, which are the basis of “Product Quality,” our mechanisms for quality auditing have been entirely rebuilt. The major change with the new auditing system is the introduction of “Sekisui Process Management Charts” (SPMCs). 2. Creating Attractive Qualities We created mechanisms to encourage concrete actions by employees to improve CS & quality. We have issued a CS & Quality Management Book compiling specific information and have distributed this text to group employees within Japan. In fiscal year 2017 we also held the fourth “Selection of Attractive Quality,” where external experts evaluate products. Since fiscal year 2008, a total of 13 products have received awards. 3. Upgrading Technological Capabilities We held a conference on global-scale “group improvement activities.” At the 52nd “Sekisui Chemical Group Improvement Activities Conference,” 13 groups representing companies in Japan and from around the world gave presentations. 4. Enhancing Communications We published Vol. 2 of the booklet VOICE, which compiles views brought to Customer Consultation Offices, allowing us to to discover otherwise overlooked views expressed by our customers. We also issued “STAR 55 News,” which conveys positive examples of CS & quality to employees. This was the 36th publication of the newsletter since fiscal year 2006. 5. Providing Thorough Employee Education We started providing “telephone support training” in fiscal year 2008 with the aim of raising the level of telephone support. By the end of fiscal year 2017, a total of 1,888 employees had attended 191 sessions. During fiscal year 2017 we also launched “email training.” We compiled “email guidelines” into a booklet and added these guidelines to the texts for new employees, making these guidelines part of the group's required business etiquette. Prominence in CS & Quality 108 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Medium-term Plan The Sekisui Chemical Group Has Put in Place a CS & Quality Policy Under Its Medium-term Management Plan Management Approach Medium-term Plan Implementation Start of Initiatives Under the CS & Quality Medium-term Plan (FY2017 to FY2019) Roadmap for CS & Quality Control Initiatives * SPMC (short for Sekisui Process Management Chart) Major Initiatives The Medium-term Plan (FY2017-2019) Progress Slight Increase in External Failure Costs Compared with the Final Fiscal Year of the Previous Medium-term Plan In fiscal 2017, the first year of the medium-term plan, we had two major quality issues* 1. External failure costs*2 slightly increased compared with the final year of the previous medium-term plan. To achieve zero major quality issues in the future, we aim to improve Basic Qualities by ensuring thorough adherence to the Development Guidelines and Everyday Management Guidelines throughout the entire Group. We also aim to continue to decrease external loss costs by rolling out across the entire group a more robust quality assurance system, management of changes and alterations to this system, and quality risk-reduction activities based on the prevention of defects. *1 Major quality issues: Problems related to product and service quality that could cause significant damage to customers, society, or the Sekisui Chemical Group if not thoroughly resolved on an urgent basis. *2 External failure costs: Costs arising from responding to product-related complaints. Prominence in CS & Quality 109 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Enhance Basic Manufacturing Capabilities Rebuilding of Quality Audit Mechanisms In accordance with the “CS & Quality Management Activity Roadmap,” we set out to rebuild our auditing mechanisms in fiscal year 2017. This initiative was done in response to the updates in the 2015 edition of the ISO 9001 standard; because quality confirmation based on daily controls were scheduled to start in fiscal year 2018, each company checked and revised its quality-management systems throughout fiscal year 2017. The major change was the introduction of the Sekisui Chemical Group’s tailor-made “Sekisui Process Management Chart” (SPMC), which is used to conduct process management using charts and whose purpose is to improve internal auditing. Through the utilization of the SPMC, we aim to efficiently perform quality control throughout the entire supply chain, including suppliers and cooperating companies. During fiscal year 2017, initiatives for promoting understanding and widespread use of the SPMC on the manufacturing shop floors at each company. Prominence in CS & Quality 110 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Data Concerning Major Quality Number of Major Quality Issues Indicator Calculation Method These refer to product and service quality issues determined by the Division Company president, based on evaluations and judgments by the quality assurance manager, which could cause significant damage to customers, society, or Sekisui Chemical Group and lead to the loss of society’s trust in the Group if not thoroughly resolved on an urgent basis including: 1) Problems that could have a serious impact on (or cause severe damage to) Major Quality Issues society, such as product recalls 2) All serious problems involving human safety and those acknowledged by the Division Company to be serious problems involving the safety of property 3) Compliance-related problems concerning the quality of products or services (e.g., those involving compliance with relevant laws and regulations) 4) Problems that could inflict serious financial damage on customers Data Concerning External Failure Costs External Failure Costs Indicator Calculation Method External failure costs Costs for Responding to Complaints about Products Prominence in CS & Quality 111 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Creating Attractive Products and Services Advancing the Development of Human Resources, Systems, and a Culture Enabling the Creation of Attractive Qualities Management Approach Basic Concept We Consider Customer Feedback as the Beginning of Our Manufacturing With the catchphrase “we consider customer feedback as the beginning of our manufacturing,” the Sekisui Chemical Group is working on building a customer-oriented, free and open-minded organizational culture to create Attractive Qualities that customers will continue to ask for by name. Major Initiatives Instilling CS & Quality Management Building a Mechanism That Will Encourage Concrete Action by Employees to Enhance CS & Quality As a part of efforts to instill CS & Quality management under the CS & Quality Management Activity Roadmap, the Group reconsidered the questions included in Employee CS & Quality Assessments. Based on the understanding that efforts to promote awareness toward the words and concept had for the most part come to an end by fiscal 2016, the nature and content of questions were revised to encourage concrete action by each and every employee. The Sekisui Chemical Group published a CS & Quality Management booklet summarizing the information required to support concrete action. This booklet has been distributed to Group employees in Japan. A translation is currently underway for distribution to overseas employees in the future. Measures were implemented to collate the results of Employee CS & Quality Assessments conducted in fiscal 2016. Steps were also taken to promote the sharing of pertinent information including issues and salient points with frontline managers at each business section and to make the most of assessment results at each plant floor. Prominence in CS & Quality 112 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Measures to Create Attractive Qualities Providing Products and Services While Enhancing CS Sensitivity The Sekisui Chemical Group strives to improve the CS sensitivity of individual employees and to build an organizational culture focused on CS, to continue creating Attractive Qualities. Wakuwaku Chaya Study Groups for CS Culture Study Groups for CS Culture began as a measure to improve awareness of CS when we realized there was not enough communication across organizational borders in Employee CS & Quality Assessments that were conducted in fiscal 2012. Employees steer their own study groups about how best to improve CS culture and have nicknamed the groups Wakuwaku Chaya. The Sekisui Chemical Group believes that having an organization where employees are able to enjoy and fully engage in work is a shortcut to enhancing its CS culture. Our study groups for CS culture are not meetings or debates, but opportunities for employees to engage in discussions among themselves. In these study sessions, all participants view documentaries about how other companies have promoted CS activities and share their thoughts and feelings with one another about CS. The participants declare action targets during the sessions and take back to their workplaces the knowledge they gained from this dialogue with their peers. Departments that have continued to hold these study groups have witnessed a natural improvement in their CS culture. Energies remain directed toward further advancing Study Groups for CS Culture not only as a forum to reflect on dialogue that promotes mutual understanding, but also as the means to deliberate on future aspirations and scenarios and to enhance employee satisfaction by sharing forward-looking visions. Prominence in CS & Quality 113 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index CS & Quality Seminar CS & Quality Seminars invite people from a variety of fields outside the Company to give lectures with the intention of improving awareness of CS & Quality. The lectures are split into Attractive Qualities themes about creating attractive quality and Basic Qualities themes to strengthen core quality. A total of 49 seminars have been held from the inception of the program in 2001 through the end of fiscal 2017. Authorities on a variety of themes relating to CS & Quality are invited to speak at each seminar. Among a host of topics, seminars cover instances where efforts aimed at motivating and satisfying employees have led to improved customer services and satisfaction. Seminars are also an opportunity to learn about the planning and development involved in producing hit and long-selling products and a forum through which to exchange views in quality management. Learning from case studies of progressive customer services stories from around the world, employees are able to not only increase their awareness of CS & Quality, but also gain opportunities to pick up the knowledge and wisdom needed to create Attractive Qualities. In this regard, the CS & Quality Seminar is indeed a very interesting event. In fiscal 2017, a total of 327 people participated in four seminars held at Sekisui Chemical's Tokyo Headquarters. ●Date of seminar: July 3, 2017 ●Date of seminar: September 4, 2017 ●Date of meeting: March 20, 2018 Guest speaker: Guest speaker: Guest speaker: Seiichi Nakazawa, Takumi Matsui, Toshiya Terasawa, Shikoku Kanzai Matsui Service Consulting Live Lecturer® Practical Workshop Theme: “Creating an Organization Theme: “From Theory to Practical CS Theme: “Teaching Techniques and Where Even Gossip is Positive in Nature” That Drives Business Growth ―The Live Methods for Public Speaking ― True Significance of CS Activities―” One Secret to Lighting a Fire in the Hearts of Listeners―” Prominence in CS & Quality 114 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Telephone Service Training / E-Mail Training We have been conducting telephone service training, intended to improve the level of telephone service, continuously since fiscal 2008. Initially, the telephone service was geared toward the individual purchasing a new home. As such, the target of our training focused on the Housing Company. In fiscal 2011, this was extended to all division companies and then to all Group companies. By the end of fiscal 2017, telephone service training sessions had been held on an aggregate total of 19 times and attended by more than 1,888 employees. Telephone service training is given to new employees, sales staff and customer service personnel who respond to inquiries by individual and corporate customers. As a new development, we are also providing telephone service training to employees in plant manufacturing divisions with the aim of improving telephone communications internally and externally. We are currently implementing training programs to improve the level of service in e-mail communications and to enhance the telephone answering skills of staff. In fiscal year 2017, we launched “email training” as an extension of our telephone support training. Employees of the Customer Consultation Office serve as instructors and give visiting lectures on matters including business email etiquette, offering support on how to write in ways that do not confuse customers or leave them with unpleasant impressions. Additionally, “Email Guidelines,” compiling the materials used in the training into booklet form, were uploaded to the Company intranet as well as added to the existing texts distributed to new Sekisui Chemical Group employees. Thus, the new guidelines are considered to be part of the required business etiquette expected of new employees. Systems That Evaluate and Improve Attractive Qualities from the Viewpoint of Society Attractive Qualities Screening System for Evaluations by Outside Experts The Sekisui Chemical Group has set up the Attractive Qualities Screening System for evaluating its Attractive Quality products from an external third-party viewpoint, in order to accelerate the creation of attractive qualities. This system has been utilized once every three years since fiscal 2008 and was used for the fourth time in fiscal 2017. Under this screening system, a cumulative total of 13 products have been selected for awards up to fiscal 2017, based on an evaluation of their value proposition for customers and society, in addition to their contributions to sales and profits. In order to notify Sekisui Chemical Group employees about what concepts and perspectives were used to commercialize award-winning products, the Company’s intranet features The Story of Attractive Qualities, which reveals the secrets behind the development of these products through interviews with those involved. This initiative has made Sekisui Chemical Group employees more motivated to take on the challenge of developing new products despite the various hurdles they may face by providing helpful hints and raising awareness of development initiatives. Award-winning Products in Fiscal 2017 (Two Products) ・ “Smart Power Station ‘100% Edition’” 100% energy self-sufficient housing ・“Kucho Hyper CH” high-performance polyethylene tube for air conditioner piping Prominence in CS & Quality 115 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Systems to Confirm the Degree of Penetration of CS & Quality Management Initiatives Expanding Employee CS & Quality Assessments to Overseas Business Sites Starting in fiscal 2012, the Sekisui Chemical Group conducts a CS & Quality Assessment (survey) program once every two years for employees in Japan, intended to ascertain the degree to which CS & Quality Management has spread throughout the organization, identify any related issues by measuring employees' awareness of CS & Quality and related activities, and reflecting this information in the code of conduct. More specifically, the survey identifies issues for creating the groundwork for CS & Quality culture, such as by measuring the degree that management’s philosophy and policies have spread throughout the organization, and communications up and down the ranks, across organizations and among members. Thereafter, based on the final report, new action objectives are set for each organizational unit with the aim of gradually fostering a culture of CS & Quality within the Sekisui Chemical Group. Since fiscal 2015, we have expanded this system to include some overseas business sites. In fiscal 2017, CS & Quality assessments are being conducted at six organizations. Systems That Use Customer Feedback to Increase CS & Quality Improve the Responsiveness of Customer Consultation Office The staff of the Customer Consultation Office responds to questions, concerns, opinions, requests, and other inquiries from customers. To provide support that satisfies customers without requiring them to be directed to call the departments responsible for the matters concerned, all employees of the Customer Consultation Office learn about our products and technologies and strive to offer, as much as possible, responses to inquiries at a one-stop shop. Thanks to this initiative, we have received praise from customers concerning calls relating to opinions and requests. In fiscal year 2017, there were 13 such times when praise was received from customers. Publication of VOICE That Summarizes Customer Feedback The Sekisui Chemical Group’s Customer Consultation Office receive over 10,000 inquiries and comments every year. The Sekisui Chemical Group directly answers each inquiry and analyzes the factors that motivated the customer to make the inquiry in the first place, in order to discover the hidden needs of customers. Many of these customer inquiries contain requests and ideas for making improvements, such as changing product specifications and increasing the range of variations. By feeding back these customer opinions in the development and production divisions of each internal company, we are able to improve CS & Quality by revising specifications and enhancing catalog markups from the users' perspective. As a new initiative starting in fiscal 2015, the Group has published VOICE, which is a summary of the inquiries received by Customer Consultation Office. This booklet is published with the aim of reflecting customer feedback in management activities, cultivating and instilling a culture of CS & Quality in all employees, and promoting understanding of these issues in Group-wide businesses in a manner that transcends particular operational areas. The Sekisui Chemical Group aims to improve three qualities (people, frameworks, products and services) based on feedback from customers. Prominence in CS & Quality 116 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Results of the Customer Satisfaction Survey Conducting a CS Survey The Sekisui Chemical Group’s Housing Company conducts a CS survey to measure the level of customer satisfaction. Customer feedback gleaned from these surveys is broadly shared throughout the Company and used to improve product development capabilities and the quality of the Group’s services. Details of any customer dissatisfaction are closely assessed. Steps are then taken to make the necessary improvements and to further increase the satisfaction of customers. Building on these activities, the Housing Company has been working diligently to consistently enhance the satisfaction of its customers. In fiscal 2017, the level of customer satisfaction reached a record-high 76.6%. Looking ahead, we will continue to take seriously the comments of customers and strive to improve our quality and services. Framework for Employee Activities to Improve CS & Quality STAR 55 Bulletin Highlights Good Examples of CS & Quality for Group Employees In 2002, its 55th anniversary, the Sekisui Chemical Group implemented STAR 55 as a program to promote CS throughout the Company. In 2006, we issued the first STAR 55 Bulletin, a newsletter that focuses on CS & Quality with a collection of excellent case studies for CS & Quality for Group employees, with the aim of raising awareness of CS & Quality management. We have continued to publish STAR 55 Bulletin since fiscal 2006, issuing it a total of 36 times by the end of fiscal 2017.The name STAR 55 Bulletin embodies the concept where each employee of the Sekisui Chemical Group is a key player in fostering the Group’s spirit and culture by modifying their behavior to gain customer trust. * Origin of the name: STAR 55 Bulletin S = Sekisui, T = Trust, A = Action, R = Revolution, STAR = Leader, 55 = 55th anniversary since founding. Prominence in CS & Quality 117 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Data Relating to Telephone Support Training Number of Incoming Calls, etc., from Customers Telephone Support Training (total number of participants) Indicator Calculation Method Number of incoming calls, etc. Number of inquiries by telephone, email, letters, faxes, and other means Prominence in CS & Quality 118 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Data Relating to Improving the Supporting Capability of the Customer Consultation Office Breakdown of incoming calls (Sekisui Chemical) CS Questionnaire 7-Step Evaluation (Housing Company) Indicator Calculation Method The subjects of incoming calls are recorded on “Insider Net” and categorized as follows: •General inquiries: questions about Sekisui Chemical Group product specifications, how to use products, construction methods, stores selling the products, and related matters •Incidents during which customers expressed their dissatisfaction or lodged rebukes concerning Sekisui Chemical Group products or support •Requests for repairs: Requests for repairs of Sekisui Chemical Group products and calls Breakdown of relating to the repairs hotline incoming calls •Praise: Calls during which praise was received for satisfaction with the Sekisui Chemical Group's products or support •Needs and expectations: What customers require of Sekisui Chemical Group products and services (product improvements and new products, etc.), and inquiries relating to business activities, or comments on what is expected of Sekisui Chemical Group Note: ”Insider Net”: A Sekisui Chemical Group intranet site on which incoming calls to the Customer Consultation Office are released in real-time. Prominence in CS & Quality 119 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Improving Quality Pursuing the “Three Zeros” in Accidents, Waste and Complaints Management Approach Basic Concept On-site Manufacturing Supports Quality Recognizing that it is the fields of manufacturing development that support quality, since fiscal 2006 the Sekisui Chemical Group has focused its efforts on innovation in production. Based on its belief that quality defects lead to higher costs arising from handling complaints or increased waste, we are trying to reduce costs by targeting the “three zeros” of accidents, waste, and complaints. Prominence in CS & Quality 120 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Quality Management Systems in Each Section Reflect Business Characteristics The Sekisui Chemical Group has developed quality control systems covering every process from production to product use by customers. Each section has developed a quality assurance system, and in each process, we promote standards-based controls on a daily basis. In developing products and making improvements to quality, we conduct screening from a variety of perspectives, such as those of quality assurance and safety. Formulating Three Quality Guidelines Maintaining Uniform Quality Control from Development to Sales Undertaking uniform quality control throughout the value chain—from development, manufacturing, and sales—the Sekisui Chemical Group is working to improve the level of its quality control by formulating and issuing three guidelines: Development Guidelines for Strengthening Quality Assurance, Guidelines for Daily Management Activities, and Contract / Specification Guidelines. Development Guidelines are aimed at preventing Basic Quality-related problems from occurring by predicting quality risks that can arise after commercialization. Guidelines for Daily Management Activities are a collection of basic guides to management on a daily basis that must be undertaken in manufacturing and post-development processes. Contract / Specification Guidelines were added in fiscal 2015 with the aim of reducing expanded compensation* risks related to product sales. * Expanded compensation: Customers compensation in the case of product defects that extend beyond returns and exchanges to include compensation for processing / construction / items made with these products, and other related damage. Prominence in CS & Quality 121 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Product Safety Compliance with Laws and Internal Rules for Product Safety When a legal violation related to product safety becomes known internally or is pointed out from external sources, the Sekisui Chemical Group rapidly discloses information about the incident and moves quickly to discover the cause and prevent a reoccurrence. This is also true if internal rules and standards for product safety have not been followed. In fiscal 2017, there were no cases where we violated laws or internal rules related to product safety. Products Information Disclosure and Labeling Compliance with Laws and Internal Rules Relating to Product Information Disclosure The Sekisui Chemical Group complies strictly with laws and internal rules relating to the disclosure of product quality and safety. In 2017, there were no cases where we violated laws or internal rules related to the disclosure of product quality and safety. Major Initiatives Review of the Quality Assurance System Over 70% of Business Sites Have Transitioned to the Revised ISO 9001 Standard During fiscal year 2015, ISO 9001 underwent a full-scale revision, and in response, each Company and each group company has been revising its quality management systems (QMSs) since fiscal year 2016. As of the end of fiscal year 2017, over 70% of total business sites had migrated their quality management systems to the revised ISO 9001 standard. Prominence in CS & Quality 122 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Design and Development Seminars Development Risk Prevention Seminar and DR* Reviewer Training Seminar Continuing from fiscal 2013, we held the Development Risk Prevention Seminar aimed at acquiring effective prevention methods as well as the DR Reviewer Training Seminar to improve the skills of people who conduct DRs. Both seminars are based on the topic of preventing quality problems before they arise. In fiscal 2017, we held meetings to consider specific examples where risks were prevented before they occurred at four locations: the Tsukuba Site of the Housing Company; the Minakuchi Plant of the High Performance Plastics Company, the Ritto Plant and the Gunma Plant of the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company. We reconfirmed the importance of predicting and identifying risks to quality by focusing on points of change with existing products. We plan to hold these seminars again in fiscal 2018. * DR: Design Review DR Reviewer Training Seminar Development Risk Prevention Seminar CS & Quality Seminar CS & Quality Seminar: Basic Qualities Edition Held during Quality Month Since fiscal 2011 the CS & Quality Seminar: Basic Qualities Edition has been held during Quality Month every November with the goal of raising the level of Basic Qualities throughout the entire Sekisui Chemical Group. In fiscal 2017, Dr. Satoko Tsuru, Specially Appointed Professor, Healthcare Social System Engineering Laboratory, School of Engineering, the University of Tokyo was invited to speak on the theme of service quality in the manufacturing industry focusing on the objectives and standardization of service excellence. Many of the people who attended the lecture commented favorably on the insight gained of the global trend toward service standardization led by Germany as well as activities in Japan. Others were impressed by the easy-to-understand examples of elderly housing with healthcare and supportive services. CS & Quality Seminar Prominence in CS & Quality 123 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Steady Penetration of Manufacturing Education and Training Rebuilding Our Manufacturing Education System Since fiscal 2013, the Sekisui Chemical Group has been rebuilding its employee grade-based training system for managers in production departments in order to spread knowledge of manufacturing throughout all levels, and to pass down the expertise of veteran technicians to younger employees. We offer 15 courses in the three fields of technical skills, human skills and conceptual skills. A cumulative total of 2,768 employees had participated in courses up to fiscal 2017. QC Certification Acquisition of QC Certification* The Sekisui Chemical Group also employs QC Certification effectively to measure levels of quality knowledge, and as of the end of fiscal 2017, over 4,200 members of the Company had attained QC Certification. * QC Certification: A certification system conducted by the Japanese Standards Association and the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers and certified by the Japanese Society for Quality Control. Note: Figures show the total number of employees who have acquired QC Certification levels 1 through 3 Prominence in CS & Quality 124 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Group KAIZEN Activities on a Global Scale Holding the Group KAIZEN Activities Award / Presentation Meeting Annually Group KAIZEN Activities* are an initiative in which employees in each workplace form small groups to address various topics such as improvements in quality and productivity and increasing operational efficiency, and to take on various subjects through policy management. These activities have a track record of more than 50 years. They are underway at numerous business sites in Japan and around the world, centered on production companies. Once a year in January, presentations are made by the representative group in each area Japan, North America / Mexico, China, Europe, and Asia / Oceania to share information and foster mutual improvement. In the 52nd Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation Meeting held in January 2018, a total of 13 groups (nine from Japan and four from other countries) made presentations. As a result, the sense of representing the Company as a whole was stronger than ever before. 15 companies made requests in advance to view the proceedings of the Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation Meeting in real-time, and the event was broadcast to their offices as requested. This meeting has become a valuable opportunity to deepen our employee’s understanding of improvement activities, which was underscored by participants’ statements such as, “I was able to hear more details about the content presented,” and “I had a chance to exchange information and opinions with those working at other business sites and companies.” * Group KAIZEN Activities: Activities that began in 1966 as Quality Control (QC) groups and later evolved into small group activities before taking the form they have today Award name Site Group Gold Prize Shiga Minakuchi Plant, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Metaboslim Silver Prize Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Harada Electric Team Bronze Prize Tokuyama Sekisui Co., Ltd. SBS Representatives who Participated in the KAIZEN Activities Presentation Meeting Efforts to Reduce Energy Consumption Improving Production Process Quality by Reducing Energy Use With the intention of creating products with superior quality at a proper price (reduce loss-related costs), the Sekisui Chemical Group is promoting energy innovation activities as a part of its production processes in order to improve quality in line with its mission of helping customers achieve their green procurement standards. Energy innovation activities extend not only to each of the Group’s site in Japan, but also overseas. In addition to reducing energy consumption compared with prevailing levels, we are also rethinking the basic way that energy should be used in the future. Aiming to consume the least amount of energy necessary, we are reassessing each production process at the design stage to cut projected energy loss. In fiscal 2017, energy innovation measures that equate to 2.3% of the CO 2 emissions generated by the Sekisui Chemical Group’s operations were undertaken. Prominence in CS & Quality 125 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Response to the Updated ISO 9001 Standard Implemented Training in Response to the 2015 Update of the ISO 9001 Standard The 2015 edition of the ISO 9001 standard is characterized by its adoption of processes and approaches that incorporate ways of thinking based on PDCA cycles and risks. To engage in quality assurance in compliance with the changes to the standard, training sessions explaining the 2015 edition of ISO 9001, primarily targeting internal auditors, were held at a total of 19 business sites within Japan. Training Content and Details 1) Commentary and explanation of the key points of the update (1) Enhanced requirements Process approach and top management leadership / change control (2) Additional requirements Approach based on organizational conditions and risks / performance evaluation and improvement / knowledge of human error measures and organization 2) Commentary on case studies of SEKISUI Process Management Chart (SPMC) application methods that meet the requirements of ISO 9001, 2015 version and that serve as a practical management tool that is consistent with actual business activities Prominence in CS & Quality 126 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Business Sites That Have Received Third-party Certification for Their Quality Management Systems Other Data FY2016 FY2017 Number of participants in the Development Risk Prevention Seminar 302 418 Number of participants in the DR Reviewer Training Seminar 166 259 Participants in employee grade-based training system for managers in 2,252 2,768 production departments FY2016 FY2017 Number of people with QC Certification 4,103 4,228 Prominence in CS & Quality 127 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Prominence in Human Resources Actively Supporting Individual Prominence and Self-realization While Contributing to Society through Business Activities Management Approach Our Philosophy Based on our belief that employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society, we, the Sekisui Chemical Group, are committed to developing an environment where employees can work enthusiastically. We also offer various opportunities through which we help individual employees enhance their specialties while achieving personal growth. We also firmly believe that we have a responsibility towards the society to uphold human rights of every individual, respect employees' diversity, personality, and individuality, create diverse work places meeting the needs of the countries and regions we operate in, and allow diverse ways for people to work and be at ease at their work place. This fundamental way of thinking regarding human resources is shared throughout the entire Group, and we are striving to ensure that our work places enable diverse personnel to play an active role, fulfilling for each and every person. Prominence in Human Resources 128 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Diversity Management Fostering a Corporate Culture Where Diverse Human Resources Can Work with Enthusiasm and Make Unique Contributions Top message Our Commitment to Diversity Management I Am Convinced That Diversity Management Is Vital to Our Future as a Group The Sekisui Chemical Group benefits from the diversity of its businesses and its employees. We believe sustained growth of the Company cannot be assured without an honest and open commitment to our various stakeholders. We view diversity as something that is indispensable to the management of our company moving forward. A Commitment to Diversity Management The Sekisui Chemical Group has been able to overcome many difficulties and challenges in the external environment over the past several years, including those brought on by the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the subsequent financial crisis, the Great East Japan Earthquake, the debt crisis in Europe, and the hike in the consumption tax in Japan. Our perseverance contributed to the Company during the period covered by the previous medium-term business plan recording the highest level of profit since its founding. We have continued to renew past profit highs since, though we note that sustained growth moving forward is not likely to be easy. I became Sekisui Chemical's 10th president in March 2015 and have since been entrusted with the continued evolution of the Group. The Sekisui Chemical Group has become increasingly large over the years, and we believe it imperative to continue evolving with all due speed while making continuous improvements to build a more attracting and tougher group that can keep up with the demands of the times. We must strive further to create a structure that, like a ship, can ride out even the toughest of storms in the operating environments. I believe creating such a structure is my greatest responsibility. I also recognize my duty to design a concrete and detailed growth plan for the next decade. Prominence in Human Resources 129 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Focused on the Frontiers Ahead We are working together with employees and senior executives around the world during the last year in our current medium-term business plan. I believe that if we can finish the current medium-term business plan on a high note, the frontiers ahead could prove even wider for the Company . My goal is the creation of a foundation for new growth while boldly advancing reforms as we move toward the next medium-term business plan. Three Requirements for Sustainable Growth As I have noted several times since assuming the president's office, there are three areas in which we must take the initiative to ensure sustainable growth. The first of these is strengthening our earnings power. We target an operating profit margin of at least 10% and are therefore focused on improving efficiency in management and promoting selection and concentration in our businesses. The second of these is innovation. Our goal is to produce new and world changing products, technologies, and businesses. One of our core concepts in this area is the creation of additional Environment-contributing Products, which to date have been a cornerstone for the Company's growth. We also intend to promote collaboration within the group and with outside parties to create next-generation businesses. The third initiative focuses on the development of new frontiers. Our goal is to capture demand around the world, and using the prominence of the Sekisui Chemical Group, we will strive to develop new frontiers in the seemingly limitless global market. Diversity in the Human Resources That Support Our Businesses We believe we will achieve these three goals through the promotion of diversity management. The Sekisui Chemical Group is developing an unusually diverse range of businesses, from housing to social infrastructure materials such as water supply and sewage pipes, to electronics, automotive and transportation products, residential infrastructure materials, and life science-related products. Across this wide range of businesses is an equally diverse group of employees with a variety of work experiences and individual characteristics. Without regard to a person's gender, nationality, age, or disability, we encourage each of our employees to maximize his or her distinctive capabilities, as we believe this contributes to a flourishing in innovation, without which we cannot achieve the larger goals we have set for the Group. We believe the advancement of diversity management is indispensable toward achieving our goals. Prominence in Human Resources 130 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Making the Most of Each Employee's Distinctive Characteristics So how best do we start? One of the first things we need to do is change how we work. When I was in charge of the housing business, I worked just like every other corporate warrior. However, working without regard to whether it is day or night is no longer compatible with the norms of modern-day society. So, with a limited number of hours, the important questions now are how to improve productivity on the job while balancing one's own time with work, and how to best enrich one's life at work. Our business, alongside our customers and working people everywhere, continues to diversify. I believe we can only truly succeed by benefiting from diverse range of people and the fostering of each of their individual characteristics and capabilities. We believe all Sekisui Chemical employees can contribute to innovations by making full use of their distinctive capabilities in each of their positions. Moreover, with the gradual accumulation of these contributions, the Sekisui Chemical Group can truly become an organization valued by society and maintain its presence for at least the next 100 years. With this belief in mind, we will continue to promote diversity management. Focusing on Every Sekisui Chemical Group Employee The diversity management efforts of the Sekisui Chemical Group are aimed at every employee in the organization. As an example, we believe a company in which only men are the leading decisions makers is a company that will not be able to respond effectively to development opportunities that may present themselves in the days ahead. Moreover, we believe strides in the global market cannot occur without the active participation of people of varying nationalities. It is indeed our goal to create new innovations through the promotion of diversity. Starting by Promoting the Empowerment of Women Diversity management can come in many forms depending on the organization within the group. We believe empowerment of women, who represent the most familiar form of diversity, is not yet at a sufficient level. As an example, of the approximately 20,000 domestic employees, there are about 4,000 managers, and only recently has the number of women in management positions exceeded 100. This number is simply too small. We have accordingly decided to direct our diversity management efforts first at empowering women. Over the last few years, our goal has been to increase the number of women in management positions to 200 and I have directed my own energies toward this goal. There are many women at Sekisui Chemical with strong abilities and we will focus our efforts on giving these workers the opportunities they deserve, rather than focusing on promoting workers simply because they are women. We must not be afraid to move forward due to a lack of precedent. Anyone can fail after accepting new and difficult challenges, but I believe people can grow from the experience and as a result overcome similar challenges in the future. Our goal is to provide the same opportunities to women that we have given to men. Prominence in Human Resources 131 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Making a Real Change in our Way of Thinking It will take time before the results of these changes are felt in the organization and we believe it therefore necessary to continue to gather examples of success. We believe middle management is one area in which changes to our way of thinking have been relatively slow in coming. However, we are committed to making improvements in this area. We believe it is vital for each of the group's organizations to craft a clear message from top-level management and focus their efforts on changing the way in which its employees work, the structure of the organization, and the way employees think about this issue. Accordingly, we think it is important to place those who can motivate individuals in their work in management positions, including positions where they can make the workplace a more comfortable place to work and one in which each employee can make the most of their individual capabilities. To be sure, changing the way of thinking of an entire company, as well as its culture, will take some time, though we believe this is an effort worth continued emphasis. If we maintain our efforts, we expect this way of thinking to become commonplace within no more than ten years. Working with the Person Right in Front of You Changing an entire system for the better is a major task, though we believe gradual improvements can be made if leaders in each workplace focus their efforts on how to best motivate their subordinates while establishing connections with those closest to them We look for the emergence of a number of women in the organization aiming to refine their abilities and move higher in the Company. We believe it is vital to establish a system allowing this, and to continuously monitor the effectiveness of such as system. Returning to our ship analogy, we believe a vessel cannot proceed at speed in rough weather unless it has created a structure in which this kind of thinking is considered fundamental and a matter of course. Focused on Maintaining a Strong Corporate Presence for at Least 100 Years. We believe it would be difficult for Sekisui Chemical Group to maintain its presence over the next hundred years under the current corporate structure and way of working. It is incumbent on leadership to promote the growth and success of the diverse group of individuals in subordinate groups. It is also our hope that each employee will take advantages of changes in their work place to demonstrate their unique capabilities and further develop themselves as individuals. I intend to work at the forefront to create an environment where individuals can develop their capabilities to the fullest possible extent. December, 2015 President & CEO, Teiji Koge Prominence in Human Resources 132 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index The Sekisui Chemical Group's Diversity Management Policy Not only perceiving diversity by differences understood from outward appearance-such as gender, age and nationality-the Sekisui Chemical Group will also focus on differences that include careers, values and personality while understanding, recognizing and utilizing the differences between each and every employee as strengths. Diversity Management Policy Diversity is essential to maintain our strong corporate presence for 100 years and beyond. We understand and recognize that every employee’s orientation to work and life, and their personal strengths are different and thus we use this to our advantage. Through employee dialogue, we will strengthen our organizational culture by providing employment, opportunities for development and an enhanced work environment to support growth. Prominence in Human Resources 133 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Building a Diverse Organizational Structure Every Effort Is Being Made to Build an Organizational Culture in Which All Employees Are Able to Work Dynamically and Make the Most of Their Unique Characteristics and Talents Management Approach Organization-wide Initiatives Promoting Awareness and Application of Diversity Management Sekisui Chemical’s organizational culture is based on actively taking advantage of each and every employee’s orientation and their distinctive characteristics. To this end, activities are divided into two categories: “promotion” and “implementation.” Diversity Management Promotional Structure We are Putting in Place a Structure That Promotes Diversity Management Across the Entire Group. CSR Committee, Human Resources Committee The CSR Committee deliberates on CSR measures generally. This includes matters relating to diversity management. Chaired by the president, the CSR Committee is comprised of such senior executives as the presidents of division companies as well as employee representatives including female employees and the head of the Labor Union. Matters that require resolution are also reported to the Board of Directors. In addition to deliberating on Group-wide diversity management issues, the Human Resources Committee puts in place and monitors measures aimed at securing and developing the personnel necessary for diversity management. Chaired by the managing executive officer and head of the Human Resources Department, the Human Resources Committee is comprised of executive officers and the heads of human resources departments selected from each division company. Prominence in Human Resources 134 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Human Resources Management Promotion System Project to Develop a Workplace in Which All Employees Can Excel The Sekisui Chemical Group has appointed a manager to oversee the promotion of a project to develop a workplace in which all employees can excel at each of its 159 domestic bases. Each manager is working to ensure the smooth implementation of diversity management measures at each location. Prominence in Human Resources 135 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Promotion Diversity Management Policy Formulation In November 2015, the Sekisui Chemical Group formulated its Diversity Management Policy following deliberations at meetings of the Board of Directors and Policy Committee. Distributed the D-Book As a means for promoting diversity management, Sekisui Chemical drafted the “D-Book” in fiscal 2015 and “D-Book 2” in fiscal 2017, both of which have been distributed to all domestic Group employees. Kicking off our diversity management policies, D-Book features an overview of management’s commitment, stance, and details on initiatives. D-Book 2 showcases initiatives and case studies undertaken since fiscal 2015 and describes work-style reforms that will commence in earnest starting in fiscal 2018. Conducts Frontier Leader Workshops & Leadership Workshops Sekisui Chemical conducted top-down explanations with the aim of promoting its Diversity Management Policy. To begin, we provided explanations of the meaning behind diversity management promotion through Frontier Leader Workshops targeting 200 senior managers (Frontier Leaders) in December 2015. Subsequently, we held workshops to raise awareness of the meaning behind diversity management promotion for 1,800 department managers, who in turn conveyed this information to employees at each department. Prominence in Human Resources 136 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Diversity Management Poster Creation & Distribution With the aim of fostering understanding and awareness of our diversity management initiatives, we created a slogan and logo that puts a face to our Sekisui Chemical Group's Diversity Management Policy. After promotion managers and supervisors decided on a logo and slogan “Project to Develop a Workplace in which All Employees Can Excel,” both of these were featured in a poster that was distributed to every workplace. Slogan: Diverse Colors, Diverse Strengths Featuring the capital letter S for Sekisui, the logo features intersecting lines with varying colors and widths to express the coordination of diversity as well as illustrates forward-looking activities that will enable all employees to shine. Implementation Initiatives to Build an Organizational Culture Implementing Initiatives from Three Perspectives: Organization-wide, Department Managers, All Employees Prominence in Human Resources 137 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Project to Develop a Workplace in Which All Employees Can Excel The Project to Develop a Workplace in which All Employees Can Excel began in December 2016 as improvement activities implemented at each department. The purpose of the Project to Develop a Workplace in which All Employees Can Excel is to create ideal workplaces where diversity management is realized. Targeting 159 domestic Group organizations, the project involves assigning a promotion manager and supervisor at each department, recognizing that each department has different issues. Improvement activities are carried out spearheaded by these promotion managers and supervisors. Kicking off project activities in fiscal 2016, we created ideal images for each department along with formulating proposals to analyze the status quo, identify issues, and set improvement plans. From fiscal 2017, the project got underway by implementing measures to help solve issues at each department, while efforts were made to identify issues at 152 organizations within the Group. We aim to realize these improvements by fiscal 2019. ● How Project to Develop a Workplace in Which All Employees Can Excel Works Educational Programs on Diversity Management Implementation In working toward the realization of diversity management, since it is important for department managers, who play a key role, to understand, recognize and utilize the fact that attitudes to work and life and distinctive characteristics differ from one team member to another, we are implementing educational programs on diversity management that are geared toward the managers of all groups and sections from domestic Group companies. At these educational programs, participants are learning the way that business leaders ought to act as well as communications and management styles that discover new possibilities and which they are putting into practice every day at their actual workplaces. Prominence in Human Resources 138 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Career Plan Training by Age All employees are called to take it upon themselves to proactively display their distinctive characteristics, learn, and grow in order to realize diversity management. To this end, faced with their own attitudes toward work and life and distinctive characteristics, the Company is conducting career plan training by age (young employees and employees aged in their 30s, 40s, and 50s) to give employees an opportunity to consider their future careers for themselves. From fiscal 2016, career plan training is being extended to cover all domestic Group employees. We are conducting training to draft career plans. Performance Data Educational Programs on Diversity Management Implementation FY2016 FY2017 Number of participants in programs 1,168 1,723 Career Plan Training by Age FY2016 FY2017 Number of participants at career plan training 1,276 1,429 Project to Develop a Workplace in Which All Employees Can Excel FY2017 Number of organizations engaged in activities 159 organizations Prominence in Human Resources 139 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (Depending on the Individual Career Orientation) Management Approach Basic Concept Striving to Provide Opportunities for Personnel Training According to Individual Career Orientation As an overall company activity, we strive to ensure that the Group can move forward on two pillars training of business leaders, who will someday shoulder management, and efficient staff that will be able to maintain our manufacturing processes. We also offer all kinds of support to people, who voluntarily take on new challenges, providing systems and opportunities to help individual employees grow. Major Initiatives Developing Business Leaders 1) Developing Business Leaders from an Early Stage We have developed a consistent training system covering all stages from new hires to management positions, in order to systematically train business leaders to power the Sekisui Chemical Group into the future. Based on the concept that the foundations of growth are the experience gained through everyday business activities and learning from such experience, we have developed a training system that links these two elements together. Through this system we will enhance each individual's mastery of the skills required of business leaders, by running through the cycle of growth through experience, from when a new hire joins the Company through to management. 2) Developing Employees to Fill Senior Management Position Going Forward With an eye toward management positions throughout the Group, Sekisui Chemical has established the Saijuku School. This internal training and development tool is designed to help enhance the scope and depth of future business leaders going forward. Employees participating in the Saijuku School review a wide range of case studies while attending lectures. In addition to the skills required to put forward management strategies, the Saijuku School provides details of important business theories and philosophies. This in turn provides participants with the broad perspective necessary to engage in global business development and to further hone the abilities to think and act. Working to instill a broad mindset that encompasses the Group as a whole, employees are encouraged to take the initiative in their own development and to establish action plans geared toward reform. Prominence in Human Resources 140 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index 3) Innovation School (Fostering of Business Leaders by Newly Appointed Operating Officers) The Innovation School has been held since fiscal 2003 to change the Company and change each individual's behavior” and with the aim of having operating officers themselves directly train the Sekisui Chemical Group's next-generation business leader candidates. Up to and including fiscal 2016, a total of 981 next-generation business leader candidates had taken part. In fiscal 2017, with operating officers up to their second year in office acting as headmasters, we again trained young, highly motivated employees, irrespective of their Group company or business domain, as candidates to become next-generation business leaders across the whole Group. In addition to talking directly with senior management and learning as potential business leaders while engaging in discussions at great length, the Innovation School offers an excellent opportunity for the candidates to broaden their horizons through interaction with parties from both inside and outside the Company. Training Human Resources to Support the Workplace The human resources who will support the foundations of management in practical terms in the workplace must undergo self-growth as highly capable practitioners accumulating experience over the long term and acquiring highly specialized knowledge and skills. Based on this concept, the Sekisui Chemical Group hires human resources who will support the workplace as permanent, full-time employees, creates an environment in which they can demonstrate their abilities with peace of mind over the long term, and deploys the Meister System to strengthen their abilities in the workplace. In the future as well, we will promote measures to strengthen training abilities in the workplace on a Group-wide basis. Follow-up Training for New, Mid-career Hires With the aim of, for example, acquiring knowledge from outside the Company and enhancing its business potential, Sekisui Chemical is increasingly active in mid-career appointments (the hiring of experienced personnel). Having joined the Company, there are few examples of a lack of understanding with regard to the workplace culture or inhouse systems on the part of the mid-career hires themselves proving to be an obstacle to the process of having them display their skills at an early stage. Providing new, mid-career employees (those hired based on their previous experience) with the opportunity to learn the basic knowledge (including the Company's unique history, culture, policies and systems), the Sekisui Chemical Group draws on the high levels of competence and specialized skills they have accumulated up until their previous positions and implements follow-up training for new, mid-career hires as an environment improvement so they demonstrate those attributes and participate actively at an early stage. Group Internal Job Posting The Sekisui Chemical Group supports its employees' willingness to take on challenges and their career plans by providing opportunities to thrive within the Group through posting job openings internally. Through Group internal job postings, any qualified employee can apply for jobs posted to the intranet, without the approval of their superiors. Prominence in Human Resources 141 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Support System for Diverse Career Paths The Company has in place a system that enables partner employees who—after having reviewed their careers and written self-assessments—are involved in the career planning-based course conversion system or are working in pre-specified workplaces or areas of business operations, can choose to switch to becoming permanent, full-time employees. Performance Data Results from Main Recruitment-type Training Programs Name of Training Numbers of attendees Numbers of attendees Numbers of attendees Program in FY2015 in FY2016 in FY2017 The Saijuku School 34 33 37 Innovation School 70 72 58 Follow-up Training for New, Mid-career Employees FY2016 FY2017 Number of training 45 87 participants Results of Intra-Group Job Postings Cumulative total since FY2016 FY2017 FY2000 Number of recruitment 44 46 431 cases Number of employees 149 130 1,078 recruited Number of applicants 83 98 1,733 Number of employees 12 18 343 transferred Prominence in Human Resources 142 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Career Path Support System (Number of people) FY2017 Men 14 Course conversion system Women 2 Men 5 Permanent, full-time employee conversion system Women 11 Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (Gender) Management Approach Organization-wide Initiatives As a First Step in Diversity Management As a first step, we began initiatives designed to promote the success of those with whom we have the closest working relationships, women. For women to truly thrive, they are divided into two stages of consolidation / success and the nurturing of management candidates. Under the CSR Medium-term Plan launched in fiscal 2017, we are aiming to become “an organization where women can truly thrive” and set specific numerical targets for women’s hiring ratios and the number of women in management positions. These targets are regarded as one of the goals for directors, officers and executives. ■CSR Medium-term Plan (Fiscal 2017 to Fiscal 2019) Targets Ratio of women to total hires: 35% Number of women in management positions: 200 (Sekisui Chemical non-consolidated: 50; Consolidated Group companies in Japan: 150), Ratio of women in management positions: 4.4% Ratio of permanent, full-time female employees: 15% (Sekisui Chemical non-consolidated) Recognition of Sexual Minorities, Including LGBT In its human resources and human rights policy, the Sekisui Chemical Group states that all forms of discrimination are prohibited. Under its diversity management policy, the orientation to work and life of each and every employee involves understanding and recognizing differences. To make proactive use of those differences, we thus promote activities based on concepts of inclusion with regard to sexual minorities such as the LGBT community. Prominence in Human Resources 143 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Major Initiatives Retention and Empowerment of Young Female Employees New Female Hire Assignment Support Seminars Geared toward those who manage new female recruits, a New Female Hire Assignment Support Seminar is conducted before and after the new female hires have been assigned. The seminars are devised to get new hires established and thriving at an early stage by increasing awareness from the point of view of those attending the seminars. Retention and Empowerment of Young Female Employees Female Subordinate Management Seminar Geared toward those in management positions overseeing female staff members who are up to their fourth year since joining the Company, this training program provides day-to-day guidance and opportunities to learn the attributes of training methods. Fostering Women’s Candidacy for Management Positions Career Development Program for Women Targeting women employees who hope to be appointed to management positions and their direct supervisors, the Company is conducting a Career Development Program for Women. This educational program has been put in place with the aim of fostering awareness and gaining the achievements appropriate for management positions. We have been deploying this program as essential training across the entire Group since fiscal 2016. External Evaluations Recognition as a Nadeshiko Brand Having evaluated the Company's efforts to implement diversity management initiatives (including women's empowerment) since fiscal 2015, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) as well as Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. (TSE) recognized the Company as a Nadeshiko brand in fiscal 2017. Following on from fiscal 2016, this was the second consecutive fiscal year the Company has achieved recognition in this way. Note: The Nadeshiko Brand is a project that has been undertaken jointly by METI and the TSE since fiscal 2012. Aimed at introducing certain TSE-listed enterprises that are outstanding in terms of encouraging the empowerment of women in the workplace as attractive stocks to investors who put emphasis on improving corporate value in the midand long-term, the project is thus promoting investment in such enterprises and accelerating efforts encouraging women's success in the workplace. Prominence in Human Resources 144 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Balanced Support for Child Rearing and Nursing Care Supporting Flexible Workstyles in Tune with Life Events The Sekisui Chemical Group introduces a variety of systems designed to enable employees to work flexibly in tune with life events and lifestyles. In addition to system upgrades that go beyond those stipulated under law, the childcare support system is covered in a guidebook, which summarizes the necessary information to support a flexible workstyle from pregnancy to childcare leave, and working mother know-how is posted on the Company intranet. To encourage male employees to participate in childcare, the first five working days of childcare leave are paid, and we are advancing system acquisition for male employees whose children have just been born and their superiors. Performance data Number of Women in Management Positions and Percentage of Women Hires Number of Women Directors and Managers FY2017 Number of women directors 2 (Sekisui Chemical Group) Number of women in 138 (Sekisui Chemical Group in Japan) management positions Percentage of Women Hires Entered in FY2015 Entered in FY2016 Entered in FY2017 Percentage of women hires (%) 27 31 30 New Female Hire Assignment Support Seminar FY2016 FY2017 Number of seminar attendees 114 105 Female Subordinate Management Seminar FY2016 FY2017 Number of training attendees 144 234 Prominence in Human Resources 145 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Career Development Program for Women FY2016 FY2017 Number of program Women 90 58 attendees Superiors 77 44 Main Systems Allowing Various Workstyles and Their Use (Number of people) Name of Main content FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 system Can be taken until the end of the month in Women 18 22 30 which the child reaches three years of age. Childcare leave Men 12 14 20 (The statutory end date is until the child reaches 18 months of age.) Total 30 36 50 Can be extended until the child starts fourth Women 30 30 34 Shortened grade. working hours Men 0 0 0 (The statutory end date is until the child for childcare reaches three years of age.) Total 30 30 34 Women 3 6 8 Times of starting and finishing work may be Use of flexible moved earlier or later by up to 60 minutes Men 0 1 6 working hours until the child reaches junior high school age. Total 3 7 14 Up to a total of 93 days for each individual Women 1 0 1 Nursing care eligible for care Men 0 2 3 leave (Up to a maximum of one year for the first individual eligible for care) Total 1 2 4 Women 0 0 0 Shortened Two days per week or 4.5 hours per day for working hours a maximum of three years for each individual Men 0 1 2 for nursing care eligible for care Total 0 1 2 Women 40 43 48 Three days of special care leave per year Family leave granted until the child or grandchild starts Men 73 77 101 high school. Total 113 120 149 Prominence in Human Resources 146 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Women 14 Employees whose babies were newborns in FY2017 Men 101 Total 115 Women 11 Employees who took childcare leave in FY2017 Men 17 Total 28 Ratio of those who took childcare leave in FY2017 Women 100 (excludes those who are taking maternity leave) (%) Men 16.8 Women 12 Employees who returned to work after childcare leave in Men 19 FY2017 Total 31 Ratio of those who returned to work after childcare leave Women 100 in FY2017 (%) Men 100 Retention rate after one year of those who returned to Women 100 work after having taken childcare leave in FY2016 (%) Men 100 Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (People with Disabilities) Management Approach Efforts to Employ People with Disabilities Putting in Place an Invigorating and Comfortable Workplace Environment That Is Conducive to the Hiring and Retention of Employees We believe it important not only to hire people with disabilities, but to create an environment where those with disabilities can easily work. Recognizing that the creation of such an environment leads to a comfortable workplace, we conducted brainstorming sessions for people with disabilities on a joint Group basis, focusing not only on just employment targets, but on the importance of improving the working environment. In fiscal 2017, we sponsored workplace improvement and operational review workshops, with a focus on creating an organization conducive to the active participation of those with disabilities. Prominence in Human Resources 147 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Major Initiatives External Evaluations Kofu Sekisui Sangyo New Diversity Management Selection 100 Winner Group company Kofu Sekisui Sangyo Co., Ltd. employs 16 people with disabilities, including eight who are classed as having severe disabilities. These employees are assigned to departments where they can make the most of their special qualities. The company has also prepared operating manuals filled with instructional photos, set up displays and labels that are both easy to see and follow, and put in place a framework in which all employees can carry out their duties without error. These initiatives not only encompass employees with disabilities, but also all general staff. The efforts by Kofu Sekisui Sangyo have further helped to improve business activities through increased productivity and a reduction in claims. In fiscal 2016, in recognition of these measures, the Company received a “New Diversity Management Selection 100” award certificate from Japan’s Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry. So that they are easily understood, effective use is made of color photos and diagrams on work instruction manuals and equipment displays, devices that make it difficult for mistakes to be made. Prominence in Human Resources 148 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Employment Ratio of People with Disabilities (Sekisui Chemical) *Including Special Provision Subsidiary (as of March 2018) Indicator Calculation method Employment ratio of (Number of regular workers who have physical or people with disabilities mental disabilities ÷ Number of regular workers) ×100 Brainstorming Sessions on Employment of People with Disabilities Number of Participating 46 companies Companies Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (Age) Management Approach Retaining and Utilizing Young Employees Training Manager (Brother/Sister) Program Sekisui Chemical has established a training manager (brother/sister) program aimed at enabling new employees to smoothly adapt to their assigned workplaces and quickly hit the ground running. The role of training managers goes beyond job-related instruction to play a role in providing guidance on how adult members of society should conduct themselves while following up on new employees’ state of mind. The program also encourages training managers to leverage their experience guiding junior employees to gain a new perspective and thereby grow themselves. Prominence in Human Resources 149 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Promote the Active Participation of Seniors Enhance Initiatives Aimed at Enabling Active Roles for Employees Aged 65 In fiscal 1993, Sekisui Chemical introduced a reemployment system for employees who had reached mandatory retirement age. Since fiscal 2006 this program has been expanded to Group companies as well. A new program of training for employees aged 57 was introduced as an opportunity to think about their careers after retirement. This was the start of a new effort to enable motivated employees to remain in active employment through age 65. In October 2015, Sekisui Chemical revised its Senior Expert System, a system for reemploying elderly retirees in order to foster greater employee motivation. We have finished putting in place systems for employees to continue working through to the age of 65 at all Group companies, ensuring that 100% of the employees that elect to do so can remain employed or be reemployed. Major Initiatives Career Plan Training by Age (Sekisui Chemical Group) All employees are called to take it upon themselves to proactively display their distinctive characteristics, learn, and grow in order to realize diversity management. To this end, faced with their orientation to work and life and distinctive characteristics, the Company is conducting career plan training by age (young employees and employees aged in their 30s, 40s, and 50s) to give employees an opportunity to consider their future careers for themselves. From fiscal 2016, career plan training is being extended to cover all domestic Group employees. We are conducting training to draft career plans. ●Career Plan Training for Young Employees: Key Phrase “Self-leadership” This program marks the starting line for employees’ careers. Career plan training teaches young employees ways to become the people they aspire to be by gradually cultivating values important to oneself and the ability to make independent career-oriented decisions. Employees will start to ask themselves what needs to be done while harmonizing their aspirations with the tasks (expectations) at hand. ●Career Plan Training for Employees in Their 30s: Key Phrase Self-establishment In general, career possibilities significantly open up for employees in their 30s. Looking back at one’s work experience to date while facing one’s orientation to work and life and distinctive characteristics help to clarify those factors upon which one’s career hinges on. These employees create and take a step toward the future vision of their careers and lives while searching for approaches to work that suit them best. Prominence in Human Resources 150 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index ●Career Plan Training for Employees in Their 40s: Key Phrase Market Value Employees in their 40s are reaching the second half of their careers underpinned by the experience they have accumulated to date. This program enables employees in this age group to further hone their careers by reexamining their careers and lives while verifying and evaluating the level of professionalism they possess in specialized areas. Through this program, employees should be able to create a more detailed life plan going forward while taking into consideration changing social conditions. ●Career Plan Training for Employees in Their 50s: Key Phrase Continuing to Work Even After Retirement Playing a central role in the organization, employees in their 50s are starting to hit their stride. Through this program, such employees consider how to best plan their lives and careers not only with the Company but after retirement. Employees reaffirm what they need to pass along to younger employees as a means of assessing their own values and direction along with putting into perspective their career to date. Performance Data Number of Elderly Employees Reemployed and Reemployment Rate (Sekisui Chemical) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Number of elderly 104 65 21 employees reemployed Reemployment rate(%) 82.5 83.3 63.6 Note: The reemployment rate for applicants is 100%. Indicator Calculation method (Number of reemployed elderly employees ÷ number who have reached mandatory retirement age) × 100 Reemployment of elderly employees (Number who have reached mandatory retirement age includes those who do not wish to be reemployed) Career Plan Training by Age Total Young In their 40s 50s 57 number of employees 30s participants Number of 107 311 360 535 116 1,429 participants in FY2017 Prominence in Human Resources 151 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel (Global) Management Approach Basic Concept Fostering Personnel Based on Conditions in Each Area In the Medium-term Management Plan (SHIFT 2019-Fusion-), HR (Human Resources) is listed as one of the basic strategies to achieve a “new phase of growth.” Amid accelerating global business development, it is essential to make active use of diverse human resources supporting each business and to revitalize the organization in order for each company of the Sekisui Chemical Group to maintain autonomous growth. To adapt to the different business characteristics, history, management styles, lifestyle habits, as well as the various laws and regulations of each country and region, the Sekisui Chemical Group is focusing on training human resources capable of demonstrating their abilities in their respective countries and regions. Major Initiatives Developing Personnel Who Can Succeed on the Global Stage Fostering Personnel with International Experience to Ensure Sustainable Growth As our business categories expand, the proportion of foreign sales and overseas personnel are increasing year by year. We believe that to develop as a Group, we need each and every employee of the Group working in various countries across the globe to develop themselves through their work, to learn to create and provide products and services matching the needs of each country. This way of thinking lies at the base of our efforts to develop training programs for our human resources, programs that are firmly rooted in each area we operate in, enabling every employee to maximize his or her distinctive capabilities at their place of work. In 2017, following the U.S. and Europe, we established regional headquarters in China and several regions of the ASEAN, giving them substantial freedom to decide personnel-related matters. In addition to engagement surveys, training programs, and other initiatives organized on the Group-wide basis irrespective of regional differences, we also develop a wide range of personnel policies based on the specifics of each area including training programs, personnel systems, personnel recruitment systems or recruitment activities. Prominence in Human Resources 152 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Integration and Training of Personnel Across Regional Boundaries In fiscal 2017, to reinforce the ties of cooperation across regions regarding tasks of human resource development, we held the first Global HR Conference of managers in charge of personnel affairs of various countries including 28 overseas subsidiaries of the Group. The conference was a great success as participants put to good use the opportunity to engage in active discussions overcoming the language barriers and the differences of country of origin and addressed a wide range of issues such as how to help diverse human resources to excel, how to strengthen management base, and how to solve the problems shared by Group companies across the world. In addition to construction of a global HR network, the ideas of the participants are already being reflected in a number of personnel policies that shall pave the way for further growth, including those supporting better understanding of management philosophies of the Group in overseas subsidiaries, increasing educational opportunities across regions, and working on creation of a new infrastructure system. Hiring Foreign Nationals The Sekisui Chemical Group is actively hiring foreign nationals in accordance with the globalization of the Group’s businesses. In addition to hiring students who have been studying in Japan, the Company launched overseas recruitment activities in fiscal 2015. In particular, the Company focuses on engineers in India and office-based positions in Ireland and the UK. We intend to accelerate globalization by expanding the area in which we recruit new employees, acquiring the best candidates from around the world, and working with a global perspective. Global Talent Employee System Developing Personnel to Be Immediately Effective Overseas The Group has established a Global Talent Employee System dedicated to nurturing of global human resources that can succeed on the global stage, and about 1,700 employees of the Group working in Japan have registered with it. The participants are provided with cultural training programs and professional education necessary for working overseas, and we are currently promoting measures to create opportunities for them to actually go to other countries and gain work experience there. Global Trainee Program Providing Opportunities to Succeed Overseas The Group offers a Global Trainee Program supporting employees wishing to gain work experience overseas. Employees working in sales, accounting, product development, and some other areas with a certain achievement level are eligible to participate in the program allowing them to apply for posts at the overseas companies affiliated with the Group. In fiscal year 2017, we organized our Overseas Engineers Dispatch Program aiming at training engineers with globally competitive high-level expertise as well as Short-term Overseas Dispatch Training Program that teaches the participants to cultivate their own abilities and behavioral patterns that are required to succeed in global business. The Group shall continue expanding the programs allowing more and more employees working in various countries to gain experience in business overseas. Prominence in Human Resources 153 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Breakdown of Number of Employees (Sekisui Chemical Group) (Number of people) Number of employees 26,080 Breakdown by Region Japan 18,935 North America, South & 1,482 Central America Europe 961 Asia/Pacific (including China) 4,702 Number of Japanese Global Talent Employees Indicator Calculation method Japanese employees with overseas Global talent employees assignment experience Number of Participants in the Global Trainee Program FY2017 Number of participants 10 Prominence in Human Resources 154 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Basis for Fostering Personnel Management Approach Basic Concept Improving Group-wide Human Resources Capabilities As it strives to empower Group human resources to achieve sustainable growth, the Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing a variety of efforts to secure and train human resources. Medium-term Plan Specific Targets Set, Various Measures Being Enacted Under the CSR Medium-term Plan (fiscal 2017 to fiscal2019), through even further advancements for diversity and the promotion of initiatives for work style innovation, we are endeavoring to build an organizational culture in which all employees can work dynamically. Human Resources Key Measures Medium-term Targets FY2017 Targets FY2017 Results ① Raise the ratio of ① Maintain the ratio of ① Maintained the ratio women to total hires to women to total hires at of women to total hires 35% 30–39% at 30% 1) Empower women ② Raise the number of ② Raise the number of ② The number of Promote women in management women in management women in management diversity positions to 200 positions to 145 positions: 138 Raise the number of Raise the number of The number of 2) Develop global participants in the Global participants in the Global participants in the Global talent employees Trainee Program to 20 Trainee Program to 10 Trainee Program: 10 Prominence in Human Resources 155 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Pledge to Society Key Measures Medium-term Targets FY2017 Targets FY2017 Results 1. Manage Reduce the number of Reduce the number Reduced the number and control Group companies where of Group companies of Group companies prolonged employees work more where employees work where employees work working hours (in than 2,000 hours on an more than 2,000 hours more than 2,000 hours excess of 2,000 annual basis by 30% (vs. on an annual basis by on an annual basis by hours annually) FY2016)* 20% (vs. FY2016) 2% (vs. FY2016) Working Raise the number of Raise the number of Raised the number Environment Group companies Group companies of Group companies certified as an Excellent certified as an certified as an Enterprise of Health Excellent Enterprise of Excellent Enterprise of 2. Promote health and Productivity Health and Productivity Health and Productivity management Management . White Management . White Management . White 500 by Japan’s Ministry 500 by Japan’s Ministry 500 by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and of Economy, Trade and of Economy, Trade and Industry to 21 Industry to four Industry to five * The medium-term target was revised, because it required more time than anticipated to formulate a policy and publicize the activities. Major Initiatives Training Systems to Support Our Businesses Promoting the Growth of Each Employee The Sekisui Chemical Group is operating a training system with various programs tailor-made to match various career plans with stages differentiated by level and skill. As our business categories are extensive and we employ a divisional company system whereby each department is given substantial authority to make its own decisions, the Group operates its system of development of human resources at the level of each company and subsidiary of the Group, based on the philosophy and programs that serve as the fundament. At the same time, some programs such as initial training of new employees, level-specific training by qualification grade, career planning training, or business leaders' training are developed across the Group to promote improvements in power of human resources in the Group as a whole. Consolidation of Labor Conditions Measures to Improve Compensation and Labor Conditions With the aim of securing and developing personnel throughout the Sekisui Chemical Group that goes beyond company and individual Group company frameworks, we will continually work to upgrade various systems and improve labor conditions based on the results of our analysis of labor conditions at domestic Group companies. We also conduct investigations of not only compensation levels but also the working hours, use of paid leave, and flexible work styles aspects that are linked to reform of the very way we work with the intent of optimizing conditions across the entire Group. Prominence in Human Resources 156 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Labor-management Relations Labor-management Cooperation and Communication The Sekisui Chemical Group strives to understand and respects the positions of labor unions. We believe that through close communications between labor and management we can resolve our common problems based on a shared objective of advancing the Company. In Japan, in fiscal 2017, there were 16 independent labor unions with 4,886 employees in the All-Sekisui Chemical Labor Union Federation, while Sekisui Chemical Labor Union, which is the core organization in the Federation, had 2,380 members (as the Group employs a union shop system, rate of membership is 100% (of employees eligible to become union members)) Benefits Providing Adequate Benefits Regardless of Gender, and Welfare Benefits to Non-full-time Employees, Including Health Insurance and Childcare Leave At Sekisui Chemical, base salaries are the same for each gender, and proper benefits are provided regardless of gender. Sekisui Chemical also has systems in place that provide welfare benefits to contracted employees, such as contract employees, including healthcare (i.e., health checkups), compensation for disabilities and illnesses that arise at work, and childcare leave. Only indefinite-term employees are eligible to join the Company's life insurance, defined-benefit retirement plans, and shareholding programs. Periodic Evaluation of Individual Performance and Career Development At Sekisui Chemical, we are working to build a system for human resources that enables people to thrive, regardless of age or attributes. Our source of growth is found in those tasks we perform on an everyday basis. Indicating the specific actions an employee needs to take and the abilities needed to execute tasks in order to achieve a sustained level of consistently optimal results, there is the Sekisui Self-Accountability & Competency Sheet (SSAC Sheet). The Sekisui Chemical Group bases all of its business activities on its corporate philosophy called the 3S Principles aiming to achieve satisfaction of its stakeholders. Based on these 3S Principles, the SSAC Sheet lists the roles and responsibilities of our employees in execution of their business duties as well as concrete behavior required by the Group from employees in each course, at each qualification level. Under the Group's evaluation system, employees are assessed not only by their business results but also by the process that led them to the results and the personal growth they achieved through accomplishment of the tasks (increase of task-execution abilities). The SSAC Sheet serves as a standard for this evaluation. Superiors and subordinates are provided with regular opportunities to discuss the individual goal setting and assessment. All permanent, full-time employees irrespective of their job description or level are target to this initiative. Prominence in Human Resources 157 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Employee Awareness Surveys (Engagement) To constantly monitor whether work is fulfilling for the employees, to find aspects that can be improved, and devise required measures at each organization, the Sekisui Chemical Group regularly conducts employee opinion polls (engagement surveys) of all the workers of the Group. The term engagement refers to the feeling of individual workers that they are the key players, to the pride and enthusiasm they feel regarding their work, the determination to do one's best and not give up until the results surpass everyone's expectations ≒ willingness to contribute to the organization, sense of fulfillment. With the employee opinion poll conducted in 2016, we analyzed the state of engagement and factors that improve it. As a result of the analysis, we came to the conclusion that the most effective way to improve employees' engagement is to work with two factors, namely, diversity (understanding, recognizing and utilizing the fact that distinctive characteristics differ from one employee to another) and productive work environment (support of productivity growth in business processes) Performance Data Average Hours per FTE of Training and Development in FY2017 (Sekisui Chemical) FY2017 Average hours per FTE of training and development 9.87 hours Note: Educational programs held at Sekisui Chemical’s Human Resources Department at Headquarters Training Programs Common to Entire Company to Improve Group-wide Human Resources Capabilities (Number of people) New employee induction training 944 Employee rank-based training system 267 Training for newly appointed managers 972 Number of New-graduate Hires / Percentage of Women Among New-Graduate Hires (the Sekisui Chemical Group in Japan) Prominence in Human Resources 158 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Employee Turnover Rate in First Three Years of Employment (Sekisui Chemical) Entered in FY2013 Entered in FY2014 Entered in FY2015 Employee turnover rate in first three years 10.7 7.4 8.0 of employment (%) Indicator Calculation method Employee turnover rate in first three years Employee turnover rate in first three years of employment for each of employment (%) fiscal year Prominence in Human Resources 159 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Data on Employees Performance Data All Consolidated Subsidiaries in Japan FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Men (number of people) 15,556 15,472 15,601 Employees Women (number of people) 4,252 4,288 4,379 Ratio of women (%) 21.5 21.7 21.9 Men (number of people) 462 453 395 New graduates hired Women (number of people) 136 176 145 Ratio of women (%) 22.7 28.0 26.9 Men (number of people) 2,794 2,763 2,831 Managerial positions (section Women (number of people) 66 84 89 chiefs) Ratio of women (%) 2.3 3.0 3.0 Men (number of people) 1,531 1,512 1,508 Managerial positions (department Women (number of people) 13 18 22 managers and above) Ratio of women (%) 0.8 1.2 1.4 Men (number of people) 4,325 4,275 4,339 Managerial positions Women (number of people) 79 102 111 Ratio of women (%) 1.8 2.3 2.5 Men (number of people) 201 203 165 Management personnel (frontier Women (number of people) 2 1 3 leaders) Ratio of women (%) 1.0 0.5 1.8 Men (number of people) 213 160 181 Employees newly appointed to Women (number of people) 8 15 7 managerial positions Ratio of women (%) 3.6 8.6 3.7 Note: Data for fiscal year 2017 is calculated based on current statistics as of July 2018. Prominence in Human Resources 160 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Sekisui Chemical FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Men (number of people) 3,233 3,239 3,290 Employees *1 Women (number of people) 445 490 533 Ratio of women (%) 12.1 13.1 13.9 Men (number of people) 2,991 2,955 3,005 Permanent, Women (number of people) 403 441 483 full-time employees *2 Ratio of women (%) 11.9 13.0 13.8 Average years of continuous Men (number of people) 19.9 18.1 17.7 employment *2 Women (number of people) 15.4 14.3 13.7 Men (number of people) 74 77 90 New graduates hired *3 Women (number of people) 39 35 39 Ratio of women (%) 34.5 31.3 30.2 Men (number of people) 40 39 70 Employees hired mid-career *3 Women (number of people) 3 5 6 Ratio of women (%) 7.0 11.4 7.9 Men (number of people) 697 696 689 Managerial positions Women (number of people) 21 24 27 (section chiefs) Ratio of women (%) 2.9 3.3 3.8 Men (number of people) 602 597 612 Managerial positions (department managers and Women (number of people) 11 11 14 above) Ratio of women (%) 1.8 1.8 2.2 Men (number of people) 1,299 1,293 1,301 Managerial positions Women (number of people) 32 35 41 Ratio of women (%) 2.4 2.6 3.1 Men (number of people) 46 46 53 Employees newly appointed to Women (number of people) 5 1 6 managerial positions Ratio of women (%) 9.8 2.1 10.2 *1 Workers with direct employment relationships with the Group (including permanent, full-time employees and non-regular employees as well as workers on loan from the Group to other companies but excluding workers on loan from other companies to the Group) *2 Employees with no determined period of employment (including workers on loan from the Group to other companies but excluding workers on loan from other companies to the Group) *3 Number of employees, who joined the Group from April to March of the following year Prominence in Human Resources 161 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Age Composition of Permanent, Full-time Employees* in Fiscal Year 2017 (Sekisui Chemical) Less than 30 to 39 40 to 49 50 to 59 60 and 30 years old years old years old years old above Number of Men 400 516 1,162 910 17 permanent, full-time employees* by age Women 144 93 140 103 3 * Employees with no determined period of employment (including workers on loan from the Group to other companies but excluding workers on loan from other companies to the Group) Number of People, who Left Employment in Fiscal Year 2017*1 (Sekisui Chemical) Men Women Number of people, who left employment*2 32 12 *1 Excluding those, who retired after reaching the mandatory retirement age and those, who moved to another company of the Group *2 Employees with no determined period of employment (including workers on loan from the Group to other companies but excluding workers on loan from other companies to the Group) Prominence in Human Resources 162 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Pledge to Society The Sekisui Chemical Group Is Engaged in Initiatives Relating to Safety, Compliance and Respect for Human Rights, and the Working Environment Management Approach Basic Concept The Sekisui Chemical Group Will Fulfill Its “Pledge to Society” as Part of Its Responsibilities as a Company While Engaged in its Business Processes The Sekisui Chemical Group believes that it has responsibilities that it must fulfill on behalf of society as it engages in business as a company. The Sekisui Chemical Group considers these responsibilities to be its “Pledge to Society” and is engaged as part of business processes in initiatives relating to safety, compliance and respect for human rights, and the working environment. In terms of safety, the Sekisui Chemical Group is engaged in creating safe workplaces that offer peace-of-mind to employees and local communities. In terms of compliance and respect for human rights, the group is involved in initiatives aimed at implementing compliance management and avoiding involvement in violations of human rights to promote fair, good-faith corporate behavior. In terms of the working environment, the group strives to create workplaces and systems that are healthy and give employees a sense of purpose through their work. Pledge to Society 163 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Working Environments Management Approach Inaugural Year of Work Style Reform In order to accelerate the pace of diversity management, the Sekisui Chemical Group has positioned 2018 as its inaugural year of promoting work style reform. After first putting in place a “Statement of Work Style Reform,” the Group has initiated three reform activities. In addition to correcting long working hours by improving productivity, energies are being directed toward the creation of an invigorating and rewarding workplace. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Statement of Work Style Reform To empower every employee to demonstrate their personal strengths, we will transform our current work style, which requires long hours to achieve results, into a productive work style that maximizes results in a limited time. To improve productivity, the Company will introduce various management resources and enable Group-wide employees and managers to unite their knowledge and experiences. By increasing job satisfaction through the improvement of quality of work and returning the results of reform to employees, we allow diverse human resources to excel. Three Reforms Improving productivity is essential to maximizing results in a limited time. Wit this in mind, the Sekisui Chemical Group will push forward the three “Business,” “HR system,” and “Work environment” reforms. Both management and employees will take up the challenge of promoting reform in line with the specific issues of each business. <Three Reforms> Work reforms: Identify the environment to be changed regardless of existing customs, and reform the work structure HR system reforms: Reform the HR system to improve the growth and performance of each and every employee, and expand employment support Work environment reforms: Reform the work environment by investing so that diverse employees can work in the optimal environment Work Style Reform Achievement Targets As work style reform is launched, we have set targets through to fiscal 2020, in which we take up the challenge of building a workplace culture that (1) Realizes total hours worked per year to be less than 2,000 hours (2) Allow employees to take at least 120 days off (3) Maintains a paid leave take-up rate of at least 50%. Pledge to Society 164 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Investment in Work Style Reform Substantial capital investment and the introduction of systems are essential to continuously realizing the effects of business and work environment reforms. With this in mind, the Sekisui Chemical Group will invest 10 billion yen over the next two years in an effort to reduce working hours Group-wide. Regulation of Long Working Hours Work Hour Shortening Committee To create working environments that let each and every employee work to their fullest, the Sekisui Chemical Group engages in ongoing labor-management discussions about ways to shorten work hours, to encourage employees to utilize paid days off, and to introduce flexible work styles. As part of the work style reform activities undertaken by Sekisui Chemical in fiscal year 2017, labor and management engaged in a series of discussions with the aim of determining how different workplaces can introduce reforms that are in tune with each working environment. Based on deliberations by the Work Hour Shortening Committee, Sekisui Chemical introduced a telecommuting system in July 2017. To date, 20 employees have participated in this system. With a view to expanding use of this system, steps are being taken to foster an appropriate workplace culture. This has resulted in initiatives, such as creating an environment that will permit raising awareness within labor unions and actively promoting use of the system. Notifications of Major HR-Related Changes Major Changes with Significant Effects on Employees Are Implemented After Labor-Management Meetings Based on the proposals submitted to the labor union and feedback received from each of the union branches, Sekisui Chemical has decided to move forward with HR system revisions and large-scale organizational reforms which will entail major changes and have significant effects on employees. The labor agreement specifies that when employees belonging to the labor union are to be seconded or transferred, the labor union is notified at least one month prior to the change and the applicable employee’s willingness to accept their new position is confirmed prior to assignment. Provision of a health improvement system We Are Working to Promote Health Management to Improve Our Employees’ Health. The Sekisui Chemical Group strives to improve its employees’ physical and mental health based on the idea that employees are valuable resources entrusted to the group by society. The group also aims to incorporate concepts from health management to bolster organizational capabilities, improve the work environment, and increase productivity. Pledge to Society 165 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Initiative 1. Organizational Structure In 2015, in cooperation with the health insurance association, the Group put people responsible for, and others in charge of, health management at 222 business sites, covering the entire Group. In addition, industrial physicians and industrial nursing professionals have been assigned to head offices and major factories. Further, in 2017, the Health Promotion Office was established in Sekisui Chemical headquarters to promote better health within the entire Group. In 2017, to assist the people responsible for, and those in charge of carrying out, health management to improve workers’ health at business sites, explanatory sessions on the Group's health management policies were held in 21 venues throughout Japan. These sessions were attended by 189 individuals from 151 companies, including affiliates. Initiative 2. Compliance with Laws and Regulations To comply with health and safety-related laws and regulations, we conduct surveys of the health and safety management status at all business sites on an annual basis. By monitoring the implementation and improvement rates found in these surveys, we have contributed to reliable compliance. Initiative 3. Identification and Resolution of Health Issues Physical: We have published “Guidelines for Determining Work-Fitness for High Risk Employees” to help implement adequate health management for those who are found to be at high risk of health issues based on analyses of health checkup data. In cooperation with the health insurance association, we are also preventing conditions from becoming more severe for those employees who are at risk of lifestyle-related diseases. Mental: We have produced good results from conducting stress management training sessions by telephone, with emphases on newly appointed managerial staff, overseas assignees, and mid-career hires, who undergo considerable changes in the environments in which they find themselves and are expected to actively engage in their new roles within short periods. Initiative 4. Initiatives Geared Toward Work Style Reform Since 2016, stress checks have been performed for all Sekisui Chemical Group employees every June. The purpose of these stress checks is to help employees understand their individual stress levels and prevent mental distress, as well as to create workplaces that facilitate work through the improvement of work environments by aggregating and analyzing individual stress values in each department (organizational checkups). Because of efforts to share the purpose and importance placed on these stress tests and to recommend that employees undergo the tests, the rate of undergoing the tests went up by around 10% in fiscal year 2017. Initiative 5. Population Approaches (Initiatives Without Limits on the Intended Targets) We have made it so that those who wish to may receive counseling or attend group education, such as listening-focused academy programs, run by in-house industrial counselors and external clinical psychologists. Pledge to Society 166 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Major Initiatives Stress Check The Sekisui Chemical Group strives to maximally leverage the stress checks that are provided for in law. Therefore, the Group performs these stress checks on all its employees, including those working at business sites with fewer than 50 employees. In fiscal year 2017, the Group made it a requirement to attend workshops on interpreting results in order to learn how to properly interpret population analyses; 98% of all business sites throughout the group participated. Furthermore, as part of making population analyses mandatory, the Health Promotion Office partnered with Division Company HR departments to provide assistance to two companies with high overall health risks to create a model for offering assistance with improving the working environment at high-risk workplaces. The office also provided assistance to two companies, creating model business sites for the creation of “vibrant workplaces.” Workshop on Accurately Interpreting Population Analyses Pledge to Society 167 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Stress Management Training To allow employees to control their levels of stress on their own, the Group offers telephone-based stress management training (“Mindbics”) for newly appointed managerial staff, overseas assignees, and mid-career hires, who undergo considerable changes in the environments in which they find themselves and are expected to actively engage in their new roles within short periods. This training is based on cognitive-behavioral therapy, whose high degree of effectiveness has been proven. The use of telephone-based training allows employees to enroll in the sessions from home and while away on business trips and otherwise reduces the burden on enrollees and facilitates their participation in the training sessions even when they are busy. Each year, around 400 employees participate in the sessions, which are considered required training at the Sekisui Chemical Group. Features of the Training Program Telephone-Based Stress-Management Training that Can Be Held Even in Far-Flung Locations Pledge to Society 168 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index External Evaluations Recognized as a 2018 Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization Sekisui Chemical was recognized for its company-wide efforts to resolve issues relating to the health of its employees and was certified*3 as a Health and Productivity Management Organization by both the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi*2, which runs the Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program*1, for the second year in a row. Five Sekisui Chemical Group companies*4 actively engaged in health management also received this certification for their efforts. *1 The “Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program” awards large companies, smalland medium-sized business, and other corporations that practice health management especially well through initiatives tailored to local health issues and initiatives for improving health promoted by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. *2 The Nippon Kenko Kaigi is an operation organized to allow effective action to be taken based on comprehensive support from government for expanding the healthy lifespans and offering adequate medical treatment to all people in Japan, undertaken in partnership with private-sector organizations and in a country with a declining birth rate and a rapidly aging population. *3 Sekisui Chemical was recognized in the large enterprise category (“White 500”). *4 Name of company certified together Companies receiving certification with the Company described on the left Tokyo Sekisuiheim Co., Ltd. Tokyo Sekisui Famis Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Ritto Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. From the list of corporations certified as 2018 Health and Productivity Management Organizations in the Large Enterprises (“White 500”) category Pledge to Society 169 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Amount of Overtime Work (Sekisui Chemical) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Monthly average per employee (hours) 17.5 19.2 19.9 Paid Vacation Day Utilization Rate (Sekisui Chemical) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Average per employee (%) 46.4 45.9 51.1 (Excluding managers) Average Number of Paid Vacation Days Taken FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Average per employee (days) 8.8 8.7 9.6 (Excluding managers) Stress-Check Implementation Rate FY2016 FY2017 Implementation Rate (%) 72.0 81.9 Note: Scope: Companies that are members of the Sekisui Health Insurance Association (including some affiliates) Pledge to Society 170 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Safety Targeting Zero Occupational Accidents Through Risk Reduction by All Personnel, from Top Management to the Plant-floor Frontlines Management Approach Basic Concept Each and Every Employee Has the Ability to Identify Dangerous Situations At the core of safety, it is important that each and every employee has the ability to identify dangerous situations and take appropriate steps to protect themselves and fellow employees. Even if equipment can be made completely safe, it is necessary to recognize that work and actions taken by individuals can have hidden risks. For this reason, we are making concerted efforts at safety education and raising sensitivity to risks, while following rules and creating a protective corporate culture. At the same time, constructing a work environment in which employees can work with safety and security is our responsibility as a company and one of the most important priorities for management. The Sekisui Chemical Group is implementing total safety activities (i.e. zero occupational injuries, zero equipment-related accidents, zero commuting-related accidents, and zero long-term sick leave) based on five themes*. * Five themes: (1) Intrinsic safety of equipment; (2) safety management using OHSMS; (3) safety education of employees; (4) risk prevention through risk detection activities and other initiatives; and (5) auditing of health, safety, and accident prevention. Pledge to Society 171 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Activity Policy and Promotion System We Thoroughly Implement a Safety Policy That Includes Partner Companies Outside the Group In the case of the various efforts related to occupational health and safety, an activity policy is formulated by the Safety Committee established under the CSR Committee. These actual activities are promoted by the Total Manufacturing Management Center Safety Group. We have formulated the Sekisui Chemical Group Safety Policy, which forms our basic philosophy on occupational safety and is shared by all employees within the Group. We also collect a range of data on occupational health and safety such as disaster rates and, with regard to incidents that have occurred on Sekisui Chemical Group’s own business premises, include the data for those that occurred at partner companies outside the Group. Safety-Promotion System Occupational Safety Committee Held Management and Labor Work Together to Assess, Research and Propose Solutions for Occupational Safety The Occupational Safety Committee at each business site of the Sekisui Chemical Group holds a meeting every month, as mandated by law. In addition, the Central Occupational Safety Committee, consisting of members from corporate headquarters and labor unions, meets once a year. The Central Occupational Safety Committee is a labor and management organization that was created on the basis of collective agreements to assess, research and make strategic proposals related to occupational health and safety. Every employee can potentially become a member of the Central Occupational Safety Committee. Based on the outcome of the Occupational Safety Committee’s deliberations, the Sekisui Chemical Group aims to strictly comply with laws and regulations, including the Industrial Safety and Health Act, ensure the safety and health of employees at work, and create a comfortable work environment. The Central Occupational Safety Committee and the Occupational Safety Committees at each business site assess workplace environments and safety devices, draw up and implement solutions to workplace problems, and decide rules with regard to various topics related to occupational safety and health. Pledge to Society 172 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Example in Safety Activities Leaders from Each Division Declared Their Commitment to Safe Business Practices Based on the recognition that it is of the utmost importance for the top managers at business sites to exercise leadership and take the initiative in safety activities, leaders from each division, including the president, declare their commitment to safe business practices, and their personally written declarations are published on the intranet for employees to see. A safety declaration posted on the intranet Safety Audits Second-party OHSMS Certification at 37 Business Sites Japanese workplaces are implementing OHSMS (Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems) second-party certification, and as of March 2018, 37 workplaces of 77.1% of Japanese workplaces that were targeted have acquired certification. Incorporating head office evaluations from 2013 into the periodic self-audit evaluations that have been implemented since FY2010 will enable multi-aspect verifications of the evaluation results, and improve the level of the Group overall. Sekisui OHSMS operates as in-house certification, and as the skills of internal auditors is being questioned, efforts are also being made towards their training. Occupational Safety Assessments Implementation of Preliminary Safety Assessments When Launching a New Business Article 14 of the Group’s Safety Management Rules stipulates that a comprehensive preliminary occupational safety assessment must be undertaken by the business general manager concerned when launching a new business. Based on this stipulation, the relevant divisional company that is looking to launch a new business implements an assessment. Pledge to Society 173 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Major Initiatives Development of Human Resources to Take the Initiative in Safety Activities Encouraging the Gaining of Qualifications to Become Key Persons in Charge of Safety Activities We are training HR who can act with a high safety awareness that they can show to their subordinates. In FY2017, we set up two new qualifications for key personnel who lead safety activities. The first, “safety leader,” is an inhouse evaluation of the capacity for work safety, and is a qualification in which highly-regarded people identify risks subjectively in their own workplaces. 12 people were chosen in its first fiscal year, 2017. The second is a qualification called “safety sub-assessor,” which is issued by the Japan Certification Corporation, and its holders play a role in promoting the introduction of essential safety mainly in equipment. In FY2017, encouragement for acquiring these qualifications Group-wide saw 43 “safety sub-assessors” appointed. High-risk Natural Disaster Countermeasures Identifying Disasters to Be Prevented for Each Site and Promoting Effective Countermeasures We have established getting caught or entangled in machinery at a production facility; falling off equipment or falling over at a business site; and a fire or explosion in a chemical process as scenarios on which the Sekisui Chemical Group should place particular focus on prevention. The Company conducts “heads-up Training*” where chemical processes are centered on production. * Heads-up Training: The common name for training to hone the judgment of all employees in case they encounter trouble. Review of Equipment Safety Standards Reviewing Equipment Safety Standards in Conjunction with Providing Explanations to Equipment Manufacturers To prevent serious occupational injuries, we consider it essential to install safe equipment that is unlikely to cause accidents even if the operator takes immediate action. We also promote reviews of our equipment safety design standards with regard to equipment safety. In fiscal 2017, in addition to preparing and issuing Equipment Design Safety Guidelines, which summarize the safety design standards necessary for equipment to be delivered to the Sekisui Chemical Group and to be fully compliant, we provided opportunities to explain the standards to machine and equipment manufacturers, thereby deepening their understanding of the standards’ content. Early Detection of Risks Training to Improve the Ability to Identify Risks In an effort to maintain a culture that gives safety top priority, we are working to encourage plant floor supervisors and workers in particular to train their eyes to better identify risks on their own initiative. To enhance each employee’s ability to identify risks, we began offering educational programs centered on patrolling plant floors from fiscal 2016. In fiscal year 2017, programs were held at the Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Plant, the Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant, and Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd., with 67 actors responsible for, or in charge of, safety management in Sekisui Chemical Group participating. Pledge to Society 174 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Measures to Prevent Fires and Explosions Initiated Emergency Audits, to Which Outside Experts Are Invited To prevent fires and explosions that, once they occur, have a major impact on the surrounding environment and on business continuity, in addition to the safety audits performed thus far, we implement emergency response audits, to which we invite outside disaster experts. We verify the storage and handling status of hazardous materials as well as the recovery system used following a disaster, including a natural disaster, thereby promoting improvements by detecting the risk posed by disasters at an early stage. Type of audit Target / aim of audit Mainly audits workplace accident prevention measures • Document review Checking of conditions relating to health and safety management activities • On-site inspections Safety audit Confirmation of the safety of people’s work, their working environments, the surfaces on which they walk, and so forth Note: At business sites that themselves implement safety audits only, auditing is performed nearly identically as previously, including “facilities audits” and “disaster-preparedness audits,” as outlined below. Mainly audits facilities-triggered accident prevention measures • Essential safety measure compliance status Includes accident-prevention measures at the facility design and installation stages Facilities audit • Process examinations of facilities management departments Facilities installation management, construction management, maintenance management Primarily consists of audits for accident-prevention measures relating to business continuity Disaster-preparedness • Checking of storage and handling conditions of dangerous articles and designated audit flammable materials • Checking of fire-fighting equipment maintenance status • Measures for responding to earthquakes and other natural disasters Pledge to Society 175 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Emergency Response Measures For the Purpose of Fine Tuning Unexpected Situation Response Skills in the Event of a Disaster At the Sekisui Chemical Group, we conduct “heads-up training” to fortify the decision-making abilities of all our employees in the event that they encounter an emergency situation. More specifically, emergency crews are given scenarios where equipment designed to prevent danger fails and challenges the trainees to ask questions to solve the problem on the spot. This training improves the skills needed to respond to unexpected situations in the event of a natural disaster by passing down to younger employees the on-site safety know-how accumulated over many years by senior employees. Through this training, we were able to improve equipment countermeasures and revise work operating manuals. The training acts to verify the effectiveness of procedures taken during emergency situations and presents opportunities for employees to engage in evacuation drills and disaster prevention drills. This training has been applied on various occasions, including to handle problems, and in evacuation and emergency drills. In fiscal year 2017, a total of 324 people participated in the training sessions that were held a total of 49 times in 22 departments at 11 business sites. Deployment of Basic Safety Principles Preparation of Basic Safety Principles Poster We are working to prevent work-related injuries caused by machines and equipment by making the equipment itself intrinsically safer while also preventing occupational accidents caused by worker operations. Based on the lessons learned from past occupational accidents that actually occurred on Group business sites, the “Six Basic Safety Principles,” which summarize compliance matters and matters prohibited during operations for each operational process, were established in fiscal 2017. In order to promptly disseminate these principles within the Company, we created and distributed to each workplace a poster that showed them in an easy to understand, illustrated format. Overseas Business Site Safety Audits Visualizing the Status of Safety Management Activities at Overseas Business Sites At our overseas production sites, which operate under the varying laws and regulations as well as differing awareness of safety issues in each country, the Sekisui Chemical Group has, since fiscal 2013, been deploying safety management rules as a global standard and strictly adheres to these rules in order to achieve the same level of safety at all its business sites. Having commenced safety audits based on global standards in earnest in fiscal 2014, in fiscal 2017 we implemented audits at 13 business sites to confirm that the safety management activities of each business site are being promoted appropriately. We are also holding regional safety brainstorming sessions in North America and China to share regional safety management activity issues and discuss countermeasures. In the years ahead, we will continue to provide effective support in accordance with the corporate and national cultures of each region. Pledge to Society 176 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Safety Conference and Safety Awards Presidential Award Given to the Business Site with the Best Safety Record for the Fiscal Year The Sekisui Chemical Group Safety Conference is usually held to coincide with National Safety Week in July of each year. In fiscal 2017, Chairman Naofumi Negishi and President Teiji Koge were among the total of 239 people, who also included other directors, business heads from domestic production business sites and laboratories, construction companies as well those in charge of safety, etc. who attended the conference on July 13. During the conference, the fiscal 2016 presidential award was given to the business site with the best safety record for the fiscal year. Safety Management Along Supply Chains Sharing Safety Policies While Providing Training Opportunities Based on the idea of securing the safety of employees from partner companies involved in the on-site construction of housing, the Housing Company organizes the Sekisui Heim Cooperation Association with its partner companies and holds periodic meetings while utilizing other methods to share the Group’s safety policy. We also provide a variety of training opportunities related to occupational safety, such as safety education sessions. Pledge to Society 177 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Safety Performance Japan Aggregate scope: 44 production sites and 5 research centers in Japan Number of Occupational Accidents Number of Facilities Accidents Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method The number of occupational The number of incidents of Number of accidents (both those resulting in lost malfunctioning (fires, leaks, etc.) of occupational time and those not) occurring during facilities that fulfill at least one of the accidents a given fiscal year (April through the following criteria (Sekisui Chemical following March) Group criteria), from (1) to (3), Number of occurring during a given fiscal year Facilities (April through the following March) Accidents (1) Human harm: An accident causing at least 30 days’ lost work (2) Material harm: 10,000,000 yen or greater (3) Opportunity loss: 20,000,000 yen or greater Pledge to Society 178 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Number of Long-term Sick Leave Number of Commuting Accidents Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method Describes leave of 30 days or more The number of accidents occurring consecutively for sickness or injury during commutes to Japanese occurring in a Japanese production production sites and research center site or research center during the during a given fiscal year (April to Number of Number of given fiscal year (April to the following the following March); includes injury commuting Long-Term March), and which is newly-occurring. to others, injury to the commuter, accidents Sick Leave Recurrences within 6 months of him or herself, damage to the the start of work attendance are commuter’s own vehicle, and physical not counted. However, absences damage occurring while operating an caused by industrial accidents are not automobile or other vehicle classified as long-term sick leave. Pledge to Society 179 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Frequency Rate Over Time Severity Rate Over Time Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method The total number of injuries, illness The total number of days of work and fatalities in occupational accidents lost per 1,000 hours of total time with lost time per 1,000,000 hours worked during a given fiscal year (April of total time worked during a given Severity rate through the following March) fiscal year (April through the following Formula for calculation: (Number of Frequency March) days of work lost / total number of rate Formula for calculation: (Number man-hours worked) × 1,000 of injuries, illness and fatalities in occupational accidents with lost time / total number of man-hours worked) × 1,000,000 Pledge to Society 180 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Occupational Illness Frequency Rate (OIFR) Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method Lost Time (Occupational illnesses / total number (Number of accidents causing sick Injury of man-hours worked) x 1,000,000 leave / total number of man-hours Occupational Frequency Occupational illnesses as defined worked) × 1,000,000 Illness Rate by the Ministry of Health, Labour Frequency and Welfare, including heat stroke, Rate lower back pain, and intoxication by chemical substances Safety Performance in the Housing Company’s Safety Performance in the Urban Infrastructure & Construction Sites Environmental Products Company and Other Construction Sites Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method The number of occupational The number of occupational Safety accidents (both those resulting accidents (both those resulting in Safety performance in lost time and those not) lost time and those not) occurring performance in the Urban occurring in construction sites in construction sites under in the Housing Infrastructure & under the jurisdiction of the the jurisdiction of the Urban Company’s Environmental Housing Company during a Infrastructure & Environmental construction sites Products given fiscal year (April through Products Company or the Sekisui Company the following March) Chemical company headquarters and other during a given fiscal year (April construction sites through the following March) Pledge to Society 181 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Overseas Aggregate scope: 46 production sites and 1 research center overseas Number of Occupational Accidents Indicator Calculation Method Occurrence of The number of occupational occupational accidents (both requiring and not accidents requiring time off from work) at overseas occurring at overseas production production sites sites and research centers during and research a given fiscal year (April through centers the following March) Health and Safety / Accident Prevention Costs Aggregate Scope: 42 Domestic Japanese Production Sites and 5 Research Facilities, Headquarters, Back Offices of Division Companies Health and Safety / Accident Prevention Costs Pledge to Society 182 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Costs and Investments Over Time Loss Costs Over Time Indicator Calculation Method Indicator Calculation Method The amount invested in health and The costs of responding to, and safety and accident prevention-related the labor costs incurred due to, Amount measures authorized during a given occupational accidents, facilities invested fiscal year (April through the following Loss costs accidents, commuting accidents, and March) long-term sick leave due to illness occurring within a given fiscal year (April through the following March) Pledge to Society 183 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Compliance and Respect for Human Rights Giving Consideration to Human Rights on a Global Scale, Strengthening Compliance Management Management Approach Our Approach to Compliance Compliance Depends on the Good Intentions of Each Employee The Sekisui Chemical Group carries out compliance management based on fundamental principles, including contributing to society, being a trusted company, and adherence to both the letter and spirit of the law, and principles that are spelled out in its Compliance Declaration announced in 2003. Based on the spirit of the Company Philosophy and our Corporate Code of Ethics, our compliance initiatives are in tune with the ethics and social norms valued by society as we strictly adhere to laws, regulations and internal rules. Our business and compliance activities support the corporate value of the Sekisui Chemical Group, and compliance is the basis of all management activities. We aim to remain a company in which each individual employee can be proud of our good intentions. To this end, we strive to improve awareness of compliance throughout the Sekisui Chemical Group in order to remain in the trust of society. Prevent Compliance Issues Prevent Major Compliance Issues In the CSR Medium-term Plan, which we started to implement in fiscal 2017, we carried over zero incidents of major compliance issues as a KPI target from the previous medium-term plan. From fiscal 2015 onward, Sekisui Chemical has continually achieved zero incidents of corruption and fraud. In fiscal 2017 as well, no major compliance issues arose. We will continue strengthening our management of compliance and work to prevent compliance issues before they occur. Pledge to Society 184 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Growing Awareness Toward Compliance Compliance Manuals and Compliance Cards Distributed The Sekisui Chemical Group has created and distributed the Compliance Manual, in which are described the matters with which each Group employee should comply, and also created a pocket version called the Compliance Card in order to instill awareness of compliance in each and every employee. The Compliance Manual includes information on topics such as the prohibitions on corruption and bribery, respect for human rights and the prohibition of discrimination, data management and protection, compliance with antitrust legislation, prohibitions on insider trading, conservation of the global environment and compliance with labor-related laws and regulations, and the internal whistleblowing system; it publicizes, and promotes thorough adherence with, these requirements among all employees. In addition to the existing Compliance Manual, we have created a Global Compliance Manual covering regulations around the world. To allow all overseas Group employees to understand this manual, we have created Chinese and Thai editions, as well as an English edition, and are proceeding with translating the manual into more local languages. The Company's The conveniently sized Compliance Manual Compliance Card Pledge to Society 185 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Putting Compliance Management Efforts into Practice Building an Effective Compliance Promotion System We are building a realistic and effective compliance promotion system to ensure that compliance management is fully put into practice. In addition to having established a Compliance Subcommittee—which reports to the CSR Committee and is chaired by the executive officer who heads the Legal Department—as an organization to oversee Group compliance and to put forward policies and implementation measures, we are also establishing compliance promotion subcommittees at headquarters and at each divisional company, appointing persons responsible for putting compliance promotion into practice and implementing and deploying each measure. In the unlikely event that an important compliance issue arises, we will hold a Compliance Advisory Board meeting to address any problems that have actually occurred and examine measures to prevent a recurrence. Compliance Management Promotion System Compliance Training Ongoing Provision of Opportunities to Learn About Compliance As part of our efforts associated with putting compliance management into practice, we also focus on employee compliance education. We continuously provide opportunities for all Group employees to learn about the importance of compliance, such as by conducting e-learning sessions specific to compliance quarterly. These e-learning programs include information about compliance as training for new employees and as rank-specific training. Pledge to Society 186 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Upgrade of the Whistle-blowing Program We Are Promoting Knowledge of S.C.A.N.'s Existence and Its Effective Operation In 2002, the Sekisui Chemical Group developed the Sekisui Compliance Assist Network (S.C.A.N.) intra-company whistle-blowing system, which is the mechanism that has been made available for use by all Sekisui Chemical Group employees and its business partners. Operated under the supervision of the executive officer in charge of the legal department, S.C.A.N. enables direct reporting not only to the executive officer in charge of the Legal Department but also to an outside law firm. In addition to serving as a reporting system, S.C.A.N. also plays a role as a point of contact for consultations, such as whether a specific act would be classed as a compliance violation. In order to create an organizational culture that maintains full awareness of compliance, the system also prescribes the protection of the whistleblower and stipulates that information on the person who provided the information be kept secret from everyone other than at the point of contact and the prohibition of any prejudicial treatment toward that person. Responses to External Notifications In accordance with the establishment of the Corporate Governance Code, we reconfigured the internal reporting system in fiscal year 2015 as part of the strengthening of governance functions at each Sekisui Chemical Group company and newly put in place points of contact for consultations from, and whistleblowing by, suppliers. This consultation / notification point of contact is intended for use by the executive officers and employees of business partners in Japan who are continuously conducting business transactions with Sekisui Chemical Group companies. We occasionally accept requests for consultations and receive reports via a form made available on Group company websites and, while conducting consultations with business partners, proceed to confirm the facts and take corrective action concerning any alleged “law-violating conduct.” The content of consultations and reports is shared only among the minimum number of people necessary to resolve the “law-violating conduct concerned, and all parties that need to be involved are obliged to keep that content confidential. Prevention of Bribery and Corruption Guidelines in Place, Educational Programs Conducted for High-risk Divisions A signatory to and an approver of the UN Global Compact, which stipulates anti-corruption efforts under its voluntary action principles, the Sekisui Chemical Group is promoting efforts to prevent acts of bribery and corruption in that spirit. As part of our internal regulations, we have put in place rules to prevent bribery and corruption and are promoting their introduction at all Sekisui Chemical Group companies. We have also formulated anti-bribery guidelines, which summarize matters concerning bribery and corruption, that employees should observe when doing business in Japan, the United States and China. We have worked to make these regulations and guidelines known via the intranet, so that Group employees can check them at any time. Pledge to Society 187 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Main Measures Relating to Bribery and Corruption In our efforts to prevent the breaking of any laws, we identify high risk cases regarding corruption and bribery, and put countermeasures in place. For example, when a government official is to be entertained or presented with a gift, a form must be submitted in advance to obtain approval from management. In the event that we appoint an agent or consultant in connection with business transactions, including those involving public officials from other countries, we stipulate that this can only be undertaken once we have confirmed that payments of remuneration to that agent or consultant could not be classed as bribes, that there are no reasonable grounds to suspect that payments could constitute bribes and only after a predetermined settlement procedure has been followed. Identification of High-risk Divisions and Employee Training Having identified sales departments and the Purchasing Department as the business divisions at particularly high risk of bribery and corruption, we encourage them to learn about regulations and guidelines, such as by conducting training specific to countering graft and corruption, and to make full use of the relevant forms, among other measures. Following on from training conducted for certain departments within Japan, in fiscal year 2015, 13 training sessions targeting employees at overseas business sites were held in fiscal year 2017, with 135 employees participating. Cases of Violations in Fiscal 2017 No cases of major violations of the laws governing bribery and corruption occurred in fiscal 2017. Protection of Intellectual Property Protecting Our Intellectual Property and Respecting the Intellectual Property Rights of Others The Company regards intellectual property (IP) that has resulted from its R&D activities to be an important management resource underpinning the Sekisui Chemical Group's growth and profitability as well as efforts toward the maximization of corporate value. For that reason, the Sekisui Chemical Group endeavors to properly use IP and protect its own rights. Among various measures, we quickly file patent applications for inventions made in manufacturing and development. We also take appropriate measures to prevent and avoid infringing the IP rights of others. We conduct educational programs to fit the level and needs of participants, from the acquisition of basic knowledge to programs covering the building of IP strategies. Under the basic policy of securing business competitive strength by obtaining strong patents, headquarters and IP divisions of each divisional company are central to the IP strategy, which is based on a consistent system that ranges from the development of basic policies common to headquarters and each divisional company to the acquisition and management of patents and the utilization of rights. Pledge to Society 188 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Reasonable Evaluations with Regard to R&D Assigning a Fair Value to Valuable Inventions Headquarters and each business division have R&D sections that work to increase the speed of technological development and create outstanding technologies. The Invention Grand Prize has been established as one part of efforts to ensure researchers and engineers receive the evaluations and recognition they deserve. The Invention Grand Prize establishes monetary rewards for inventors recognized as having made major contributions to profits. Respect for Human Rights Deepening Understanding of Human Rights, Implementing Business Activities That Respect Human Rights Along with its suppliers, the Sekisui Chemical Group engages in business activities that respect human rights as part of its obligation to all stakeholders. All Group employees are provided with a copy of the Company’s Compliance Manual. We have set strict standards for respecting human rights, prohibiting discrimination, preventing harassment, and protecting personal information. We conduct training and e-learning sessions for employees about the prevention of all forms of harassment. We work diligently to raise the understanding and awareness of such issues among all of our employees. Assessing the Human Rights Situation at Our Suppliers Caring About Human Rights Issues Across the Entire Supply Chain Through CSR procurement with our suppliers, we make sure our business partners respect human rights. In order for our suppliers to understand the Group’s procurement policy, including respect for human rights, we have produced English and Chinese translated versions as well as the Japanese version and are promoting the process of making procurement policies available in a variety of languages, such as by posting them in Japanese and English on our websites. With regard to suppliers that do not meet the prescribed standards, a request is made to ensure that the necessary steps are taken to resolve any issues. The Sekisui Chemical Group works together with suppliers in the implementation of appropriate measures. We are making progress with the development of mechanisms, designed specifically for our overseas business partners and suppliers, to encourage improvements via our regional management companies. Pledge to Society 189 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Major Initiatives Compliance Reinforcement Month Learning About the Importance of Compliance from Actual Violation Case Studies In fiscal 2014, we decided that October of each year would be Compliance Reinforcement Month, to give all employees the opportunity to reflect on their compliance awareness and actions. In fiscal 2017, under the banner of “actual compliance violation case studies,” a range of initiatives were carried out in Japan based on actual past cases of compliance violations that had occurred inside and outside the Company. We also expanded the area in which Compliance Reinforcement Month is implemented overseas, which resulted in Group companies in North America and China launching Compliance Reinforcement Month initiatives. Initiatives Taken During Compliance Reinforcement Month (FY2017) 1. Disseminated the President’s Top Message 2. Covered actual compliance violation case studies in Group newsletters. Also reported the start of Compliance Reinforcement Month in the United States and China 3. Implemented all types of compliance training / Held an open-style legal seminar in which employees participated of their own accord (7 locations, 10 times in total) 4. Conducted e-learning / Implemented e-learning on the Company intranet (questions centered on actual compliance violation case studies) 5. Initiated the Compliance Implementation Report by frontier leaders 6. Conducted compliance awareness surveys Other compliance training 1. Implemented education programs conducted by visiting staff at business sites where there had been several violations of compliance laws 2. Provided educational opportunities at business sites in Japan where the opportunities were deemed insufficient Upgrade of Legal Affairs Structure Reinforcement of Global Legal Affairs Structure The Sekisui Chemical Group has been reinforcing its legal affairs structure by developing and deploying legal personnel, strengthening collaboration among legal departments and enhancing legal functions. In fiscal 2017, employees responsible for legal affairs at Sekisui Europe B.V. and Sekisui Southeast Asia Co., Ltd., our regional management companies in Europe and Thailand, respectively, took up new posts and commenced, for example, contract screening and the expansion of the internal reporting system. Marketing Communications Legal Compliance with Regard to Advertising and Labeling When conducting business activities, the Sekisui Chemical Group strictly adheres to laws and regulations while engaging in good-faith marketing activities. In fiscal 2017, there were no serious violations of laws, regulations or internal rules to report within the context of marketing communications related to advertising and product labeling. Pledge to Society 190 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Responses to Past Legal Violations From 2004 to 2006, Sekisui Chemical determined the sale price of its PVC pipes and joints in cooperation with other companies, and in February 2009, was ordered by the Fair Trade Commission to take measures to abolish this and to pay surcharges. Certification of the facts in this order differ from Sekisui Chemical's interpretation, so from April 2009 onwards, we asked for it to be expunged through referees and litigation rescinding the decision, but in January 2018 we withdrew our appeal, and accepted the verdict through a certification of the facts at the Fair Trade Commission. We take this result seriously, and will not only thoroughly prevent recurrence, but also become involved in strictly observing compliance. Initiatives Geared Toward Suppliers Conducting CSR Procurement Surveys Guided by its procurement policy, the Sekisui Chemical Group has been conducting surveys as a part of the process to select new suppliers in Japan since 2007. Through these surveys, the Company works to ascertain the stance of each supplier toward human rights and environmental protection as well as the status of each supplier’s CSR activities. In fiscal 2017, we formulated and put into effect CSR Status Survey Guidelines for Suppliers, which are geared toward the raw materials procurement departments at each divisional company. As a result of the CSR procurement survey conducted in fiscal 2017, we assessed conditions at the major suppliers of all the divisional companies in Japan and the major suppliers of the Group companies in China (211 companies in Japan, 17 companies in China). We confirmed that no major human rights infringements, including child labor and forced labor, occurred at our major suppliers. Initiatives Geared Toward Employees Implementing Human Rights Training and Education The Sekisui Chemical Group conducts training and educational programs focusing on the theme of human rights for its employees. In this manner, the Group is endeavoring to engage in management that takes into consideration concerns regarding human rights. We incorporate content that raises awareness about human rights issues, such as forced labor, child labor, harassment, etc., in particular in training carried out at career milestones, such as when joining the Company or upon promotion. In addition, training programs that aim to prevent all forms of harassment are held every year. In fiscal 2017, 201 employees participated in these programs. Pledge to Society 191 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Addressing the Issue of Conflict Minerals “Conflict Minerals Survey Guidelines Put into Effect Sekisui Chemical is concerned about the conflict mineral problem, namely the mineral resources controlled by armed forces in the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring countries that commit human rights violations and destroy the environment. We conduct surveys on the use of conflict minerals at companies throughout our supply chain from a CSR management perspective. We put our “Conflict Minerals Survey Guidelines” into effect in April 2017. These guidelines were newly formulated for each Group division*1 responsible for receiving survey requests for conflict minerals from suppliers and for conducting the surveys. In fiscal year 2017, we conducted 308 conflict mineral surveys at Sekisui Chemical's Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company, High Performance Plastics Company and the group companies of each. We confirmed that, out of those companies surveyed, 238 do not use 3TG*2 and 51 source from countries other than the DRC and neighboring countries*3. While there were 19 cases where minerals were sourced from DRC, each case is confirmed that it is from CFS-certified facilities*4. Meanwhile, there were no cases in which the smelter was unknown. *1 For the quality control department of each divisional company factory and the quality control departments of affiliated companies or affiliated company factories *2 3TG: Columbite-Tantalite stone (tantalum), tin stone (tin), iron manganese stone (tungsten) and gold or their derivatives *3 Republic of Congo and neighboring countries: Refers to Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and the nine countries (Angola, Burundi, Central African Republic, Republic of Congo, Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia) bordering the DRC *4 CFS stands for “conflict-free smelter.” Certification is granted through a program based on conflict-mineral surveys created by the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI), an organization that deals with issues relating to conflict minerals. The Initiative’s investigations not only audit smelters and refineries but also check whether conflict minerals being used to fund armed groups are included in transactions further down the supply chain. We confirm that manufacturing sites have been certified through this program using conflict-mineral surveys. Addressing the Procurement of Timber Materials Established “Timber Procurement Survey Guidelines,” Implementation Started in the 2018 Fiscal Year Timber Procurement Survey Guidelines for the procurement departments of each company were established in 2017. Implementation of the guidelines began in April 2018. In order to contribute to the eradication of deforestation as well as the sustainable use of timber resources, every effort is made to ensure that the timber used in products is logged in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements (SFC etc.). Pledge to Society 192 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Employees Using the e-learning System Over Time Employees Using the e-learning System Over Time List of Results Relating to Compliance Training Fiscal Year 2017 List of Results Relating to Compliance Training Pledge to Society 193 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Number of Whistleblowing Cases and Consultations Fiscal Year 2017 Number of Whistleblowing Cases and Consultations Pledge to Society 194 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Stakeholder Engagement Improving Corporate Value Through Strengthening Dialogue with Stakeholders Management Approach Basic Concept Promoting Constructive Dialogue with Stakeholders To build relationships of trust with its five stakeholders—customers, shareholders, employees, business partners as well as local communities and the environment—the Sekisui Chemical Group considers that it is important to strengthen corporate value through constructive dialogue. Positioning its stakeholders as partners in improving corporate value, having constructive dialogue with them, assessing their expectations and requests as well as resolving society-wide issues together with them, leads to great opportunities for the Sekisui Chemical Group. We will create a relationship of mutual prosperity with our stakeholders while continuing to promote sustainable growth. Dialogue with Stakeholders Reflecting Stakeholder Opinions in Corporate Activities via Various Methods of Communication Continuing on from the previous fiscal year, we instigated dialogues with various stakeholders through an array of venues, including the FY2017 (345th) Customer and Top (CAT) meeting (which saw 2,418 attendees), where the top management of our housing real estate sales company directly heard feedback from customers; meetings with investors and investigative organizations; with business partners at the Heim Mutual Prosperity Meeting and on other occasions; and at the eco products expo, in which we participate annually. With regard to employees, forums were established for top management, including the president, to have direct dialogue with employees. At the same time, we gathered employee opinions and requests for CSR activities through CSR report survey questionnaires. In addition to these opinions and requests from inside the Company, we also collected opinions and requests from outside the Company toward public information, including the CSR Report, and utilized them for the promotion of CSR management and the creation of CSR reports. The CSR Management Office, which falls under the purview of the Director of the Business Strategy Department, is responsible for promoting dialogue with all stakeholders.The assessments and opinions of all stakeholders are reported to the CSR Committee, which is chaired by the Company president and is composed of directors, and the Company strives to adequately reflect these views in its activities. There were no major concerns voiced by stakeholders through any of the engagements in fiscal 2017. Stakeholder Engagement 195 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Main Responsibilities, Communication Channels, and Communication Methods The Sekisui Chemical Communication Methods Stakeholders Contact Group's Commitment and Tools We take the voices of our Customer Consultation Office ・Departments in Charge of customers seriously, offer (handles inquiries), CSR prominent products and customer satisfaction surveys, Customers ・Departments in Charge of services and strive to build a everyday sales activities, Quality Control long-term relationship of trust web page, exhibition spaces / ・Sales Department with our customers. expos / events To meet the expectations of all General shareholders’ our valued shareholders, we meetings, communications strive for highly efficient use of with shareholders, explanatory capital, fair ethical disclosure of ・Departments in Charge of meetings on the closing of Shareholders information, adequate returns Public Relations and IR accounts, from profit, and increasing annual reports, responding corporate value through to surveys from socially sustainable growth. responsible investors ・Departments in Charge of Individual meetings, We foster among our CSR counseling, employees a spirit of taking on ・Departments in Charge of internal whistle-blowing new challenges and are actively Legal Affairs system, employee satisfaction creating workplaces where ・Departments in Charge of surveys, Employees every employee can stand out, Public Relations employee questionnaires, a diverse array of talent is on ・Departments in Charge of dialogues with management, display, and people feel that Safety intranet and internal their work is worthwhile. ・Departments in Charge of newsletter, labor-management Human Resources meetings When procuring materials, we follow the fundamentals of being open, fair, compliant with the law, engaged in relationships of mutual trust, ・Departments in Charge of Everyday purchasing activities, and environmentally conscious. Legal Affairs explanatory meetings with We aim to achieve coexistence ・Departments in Charge of Suppliers suppliers, and shared prosperity CSR CSR procurement by building more robust ・Departments in Charge of questionnaires, website partnerships with our suppliers Purchasing and engaging in fair trade. We are also engaged in promoting CSR Management based on cooperation with our suppliers. Stakeholder Engagement 196 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index The Sekisui Chemical Communication Methods Stakeholders Contact Group's Commitment and Tools We emphasize a perspective that encompasses contributions to the development of communities through our business, ・Departments in Charge of Volunteering by employees, coexistence with communities, CSR support for learning Local and environmental ・Factories and Offices (dispatching of instructors, communities conservation. We think about ・Departments in Charge of factory tours, etc.), how to make measures that Public Relations news releases are tailored to the needs of each community and practice business in ways that engender trust. We are engaged in creating and expanding the market ・Departments in Charge of for Environment-contributing CSR Volunteering by employees, Products, reducing our ・Factories and Offices dialogues with NPOs and Global environmental footprint, ・Departments in Charge of NGOs, everyday sales environment and conserving the natural Sales operations, environment—all with the aim ・Departments in Charge of everyday purchasing activities of achieving “a world in which Purchasing biodiversity is conserved.” Stakeholder Engagement 197 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Major Initiatives Dialogues with Employees Management and Employees Hold “Vision Caravan 2017” Direct Communication Sessions Believing that dialogue between management and employees is essential in resolving the problems faced by the Company as well as work-related issues, the Sekisui Chemical Group has been providing opportunities for employees to have direct communication with top management since fiscal 2002. In fiscal 2017, “Vision Caravan 2017” was held as a venue for direct communication between senior executives and employees. At domestic and the four regional (North America, Europe, China and ASEAN) overseas Group companies, the president and other directors visited each location themselves, introduced the history and mission of the Sekisui Chemical Group and explained the Medium-term Management Plan that began in fiscal 2017. For employees of overseas Group companies, fiscal 2017 was their first year to have direct communication with the president. A theme that was delved in to an even greater extent at Vision Caravan 2017, which targeted domestic Japanese Group employees, was societal issues in Japan. At the event, there was an active exchange of views concerning “work-style innovation,” a subject that was also highlighted in the Medium-Term Management Plan. The opinions offered by employees will be reflected in specific work-style innovation efforts going forward. Dialogue with Investors Continuing to Engage in Direct Communication in an Effort to Enhance Understanding Interest in ESG investment, by which investments are actively made in companies that engage in CSR activities, has been mounting recently. At the same time, ratings agencies are increasingly undertaking surveys. As its business domains are so diverse, the Sekisui Chemical Group believes it important to give explanations individually and carefully to ensure that the Group's overall business characteristics and CSR initiatives are sufficiently and correctly understood. We list “active engagement between investors and management” as one of the crucial tasks in which we are engaged in our medium-term CSR plan. To assess how our corporate value and sustainable growth are reflected in how we appear from an outside perspective, we have set a medium-term target of holding over 200 dialogues and are continuously engaged in direct dialogues with ESG investment assessment and ranking institutions, particularly in Europe, as well as with financial institutions and investors in Japan and throughout the world. During the 2017 fiscal year, we held 88 engagements. With the investor and ESG investment assessment as well as SRI ratings agencies very much in mind, Sekisui Chemical discloses detailed information on its website. Active Engagement Between Investors and Management FY2017 Results Number of engagements 88 Note: The number of engagements represents the number of times company presidents and executives in charge of specific areas had dialogues with investors. Stakeholder Engagement 198 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Spreading Awareness of CSR Through Communication Enhancing Communication Tools with Employees We use various communication tools to deepen understanding among employees of the Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR initiatives. We have produced Our CSR, which explains the Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR concepts, in seven languages (Japanese, English, Chinese, German, Spanish Dutch and Thai) and, to mark the 70th anniversary, a commemorative magazine (in Japanese and English) that summarizes the 70-year history and prominences of the Sekisui Chemical Group. The anniversary magazine has been distributed to all Group companies in Japan and overseas. We also distribute the CSR navigator email newsletter to employees to keep them up to date with the latest CSR topics at the Sekisui Chemical Group. In fiscal 2017, an explanation page providing information about the important themes of the Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR was posted in the in-house newsletter distributed to all domestic employees of the Sekisui Chemical Group. In addition to having reached the stage at which employees are able to freely download them via the intranet, these kinds of communications and CSR-related materials are also distributed to all target employees, regardless of whether they are regular or non-regular staff, on an as needed basis, for example when new employees join the Company or when implementing CSR-related educational programs. Stakeholder Engagement 199 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Distribute Value to Stakeholders: Calculating Economic Value Distribution Based on GRI Standards The Sekisui Chemical Group calculates distribution status for each stakeholder based on its financial statements, using GRI and other accounting standards as a reference. We will accelerate CSR management by quantifying, visualizing and assessing the business and social value brought about by engagement with our stakeholders. (Unit: Millions of yen) Stakeholders Method of Calculating Amounts FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Shareholders Dividends 14,299 16,063 19,064 Cost of Sales, Selling Costs / Suppliers General Administrative Costs 814,883 778,623 811,642 (Excluding Personnel Costs) Labor costs, Salaries and allowances as part of sales costs Employees and general administrative costs, 191,611 190,676 196,554 Provisions for bonuses, Provisions for retirement pay Local communities Donations 148 186 150 Global environment Environmental conservation costs 16,080 16,506 22,569 Government and Corporate taxes, local taxes, 15,007 23,396 23,393 administrative bodies business taxes Interest paid as part of costs apart Creditors 1,147 610 533 from sales Stakeholder Engagement 200 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index External Evaluation Major External Evaluations Conducted During Fiscal Year 2017 CSR in General Earned selection to the “World” and “Asia-Pacific” categories of the DJSI Earned sustainability rating of “Bronze Class” by Robeco SAM Earned selection to the FTSE4Good Index series Earned selection to the FTSE Blossom Japan Index Earned selection to the MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes Earned selection to Ethibel PIONEER and Ethibel EXCELLENCE Earned selection to the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index Ranked 58th in Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking Selected for 55th place in the “2018 Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World” index Stakeholder Engagement 201 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environment Ranked 37th in Nikkei’s “Environmental Management Ranking” Won the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Award in the “6th Contest for Corporate Activities on Biodiversity” Human Resources Selected as the fiscal 2017 “Nadeshiko Brand” by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange Recognized as a “2018 Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization” by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi Kofu Sekisui Sangyo Co., Ltd.: Received the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s New Diversity Management Selection 100 in fiscal 2016 Earned selection to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s Diversity Management Selection 100 for fiscal 2013 Stakeholder Engagement 202 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Governance / Internal Control The Sekisui Chemical Group Has Put in Place Its Own Corporate Governance System That Reflects Its Division Company Structure Management Approach Basic Philosophy Basic Philosophy and Framework for Corporate Governance Our Group’s basic philosophy regarding corporate governance consists of striving for sustainable growth and increasing corporate value over the medium and long terms. To help achieve these goals, we are increasing the transparency and fairness of our management and pursuing swift decision-making and will do so while continuing to meet—through the creation of value for society that is part of our Corporate Philosophy—the needs of five kinds of stakeholders: customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, and local communities and the global environment. Note: See page 313 of References for more information about corporate governance. Major Organizations Organizations in Which the Sekisui Chemical Group Participates ・The Japanese Society for Quality Control ・Japan Chemical Industry Association. ・Kansai Chemical Industry Association. ・Japan Prefabricated Construction Suppliers and Manufacturers Association ・Japan Business Federation ・Kansai Economic Federation ・The Osaka Chamber of Commerce and Industry ・Japan Federation of Housing Organizations ・The Machinami Foundation ・The Real Estate Companies Association of Japan ・Wooden Home Builders Association of Japan ・The Provision of Quality Housing Stock Association (SumStock) ・KIDS DESIGN ASSOCIATION ・Japan Sewage Pipe Renewal Method Association Donations Donations Relating to Governmental Policies Donations (made by Sekisui Chemical alone) to industry bodies and political groups for fiscal years 2014 through 2017 are as follows: (Thousands of yen) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 18,681 18,936 19,050 22,909 Governance 203 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Status of Voting Rights Stock Shares Issued: Current as of March 31, 2018 Number of voting Category Number of shares Details rights (votes) Non-voting shares ― ― ― Shares with restrictions on voting ― ― ― rights (Treasury stock, etc.) Non-voting shares (Other) ― ― ― Number of shares of unit stock without any limitation Shares with complete voting Ordinary shares ― on the content of rights rights (Treasury stock, etc.) 27,813,500 serving as the standard for the Company: 100 shares Shares with complete voting Ordinary shares 4,724,809 As above rights (Other) 472,480,900 Ordinary shares Shares less than one unit ― ― 212,885 Total number of shares issued 500,507,285 ― ― Total number of voting rights ― 4,724,809 ― among shareholders Note: The row for “Shares with complete voting rights (Other)” includes the following shares (voting rights). Executive compensation BIP Trust 344,000 shares (3,440 voting rights) Stock grants ESOP Trust 302,000 shares (3,020 voting rights) About the Age-Group Composition of Corporate Officers Age-Group Composition of Officers in FY2017 (Sekisui Chemical) Under 30 30–39 40–49 50–59 60 or older Men 0 0 0 2 8 Number of Officers by Age Women 0 0 0 0 0 Governance 204 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Risk Management We Are Increasing Risk Sensitivity and Improving the Quality of Our Activities Through Further Strengthening of Our Risk-Management Structures Management Approach Basic Philosophy A System That Can Be Brought to Bear on Ever-changing Risks and Crises Here at the Sekisui Chemical Group, we are working to build a risk management structure that unifies “risk management,” which aims to prevent risks from occurring in the first place, and “crisis management,” which responds to serious risks that have manifested. Through this unification of concepts we aim to create a system that can be brought to bear on ever-changing risks and crises. Management Structure Explicitly State Risk Management Policies in Writing and Share Them with All Company Employees In the Sekisui Chemical Group’s risk management structure, the head of the HR department, who is also a Director and Managing Executive Officer, holds ultimate responsibility, and the Risk Management Group of the HR Department at headquarters handles day-to-day risk-management operations. We are striving to publicize and thoroughly install among the directors, executive officers, and employees of Sekisui Chemical and its group companies the “Sekisui Chemical Group Risk Management Guidelines,” which were established based on the revised “Basic Philosophy on Internal Corporate Governance Systems” of April 2014, to identify significant risks and to prevent them from manifesting by centrally and comprehensively collecting and evaluating information about risks. In the event that a significant risk does become manifest, an Emergency Response Headquarters will be established based on the the “Sekisui Chemical Group Crisis Management Guidelines,” creating a framework capable of swiftly and appropriately handling the situation. In preparation for such rare contingencies, a code of conduct regarding this framework, to be referred to by all employees, has also been shared with all group employees via the group intranet and other means. Governance 205 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Bolstering Risk Management (Prevention) Structures Increasing Risk-sensitivity Using PDCA Cycles It is extremely difficult to accurately monitor for risks that could foreseeably occur at some point in the future, as our corporate activities become more complex. We at the Sekisui Chemical Group believe that increasing risk sensitivity among employees is essential to handling such risks, and the group continuously runs PDCA cycles in line with the international standard for risk management ISO 31000. These activities launched during fiscal year 2011 among 27 organizations, primarily business units within the Company. The number of organizations engaged in these actions has increased each year, reaching 165 in total, including those in Japanese and overseas affiliates, in fiscal year 2017. These organizations collectively account for around 93% of consolidated revenue, and the group is working to improve the effectiveness of these actions through inter-organizational cooperation and linkages among specialist divisions. Identifying Risks Listing of Risks for Which the Group Should Be Prepared, Including ESG Risks To make clear which risks the group as a whole should prepare itself for, the scope of anticipated risks has been identified comprehensively, going beyond ESG risks alone, and these risks have been compiled into the “Sekisui Chemical Group Risk List” ●Major ESG Risks Faced by the Sekisui Chemical Group ・ Environmental risks (soil and air pollution / leaks of harmful substances / tightening of environmental regulations, etc.) ・ Societal risks (worsening of relations with local communities / rumor-based reputational harm/spread of communicable diseases / breakdowns of functions provided by public bodies, etc.) ・ Legal risks (unethical or criminal behavior / volitions of the Monopolies Act or fraudulent transactions / unauthorized overwriting of data / behavior constituting harassment / sudden changes to laws or regimes / infringements on intellectual property rights, etc.) ・ Quality-related risks (responsibility for manufactured goods / product recalls / mistakes during construction, etc.) ・ Human resources / labor risks (labor practices that violate the law / discrimination / changes to the composition of employees, etc.) ・ Safety risks (employee health and safety / workplace accidents / the safety of employees stationed or traveling abroad, etc.) ・ Financial risks (various risks relating to finances, accounting, and taxes) ・ Information-management risks (information leaks / destruction or loss of electronic data, etc.)） ・ Management decisionand business design-based risks (unclear vision and management policies / defects in work processes / product-related incidents, etc.) ・ Affiliated company and supplier risks (scandals at affiliated companies / disasters or accidents affecting affiliated companies, etc.) Governance 206 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Bolstering the Crisis-Management System The Operating of the Crisis-Management System Based on its experience during the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Sekisui Chemical Group carried out a full-scale overhaul of its crisis management system in fiscal year 2011 and has been refining that system ever since. Specifically, the group, among other initiatives, has been conducting drills (at least twice yearly) based on the Emergency Response Headquarters Procedures Manual, annual education (for all employees) using the Emergency Situation Initial Response Procedures Manual, and organizing disaster-preparedness systems based on disaster-preparedness checklists in all offices (around 800 within Japan). As of January 2012 the rate of sufficiency regarding disaster-preparedness systems, in reference to the Cabinet Office’s “Table of Self-Evaluation Items,” averaged 41% among all offices. Because of instituting concrete measures, however, the group has, since fiscal year 2015, reached a point where it has been able to maintain an average rate of over 90%. The disaster-preparedness checklist, which consists of 33 items Business Continuity Planning (BCP) Basic Philosophy Toward BCP BCP is the very essence of business strategy. Therefore, the Sekisui Chemical Group, whose adoption of a Company system has made the range of the business in which it engages broad, has decided on a basic posture of having those in charge of each line of business (the heads of business units, the presidents of business companies, etc.) determine the necessity of BCP individually, based on the particulars of the business in which they are engaged.Because of this, the group has created a support system, such as by establishing “Guidelines for Formulating BCP (BCM)” and drawing up a checklist for performing this formulation.Each person in charge of a line of business is recommended to formulate business-continuity plans and to implement business continuity management (BCM) based on these guidelines and on ISO 22301, a standard for methods of implementing BCM. Governance 207 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Crisis Management Systems Overseas A Support System Centered on Overseas Crisis-Management Organizations Based on its corporate regulations “Overseas Safety Management Regulations,” the Sekisui Chemical Group has formed a pyramid-shaped overseas crisis management organization with an officer in charge of overseas crisis management at the peak. (The officer in charge of overseas crisis management is answered to by [the head of the] Overseas Crisis-Management Office, to which the regional heads answer, and to who in turn the heads of locations answer.) It is primarily through this organization that the group supports employees traveling abroad, those stationed abroad, and locally based employees, using such means as sharing crisis management-related information, issuing advisories in a timely manner, instructing employees about travel restrictions, and implementing other emergency-response measures. As the number of group locations increases with each passing year, crisis-management manuals have been organized at each factory, office, or other business location based on support provided by the Overseas Crisis-Management Office, and these manuals are revised periodically and whenever deemed necessary. Regarding risks particular to overseas sites, including civil unrest, terrorism, and infectious diseases, the group has organized a support system based on signing contracts with crisis-management companies, such as those that provide security assistance and medical assistance. Additionally, the group conducts training sessions for employees seconded overseas before they are dispatched abroad, provides pre-trip e-learning for employees sent on business trips, and explains its overseas crisis management system to its employees; it also issues warnings about risks overseas. In recent years, in particular, business trips and secondments to frontier regions have become more common, and thus the group has stepped up its partnerships with Japanese diplomatic missions abroad and has created and distributed region-specific crisis management handbooks detailing the types of risks and levels of danger for each region, 20 in total. Major Initiatives Improving the Effectiveness of Risk Management Activities Conducting Risk Management Training Sessions for Risk Managers With the aim of improving the effectiveness of risk management activities, the group conducted risk management training sessions for the risk managers of the risk-management activities organization in fiscal year 2017. There were a total of 14 of these risk management training sessions conducted throughout the year, and there was a 93% participation rate among the risk managers targeted. Governance 208 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Data on the Number of Organizations Engaged in Risk-Management Activities Number of Organizations Engaged in Risk-Management Activities Data Relating to the Sufficiency Rate for Disaster-Preparedness Systems Disaster-Preparedness Sufficiency Rate (Average for Japanese Business Sites) Over Time Governance 209 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Cyber Security Maintaining an Effective Management System to Address Various Information-related Risks Management Approach Cyber Management System Building a Cyber Management System with Personnel Responsible Assigned to Each Business Site Headed by the CSR Committee, which is chaired by the president, the Network Management Center that has been established under the Cyber Security Committee has set up a monitoring system, carries out the monitoring and recording of information and, having also posted at least one cyber system administrator at each business site, has established a comprehensive Group-wide cyber management system. Even in the case of organizational changes or cyber system administrator reassignments, the Company is constantly aware of the presence or absence of the cyber system administrators at each of its business sites through its registry management system. Cyber Security Organizational Chart Roles of Cyber System Administrators (1) Cyber security measures in general including those relating to anti-viruses (2) Management and stable operation of information systems, personal computers, software, etc. (3) General network-related management (4) Giving of guidance on proper use of cyber systems to employees at each company / department (5) Acting as points of contact for, and responding to, other general matters relating to cyber systems Governance 210 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Measures to Address Information Leakage Risks Implementing Every Measure Possible from Both System and Human Aspects The Company takes every measure possible, from both system and human aspects, in order to maintain the security of customer (including personal) and internal (including confidential) information. For external threats, the Network Management Center serves as the hub, constantly identifying new threats, such as newly reported viruses and targeted e-mails. In addition to promptly implementing appropriate measures, the Center works on prevention by conducting employee training and auditing by e-learning. The Company also holds an Information Security Committee meeting once every two months to evaluate risk countermeasures and reports on information security-related activities at every meeting. Key System-related (Tangible) Measures (1) Establish firewalls to completely separate external networks from internal intranet and control networks (2) Monitor and record data through network management centers (3) Employ the latest security measures for employee computers and update software (4) Enhance email systems through in-house production and prohibit the use of personal devices in business Key Human-related (Intangible) Measures (1) Conduct security audits as needed at business sites in Japan and overseas (2) Adopt entry / exit ID authentication and secondary (photographic, etc.) verification when entering major domestic offices (3) Conduct regular e-learning programs (those who do not attain a pass grade will be unable to access the Internet → Japan only) Measures to Address Natural Disaster-related Risks Duplication and Dispersing of Systems, as well as Earthquake Resistance and Seismic Isolation Measures We have confirmed that earthquake resistance, seismic isolation and other measures have been applied to contracted data centers so that business operations can be continued even in the event that backbone systems are damaged by a major earthquake or other disaster. In addition, by dispersing data centers among multiple locations, we have established a system that will not cause work to be disrupted even if a particular data center becomes unavailable. By taking steps to completely duplicate mission-critical systems, the Company is working to shorten the lead-time needed up to the completion of repairs and recovery of business operations. Protecting Personal Information Sekisui Chemical has formulated its Personal Information Policy, which is available on the Company’s website. Based on this policy, the Company complies with legal regulations and norms regarding personal information while working to appropriately protect personal information through the creation of voluntary rules and systems. Governance 211 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Major Initiatives Strategies Aimed at Countering Cyberattacks Nationwide Training on Information Management In order to effectively counter the kinds of cyberattacks against companies that have become increasingly common in recent years, Sekisui Chemical conducted training sessions on information management in collaboration with the Information Systems Group and the Legal Department. Training consisted of a video presentation on cyberattacks and information on how to prepare for these kinds of attacks in everyday activities. During fiscal year 2017, a total of 10 corporate compliance training sessions were conducted at business sites throughout Japan and were attended by 464 Employees. Governance 212 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Respect for International Norms The Sekisui Chemical Group Respects International Norms and Standards Regarding CSR, Including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO’s International Labor Standards, and the United Nations’ Global Compact. Management Approach Declaration of Support for International Standards and Norms Sekisui Chemical Signed the United Nations Global Compact The Sekisui Chemical Group respects international norms and standards regarding CSR, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ISO 26000, the OECD's Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the ILO's International Labor Standards, and the United Nations' Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (Ruggie Framework). In March 2009, Sekisui Chemical signed the United Nations Global Compact*. In compiling and issuing its CSR Report, Sekisui Chemical conforms to the “Core” options of the internationally recognized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. * United Nations Global Compact: A voluntary program in which top management of firms around the world pledge to comply with 10 principles on subjects such as human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption efforts within the scopes of influence of their firms and participate in building a global framework for realizing sustainable growth. Governance 213 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Social Contribution Activities Proactively Working to Contribute to the Society as a Company in Tune with Local Communities Management Approach Our Philosophy Proactively Supporting Interaction Between Employees and Society The Sekisui Chemical Group, which develops businesses globally, considers one of its important roles as a corporate citizen to be the resolving of issues facing local communities by means of its business activities. In addition to contributing to society through our business activities, we also propose social contribution activities that make use of our corporate characteristics and assets in a variety of local community-related areas and, in aiming to grow in step with those local communities, position those activities primarily in the fields of the environment, the next generation, and the local communities themselves. In the environment field of our social contribution activities, we put into practice the three initiatives—expand and create environment-contributing products; reduce environmental impact; and conserve the natural environment— stipulated in Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 and believe that this will lead to contributions to the sustainable society which is the aim of the SDGs. In the field of the next generation, we conduct career training that makes full use of the characteristics of our businesses and are working so that children acquire the knowledge, techniques and concepts that will lead to them living independently as members of society. In the field of local communities, we are aiming for the sustainable society detailed under the SDGs and, in addition to deepening our understanding of the issues society has faced in recent years, we are developing volunteer activities that will lead to the finding of solutions to those issues. To make these ideals reality, we believe that it is essential for all employees to be actively involved with local communities and have established an accumulating sabbatical system with the goal of encouraging volunteering, paid for some of the costs required when employees themselves have chosen to participate in activities that contribute to society, and have otherwise created mechanisms that allow greater numbers of employees to participate in activities that contribute to society. Employees of the Sekisui Chemical Group engage themselves with local communities, cooperate with one another, and are working to improve the way in which people live to make it sustainable in the future within three areas of activities. We believe that these activities will help to achieve the “creation of a sustainable society” called for in the SDGs. Social Contribution Activities 214 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Major Initiatives Environment Tree-planting activities in the state of Michigan, USA Forest Preservation Activities by our Housing Company Conservation of Local Biodiversity Environmental Education for the Next Generation “Children’s Nature Academies” Next Generation Houses and the environment learning program Chemistry Classroom Project Adhesives Classroom Science and Engineering Classroom Innovation Inspired by Nature Research Support Program Local Communities Contributions to Local Communities by Factories, Including Tours for Social Studies Classes Activities to improve civic order in regions Installation of a water pump in an Indian village struggling to secure safe drinking water Donation of hand-made notebooks to Thai children TABLE FOR TWO BOOK MAGIC Heart+Action Social Contribution Activities 215 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Performance Data Major Activities Contributing to the Environment Conducted or Participated in During Fiscal Year 2017 Business site involved in the activities Program Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Life observation event at the on-premises biotope Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Minamizao beech tree-planting activities Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Tokyo Office Greenery Trust Kurohamanuma-Area Meeting Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. (Children's Nature Observation) Musashi Plant Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kanto Sekisui Children's Nature Academy (Aquatic Insect Office Observation and Water Quality Survey) Ometahama environmental conservation activities Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chubu with the local children’s association (sand-drift Office prevention) Tidal life observation event with the local children's Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. association Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Forest conservation activities at Mt. Shirahata Revitalization of Tohoku-region coastal forests / Activities at Sekisui Heim Tohoku Co., Ltd. Growing Quercus serrata seedlings with children business sites in Japan Conservation of mountain ecosystem around Tama Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co. Ltd. Zoologoical Garden Volunteering for the Mt. Fuji environment Sekisui Heim Tokai Co., Ltd. (eradicating specified invasive species) Conservation of human settlement-adjacent Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. mountain ecosystem in Kaseyama (city of Kizugawa) Conservation of human settlement-adjacent Sekisui Heim Chubu Co., Ltd. mountain ecosystems in the Higashiyama neighborhood of Nagoya Sekisui Heim Chuushikoku Co., Ltd. Forest conservation activities in the city of Akaiwa Forest conservation activities involving Sinomenium Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd. acutum around rice paddies in the city of Ukiha CHIBA SEKISUI INDUSTRY CO., LTD. “Moist Forest” mountain ecosystem-building project SHIKOKU SEKISUI CO., LTD. Eradication of invasive grasses in the Shinmachi River Whaterwheel plant conservation activities in Hozoji Hanyu Sekisui Co., Ltd. pond Social Contribution Activities 216 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Business site involved in the activities Program Conservation activities with an NPO at the Watarase SEKISUI SEIKEI, LTD. Kanto Plant Reservoir SEKISUI SEIKEI, LTD. Hyogo Plant Tojo River cleanup Izumo Children's Nature Academy (flora and fauna SEKISUI SEIKEI, LTD. Izumo Plant observation event) SEKISUI NANO COAT TECHNOLOGY, “Ho-no-Kuni Everyone's Forest” conservation CO., LTD. activities in the Toyo River headwaters TOKUYAMA SEKISUI CO., LTD. “Sekisui Forest” forest management activities Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Yurikago Rice Paddy Project Plant Activities at business sites Gunma Children’s Nature Academy (winter nature Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant in Japan observation event) Minase Children's Nature Academy (wildfowl Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. R&D Institute observation and nest box making) Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Tree-planting in the Kasumigaura headwaters in the Office Mt Tsukuba foothills Joint endeavor by Kansai-area business Kyoto “Sen-no-Mori” woodland conservation sites activities Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Participation in the Tokyo Bay Cleanup Campaign Headquarters Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Osaka Yodo River Niwakubo river pond conservation Headquarters activities Social Contribution Activities 217 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Business site involved in the activities Program SEKISUI CHEMICAL(THAILAND) CO.,LTD SEKISUI SPECIALTY CHEMICALS (THAILAND) CO., LTD. SEKISUI S-LEC (THAILAND) CO., LTD. THAI SEKISUI FOAM CO., LTD. Chonburi mangrove tree-planting S AND L SPECIALTY POLYMERS CO., LTD. activities (Thailand) SEKISUI SYSTEMBATH INDUSTRY(THAILAND) CO． ， LTD． SEKISUI PLANT (THAILAND) CO., LTD. SEKISUI SOUTHEAST ASIA CO., LTD. SEKISUI MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (CHINA) LTD. SEKISUI (DALIAN) HOUSING TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. SEKISUI HIGH PERFORMANCE PACKAGING (LANGFANG) Tree-planting activities in Beijing CO., LTD (China) SEKISUI (SHANGHAI) INTERNATIONAL TRADING CO., LTD. Activities SEKISUI CHEMICAL (CHINA) CO., LTD. at overseas Youngbo HPP Co., Ltd. business SEKISUI POLYMER INNOVATIONS, LLC. Beach-cleaning activities (USA) sites SEKISUI SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MEXICO， S.DER.L.DE C.V. Tree-planting activities (Mexico) SEKISUI SPECIALTY CHEMICALS EUROPE S.L. Tree-planting activities (Spain) SEKISUI DIAGNOSTICS (UK) LIMITED Tree-planting activities (UK) SEKISUI DLJM MOLDING PRIVATE LTD． Tree-planting activities (India) Coast and promenade cleanup SEKISUI PILON PTY.LTD. activities (Australia) Beautification of streets and rivers Youngbo Chemical Co., Ltd. surrounding the office (South Korea) Environmental beautification SEKISUI MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (SUZHOU) LTD. activities in the area surround the Suzhou factory (China) Social Contribution Activities 218 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Major Activities Contributing to Society During Fiscal Year 2017 (“Next-Generation” and “Local Communities”) Details of Donation Activities (Sekisui Chemical Group) (Unit: thousands of yen) Type of Donation Total Amount Donations 150,003 Employee volunteers 216,832 Donations of goods 3,483 Administrative costs 12,538 Breakdown of Cash Donations Social Contribution Activities 219 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environment Developing Personnel Who Engage in Environmental Activities as a Part of Efforts to Conserve the Natural Environment in Various Regions Around the World Management Approach Basic Concept Promoting Conservation of the Natural Environment The Sekisui Chemical Group promotes environmental conservation to achieve the “world in which biodiversity is conserved” called for in “Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030.” Based on this policy, employees are now engaged in activities for conserving the natural environment around the world. These activities for conserving the natural environment by employees are considered by the group to be an effective means of achieving the vision, bolstering the organizations required to conduct the activities, and fostering human resources adept at engaging in environment-related activities. Since fiscal year 2013, the group has held “SEKISUI Environment Weeks,” which are meant to be attended by all employees at all business sites, has helped to raise the activities spearheaded by business sites to whole new levels, where they are conducted in partnership with local communities, and has otherwise expanded the range of activities engaged in. Social Contribution Activities 220 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Major Initiatives Initiatives of the Sekisui Chemical Group Tree Planting Activities in Michigan, U.S.A. In Coldwater, Michigan, the site of the factory for Sekisui Voltek, LLC (Voltek), regional development has increased the numbers of factories, offices, housing units, and other man-made structures, which has resulted in a problem of shrinking green spaces within the community. To improve this situation, the city’s body for the provision of public services, the Coldwater Board of Public Utilities (CBPU) has decided to create new green spaces near industrial parks with the goal of beautifying the local community. Voltek is on board with this initiative, and in fiscal year 2017, 25 employees, along with staff from the CBPU, planted a total of 13 trees: six dogwoods, six crabapples, and one pine tree. Voltek will continue to contribute to the local community through environmental activities. Tree-Planting Activities by Voltek Company Employees Social Contribution Activities 221 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Forest Preservation Activities by our Local Housing Companies Woodland Conservation Activities at Kaseyama, Kizugawa The Sekisui Heim Group is engaged in regional woodland conservation activities in seven areas across Japan, from Hokkaido to Kyushu. In the Kinki region, the Sekisui Heim Kinki Group has been working in collaboration with Kizugawa City and local civic organizations in bamboo grove conservation activities since 2014 as part of its effort to preserve woodlands in the city-owned Kaseyama area of Kizugawa City. The group participated in two conservation and maintenance activities in fiscal 2017, one in spring and one in autumn. The May 11 project in spring involved 43 new employees and focused on thinning the bamboo grove. Participants also took on the challenge of creating a bench using the bamboo. After the project was completed, participants talked about the state of the woodlands and its function. The experience presented a good opportunity to think about the importance of familiar natural environments. Participants were reminded by the activity that their daily lives and company activities were supported by the natural environment around them and noted that they would like to be involved in other activities in the future as members of the community. Social Contribution Activities 222 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Sekisui Heim Company Activities Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Group Sekisui Heim Tohoku Group Mt. Shirahata conservation activities Restoration of coastal forests in Miyagi (Sapporo City) Prefecture (Town of Yamamoto) Tokyo Sekisui Heim Group Sekisui Heim Chubu Group Conservation of human settlement-adjacent Conservation of human settlement-adjacent mountain ecosystems in the Tama Region mountain ecosystems in the Higashiyama (Hino City) neighborhood (Nagoya City) Sekisui Heim Chushikoku Group Sekisui Heim Kyushu Group Woodland conservation activities in Conservation of rice paddy-adjacent city-owned forests (Akaiwa City) mountain ecosystems (Ukiha City) Social Contribution Activities 223 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Conservation of Local Biodiversity Activities to Eliminate Lanceleaf Tickseed from the Base of Mt. Fuji In partnership with the NPO, FUJISAN CLUB, Sekisui Heim Tokai Co., Ltd. carries out activities to eliminate the lanceleaf tickseed plant that grows extensively along the national highways at the base of Mt. Fuji. This activity began in June 2013, when Mt. Fuji was registered as a UNESCO World Heritage site. In fiscal 2017, Sekisui Heim Tokai employees and their family members participated in the lanceleaf tickseed elimination activity that was conducted on June 7. Prior to the start of the activity, they received an explanation about the alien plant from a FUJISAN CLUB manager and learned that these elimination activities help preserve biodiversity around Mt. Fuji. During the course of the day’s activity, they were able to remove enough lanceleaf tickseed to fill 14 garbage bags. In the years ahead, while receiving guidance from FUJISAN CLUB, we would like to continue to contribute to the local community, even in such a small way, through environmental conservation activities as a company that is embedded in the area. Social Contribution Activities 224 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environmental Education for the Next Generation “Children’s Nature Academies” Conservation Activities on the Omotehama Coast / Prevention of Sand Drift Since 2003, the Sekisui Heim Industry’s Chubu office in the city of Toyohashi has worked with a group of local children to increase their understanding of the flora and fauna they are most likely to encounter and the natural environment and has been holding “Children’s Nature Academies” to ensure that the importance of these subjects is passed down to the next generation of children. In November of fiscal 2017, under the instruction of an NPO, we built and installed sand fences (fences that prevent sand from blowing away from sandy beaches) using bamboo on Omotehama Beach, located on the Pacific Ocean side of Atsumi Peninsula. Omotehama Beach is known as a site where loggerhead turtles, an endangered species, come ashore to lay their eggs. We learned from the NPO, however, that recently these sandy beaches have been receding and the number of loggerhead turtles that come ashore has decreased. In order to help preserve coastal ecosystems, including those of loggerhead turtles, we will continue to learn along with children and hope to protect local environments through our conservation activities. A member of the NPO speaks on loggerhead turtles Making sand fences on the Finished! beach Social Contribution Activities 225 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Next Generation Fostering the Next Generation Through Programs Based on the Characteristics of Our Businesses. Management Approach Basic Concept Helping to Build Local Communities in Which Children Can Develop and Healthily Grow into Adulthood. Targeting communities where the children who will form the next generation can develop and healthily grow into adulthood, we provide educational programs for elementary, middle and high school students that leverage our business activities. Including field trip lessons, for example Science classes, given by Company employees as well as support and assistance for research based on innovations inspired by nature, the Company conducts a wide range of activities. Social Contribution Activities 226 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Major Initiatives Initiatives of the Housing Company Houses and the Environment Learning Program At the Housing Company, we have run a “houses and environment” learning program since fiscal year 2007 in which employees make use of their knowledge to teach about homes and the environment at schools. This is a new type of class where Sekisui Chemical Group employees work alongside teachers. The classes are carefully designed to let the students experience the building of environmentally friendly homes using models while thinking about the layouts and other aspects of the homes through group discussions; and the students learn about the role that homes play in our lives and about the impact that our lives have on the environment. In fiscal year 2017, classes were offered at 17 junior high schools and high schools in the Kanto, Kansai, Chubu, and Kyushu areas. One of the students who took the class said, “When I build a house of my own in the future, I want it to be a house that prioritizes the environment and safety first, even over design or ease of use.” Another student said, “I was interested in construction work, and now I am even more interested after taking this class.” These were just two of the remarks we heard from those who took the classes. A teachers said, “The students were very interested in this assignment because they could use kits to build model homes, following on from a previous class that also used visual materials. I believe this is precisely the active learning that is being promoted by the Ministry of Education.” A total of 1,840 students participated in the classes in fiscal year 2017. Children assembling model housing kits Social Contribution Activities 227 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index High Performance Plastics Company Initiatives Chemistry Classroom Project Since fiscal year 2008, the High Performance Plastics Company has been holding “Children's Experiment Classrooms” for elementary school students and “Drop-In Chemistry Classes” for middle-school students. Volunteer staff members from the Minase office develop the lesson programs with teachers from schools and strive to provide “easy-to-understand lessons linked to teachers’ lesson plans” that are interesting without being unconnected to the schools’ curricula. During fiscal year 2017, a total of 2,532 elementary and middle school students got to experience the fun and utility of chemistry. In response to a request from Higashikurume Tyuou Junior High School, the Company launched a new initiative, providing an experimental class for the school’s extracurricular science club. Students with a strong interest in science thus got to enjoy participating in chemistry experiments using real laboratory instruments. The company plans to continue these activities to allow even more children to become interested in, and fascinated by, the field of chemistry. In-class explanations by employees of the Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. High Performance Plastics Company Social Contribution Activities 228 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index High Performance Plastics Company Initiatives Holding of Adhesives Classroom As an initiative aimed at supporting next-generation education leveraging its business, Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd., in cooperation with City Hall in Hamamatsu—where its Hamamatsu plant is located—and the city's “Collaboration Centers,” started holding “adhesives classrooms” for elementary school students in fiscal year 2017. With the aim of getting children interested in science and technology and building things through learning the principles of adhesives, the classes were themed around getting the children to think, “Wow! I didn’t know adhesives were used for that!” The way adhesives work was explained using vocabulary easy for the children to understand, breaking the explanation of adhesives down into the three stages of flowing, seeping into the things to which they are applied, and hardening and using onomatopoeia to represent each stage. The children were also impressed by experiments in which they learned the principles of adhesives using familiar objects, such as candies, gel nail decorations, and candles. During fiscal year 2017, a total of 4 classes were held, attended by 79 elementary school students and their guardians. The company plans to enhance the lesson content even more to bring smiles to the faces of the children who participate. Employees from Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. providing explanations to children Social Contribution Activities 229 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index High Performance Plastics Company Initiatives Science and Engineering Classroom Since fiscal year 2013, Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. has held “Science Classrooms” with the theme of “how digestion and nutrient absorption work and health” for eighth-grade middle school students in the city of Ryugasaki, Ibaraki Prefecture, where the Company's reagent plant and research facility are located. During the five-year period through 2017, a total of 1,376 students attended these Science Classrooms. The company started developing a program titled “The Blueprints of Life: Exploring the Secrets of DNA” aimed at ninth-grade middle school students. In fiscal year 2016 a test class was conducted with 232 students from the same middle school as the previous educational initiative, with the full launch of the completed program, this time attended by 229 students, happening again at the same school in fiscal year 2017. In the “digestion and nutrient absorption” program, students gain an understanding of, for example, how starches are broken down into glucose by digestive enzymes and that glucose is then absorbed through the small intestine using models and experiments. In the “exploring the secrets of DNA” program, the students extract actual DNA from broccoli—the extracted nucleic acids visible to the naked eye—and learn about the importance of research into DNA and genetics and how it relates to society at large. The reagents that Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. researches, develops, and manufactures are bound to society through their use in medicine. The junior high school students thus saw how such societal contributions are direct extensions of the science classes they take at school. The company plans to continue these activities. Students performing experiments while being advised by employees from Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Social Contribution Activities 230 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Innovations Inspired by Nature Research Support Program Fostering the Next Generation Through Programs Based on the Characteristics of Our Businesses. To aid the utilization of scientific knowledge learned from nature and the workings of nature in invention, the Sekisui Chemical Group has been running the “Sekisui Chemical Innovations Inspired by Nature Research Support Program” since fiscal year 2002 as a program in commemoration of the 55th year since Sekisui Chemical's founding. In fiscal year 2017, there were 294 applications, with assistance granted for seven “manufacturing” themes and seven “fundamental research” themes, for a total of 14 grants. Examples of innovations inspired by nature research Research findings relating to themes granted support as part of the “Learning-from-Nature Invention Research Support Program” were published in preliminary form in the online edition of the British science journal Nature Communications. (Affiliations and positions are those at the time of receiving awards) FY2014 Support Themes Masayuki Endo (Associate Professor, Kyoto University) “Creation of an artificial signal transduction system inspired by the cellular receptors” Kyoto University press release Article posted to Nature Communications website (released August 27, 2015) FY2013 Support Themes Shu Seki (Professor, Osaka University) “Protein Nanowires with Ultra-High Aspect Ratio Produced by Single Particle Induced Chemical Reactions” Osaka University press release Example of Innovations Inspired by Nature Research “Fabrication of enzyme-degradable and size-controlled protein nanowires using single particle nano-fabrication technique” Article posted on Nature Communications (released April 28, 2014) Social Contribution Activities 231 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index FY2017 Support Themes Manufacturing Theme Affiliated institution Position (Affiliations, positions, and so Name Grant-Receiving Research Theme forth are those at the time of receiving the grant award) Akihiro Professor, Graduate School of Development of self-healing corrosion protective coatings Yabuki Engineering, Hiroshima University inspired by underground storage organs of crops Professor, Institute for Materials Mitsuru Vine Weed Control Based on Gravitropism Inhibition Chemistry and Engineering, Kyushu Shindo Inspired by Plants University Associate Professor, School Development of direct bonding technology for aluminum Atsushi of Fundamental Science and alloys with 3D nanostructure surface and carbon fiber Hosoi Engineering, Faculty of Science and reinforced thermoplastic composites Engineering, Waseda University Assistant Professor, Shino Human-centered Public Space Design Inspired by Graduate School of Urban Innovation, Miura Biodiversity and Symbiosis Yokohama National University Professor, Development of High-valued Polymer Materials by Shigeru Institute for Chemical Research, Multidisciplinary Control of Radical Polymerization Yamago Kyoto University Inspired by the Function of Enzymes Associate Professor, Graduate School Kensuke Development of polymeric micelle gene vector inspired of Engineering, The University of Osada by viral structure and function Tokyo Hemma Senior Lecturer, Graduate School of Ultra-low power, jellyfish-inspired robot mechanisms for Philamore Engineering, Kyoto University energy self-sufficiency Social Contribution Activities 232 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Fundamental Research Theme Affiliated institution Position (Affiliations, positions, and so Name Grant-Receiving Research Theme forth are those at the time of receiving the grant award) Self-sealing methodology development of flow-path Hidekazu Document-Analyzing Professor, fractures by learning from naturally formed spherical Yoshida Nagoya University Museum carbonate concretions Specially-appointed Assistant Hirotaka Professor, Wood-based Catalytic Reactor for CO2 Conversion Koga The Institute of Scientific and Industrial Research, Osaka University Professor, Graduate School of Robustness of traveling excitable wave segments Keiji Konishi Engineering, College of Engineering, stabilized by feedback control Osaka Prefecture University Daisuke Professor, School of Engineering, Navigation of Robot Swarm in 3D Space by using Locally Kurabayashi Tokyo Institute of Technology Connected Phase Oscillators Associate Professor, Bio-inspired materials design: DNA-programmable Tagawa Institute of Materials and Systems for nanoparticle assembly for the rational design of Miho Sustainability, high-quality colloidal crystals Nagoya University Unit Leader, Laboratory for Integrated Yo Tanaka Biodevice, Quantitative Biology Novel power generation system inspired from electric fish Center, RIKEN Yuichi Professor, INAMORI Frontier Research Molecular basis of reprogramming in mammalian cells Tsukada Center, Kyushu University The recipients of the Fiscal Year 2017 Innovation Inspired by Nature Research Support Program Social Contribution Activities 233 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Holding of the Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum To be a group that, even 100 years from now, continues to consist of prominent, sustainable companies, the Sekisui Chemical Group aims to contribute to the bedrock of its company management, natural capital, by returning what it has taken from nature through “creating and expanding a range of Environment-contributing Products,” “reducing the group’s environmental impact,” and “conserving the natural environment.” The Innovation Inspired by Nature Forum is held to report the results of the Innovation Inspired by Nature Research Support Program, which gives grants to research that utilizes foundational science knowledge learned from nature and the functioning of nature in innovation, as well as to promote research exchanges among the involved researchers, the graduate students who will be the researchers of tomorrow, and others. At the fiscal year 2017 Innovation Inspired by Nature Forum, there were lectures based on examples of innovation inspired by nature and presentation sessions for posters created by fiscal year 2016 research grant recipients and others. Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum 2017 Lectures On the appeal of “ Innovations The development of The development of 500-Series Inspired by Nature” environmentally friendly housing bullet trains that contribute to the materials inspired by nature environment and are inspired by nature Professor Emeritus, Tokyo Institute Director of the Office of Analysis Former Director of the Technical of Technology and Evaluation, LIXIL Corporation Development Office, West Japan Junji Watanabe Norifumi Isu Railway Company Eiji Nakatsu Social Contribution Activities 234 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Poster Presentation Sessions and Research Exchanges A valuable opportunity to come into contact with the forefront of “innovations inspired by nature” ・Presentations on grant-receiving research themes (fiscal year 2016 grant-receiving themes, etc.) ・Presentations on Sekisui Chemical's products and R&D that contribute to the environment Social Contribution Activities 235 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Local Communities As a Company, We Aim to Engage with the Local Communities Which We Are a Part of. Management Approach Basic Concept Contributing to the Creation of a Sustainable Society as a Corporate Citizen As a member of the local communities in which it operates, the Sekisui Chemical Group proactively deploys social contribution activities and thereby hopes to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. The Group engages in social contribution activities to help solve issues faced by local communities, such as creating safe and secure cities in collaboration with local communities and support programs that assist developing countries. Major Initiatives Housing Company Initiatives Contributions to Local Communities by Factories, Including Tours for Social Studies Classes Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd., located in Saga Prefecture, aims to help bring joy to its customers and regularly conducts activities rooted in the local community to that end. In recent years, the numbers of people choosing to find employment within Saga Prefecture have been low, and companies in the prefecture face an ever-worsening situation in terms of labor shortages and difficulties securing talent. This has become an issue to resolve if the region is to be revitalized. In response to these issues in the region, the Company has partnered with government and has been accepting students, primarily in elementary and middle school, for programs in which they tour factories as part of a series social studies field trips with the aim of conveying to the local community what manufacturing companies there are locally and the joys of manufacturing. The company had conducted factory tours previously, with around 200 factory visitors in fiscal year 2015. With the subsequent considerable expansion of the number of visitors allowed to tour the factory, this number rose to around 1,750 in fiscal year 2017. The company will continue to increase its collaboration with the local community so as to make its contribution to it. Learning about “creating things” through factory tours Social Contribution Activities 236 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Initiatives of the Housing Company Activities to Improve Civic Order in Regions The Housing Company believes that it is essential that it contribute to resolving societal problems, such as by offering housing that is robustly built to survive natural disasters and decked out in ways that help prevent crime, and working on urban-development initiatives that allow residents to leave in peace, as well as on initiatives to deter crime. The Housing Company is thus engaged in activities that contribute to society in cooperation with prefectural police forces throughout Japan. The main action pursued is to create agreements for support and cooperation between Sekisui Heim sales companies throughout the country and local police forces. The Housing Company also participates in various events, distributes goods themed around crime prevention and traffic safety, and donates to groups that offer assistance to victimes of crimes. Specifically, the Company distributes educational flyers intended, for example, to prevent people from falling prey to money-wiring fraud, leverages its display home units as police-sanctioned temporary shelters for children who encounter danger, donates “emergency whistles” (Emergency Calls) to police stations to distribute to mountain climbers, engages in activities about the town to raise awareness about traffic safety, and is involved in various other initiatives, all tailored to the unique circumstances in each local community. The company has created a pamphlet describing these activities and makes use of it as a communication tool both within the Company and for the general public. Sekisui Heim Chushikoku Co., Ltd., Hiroshima Office Sekisui Heim Shin-Etsu Co., Ltd. and Sekisui Fami Fans to raise awareness of bank transfer fraud S Shinetsu Co., Ltd. Raising awareness of traffic safety on roads Social Contribution Activities 237 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Company Name-Emblazoned Emergency Whistles Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd donates 200 from Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. emergency whistles emblazoned with the company name Pamphlet describing the Housing Company’s CSR activities (Issued in April 2018) Social Contribution Activities 238 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Initiatives of the Sekisui Chemical Group Installing Water Pumps at Indian Villages with Safe Drinking Water Issues Our Indian business unit, SEKISUI DLJM MOLDING PRIVATE LTD (DLJM), contributes to society primarily in three areas: health, education, and daily life. In fiscal year 2017, DLJM installed water pumps in two villages located close to its business sites. Access to safe drinking water is difficult in these villages. This initiative initially involved conducting multiple surveys of nearby villages and then determining where water pumps needed to be installed to help as many people as possible with drinking water issues by applying a SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, threats) analysis. In addition, DLJM’s COO took the initiative in speaking with numerous social workers to determine which villages needed water pumps, resulting in the decision to install a total of four water pumps at the villages of Fazailpur and Chandrawal. Each pump is capable of supplying around 500 people with drinking water. Prior to installation, DLJM made an effort to communicate with every resident of both villages about optimal locations to install these pumps. DLJM did its utmost to reflect the feedback of villagers who actually use water pumps, by emphasizing the opinions of women who use them most frequently to carry out household chores and having villagers determine for themselves the final pump locations. Since installation, DLJM has continued to engage with villagers while maintaining the pumps. Maintaining safe drinking water by installing Human resources and discussions for determining water pumps where to install the water pump Social Contribution Activities 239 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Initiatives of the Sekisui Chemical Group Donating Handmade Notepads to Children in Thailand In rural agricultural villages in Thailand, many children are too poor to afford stationery, making it difficult for them to pursue their studies. To provide assistance to these children, SEKISUI CHEMICAL (THAILAND) CO., LTD. (SCT) took part in the “Paper Ranger” initiative promoted by the NPO Foundation for Thailand Rural Reconstruction Movement under Royal Patronage (TRRM) in fiscal year 2017. SCT employees made notebooks from recyclable used copy paper that were then delivered to these children. Each employee took part in making 70 notebooks (24 pages each) from recyclable used copy paper collected at SCT’s business sites that were bound together with an illustrated cover page. These homemade notebooks were donated to children belonging to ethnic minorities with little access to education and families affected by natural disasters. Looking ahead, SCT will continue to engage in activities that contribute to local communities. Notebooks complete with illustrated cover pages SCT employees making notebooks by hand Initiatives of the Sekisui Chemical Group TABLE FOR TWO As a social contribution activity that allows easy participation by individual employees, the Sekisui Chemical Group has continued to implement the TABLE FOR TWO* (TFT) initiative since FY2008, a program in which 20 yen is added to the cost of a meal in employee cafeterias, with this amount donated to support the provision of lunches to children in developing countries. Furthermore, TFT was expanded, from April 2013 to December 2014, to “TABLE FOR TWO+Tohoku,” in order to support the provision of food to roughly the equivalent of 650,000 yen to victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake in the Tohoku region. In fiscal 2017, 12 locations participated in the program, including the Sekisui Chemical headquarters in Tokyo and Osaka, the Gunma Plant, the Musashi Plant, the Tsukuba Office, the Shiga-Minakuchi Plant, the Kyoto Research and Development Laboratories, the Research and Development Institute, Kinki Sekisui Heim, Co., Ltd., Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry, Co., Ltd., Sekisui Board, Co., Ltd., and the Ota Plant of Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. In fiscal 2017, approximately 560,000 yen was donated for food assistance to countries in Asia and Africa, bringing the total amount donated since the program began to more than roughly 4.1 million yen. * TABLE FOR TWO A social contribution activity implemented through everyday meals by the specified nonprofit corporation, TABLE FOR TWO International. The program not only feeds hungry children in developing countries by providing them with school lunches, but it also contributes to boosting attendance at schools, and improving academic performance and physical fitness. TABLE FOR TWO+Tohoku was enacted from 2013 to 2014 to provide food support to not only children in developing countries, but also to those impacted by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Meal support activities for Asia and Africa were launched in January 2015 Social Contribution Activities 240 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Letter of Appreciation Received from the Specified Nonprofit Corporation TABLE FOR TWO International Recognizing Sekisui Chemical Group as a “Gold Supporter” Once again in the 2017 fiscal year, Sekisui Chemical Group received a letter of appreciation from the specified nonprofit corporation TABLE FOR TWO International recognizing us as a “Gold Supporter” for our TFT activities. We will continue carrying out these activities in the future, supporting a stable food supply for children in developing countries. Letter of appreciation from TABLE FOR TWO International Initiatives of the Sekisui Chemical Group Installation of TABLE FOR TWO Vending Machines In order to enable as many employees as possible to participate in the TABLE FOR TWO (TFT) initiative, the Sekisui Chemical Group installed the first vending machine linked to the TFT program at its Osaka Headquarters in July 2013. For each TFT-linked product purchased through this vending machine, 10 yen is donated to help fund meals and catering to schools in developing countries. Donations collected totaled around 60,000 yen in fiscal 2017. Social Contribution Activities 241 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Initiatives of the Sekisui Chemical Group BOOK MAGIC As a social contribution activity that allows easy participation by individual employees, the Sekisui Chemical Group has been implementing BOOK MAGIC* since September 2009. Through this program, money made from selling unneeded books and CDs is used to help fund education support programs through JEN, an NPO, in various countries throughout the world. Poster to raise awareness about BOOK MAGIC (created by JEN) * BOOK MAGIC A recycle and donate program hosted jointly by the specified nonprofit corporation, JEN, and BOOKOFF CORPORATION, LTD. Books, DVDs and CDs that people have finished reading, watching or listening to are sold instead of being thrown away, and the money is donated to JEN to help provide educational support (school support program) in regions scarred by natural disasters or wars. Social Contribution Activities 242 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Initiatives of the Sekisui Chemical Group Heart＋Action As social contribution activities that allow easy participation by individual employees, the Sekisui Chemical Group has been implementing programs such as TABLE FOR TWO and BOOK MAGIC. In fiscal 2012, we further expanded these programs by promoting a new initiative known as Heart+Action. This program is based on activities involving international cooperation to help children and infants living in developing countries and those who are suffering from pediatric cancer. People only need about an hour to take part in the one of the many programs. Feedback received from participants included comments such as “It was easy to take part in” and “I’m glad to have been able to contribute to society through such a simple activity.” Overview of Each Program Send a Picture Book An activity involving international cooperation in which stickers are stuck on Japanese picture books with translations of the text in languages of countries or regions where almost no children’s books are published. They are then delivered to children through Education Sponsorship in Asia, a specified non-profit corporation. Stickers being affixed to Japanese picture books Sort the Coins An activity in which coins of foreign currencies collected in donation boxes set up at international airports are sorted into the main countries of origin and used to help improve living standards in developing countries and in restoration efforts after the Great East Japan Earthquake through the authorized NPO, Japan Habitat Association. Coins of various countries being sorted Social Contribution Activities 243 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Send the Sounds Through the NPO The Lifestyle Research Institute of Forests, we give African calimba musical instruments that are made out of thinned out trees from forests in Japan to young children suffering from pediatric cancer. Making a calimba with the SEKISUI logo carved into it Send a Textbook Participating in international cooperative activities by creating handmade teaching materials in the Bengali numbers and having them delivered to the children of Bangladesh through the NPO ESA (Education Sponsorship in Asia). A homemade textbook displaying Bengali numerical characters Social Contribution Activities 244 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Special Topic Implemented Environment Education Initiatives for the Children of Group Employees Major Initiatives in Fiscal 2017 Initiatives of the Sekisui Chemical Group Global Children’s ECO Summit 2017 Held The Global Children’s ECO Summit 2017 was convened as an event to help educate children who will lead the next generation about the environment, in conjunction with Sekisui Chemical’s 70th anniversary over a seven-day period from July 31, 2017. A total of 47 children from the families of Sekisui Chemical’s Group employees in 13 countries around the world were invited to participate in environmental exchanges and presentations. Social Contribution Activities 245 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Principal Theme: “What Children Can Do Themselves for the Future” In kicking off the Summit, participants gained an insight into the global scale issues that continue to prevail today, with a focus on the natural environment, which provides the foundation for the Group’s aspirations toward sustainability management. To provide participants with the opportunity to experience Japan’s natural environment first-hand, tours to observe tidal flats and investigate creatures in their natural habitats were then organized. These initiatives helped showcase the importance of conserving the natural environment. During the Summit, participants were also able to visit Group company plants, view certain unique environmental contribution activities and take home hints on how to conserve the natural environment at the Group’s global business sites. Based on these experiences and the initiatives being undertaken in the countries and regions in which the children reside, discussions were held on what needs to be done to conserve the natural environment for future generations and more specifically on what each individual can do to help secure a bright and sustainable future. Finally, the children who participated in the event presented a declaration concerning the actions they would take in relation to the environment and offered environmental suggestions to the adults, including their parents. President Koge responded to the declaration and the suggestions with his own declaration: “We will go on to provide environmental education for the next generation around the globe.” Observing living Plant tour A group discussion on Declaration toward Commitment by creatures at the Yatsu what each individual the environment President Koge tidal flats can do to help and environmental secure a bright and proposals put sustainable future forward by children participating in the Summit Click here for more details http://www.sekisui.co.jp/news/2017/1307972_29186.html Social Contribution Activities 246 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index GRI Standard Context Index The CSR Report 2018 of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. was written following the Core options of the GRI Standards. General Standard Disclosures 1. Organizational Profile Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting 102-1 Name of organization Outline of SEKISUI During the period Activities, brands, products, and services covered by the a. A description of the organization's activities. report, there were no Our Company 102-2 b. Primary brands, products, and services, products or services Products including an explanation of any products or whose sales were services that are banned in certain markets. banned in specific markets. 102-3 Location of headquarters Outline of SEKISUI Location of operations a. Number of countries where the organization Global Rollout 102-4 operates, and the names of countries where SEKISUI Worldwide it has significant operations and that are relevant to the topics covered in the report. Financial Information 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporate Governance Report Markets served i. Geographical locations where products and Outline of SEKISUI 102-6 services are offered. Business Introduction ii. Types of industries served. iii. Types of customers and beneficiaries. GRI Standard Context Index 247 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Scale of the organization i. Total number of employees. Outline of SEKISUI ii. Total number of operations. Our Company iii. Net sales (for private sector organizations), Securities Report 102-7 net revenues (for public sector organizations). (Japanese) iv. Total capitalization broken down in terms Fact Book of debt and equity (for private sector Employee-related data organizations). v. Quantity of products or services provided. Information on employees and other workers a. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender. b. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region. The people who c. Total number of employees by employment perform a substantial type (full-time and part-time), by gender. proportion of Sekisui's d. Whether a substantial portion of the activities are counted organization's activities are performed as employees. There 102-8 Employee-related data by workers who are not employees. If were no major applicable, a description of the nature and fluctuations in the scale of work performed by workers who are data during the not employees. reporting period e. Any significant variations in the numbers regarding employees. reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries). f. Explanations of the methods used to compile data (if any assumptions are made, including those). Supply chain a. A description of the organization's supply 102-9 chains. Including its major components of the Our Company supply chains for the organization's activities, major brands, products, and services. GRI Standard Context Index 248 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Significant changes to organizations and supply chain i. Changes in the location of the organization or its operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions). Not applicable for 102-10 ii. Changes in the share capital structure and other the fiscal year under capital formation, maintenance, and alteration review operations (for private sector organizations). iii. Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. Our Approach to CSR CSR Medium-term Plan Promotion System 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Chemical Substance Management Governance / Internal Control External initiatives a. A list of externally-developed economic, Respect for 102-12 environmental and social charters, principles, International Norms or other initiatives to which the organization Corporate Governance subscribes or which it endorses. Memberships of associations List of the major memberships of industry or 102-13 Major Organizations other associations, and advocacy organizations in Japan and overseas. 2. Strategy Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Statement from senior decision-maker a. A statement from the highest-ranking decision-maker of the organization (CEO, 102-14 chairman, or an equivalent top-level Top Message executive) concerning the relationship of the organization to sustainability and concerning strategies for working toward sustainability. GRI Standard Context Index 249 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Top Message Our Approach to CSR Key CSR Issues CSR Medium-term Plan SDGs Initiatives Climate Change and Our Business 102-15 Crucial impacts, risks, and opportunities Business Risks Identifying Risks Measures to Address Information Leakage Risks Measures to Address Natural Disaster-related Risks 3. Ethics and Integrity Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Group Principle Top Message Our Approach to CSR Organization's values, principles, standards, and 102-16 CSR Management norms of conduct Policies CSR Medium-term Plan Systems for advice and concerns regarding ethics i. Systems that call for advice concerning ethical Compliance and behavior, legal behavior, and the integrity of 102-17 Respect for Human the organization. Rights ii. Systems for reporting unethical behavior or illegal behavior and concerns about the integrity of the organization. GRI Standard Context Index 250 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index 4. Governance Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Governance structure a. Governance structure of the organization, Corporate Governance including committees of the highest Governance / Internal 102-18 governance body. Control b. Committees responsible for decision-making CSR Management on economic, environmental and social Promotion System topics. Delegating authority Governance / Internal a. Process for delegating authority for Control 102-19 economic, environmental and social topics CSR Management from the highest governance body to senior Promotion System executives and other employees. Executive-level position responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics a. Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with CSR Management 102-20 responsibility for economic, environmental Promotion System and social topics. b. Whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Consultations with stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics a. Processes for consultations between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social 102-21 ― topics. b. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom it is delegated and how the resulting feedback is provided to the highest governance body. GRI Standard Context Index 251 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Composition of the highest governance body and its committees i. Executive or non-executive ii. Independence iii. Terms of members of governance bodies Governance / Internal iv. Number of each individual's other significant Control positions and commitments, and the nature 102-22 Corporate Governance of the commitments Corporate Governance v. Gender Report vi. Membership of under-represented social groups vii. Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts viii. Stakeholder representation Chairs of highest governance bodies a. Whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer in the Governance / Internal organization. Control 102-23 b. If the chair also serves as an executive officer, Corporate Governance describe his or her function within the Report organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement. Nominating and selecting members of the highest governance body a. Nomination and selection processes of the members of the highest governance body and its committees. b. Standards used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including Governance / Internal whether and how: Control 102-24 i. Whether and how stakeholders (including Corporate Governance shareholders) are involved Report ii. Whether and how diversity is considered iii. Whether and how independence is considered iv. Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental, and social topics are considered GRI Standard Context Index 252 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Conflicts of interest a. Processes conducted by the highest governance body to avoid and handle conflicts of interest. Governance / Internal b. Whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to Control 102-25 stakeholders, including, as a minimum: Corporate Governance i. Cross-board membership Report ii. Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders iii. Existence of controlling shareholder iv. Related party disclosures Highest governance body's role in establishing goals, values, and strategy a. Highest governance body's and senior executives’ roles in developing, approving, Governance / Internal 102-26 and updating the organization’s purpose, Control value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social topics. Collective knowledge of highest governance body a. Measures taken to develop and enhance 102-27 ― the highest governance body's collective knowledge of economic, environmental, and social topics. Evaluation of the performance of highest governance body a. Processes for evaluating the performance of the highest governance body in relation to governance of economic, environmental and social topics b. Whether such evaluation is independent or 102-28 not, and its frequency. ― c. Whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. d. Measures taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body's performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. GRI Standard Context Index 253 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Identifying and managing impacts on economy, environment, and society a. Highest governance body's role in identifying and managing economic, environmental and social topics, as well as their impacts, risks, and opportunities – including its role in the 102-29 ― implementation of due diligence processes. b. Whether consultations with stakeholders are used to support the identification and management of economic, environmental and social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities. Effectiveness of risk management processes a. Highest governance body's role in reviewing 102-30 the effectiveness of the organization's Corporate Governance risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. Review of economic, environmental and social topics a. Frequency of the highest governance body's Corporate Governance 102-31 review of economic, environmental and Report social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities. Highest governance body's role in sustainability reporting a. The highest-ranking committee or position CSR Management 102-32 that fulfills the functions of conducting formal Promotion System reviews and approves the organization's sustainability reports and confirming that all material topics have been covered. Communicating critical concerns CSR Management a. Processes established for communicating 102-33 Promotion System critical concerns to the highest governance Stakeholder Engagement body. Nature and total number of communicated critical concerns a. Total number and nature of critical concerns 102-34 that were communicated to the highest ― governance body. b. Mechanisms used to handle and resolve critical concerns. GRI Standard Context Index 254 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Remuneration policies a. Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: i. Fixed pay and variable pay, including performance-based remuneration, equity-based remuneration, bonuses, and deferred or vested shares) ii. Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments Corporate Governance iii. Termination payments 102-35 Corporate Governance iv. Clawbacks Report v. Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees b. How performance standards in the remuneration policies relate to the highest governance body's and corporate officers' objectives for economic, environmental and social topics. Process for determining remuneration a. Process for determining remuneration. b. Whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration Corporate Governance 102-36 and whether they are independent of Report management. c. Other relationships that exist between remuneration consultants and the organization. Corporate Governance Stakeholder' involvement in remuneration Corporate Governance a. How stakeholders' views are sought and Report 102-37 taken into account regarding remuneration. Securities Report b. If applicable, the results of votes on (Japanese) remuneration policies and proposals. Notice of Convocation GRI Standard Context Index 255 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Annual total compensation ratio a. Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual 102-38 in each country of significant operations to ― the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio a. Ratio of the percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country 102-39 ― of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. 5. Stakeholder Engagement Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 102-40 Stakeholder Engagement organization Collective bargaining agreements Basis for Fostering 102-41 a. Percentage of total employees covered by Personnel collective bargaining agreements. Standards for identifying and selecting the 102-42 stakeholders with which the organization Stakeholder Engagement engages Approach toward stakeholder engagement a. The organization's approach toward stakeholder engagement, include frequency 102-43 of engagement by type and by stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement group. Additionally, indicate whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Critical topics and concerns raised i. How the organization has responded to those critical topics and concerns, including those 102-44 Stakeholder Engagement responded through reporting). ii. Stakeholder groups that raised critical topics and concerns. GRI Standard Context Index 256 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index 6. Reporting Practices Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Entities included in the consolidated financial Environmental statements Management System a. A list of all entities included in the Scope of the CSR organization's consolidated financial Report 2018 102-45 statements or equivalent documents. Securities Report b. Whether any entities included in the (Japanese) organization's consolidated financial Basic Corporate statements or equivalent documents is not Information covered by the report. Defining report content and topic Boundaries Editorial Policy a. Explanations of the processes for establishing Scope of the CSR the report content and topic Boundaries. Report 2018 102-46 b. Explanations of how the organization has Key CSR Issues implemented the reporting principles for GRI Standard Context defining report content. Index List of material topics identified in the process CSR Medium-term 102-47 for defining the report content Plan Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements Not applicable for Restatements may result from: 102-48 the fiscal year under ・Mergers or acquisitions review ・Change of base years or periods ・Nature of business ・Measurement methods Not applicable for Significant changes from past reporting periods 102-49 the fiscal year under concerning material topics and topic Boundaries review Scope of the CSR 102-50 Reporting period for information provided Report 2018 GRI Standard Context Index 257 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting The date of the most recent previous report (if Scope of the CSR 102-51 applicable) Report 2018 Scope of the CSR 102-52 Reporting cycle Report 2018 Contact point for questions regarding the 102-53 Contact CSR Relations report Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards a. A claim that indicates that the organization followed GRI Standards and chose one of the following options when writing a report. GRI Standard Context 102-54 i. “This repo rt was written based on the Index Core option of the GRI Standards.” ii. “This report was written based on the Comprehensive option of the GRI Standards.” Content index a. An index of GRI content, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the report. b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: i. The numbers for the items disclosed (for GRI Standard Context 102-55 disclosures covered by the GRI standards) Index ii. The page number(s) or URL(s) where the relevant information can be found, included in the report or other published materials iii. If applicable, and where permitted, the reasons for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made GRI Standard Context Index 258 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting External assurance a. Explanations of the organization's policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If the report has been externally assured: i. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, a Editorial Policy description of what has and what has not 102-56 Scope of the CSR been assured and on what basis, including Report 2018 the assurance standards used, the level of assurance obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process ii. The relationship between the organization and the assurance provider iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the organization's sustainability report Management Approach Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Explanations of material item and its boundary a. An explanation of why the topic is material. b. The boundary for the material topic, including description of: i. Where the impacts arise ii. The organization's involvement in any 103-1 impacts. For example, whether the Key CSR Issues organization's involvement with an impact is direct or indirect, or whether the impact became relevant via the organization's business relationships c. Any specific limitation relating to the topic boundary. GRI Standard Context Index 259 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Our Approach to CSR CSR Management Promotion System CSR Management Policies Key CSR Issues CSR Medium-term Plan SDGs Initiatives ■Prominence in Environment Management approach and its components Prominence in a. An explanation of how the organization Environment manages the topic. Environmental b. A statement of the purpose of the Management management approach. System c. A description of the following, if the Environmental management approach includes that Education component: Environmental 103-2 i. Policies Accounting ii. Commitments Climate Change iii. Goals and targets Efficient Use of iv. Responsibilities Resources v. Management resources Conservation of vi. Complaint-processing mechanisms Water Resources vii. Specific measures (processes, projects, Chemical Substance programs, initiatives, etc.) Management Environmental Impact Assessment Conserving the Natural Environment ■Prominence in CS & Quality Prominence in CS & Quality Medium-term Plan Creating Attractive Products and Services Improving Quality GRI Standard Context Index 260 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■Prominence in Human Resources Prominence in Human Resources Building a Diverse Organizational Management approach and its components Structure a. An explanation of how the organization Allowing Diverse manages the topic. Human Resources b. A statement of the purpose of the to Excel management approach. Basis for Fostering c. A description of the following, if the Personnel management approach includes that ■Pledge to Society component: Pledge to Society 103-2 i. Policies Working ii. Commitments Environments iii. Goals and targets Safety iv. Responsibilities Compliance and v. Management resources Respect for Human vi. Complaint-processing mechanisms Rights vii. Specific measures (processes, projects, ■Governance / programs, initiatives, etc.) Internal Control Governance / Internal Control Risk Management Cyber Security Respect for International Norms GRI Standard Context Index 261 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Our Approach to CSR CSR Management Promotion System CSR Management Policies Key CSR Issues CSR Medium-term Plan SDGs Initiatives ■Prominence in Environment Prominence in Environment Environmental Evaluation of management approach Management a. An explanation of how the organization System evaluates the management approach, Environmental including: Education i. The mechanisms for evaluating the Environmental 103-3 effectiveness of the management approach Accounting ii. The results of the evaluation of the Climate Change management approach Efficient Use of iii. Adjustments made in relation to Resources management approach Conservation of Water Resources Chemical Substance Management Environmental Impact Assessment Conserving the Natural Environment ■Prominence in CS & Quality Prominence in CS & Quality Medium-term Plan Creating Attractive Products and Services Improving Quality GRI Standard Context Index 262 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting ■Prominence in Human Resources Prominence in Human Resources Building a Diverse Organizational Structure Allowing Diverse Human Resources Evaluation of management approach to Excel a. An explanation of how the organization Basis for Fostering evaluates the management approach, Personnel including: ■Pledge to Society i. The mechanisms for evaluating the Pledge to Society 103-3 effectiveness of the management approach Working ii. The results of the evaluation of the Environments management approach Safety iii. Adjustments made in relation to Compliance and management approach Respect for Human Rights ■Governance / Internal Control Governance / Internal Control Risk Management Cyber Security Respect for International Norms GRI Standard Context Index 263 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Economic Performance Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Direct economic value generated and distributed a. Direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis including the basic components for the organization’s global operations as listed below. If data is presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision and report the basic components as listed below: i. Direct economic value generated: revenues Distribute Value to 201-1 ii. Economic value distributed: operating Stakeholders costs, employee wages and benefits, payments to capital providers of capital, payments to governments by country, and community investments iii. Economic value retained (calculated as ‘Direct economic value generated’ less ‘Economic value distributed’) b. Report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market levels, where significant. Report the criteria used for defining significance. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change a. Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue or expenditure, including: i. A description of the risk or opportunity and its classification as either physical, Climate Change and 201-2 regulatory, or other Our Business ii. A description of the impact associated with the risk or opportunity iii. The financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken iv. The methods used to manage the risk or opportunity v. The costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity GRI Standard Context Index 264 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans a. Where the plan’s liabilities are met by the organization’s general resources, report the estimated value of those liabilities. b. Where a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities, report: i. The extent to which the scheme's liabilities are estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them ii. The basis on which that estimate has been arrived at Securities Report 201-3 iii. When that estimate was made (Japanese) c. Where a fund set up to pay the plan's Fact Book pension liabilities is not fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage. d. Percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer. e. Level of participation in retirement plans (such as participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact). GRI Standard Context Index 265 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Financial assistance received from government a. Total monetary value of financial assistance received by the organization from any government during the reporting period, including: i. Tax relief and tax credits ii. Subsidies iii. Investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant We regard that there types of grants is a risk that this iv. Awards information could 201-4 ― v. Royalty holidays contain business vi. Financial assistance from Export Credit strategies and Agencies (ECAs) confidential content. vii. Financial incentives viii. Other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any operation b. The information in 201-4-a by country. c. Whether, and the extent to which, any government is present in the shareholding structure. GRI Standard Context Index 266 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Presence Within Regional Economies Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage a. When a significant proportion of the workforce is compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the ratio of the entry level wage by gender at significant locations of operation to the minimum wage. b. When a significant proportion of other Because the scope of workers (excluding employees) performing tabulation is vast and the organization's activities are compensated 202-1 ― complex, we have not based on wages subject to minimum wage disclosed these figures rules, describe the actions taken to determine for fiscal year 2017. whether these workers are paid above the minimum wage. c. Whether a local minimum wage is absent or variable at significant locations of operation, by gender. In circumstances in which different minimums can be used as a reference, report which minimum wage is being used. d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Proportion of senior management hired from the local community a. Percentage of senior management at Because the scope of significant locations of operation that are tabulation is vast and hired from the local community. 202-2 ― complex, we have not b. The definition used for ‘senior management’. disclosed these figures c. The organization's geographical definition of for fiscal year 2017. ‘local’. d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. GRI Standard Context Index 267 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Indirect Economic Impacts Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Infrastructure investments and services supported a. Extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported. 203-1 b. Current or expected impacts on communities Integrated Report and local economies, including positive and negative impacts where relevant. c. Whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. Significant indirect economic impacts a. Examples of significant identified indirect economic impacts of the organization, Because the scope of including positive and negative impacts. tabulation is vast and 203-2 b. Significance of the indirect economic impacts ― complex, we have not in the context of external benchmarks and disclosed these figures stakeholder priorities, such as national and for fiscal year 2017. international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. Procurement Practices Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Proportion of spending on local suppliers a. Percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations of operation that is Because the scope of spent on suppliers local to that operation tabulation is vast and (such as percentage of products and services 204-1 ― complex, we have not purchased locally). disclosed these figures b. The organization's geographical definition of for fiscal year 2017. ‘local’. c. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. GRI Standard Context Index 268 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Anti-corruption Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reporting management approach relating DMA Prevention of Bribery to combating corruption using “GRI 103: (103-1) and Corruption Management Approach” Operations assessed for risks related to corruption a. Total number and percentage of operations Prevention of Bribery 205-1 assessed for risks related to corruption. and Corruption b. Significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment. Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures a. Total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization's anticorruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region. b. Total number and percentage of employees that the organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. c. Total number and percentage of business partners that the organization's antiPrevention of Bribery 205-2 corruption policies and procedures have been and Corruption communicated to, broken down by type of business partner and region. Describe if the organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to any other persons or organizations. d. Total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by region. e. Total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by employee category and region. GRI Standard Context Index 269 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken a. Total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption. b. Total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption. Prevention of Bribery 205-3 c. Total number of confirmed incidents when and Corruption contracts with business partners were terminated or not renewed due to violations related to corruption. d. Public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organization or its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases. Anti-competitive Behavior Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reporting management approach relating to DMA Marketing anti-competitive behavior using “GRI 103: (103-1) Communications Management Approach” Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices a. Number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period Marketing regarding anti-competitive behavior and Communications 206-1 violations of anti-trust and monopoly Responses to Past legislation in which the organization has Legal Violations been identified as a participant. b. Main outcomes of completed legal actions, including any decisions or judgments. GRI Standard Context Index 270 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Materials Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Efficient Use of Resources / Basic Concept Reporting management approach relating to DMA Environmental raw materials using “GRI 103: Management (103-1) medium-term plan Approach” targets and Directions for the Future Zero Emissions Materials used by weight or volume a. Total weight or volume of raw materials used to produce and package the organization’s major products and services during the 301-1 Material balance reporting period, in accordance with the following classifications: i. Non-renewable raw materials used ii. Renewable raw materials used Proportion of recycled materials used in the Recycling Construction 301-2 production of the organization's major products Materials and services Recycled products and packaging materials a. Proportion of recycled products and Reducing Packaging 301-3 packaging materials by product category. Materials b. How the data for this disclosure have been collected. GRI Standard Context Index 271 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Energy Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Climate Change / Reporting management approach relating DMA Basic Concept to energy using “GRI 103: Management (103-1) Combating Climate Approach” Change Energy consumption within the organization a. Total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. b. Total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. c. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: i. Electricity consumption ii. Heating consumption iii. Cooling consumption Climate Change / 302-1 iv. Steam consumption Performance Data d. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: i. Electricity sold ii. Heating sold iii. Cooling sold iv. Steam sold e. Total energy consumption in joules or multiples. f. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. g. Source of the conversion factors used. We regard that Energy consumption outside of the organization monitoring the a. Energy consumed outside of the organization, amount of energy in joules or multiples. used in supply chains 302-2 ― b. Standards, methods, assumptions, and (Scope 3) is an issue calculation tools used. which we must c. Source of the conversion factors used. consider and deal with. GRI Standard Context Index 272 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Energy intensity a. Energy intensity ratio for the organization. b. Organization-specific metric (the ratio denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. Climate Change / 302-3 c. Types of energy included in the intensity Performance Data ratio: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. d. Whether the ratio uses energy consumed within the organization, outside of it or both. Reduction of energy consumption a. Amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples. Combating Climate b. Types of energy included in the reductions: Change 302-4 fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or Climate Change / all. Performance Data c. Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption such as base year or baseline, and the rationale for choosing it. d. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. Reductions in energy requirements of products and services a. Reductions in the energy requirements of sold products and services achieved during the reporting period, in joules or multiples. Environment302-5 b. Basis for calculating reductions in energy contributing Products consumption such as base year or baseline, and the rationale for choosing it. c. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. GRI Standard Context Index 273 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Water Resources Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reporting management approach relating to DMA Conservation of Water water resources using “GRI 103: Management (103-1) Resources Approach” Water withdrawal by source a. Total volume of water withdrawn from the following sources: i. Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans Conservation of ii. Ground water 303-1 Water Resources / iii. Rainwater collected directly and stored by Performance Data the organization iv. Waste water from another organization v. Municipal water supplies or other public or private water utilities b. Standards, methods, and assumptions used Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water a. Total number of water sources significantly affected by withdrawal by type: i. Size of water source Ongoing Monitoring ii. Whether or not the source is designated of Water Risks as a protected area (nationally or 303-2 Conservation of internationally) Water Resources / iii. Biodiversity value (such as species diversity Performance Data and endemism, total number of protected species) iv. Value or importance of water source to local communities and indigenous peoples b. Standards, methods, and assumptions used. Recycled and reused water a. Total volume of water recycled and reused by Water Recycling the organization. Conservation of 303-3 b. Total volume of water recycled and reused as Water Resources / a percentage of the total water withdrawal Performance Data specified in Disclosure 303-1. c. Standards, methods, and assumptions used. GRI Standard Context Index 274 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Biodiversity Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reporting management approach relating to Conserving the DMA biodiversity using “GRI 103: Management Natural Environment / (103-1) Approach” Basic Concept Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas a. For each operational site owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas, the following information: i. Geographic location ii. Subsurface and underground land that may be owned, leased, or managed by the organization iii. Position in relation to the protected area (in the area, adjacent to, or containing portions of the protected area) or the high Conserving the 304-1 biodiversity value area outside protected Natural Environment / areas Performance Data iv. Type of operation (office, manufacturing or production, or extractive) v. Size of operational site in km2 (or another unit, if appropriate) vi. Biodiversity value characterized by the attribute of the protected area or area of high biodiversity value outside the protected area (terrestrial, freshwater, or maritime ecosystem) vii. Biodiversity value characterized by listing of protected status (such as IUCN Protected Area Management Categories, Ramsar Convention, national legislation) GRI Standard Context Index 275 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity a. Nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity with reference to one or more of the following: i. Construction or use of manufacturing plants, mines, and transport infrastructure ii. Pollution (introduction of substances that do not naturally occur in the habitat from point and non-point sources) Biodiversity iii. Introduction of invasive species, pests, and Assessment pathogens WET Evaluation of 304-2 iv. Reduction of species Wastewater v. Habitat conversion Environmental Impact vi. Changes in ecological processes outside Assessment the natural range of variation (such as salinity or changes in groundwater level) b. Significant direct and indirect positive and negative impacts with reference to the following: i. Species affected ii. Extent of areas impacted iii. Duration of impacts iv. Reversibility or irreversibility of the impacts GRI Standard Context Index 276 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Habitats protected or restored a. Size and location of all habitat protected areas or restored areas, and whether the success of the restoration measure was or is approved by independent external professionals. b. Whether partnerships exist with third parties Initiatives to Improve 304-3 to protect or restore habitat areas distinct Green Space Quality from where the organization has overseen and implemented restoration or protection measures. c. Status of each area based on its condition at the close of the reporting period. d. Standards, methods, and assumptions used. IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations a. Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by the operations Conserving the 304-4 of the organization, by level of extinction Natural Environment / risk: Performance Data i. Critically endangered IA (CR) ii. Endangered IB (EN) iii. Vulnerable II (VU) iv. Near threatened (NT) v. Least concern GRI Standard Context Index 277 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Emissions Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Climate Change / Reporting management approach relating to DMA Basic Concept emissions into the atmosphere using “GRI 103: (103-1) Combating Climate Management Approach” Change Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) a. Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. Gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all) c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: Combating Climate i. The rationale for choosing the base year Change 305-1 ii. Emissions in the base year Climate Change / iii. The context for any significant changes in Performance Data emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions e. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. f. Consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, or operational control). g. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. GRI Standard Context Index 278 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) a. Gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. If applicable, gross market-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. c. If available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, Combating Climate including: Change 305-2 i. The rationale for choosing the base year Climate Change / ii. Emissions in the base year Performance Data iii. The context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions e. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. f. Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operational control. g. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. GRI Standard Context Index 279 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) a. Gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. If available, the gases included in the calculation whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. d. Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions categories and activities included in the Combating Climate calculation. Change 305-3 e. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, Climate Change / including: Performance Data i. The rationale for the base year ii. Emissions in the base year iii. The context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. f. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. g. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity a. GHG emissions intensity ratio for the organization. b. Organization-specific metric (the Combating Climate denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. Change 305-4 c. Types of GHG emissions included in the Climate Change / intensity ratio; whether direct (Scope 1), Performance Data energy indirect (Scope 2), and / or other indirect (Scope 3). d. Gases included in the calculation whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. GRI Standard Context Index 280 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions a. GHG emissions reduced as a direct result of reduction initiatives, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. Gases included in the calculation whether Combating Climate CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. Change 305-5 c. Base year or baseline, including the rationale Climate Change / for choosing it. Performance Data d. Scopes in which reductions took place; whether direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), and / or other indirect (Scope 3). e. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances (ODS) Controlling VOC a. Production, imports, and exports Emissions of ODS in metric tons of CFC-11 Disposal and (trichlorofluoromethane) equivalent. Storage of Devices 305-6 b. Substances included in the calculation. Containing PCBs c. Source of the emission factors used. and Management of d. Standards, methods, assumptions, and Equipment That Uses calculation tools used. Fluorocarbons Nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulfur oxide SOx, and other critical atmospheric emissions a. Significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples, for each of the following: i. NOx ii. SOx iii. Persistent organic pollutants (POP) Chemical Substance 305-7 iv. Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Management / v. Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) Performance Data vi. Particulate matter (PM) vii. Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations b. Source of the emission factors used. c. Standards, methods, assumptions, and calculation tools used. GRI Standard Context Index 281 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Effluents and Waste Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Efficient Use of Resources / Basic Reporting management approach relating to DMA Concept emissions into the atmosphere using “GRI 103: (103-1) Conservation of Water Management Approach” Resources / Basic Concept Water discharge by quality and destination a. Total volume of planned and unplanned Ongoing Monitoring water discharges by: of Water Risks i. Destination Water Recycling 306-1 ii. Quality of the water, including treatment Conservation of method Water Resources / iii. Whether it was reused by another Performance Data organization b. Standards, methods, and assumptions used. GRI Standard Context Index 282 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Waste by type and disposal method a. Total weight of hazardous waste, by the following disposal methods: i. Reuse ii. Recycling iii. Composting iv. Recovery, including energy recovery v. Incineration (mass burn) vi. Deep well injection vii. Landfill viii. On-site storage ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) b. Total weight of non-hazardous waste, by the Material balance following disposal methods: Efficient Use i. Reuse of Resources / 306-2 ii. Recycling Performance Data iii. Composting Chemical Substance iv. Recovery, including energy recovery Management / v. Incineration (mass burn) Performance Data vi. Deep well injection vii. Landfill viii. On-site storage ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) c. How the waste disposal method has been determined: i. Disposed of directly by the organization or otherwise directly confirmed ii. Information provided by the waste disposal contractor iii. Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor GRI Standard Context Index 283 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Significant spills a. Total number and total volume of recorded significant spills. b. The following additional information for each spill that was reported in the organization's financial statements: i. Location of spill 306-3 ii. Volume of spill Soil Surveys iii. Material of spill, categorized by: oil spills (soil or water surfaces), fuel spills (soil or water surfaces), spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces), spills of chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces), and other (to be specified by the organization). c. The impacts of significant spills. Transportation of hazardous waste a. Total weight for each of the following: i. Hazardous waste transported ii. Hazardous waste imported Chemical Substance 306-4 iii. Hazardous waste exported Management / iv. Hazardous waste treated Performance Data b. Percentage of hazardous waste shipped internationally. c. Standards, methods, and assumptions used. Water bodies affected by water discharges and / or runoff a. Water bodies and related habitats that are Because there are significantly affected by water discharges a vast number of and / or runoff, including information on: business sites and data 306-5 i. Size of water body and related habitat ― collection is difficult, ii. Whether the water body and related we have not disclosed habitat is designated as a protected area these figures for fiscal (nationally or internationally) year 2017. iii. Biodiversity value (such as total number of protected species) GRI Standard Context Index 284 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Environmental Compliance Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reporting management approach relating Complying with DMA to compliance with laws and regulations Environmental Laws (103-1) concerning the environment using “GRI 103: and Regulations Management Approach” Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations a. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and / or regulations in terms of: Complying with i. Total monetary value of significant fines 307-1 Environmental Laws ii. Total number of non-monetary sanctions and Regulations iii. Cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. GRI Standard Context Index 285 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Assessments of Suppliers in Environmental Terms Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reporting management approach relating to Environmental DMA suppliers' environmental assessments using Management across (103-1) “GRI 103: Management Approach” the Supply Chain When selecting new suppliers, the Sekisui Chemical Group comprehensively evaluates candidate companies from the perspectives of quality, New suppliers that were screened using environmental factors, environmental criteria 308-1 ― health and safety, Percentage of new suppliers that were screened and compliance with using environmental criteria. laws, regulations, and social standards. As a result, all new suppliers must clear the environmental standards required by the group. Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken a. Number of suppliers subject to environmental impact assessments. b. Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts. Because each c. Significant actual and potential negative Company has different environmental impacts identified in the suppliers and data supply chain. 308-2 ― collection is difficult, d. Percentage of suppliers identified as we have not disclosed having significant actual and potential these figures for fiscal negative environmental impacts with which year 2017. improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. e. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. GRI Standard Context Index 286 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Employment Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Prominence in Human Resources / Management Approach Building a Diverse Organizational Structure / Reporting management approach relating to Management DMA employment using “GRI 103: Management Approach (103-1) Approach” Allowing Diverse Human Resources to Excel / Management Approach Basis for Fostering Personnel / Management Approach New employee hires and employee turnover a. Total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, 401-1 gender and region. Data on Employees b. Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. GRI Standard Context Index 287 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees a. Benefits which are standard for fulltime employees of the organization but are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by significant locations of operation. These include, as a minimum: 401-2 i. Life insurance Benefits ii. Healthcare iii. Disability and invalidity coverage iv. Parental leave v. Retirement provision vi. Stock ownership vii. Others b. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Parental leave a. Total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave, by gender. b. Total number of employees that took parental leave, by gender. c. Total number of employees who returned to Main Systems work in the reporting period after parental Allowing Various 401-3 leave ended, by gender. Workstyles and Their d. Total number of employees who returned to Use work after parental leave ended who were still employed twelve months after their return to work, by gender. e. Return to work and retention rates of employees who took parental leave, by gender. GRI Standard Context Index 288 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Labor / Management Relations Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes a. Minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their representatives prior to the implementation of significant operational changes that could Notifications of Major 402-1 substantially affect them. HR-Related Changes b. For organizations with collective bargaining agreements, report whether the notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Safety / Basic Concept Activity Policy and Reporting management approach relating to DMA Promotion System Occupational Health and Safety using “GRI (103-1) Safety Audits 103: Management Approach” Safety Management along Supply Chains Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees a. The level at which each formal joint management-worker health and safety committee typically operates within the Occupational Safety 403-1 organization. Committee Held b. Percentage of workers whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization, that are represented by formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. GRI Standard Context Index 289 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities a. Types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and work-related fatalities, for all employees, by: i. Region Safety / Performance 403-2 ii. Gender Data b. Types of injury, injury rate (IR) and workrelated fatalities for all workers (excluding employees) whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization, by: i. Region ii. Gender c. The system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics. The Group compiles lists of risks, including outbreaks of communicable Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases, for which diseases related to their occupation the Group should a. Whether there are workers whose work, or prepare, and these workplace, is controlled by the organization, lists are shared involved in occupational activities who have globally with those 403-3 a high incidence or high risk of specific ― in charge of lines of diseases. business and local b. Organizations working in countries with sites. Going forward, a high risk or incidence of communicable we intend to discuss diseases, and those in professions that have a methods of tabulating high incidence of specific diseases. and disclosing risks uncovered by those with such responsibilities. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions a. Whether formal agreements (either local or global) with trade unions cover health and Occupational Safety 403-4 safety. Committee Held b. If so, the extent, as a percentage, to which various health and safety topics are covered by these agreements. GRI Standard Context Index 290 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Training and Education Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reporting management approach relating DMA Basis for Fostering to fostering personnel using “GRI 103: (103-1) Personnel Management Approach” Average hours of training per year per employee Training Systems a. Average hours of training that the to Support Our 404-1 organization's employees have undertaken Businesses / Basis for during the reporting period, by: Fostering Personnel / i. Gender Performance Data ii. Employee category Developing Business Leaders Follow-up Training for New, Mid-career Hires Support System for Diverse Career Paths Programs for upgrading employee skills and Fostering Women’s transition assistance programs Candidacy for a. Type and scope of programs implemented Management and assistance provided to upgrade employee Positions 404-2 skills. Career Plan Training b. Transition assistance programs provided to by Age (Sekisui facilitate continued employability and the Chemical Group) management of career endings resulting from Developing retirement or termination of employment. Personnel Who Can Succeed on the Global Stage Global Talent Employee System Global Trainee Program Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Periodic Evaluation a. Percentage of total employees by gender and of Individual 404-3 by employee category who received a regular Performance and performance and career development review Career Development during the reporting period. GRI Standard Context Index 291 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Diversity and Equal Opportunity Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Report management approach relating to Building a Diverse DMA diversity using “GRI 103: Management Organizational (103-1) Approach” Structure Diversity in governance bodies and among employees a. Percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: i. Gender ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old Data on Employees iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant About the Age405-1 (such as minority or vulnerable groups) Group Composition of b. Percentage of employees per employee Directors category in each of the following diversity categories: i. Gender ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups) In part because the number of employees Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of is large and was women to men difficult to collect a. Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of data during this 405-2 women to men for each employee category, Benefits fiscal year, we have by significant locations of operation. not disclosed figures b. The definition used for ‘significant locations concerning ratios of operation’ for total amounts of compensation for fiscal year 2017. GRI Standard Context Index 292 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Non-discrimination Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken a. Total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. b. Status of the incidents and actions taken with Not applicable for reference to the following: 406-1 the fiscal year under i. Incident reviewed by the organization review ii. Remediation plans being implemented iii. Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes iv. Incident no longer subject to action Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Operations and suppliers in which the right to Because we have freedom of association and collective bargaining adopted a Company may be at risk system and are a. Operations and suppliers in which workers' engaged in a vast rights to exercise freedom of association or number of businesses, collective bargaining may be violated or at and because it would significant risk either in terms of: be difficult to acquire 407-1 i. Type of operation (such as manufacturing ― data for the relevant plant) and supplier number of business ii. Countries or geographic areas with sites and for each operations and suppliers considered at risk. country or territory, b. Measures taken by the organization in the we have not disclosed reporting period intended to support rights to these figures for fiscal exercise freedom of association and collective year 2017. bargaining. GRI Standard Context Index 293 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Child Labor Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor a. Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of: i. Child labor ii. Young workers exposed to hazardous work Assessing the b. Operations and suppliers considered to have Human Rights significant risk for incidents of child labor Situation at Our 408-1 either in terms of: Suppliers i. Type of operation (such as manufacturing Initiatives Geared plant) and supplier Toward Suppliers ii. Countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk c. Measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced or Compulsory Labor Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor a. Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced or Assessing the Human compulsory labor either in terms of: Rights Situation at Our i. Type of operation (such as manufacturing Suppliers 409-1 plant) and supplier Initiatives Geared ii. Countries or geographic areas with Toward Suppliers operations and suppliers considered at risk b. Measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. GRI Standard Context Index 294 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Security Practices Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures Security personnel a. Percentage of security personnel who have are outsourced, received formal training in the organization's and training is left 410-1 human rights policies or specific procedures ― to the discretion of and their application to security. the subcontracting b. Whether training requirements also apply to company. third-party organizations providing security personnel. Rights of Indigenous Peoples Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples a. Total number of identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the reporting period. b. Status of the incidents and actions taken with Not applicable for 411-1 reference to the following: the fiscal year under i. Incident reviewed by the organization review ii. Remediation plans being implemented iii. Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes iv. Incident no longer subject to action GRI Standard Context Index 295 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Human Rights Assessment Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reporting management approach relating to DMA Respect for Human human rights assessments using “GRI 103: (103-1) Rights Management Approach” Because we have adopted a Company system and are engaged in a vast Operations that have been subject to human number of businesses, rights reviews or impact assessments and because it a. Total number and percentage of operations would be difficult to 412-1 ― that have been subject to human rights acquire data for the reviews or human rights impact assessments, relevant number of by country. business sites and the proportions for each country, we have not disclosed these figures for fiscal year 2017. Because the total Employee training on human rights policies or number of hours Initiatives Geared procedures of training and Toward Employees a. Total number of hours in the reporting period the proportion of Employees Using the devoted to training on human rights policies employees who have e-learning System or procedures concerning aspects of human undergone training 412-2 Over Time rights that are relevant to operations. are, at the time of this Basis for Fostering b. Percentage of employees trained during the writing, difficult to Personnel / reporting period on human rights policies acquire information Performance Data or procedures concerning aspects of human regarding, we have rights that are relevant to operations. not disclosed anything on this matter. Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening a. Total number and percentage of significant Not applicable for 412-3 investment agreements and contracts the fiscal year under that include human rights clauses or that review underwent human rights screening. b. The definition used for ‘significant investment agreements’. GRI Standard Context Index 296 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Local Communities Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reporting management approach relating DMA Social Contribution to local communities using “GRI 103: (103-1) Activities Management Approach” Operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs a. Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs, including the use of: i. Social impact assessments, including gender impact assessments, based on participatory processes ii. Environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring We are currently iii. Public disclosure of results of considering evaluation 413-1 environmental and social impact ― methods for assessments measuring impacts on iv. Local community development programs local communities. based on local communities’ needs v. Stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping vi. Broad based local community consultation committees and processes that include vulnerable groups vii. Works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other employee representation bodies to deal with impacts viii. Formal local community grievance processes Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities We are currently a. Operations with significant actual and considering evaluation potential negative impacts on local 413-2 ― methods for communities, including: measuring impacts on i. The location of the operations local communities. ii. The significant actual and potential negative impacts of operations GRI Standard Context Index 297 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reporting management approach relating to Assessing the Human DMA society-focused assessments of suppliers using Rights Situation at Our (103-1) “GRI 103: Management Approach” Suppliers The Sekisui Chemical Group selects new suppliers after evaluating them comprehensively from the perspectives of quality, the environment, New suppliers that were screened using social compliance with laws criteria 414-1 ― and regulations and a. Percentage of new suppliers that were with societal norms, screened using social criteria. and health and safety. Therefore, it is believed that all new suppliers have cleared the societal standards on which the Sekisui Chemical Group insists. Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken a. Number of suppliers assessed for social impacts. It is currently difficult b. Number of suppliers identified as having to evaluate the significant actual and potential negative social impacts of all social impacts. suppliers, including c. Significant actual and potential negative because many raw social impacts identified in the supply chain. 414-2 ― materials are procured d. Percentage of suppliers identified as having from general trading significant actual and potential negative firms, so we have social impacts with which improvements not disclosed any were agreed upon as a result of assessment. information on this e. Percentage of suppliers identified as having topic. significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. GRI Standard Context Index 298 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Public Policy Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting We have decided not Reporting management approach relating to disclose information DMA public policy using “GRI 103: Management ― on this topic for (103-1) Approach” reasons of business strategy. Political contributions a. Total monetary value of financial and inkind political contributions made directly and 414-1 indirectly by the organization by country and Donations recipient / beneficiary. b. If applicable, how the monetary value of inkind contributions was estimated. Customer Health and Safety Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Quality Management Reporting management approach relating to DMA Formulating Three customer health and safety using “GRI 103: (103-1) Quality Guidelines Management Approach” Product Safety It is currently difficult to calculate values Assessment of the health and safety impacts of for proportions in product and service categories this area; we intend 416-1 a. Percentage of significant product and service ― to have discussions categories for which health and safety aimed at disclosing impacts are assessed for improvement. information starting the next fiscal year. GRI Standard Context Index 299 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services within the reporting period, by: i. Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty ii. Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning iii. Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary 416-2 codes Product Safety b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. d. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. e. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. GRI Standard Context Index 300 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Marketing and Labeling Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reporting management approach relating Products Information DMA to marketing using “GRI 103: Management Disclosure and (103-1) Approach” Labeling Requirements for product and service information and labeling a. Whether each of the following types of It is currently difficult information is required by the organization's to ascertain various procedures for product and service types of information information and labeling: concerning all i. The sourcing of components of the product products and or service to calculate the ii. Content, particularly with regard to 417-1 ― percentage values for substances that might produce an procedure compliance environmental or social impact evaluations; we intend iii. Safe use of the product or service to have discussions iv. Disposal of the product and environmental / aimed at disclosing social impacts information starting v. Others (Explain in detail) the next fiscal year. b. Percentage of significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures. Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by: i. Incidents of non-compliance with Products Information regulations resulting in a fine or penalty 417-2 Disclosure and ii. Incidents of non-compliance with Labeling regulations resulting in a warning iii. Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. GRI Standard Context Index 301 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: i. Incidents of non-compliance with Marketing 417-3 regulations resulting in a fine or penalty Communications ii. Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning iii. Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Customer Privacy Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Reporting management approach relating to DMA Protecting Personal the protection of customer data using “GRI (103-1) Information 103: Management Approach” Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data a. Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer Not applicable for privacy, categorized by: 418-1 the fiscal year under i. Complaints received from outside parties review and substantiated by the organization ii. Complaints from regulatory bodies b. Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data. GRI Standard Context Index 302 Sekisui Prominence in Social GRI Standard Top Prominence in Prominence in Pledge to Stakeholder Chemical Human Governance Contribution Context Message Environment CS & Quality Society Engagement Group's CSR Resources Activities Index Socioeconomic Compliance Code No. General Standard Disclosures Locations Posted Reason for Omitting Our Approach to Compliance Growing Awareness Reporting management approach relating to DMA Toward Compliance compliance in relation to socioeconomic matters (103-1) Putting Compliance using “GRI 103: Management Approach” Management Efforts into Practice Compliance Training Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area a. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area in terms of: i. Total monetary value of significant fines Not applicable for ii. Total number of non-monetary sanctions 418-1 the fiscal year under iii. Cases brought through dispute resolution review mechanisms b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. c. The context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. GRI Standard Context Index 303 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report Summary of Independent Practitioner’ s Assurance Procedures Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 Check of Formulation of Quality control Submittal of Performance Reporting final edition of plan check assurance report CSR Report • Assurance procedures • Conﬁrmation of scope carried out at Sekisui of assurance, subject Chemical Headquarters • A professional • Obtaining items, information and visited business outside the management collection methods, etc. sites (performance of • Reporting results of • Follow-up on items conﬁrmation letter assurance procedures including completed such as matters • Decision on assurance engagement team • Submittal of ﬁeld observation, procedures, matters pointed out in Step 3 procedures, schedule checks appropriateIndependent analytical procedures, for comment, etc. (Headquarters, business ness of the assurance Practitioner’s sites to be visited for documentary veriﬁcation, procedures Assurance Report veriﬁcation), etc. inspection of materials, and inquiries) 304 References 【Risk】 Direct / Magnitude Estimated financial Risk driver Description Potential impact Timeframe Likelihood Management method Cost of management Indirect of impact implications Manufacturing Innovation center was set to improve energy efficiency of manufacture. Visualize of energy use and energy reduction is guided. When se t e qu ipme n t or ch a n g in g p roce ss, Safety & Environmental check sheet Sekisui Chemical Group is and Energy check sheet must be performing synthesis of a synthetic made. Then, change of energy and resin, and molding of the plastic in GHG emissions is checked. When each country. Our customers are an reduction is insufficient, additional airplane, an automobile, electronics, plan is required from head office. This and the construction engineeringis the risk management approach. works field, and have shifted to M o r e o v e r, “ 3 r d e n e r g y s a v i n g the product which responds to a investment promotion policy” began customer’ s advanced features and from the FY2016. At the time of energyan environmental contribution. saving equipment adoption, the money These products consume much proportional to emission reduction is energy compared with the paid to the operating department from About 1 billion yen is c o nve n t i o n a l p r o d u c t a t t h e t i m e Equipment cost will the head office for maximum eight used in replacement International of manufacture. Moreover, since it Increased 1 to 3 Very Mediumincrease 10,000 million years. Injection molding machine of of equipment, and agreements is manufacturing in each countr y, operational years Direct likely high yen for replacement to plastic was replaced with the electric the total of labor cost it is necessary to correspond to cost the equipment which type which is energy-saving type from for energy-saving regulation of each country related emission reduces. the oil pressure type. At this time, that activities, every year. to a climate change. When a GHG policy was used and the adoption of emissions quota is decided according energy-saving equipment and emission to each country, in order to make reduction were brought forward. effluent control suit by Framework Furthermore, energy analysis and Convention on Climate Change, energy-saving planning were carried restriction of production and the out, South Korean Youngbo Chemical, replacement to small equipment Alveo of the Netherlands, etc. at the of the amount of emission arise. plant with much energy use. As a result, Fo r thi s r e a s o n , a m anuf act uring the leak by compressed air piping was cost and equipment cost increase. detected, by being f ixed, the load of F u r t h e r m o r e , i n d i r e c t l y, a r a w compressor decreased and emission material supply cost goes up. reduction was carried out. Emission of every site is grasped in the head office, and is reported twice per year to a zone of management by the environmental subcommittee. When emission is an increase, a reduction plan is required from a zone of management. Strengthening of air pollution The car which the Sekisui Chemical regulation will make the carbon Group owned or was leased is d i o x i d e e f f l u e n t c o n t r o l o f a c a r. intentionally switched to the type of low And replacement of a proprietar y pollution and low fuel consumption for car is performed with an some time. The car which I use in Japan enterprise. Regulation of supply of is chosen from the cars of the listed low chlorofluorocarbon will need change pollution and low fuel consumption. o f a c o o l a nt. And repl acement of Equipment cost will The coolant of cooling installation is When regulation of air the cooling device which was used Increased 3 to 6 Lowi n c r e a s e 100 m i l l i o n checked at the time of environmental pollution is tightened Air pollution limits by the manufacturing process is operational years Direct likely medium yen for replacement auditing or energy diagnostics. And it up, required expense needed. Regulation of a chlorinated cost of cars, frozen is checked whether the coolant is able has estimated it as 10 solvent will need solvent change by equipments etc. to be purchased in the future. And million yen. a manufacturing process. Therefore, replacement of equipment is performed equipment reconstruction is needed. i n t e n t i o n a l l y. U s e o f a c h l o r i n a t e d Fo r thi s r e a s o n , a m anuf act uring solvent is performed very restrictively. cost and equipment cost increase. H o w e v e r, s m a l l s c a l e e q u i p m e n t F u r t h e r m o r e , i n d i r e c t l y, a r a w reconstruction will be performed when material supply cost goes up. regulation of a chlorinated solvent is completed. Introduction of the carbon tax The section Manufacturing will increase fuel cost and the Development Innovation Center m a n u f a c t u r i n g c o s t , d i r e c t l y. aiming at raising manufacture energy Moreover, in order that materials efficiency drastically was established cost may go up, the funding When adding or i n 2009. T h i s s e c t i o n i s w o r k i n g o n c o s t i n c r e a s e i n d i r e c t l y. S e k i s u i r e p l a c i n g h i g h visualization of energy use of each Chemical group is manufacturing equipment of energy manufacture site, and reduction of use and selling the interlayer plastic e f f i c i e n c y, t h e energies. The equipment which uses film for automobile windshields. equipment cost of 5 many energies is replaced to what has About 1 billion yen is And plastic resin required for the billion yen occurs. good efficiency, one by one. The loss used in replacement product is produced in production Increased 1 to 3 Very When energy tax or of energy is found by visualization of of equipment, and Carbon taxes at five plants of four nations. Since operational years Direct likely High carbon tax is set up to energy, and that loss is improved. The the total of labor cost there is a plan to increase sale in cost 5%, it is expected that listing of the part of an equipment for energy-saving the future, a new factor y may be raw-material cost and improvement required for the activities, every year. built. In order to correspond to the the manufacturing cost improvement in energy efficiency about carbon tax, it is necessary to add or increase 1 billion yen. a plastic resin manufacture plant which replace the equipment which raises This leads to reduction consumes energy so much is advancing. energy efficiency. For this reason, in profits. Equipment to be corresponded to a temporary equipment cost occurs. carbon tax is included in this list. Now, Furthermore, when the limit of the t h i s l i s t i s c o m p l e t i o n m o s t l y. A n d a m o u n t o f e m i s s i o n i s e xc e e d e d , equipment is introduced one by one the payment of a carbon tax occurs from the large cost effect. continuously. The section Manufacturing When the cap and trade system Development Innovation Center was introduced and the amount Credit purchase cost aiming at raising manufacture energy of emission exceeds a cap, carbon when the system of cap efficiency drastically was established About 1 billion yen is credit purchase cost is needed. Increased and trade is decided i n 2009. T h i s s e c t i o n i s w o r k i n g o n used in replacement Cap and trade M o r e o v e r, i n o r d e r t o s u p p r e s s operational 3 to 6 Direct Very Medium i s e s t i m a t e d a t 100 visualization of energy use of each of equipment, and schemes generating of the every year cost years likely million yen every year. manufacture site, and reduction of use the total of labor cost of credit expense, when the This leads to reduction energies. The equipment which uses for energy-saving Regulatory replacement to energy-saving in profits. many energies is replaced to what has activities, every year. equipment is performed, equipment good efficiency, one by one. The loss expense is needed temporarily. of energy is found by visualization of energy, and that loss is improved. In accordance with the law of Japan, The process of calculating the energy use and the amount of emission amount of emission is generated by of the plant are reported to the the emission reporting obligations. government. When reporting the emission The correspondence M o r e o v e r, e n e r g y u s e i n t h e by transportation, the creation Increased cost of the reporting transportation company is also reported About 10 million yen Emission reporting expense of the system which operational Up to 1 Direct Virtually system is estimated by shipper every year. Moreover, the obligations year certain Low at 10 million yen. This amount of emission is reported to the is used every year for calculates distance, weight, and fuel cost the report system. consumption is needed. Therefore, leads to reduction in local government by the local law of when sorting out a transportation profits. Saitama Prefecture every year. In order contractor, transportation cost goes to reduce the amount of the energy up. used 1% every year according to a legal demand, company-wide energy-saving activities are carried out. The section Manufacturing Development Innovation Center When energy tax or aiming at raising manufacture energy If a renewal energy use rate is carbon tax is set up to efficiency drastically was established About 1 billion yen is decided or the tax for expansion of Increased 5%, it is expected that i n 2009. T h i s s e c t i o n i s w o r k i n g o n used in replacement Fuel /energy taxes renewal energy is made, fuel cost operational Up to 1 Direct Very Mediumraw-material cost and visualization of energy use of each of equipment, and and regulations and a manufacturing cost will be cost year likely high the manufacturing cost manufacture site, and reduction of use the total of labor cost increased. Furthermore, indirectly, increase 1 billion yen. energies. The equipment which uses for energy-saving a raw-material supply cost goes up. This leads to reduction many energies is replaced to what has activities, every year. in profits. good efficiency, one by one. The loss of energy is found by visualization of energy, and that loss is improved. References 305 The modular house Sekisui Heim of When the standard Sekisui Chemical Group has attaches of energy-saving the photovoltaic cell equipment, If the standard of the insulation performance of housing attaches Smart Heim Navi which A b o u t 1,000 m i l l i o n e f f i c i e nc y of hous ing product s or products is decided realize energy use visible, and has ye n i s s p e n t o n R & D Product efficiency energy-saving performance is Increased Up to 1 Virtually b y l a w, t h e c o s t f o r outstanding insulation properties. For of the improvement regulations and established or a standard goes up, operational year Direct certain Medium s e t t i n g a p r o d u c t s by these reasons, Sekisui Heim is in the in energy-saving standards the additional manufacturing cost cost regulation increases position of the top of the housing by performance of the and R&D cost will be raised. about 100 million yen, energy-saving performance. Thus, it is housing products it expects. This leads to the main method to manage risk and every year. reduction in profits. opportunity of our company to continue R&D and to improve the performance of housing products, Sekisui Heim. The modular house Sekisui Heim of Sekisui Chemical Group has attaches When a product is asked for the The cost for the the photovoltaic cell equipment, display of energy performance d i s p l ay o f t h e e n e r g y attaches Smart Heim Navi which A b o u t 1,000 m i l l i o n or a carbon footprint, the cost of Reduced performance of a realize energy use visible, and has ye n i s s p e n t o n R & D Product labelling labelling and calculation is needed. demand 1 to 3 Mediumproduct and the outstanding insulation properties. For of the improvement regulations and Mor e ove r, w hen t he per formance for goods / years Direct likely high labelling of a carbon these reasons, Sekisui Heim is in the in energy-saving standards of carbon emission is inferior in our services footprint is estimated position of the top of the housing by performance of the product compared with competitive a t a b o u t 100 m i l l i o n energy-saving performance. Thus, it is housing products products, sales decrease. yen. This leads to the main method to manage risk and every year. reduction in profits. opportunity of our company to continue R&D and to improve the performance of housing products, Sekisui Heim. At the plant and the research institute, measurement, activity, and reporting to the local government are performed for the voluntary agreement with the local When a voluntary agreement is The activity cost for a government. At the plant and research arranged with the local government, Increased More voluntary agreement is institute in Japan, even if there is an 10 million yen is Voluntary the cost of measurement or activity operational 1 to 3 Direct likely Lowestimated at about 10 agreement or not, environmental site used every year for agreements is generated for observance of cost years than medium million yen. This leads repor t is created. In the repor t, the the conformity to a regulation. not to reduction in profits. data of the atmosphere, waste water voluntary agreement. quality, carbon emission, and waste data is shown. Furthermore, the report is passed to the local government. It becomes the main management approach to continue these. The Sekisui Chemical Group has a plant in each country. A possibility that new environmental regulation will be made in non-OECD When environmental regulation is country is high. Irrespective of a Gneral decided, the cost of the equipment The equipment cost for countr y, the Sekisui Chemical Group When a new regulation environmental for adapted to regulation is needed. Increased 1 to 3 Very regulation is estimated performs an environmental impact is made, measure regulations, In that case, the manufacturing operational years Direct likely Medium at 10 million yen. This assessment at the time of installation expense is considered including planning cost in the area goes up. If cost cost leads to reduction in of equipment. And what was taken to be about 10 million competitiveness declines, sales will profits. into consideration to water or the yen every year. decrease. atmosphere is installed. Also high energy performance equipment is chosen. It becomes the main management approach to continue these. T h e s o l a r e n e r g y p o w e r g e n e ra t i o n Energy expense is increased in The additional charge system is put on the many plant of order to buy renewal energy more for buying renewal Sekisui Chemical Group. The generated Renewable energy expensive than the conventional Increased 1 to 3 Very energy is considered electricity is used at a plant. When The cost for renewal regulation e n e r g y, w h e n a r e n e w a l e n e r g y operational years Direct likely Medium to be 1 billion yen. This a location is good, a solar energy e n e r g y i s 10 m i l l i o n introduction target is decided by cost leads to reduction in p o w e r g e n e ra t i o n s y s t e m c o n t i n u e s yen every year. government. profits. to be installed. It becomes the main management approach to continue these. The Sekisui Chemical Group has a plant in each country. A possibility that new environmental regulation will be made in non-OECD If a new regulation is made, the The cost corresponding country is high. Irrespective of a The R&D cost of Uncertainty cost for regulation will appear at the Increased to a new regulation is countr y, the Sekisui Chemical Group e nv i r o n m e n t a l surrounding new plant of the area. Moreover, when a operational 3 to 6 Direct likely Medium considered to be about performs an environmental impact contribution products regulation product is not adapted to of a new cost years 10 m i l l i o n y e n . T h i s assessment at the time of installation is about 10 million yen regulation, sale of the product is leads to reduction in of equipment. Moreover, we think that every year. stopped. In that case, sales fall. profits. the Sekisui Chemical Group is asked for continuation of supply of the product of high environmental per formance. It becomes the main management approach to continue these. Even if there is no regulation, T h e s u p e r i o r i ty o f e nv i r o n m e n t a l the Sekisui Chemical Group contribution products is lost in a Reduced performs business operation with Lack of regulation country without environmental demand Up to 1 Direct Very Medium Cost is considered to be small environmental impact. And An additional charge is regulation. And the sales in the area for goods / year likely zero. continuation of supply of environmental considered to be zero. decrease. services c o n t r i b u t i o n p r o d u c t s i s o u r p o l i c y. Thereby, an business is not influenced by regulation. Direct / Magnitude Estimated financial Risk driver Description Potential impact Timeframe Likelihood Management method Cost of management Indirect of impact implications In sewer rehabilitation construction, our company holds a meeting to a construction vendor, and is exchanging the information about precipitation o r s a f e t y f r e q u e n t l y. A n d p r e c i s e scheduling is made to the rainy season. This is the management m e t h o d . M o r e o v e r, a t t h e t i m e o f acquisition or construction or acquiring the plant, Sekisui Chemical Group Sekisui Chemical Group has a u s e s e nv i r o n m e n t a l & s a f e ty c h e c k b us i ne s s to b e cons t ruct ed, s uch sheet. And after confirming the as a house and a water service surrounding situation individually, the infrastructure. By change of a environmental section of the head office The measure expense precipitation pattern, the amount approves construction and acquisition. of sewer renewal of water of a sewer may increase This is a process of risk management. estimates it as about suddenly. In that case, it is possible Since Japan has much precipitation, 1 million yen. The that construction of a sewer pipe The influence of the place which does not become a measure against Change in renewal is postponed. When such, Reduction / sales by change of a flood is selected. And equipment is plant construction precipitation the contractor who constructs disruption in Up to 1 Direct Virtually High precipitation pattern installed af ter padding the ground if is considered to be pattern using our products may suffer production year certain estimates it as about needed. These are also confirmed in an about 10 million yen. damage. The sales of this business capacity 100 million yen. environmental & safety check sheet. The cost of the switch are influenced by these. The traffic When required, the additional measure of production and infrastructure will be af fected by is required from an environmental shipment is estimated influence if local severe rain occurs. section. Through these processes, on a t a b o u t 10 m i l l i o n Then, commuting and shipment the occasion of construction of the yen. are influenced. Operation of a plant plant of the Tohoku district in Japan, m a y s t o p . Fo r t h i s r e a s o n , s a l e s a b o u t 2m e t e r p a d d i n g o f l a n d w a s decrease. done and the plant was built on it. At the time of the tsunami of Japan in 2011, although the surrounding road sank, a plant site and the equipment could not be covered with water, and could suspend equipment safely, and there was no damage of our employee. To the trouble of traffic by a heavy rain, we are minimizing the loss of a sales opportunity by the alternate production in a plant and shipment which have not been affected by the heavy rain. References 306 Since the outstanding thermal insulation will not be required for Change of temperature is various The business which i f ave ra g e t e m p e ra t u r e c h a n g e s , by a place. Sales area is expanded will be affected by the the sales of the thermal insulation Reduction of the sales in order to influence small. If it does i n f l u e n c e o f ave ra g e changes is for a car or a house are affected by Reduced of thermal insulation or so, the influence of sales will become temperature is already mean (average) influence. Moreover, if prevalence demand >6 years Direct likely Medium a diagnostic product is small. The business of plastic thermal undertaken in the temperature of an infection disease changes with for goods / considered to be about insulation or a diagnostic product is large area. areas, those who need diagnosis services 10 b i l l i o n y e n e v e r y manufactured and sold in various places Risk management m ay d e c r e a s e i n n u m b e r. I n t h a t year. mainly by Asia, the United States, and expense is estimated case, I influence the sales of medical EU. It becomes the main management a t a b o u t 100 m i l l i o n products, such as a diagnostic approach to continue these. yen. product. The Sekisui Chemical Group has a Climate changes by the area. By b us i ne s s to b e cons t ruct ed, s uch The influence on the proposing the construction in as a house and a water service sales which a house consideration of a season to a customer, The expense to a Change in infrastructure. When temperature Reduced and a water service the influence of sales becomes small. severe change of temperature e x t r e m e s c h a n g e s s e v e r e l y, demand Up to 1 Direct likely Lowinfrastructure business It becomes the main management extreme temperature extremes construction of our product for goods / year medium receive is considered approach to continue these. The Iwate is considered to be becomes impossible. The situation services to be about 100 million plant of Sekisui Medical, using a lot about 100 million yen. worker cannot carry out should be yen every year. of water, has its own source of water considered. For this reason, sales supply. decrease. The Sekisui Chemical Group has a b us i ne s s to b e cons t ruct ed, s uch as a house and a water service infrastructure. When average W h e n a v e r a g e precipitation changes and rainfall precipitation increases, Climate changes by the area. By increases to a rainy season, the reduction in sales proposing the construction in construction days decrease. is generally considered consideration of a season to a customer, Production and shipment become Reduction / to be 1 billion yen the influence of sales becomes small. Th e m ea s u r e cos t of Change in impossible, if rainfall increases disruption in 3 to 6 ever y year. Moreover, About regulation of water supply, it is change of precipitation mean (average) and flood damage occurs about production years Direct likely Medium i f r e g u l a t i o n o f wa t e r the risk management approach to have is estimated at about precipitation manufacture of a product. If a capacity supply occurs, the original source of water supply. And 100 million yen. customer's business stops, sales reduction in sales will surrounding population is small. For will fall. If rainfall decreases, water e s t i m a t e i t a s 100 this reason, the influence of change of supply of the area will decrease. million yen generally precipitation is small at that plant. At the plant of a chemicals a lot of every year. water requires in process, so if water supply is regulated, production stops. And an business opportunity is made to lose and sales decrease. When precipitation decreases sharply and supply of water decreases, at the plastic resin plant which uses a lot of water, a risk of reducing production or stopping a r i s e s . A l o t o f wa t e r i s u s e d f o r Sekisui Chemical Group has 5 plastic plastic resin for the interlayer films resin plant in four nations. When water for automobile windshields by a If water supply supply has restriction, the quantity of manufacturing process. If water d e c r e a s e s a n d production is maintained by changing supply stops, the product supply production of plastic t h e p l a n t . T h e r e b y, i n f l u e n c e o n a n to an automobile manufacturer will resin stops, 10 automotive manufacturing supply Change in stop as a result. That is, not only Reduction / billion yen sales may chain is made small. The Sekisui The cost which precipitation our company but an automotive disruption in Up to 1 Direct Very High d e c r e a s e . M o r e o v e r, Chemical group has a sales base in all switches a plant extremes and manufacturing supply chain is production year likely by a drought, sales parts of Japan about the agricultural estimates it as about droughts a f f e c t e d b y i n f l u e n c e . M o r e o v e r, capacity reduction of an c o m m o d i t y. W h e n a g r i c u l t u r a l 10 million yen. when the influence of precipitation agricultural commodity production stops at a certain area, affects agriculture, the agricultural estimates it as 10 the production place of the crops p r o d u c t i o n i n a c e r t a i n a r e a m ay billion yen. moves. According to movement of an stop. The Sekisui Chemical Group agricultural production place, changing is manufacturing and selling a sales base makes a risk of losing a the soil film for agriculture, the sales opportunity small. Physical film for Green House, the plastic container for agriculture, the move f lush tank for agriculture, etc. in the agricultural f ield. These sales opportunities may decrease. Commuting, production, There was an obstacle of transportation transpor tation, and shipment are When commuting plant by heavy snow in Japan in 2013. And The cost of the switch affected by influence by severe Reduction / operation and shipment plant operation and shipment stopped. of production and Snow and ice s n o w f a l l a n d Ic e S t o r m . T h e r e i s disruption in Up to 1 Direct Very Medium are affected by heavy Since the warehouse broke by snow, shipment estimates a risk of sales decreasing by this. production year likely snow, the reduction in law materials and a product received it as about 10 million Moreover, the cost by the damage to capacity sales estimates it as the damage. Production was switched yen. materials or stocks occurs. about 100 million yen. to the plant without snow. Then, sales reduction was prevented. Sekisui nano-coat technology and the Tokuyama Sekisui industry exist near The cost of the In the plant near the sea, production Reduction / About When the plant near the sea. Plant operation stops at the measure at the time of equipment receives a damage by sea disruption in as Lowthe sea is abolished, time of a large-scale rise in the sea an equipment change Rising sea level level rise. And a risk of production production >6 years Direct the price of the loss level. Each equipment is installed in likely medium of property is about 1 the several meters place from the sea estimates it as about stopping exists. capacity as not 10 m i l l i o n ye n e ve r y billion yen. level. For this reason, it is thought that year. the influence by a rise in the sea level is small. Pl a nt i n South eas t As ia including Japan and southern U.S. may be affected by the influence Japan has every year experience which o f h u r r i c a n e o r t h e Ty p h o o n . Reduction of the sales a typhoon approaches. The Sekisui The cost to the In that case, equipment and a Reduction / and property by the Chemical Group takes the influence of a Typhoon and hurricane Tropical low product suffer damage. Moreover, disruption in Up to 1 Direct Virtually Medium Ty p h o o n o r h u r r i c a n e wind and rain into consideration, when estimates it as about pressure system commuting may be affected by production year certain expects 100 million yen performing plant construction and 10 m i l l i o n ye n e ve r y influence and plant operation may capacity generally every year. equipment installation in every corner year. stop. Thereby, sales decrease. Also of the earth. when a supplier or a customer are af fected by inf luence, production and sales decrease. By the flood of Thailand in 2011, although the plants of the Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Group has decide Equipment of our company may be Chemical Group was not upon BCP (Business Continuity affected by influence by a flood, the Reduced affected by inf luence, Planning) until now, and has a means to Induced changes Ice Storm, hurricane, and tsunami. demand Up to 1 Indirect our customer's factory avoid the risk if possible. Specifically, it The additional cost of in natural Furthermore, production and sales for goods / year (Supply likely High could not operate is a switch of production to the plant of BCP decision expects resources are influenced even if our supplier services chain) cause of f lood, and it the area which has not been affected by 10 million or less yen. and a customer are affected by was not able to supply influence. Furthermore, it is the crossinfluence. our products. In such supply of a product with a competitor. a case, it has the influence of a loss of the sales opportunity. The influence by which the Sekisui Chemical Group is affected by the uncertainty of a climatic change is In Japan, a house is produced at seven as follows. The influence by which p l a n t s . Wa t e r s u p p l y i n f ra s t r u c t u r e 1. T he stop of raw-material supply, Reduced More the Sekisui Chemical products are produced at the plant of Uncertainty of and the increase in supply cost. demand 3 to 6 likely Grou p is a f f e cte d ca n 10. A production plant is switched when The cost of a plant physical risks 2. I nfluence on the plant operation for goods / years Direct than Medium consider various cases. a plant is affected by influence under switch estimates it as under the influence of commuting services not The influence on sales the influence of a climate change. This about 100 million yen. or transportation. has estimated it as is a measure against a risk to sales 3. T h e s t o p o f c o n s t r u c t i o n o f about 1 billion yen. reduction. a house or a water service infrastructure. These reduce sales. The Sekisui Chemical Group manufactures a house and uses wood. The Sekisui Chemical Group A t t h e t i m e o f w o o d s u p p l y, t h e manufactures a house and uses Sekisui Chemical Group checks forest The cost of the wood wood. When a forest fire increases Reduction / More The influence of wood certification and purchases it from supply from two or Other physical b y a b n o r m a l w e a t h e r, s u p p l y o f disruption in 1 to 3 Direct likely Mediumsupply has estimated it two or more areas. Canada where more places has effects wood decreases. As a result, wood production years than high as about 1 billion yen. temperature is low is also one of the estimated it as about cost goes up. If damage occurs in capacity not suppliers. 10 million yen. the forest which the wood supplier Supplying from two or more places is of our company owns, wood will the method of risk management. not be supplied temporarily but production of a house will stop. References 307 Direct / Magnitude Estimated financial Risk driver Description Potential impact Timeframe Likelihood Management method Cost of management Indirect of impact implications Sekisui Chemical Group understands that, our environmental contribution products are evaluated from society. Our vision is as follows. We use natural capital at materials use, manufacture and use and abandonment of product. And through the impact reduction activities of environmental contribution Sekisui Chemical Group is evaluated p r o d u c t s , e n e r g y s a v i n g , e t c ., a n d as a company which is tackling nature conser vation activities, more seriously to the environmental than it used natural capital, it is problem containing a climate planned to return the natural capital by change, especially in Japan. 2030. We understand sales expansion And continuation of supply of of these products leads to return environmental contribution products larger. Return rate to natural capital w a s e va l u a t e d a n d w e r e c o g n i z e is reported to zone of management it as it being one of the reasons a b y C S R c o m m i t t e e e v e r y y e a r, a n d customer chooses our products. The Reduction of sales when when required, directions of a return The R&D cost of prefabricated house Sekisui Heim Reduced More the reputation about rate improvement are taken out from e nv i r o n m e n t a l of the Sekisui Chemical Group had demand Up to 1 likely the environment of the a zo n e o f m a n a g e m e n t . Re t u r n ra t e contribution products Reputation a s o l a r e n e r g y p o w e r g e n e ra t i o n for goods / year Direct than High Sekisui Chemical Group of natural capital is disclosed in a CSR and diclosure cost of system and a storage battery, and services not worsens estimates it as report. In the case of development or contribution of our has advocated that ZEH(Net Zero about 100 billion yen. improvement, emission is calculated products is about 1 Energy House) is realized. Thereby, by a product environmental impact billion yen. Sekisui Heim has received evaluation assessment note. In it, assessment from the market and consumers. If of an environmental impact and evaluation of a company gets worse contribution is calculated. Emission about carbon emission, the sales of from the manufacture of a product housing products will be influenced. to use and abandonment is also Sale of Sekisui Heim especially calculated. Plastic sheet KYDEX used whose customers are consumers is for the seat parts and window frame affected to reputation by influence. of airplane realize the weight saving of airplane. Operating department and environmental section collaborated and reduction of the airplane fuel by this p r o d u c t wa s c a l c u l a t e d . I t b e c o m e s the way of the risk management to reputation to develop environmental contribution products and to calculate and disclose the environmental contribution of a product. Sekisui Chemical Group made the long-term environmental vision. The contents are the following. We use natural capital from materials, When a customer chooses goods, When 10% of the manufacture, use, and abandonment. he comes to choose the thing in materials and energies We do the return of the natural capital c o n s i d e r a t i o n o f s u s t a i n a b i l i t y. which the Sekisui used to the ear th, by environmental The R&D cost of Changing For example, what changed Increased 1 to 3 Very MediumChemical Group uses is contribution products, environmental e nv i r o n m e n t a l consumer material and energy into renewable operational years Direct likely high changed into renewable impact reduction activities, and nature contribution products behaviour resource from fossil resources, is cost resource from fossil conservation activities. More than we is about 1 billion yen. chosen. Probably, the R&D cost for resources, the cost rise used natural capital, we do the return converting into such products is of about 10 billion yen of it in 2030. needed. is expected. We continue these activities and continue development of environmental contribution products. It is correspondence to change of goods selection of a customer. The Sekisui Chemical Group is manufacturing and selling the The Sekisui Chemical Group has prefabricated house Sekisui Heim. When housing business founded the living environment Other By a climate change, change of cannot respond to research institute. Then, we are vegetation, geographical feature, change in the change, studying a people's wish to the house, The research cost to Induced changes and an ecosystem may change Reduced More family structure, or and change of housing culture. The change of the person in human eating habits. In addition, change demand likely result is used for R&D of housing and cultural of people's occupation, change of for goods / >6 years Direct than Medium housing culture of p r o d u c t s . M o r e o v e r, s i n c e w e a r e about a dwelling and environments activity hours and family structure services not people's wish to living u n d e r t a k i n g t h e h o u s i n g r e n ova t i o n culture estimates it as are predicted. These lead to change environment, sales business, we have a means to get 100 million yen. of people's wish to a house. When decrease by about 100 to know people's favorite change the house corresponding to change billion yen. to a dwelling. This serves as risk cannot be supplied, the sales of a management. house business decrease. When it has the physical influence by a climate change, it becomes impossible to continue agriculture by the area for example. Moreover, Sekisui Chemical Group is developing change arises in the kind of crops. When it cannot and selling environmental contribution Fluctuating If regulation takes place to use Reduced More respond to change products, and recognizes it as being The R&D cost of socio-economic of water or fuel, the structure of demand >6 years Direct likely Medium of a socioeconomic e v a l u a t e d f r o m s o c i e t y. E v e n i f a e nv i r o n m e n t a l conditions the industry may change. Since for goods / than situation, it is predicted socioeconomic situation changes, contribution products the Sekisui Chemical Group is services not that sales decrease planning environmental contribution is about 1 billion yen. manufacturing the product for about 100 billion yen. products and continuing providing is a agriculture, and the parts of a car measure against this risk. and electric products, when it cannot respond to change of industr y or economy, sales decrease. Under the physical inf luence by a When the humanitarian climate change, an epidemic may activity is increasing, The Sekisui Chemical Group has break out the area, or a life place however the Sekisui determined that all the places of may disappear by a rise in the sea Chemical Group business per form the environmental T h e c o s t o f Increasing level. In that case, a humanitarian Reduced More does not perform contribution activities including e nv i r o n m e n t a l humanitarian activity is increased. When the demand >6 years Direct likely Lowcontribution activities afforestation or cleaning activities in contribution activities demands Sekisui Chemical Group does not for goods / than medium in a certain area, our environmental mid-term plan. estimates it as about contribute to the area in case of services not reduction in a customer Continuation of this activity will 100 million yen every such a situation, the business in the is expected. The recognize the contribution of a company year. area is affected by influence. And reduction in sales to the area. And the influence on the sales decrease. estimates it as about 1 business in the area is minimized. billion yen. The Sekisui Chemical Group manufactures and sells a prefabricated house, and is manufacturing and selling the Sekisui Chemical Group is developing plastic article relevant to a life and When it cannot respond and selling environmental contribution industry. It is expected that people's Reduced More to the uncertainty in products, and recognizes it as being The R&D cost of Uncertainty of life style, family structure, the liking demand >6 years Direct likely Lowa social effect, sales evaluated from society. Even if a life e nv i r o n m e n t a l social factors to the product, and the industrial for goods / than medium decrease by about 100 and industry change, it is a measure contribution products structure in the area change with services not billion yen. against a risk to continue supplying is about 1 billion yen. climate changes. However, there is environmental contribution products uncertainty in the change. corresponding to the change. When we can respond to neither a life of people nor change of industry, the sales in the area decrease. If a market reacts to the matter considered to be prediction of a Sekisui Chemical Group is developing climate change, and influence of Reduction of the market and selling environmental contribution a climate change sensitively, it is Reduced stock value of the Sekisui products, and recognizes it as being The R&D cost of Uncertainty of possible that a stock price fluctuates price (market 1 to 3 Direct Very Medium Chemical group by the evaluated from society. It is an answer e nv i r o n m e n t a l market signals quickly. If a market judges that the valuation) years likely uncertainty of a market to the uncertainty of a market signal contribution products Sekisui Chemical Group does not sig n a l e stima te s it a s to consider the influence of a climate is about 1 billion yen. have the product or solution to a 10 billion yen. change and to continue supplying climate change, a stock price will environmental contribution products. change. References 308 【Opportunity】 Direct / Magnitude Estimated financial Opportunity driver Description Potential impact Timeframe Likelihood Management method Cost of management Indirect of impact implications About energy saving of prefabricated By Framework Convention on house Sekisui Heim , by collaboration Climate Change, if emission with our customer, energy use is monitored restrictions of GHG are defined and energy-saving performance is according to a more extensive d i s c l o s e d e ve r y ye a r. M o r e ove r, t h e country and a sector, the regulation result is used in the development of for making emission restrictions next product. This is the management adapted to and voluntary reduction method. Moreover, Sekisui Chemical activities will advance. Sekisui Group is manufacturing the part Chemical Group attaches a which saves energy of automobile solar energy power generation and electrics. Solar control Interlayer s y s t e m , a s t o r a g e b a t t e r y, a n d film for automobile glasses, LED a home energy management component, and next-generation system to a prefabricated house batter y are so. Moreover, evaluation S e k i s u i H e i m , a n d s e l l s i t a s of environmental contribution of ZEH(Net Zero Energy House). these products is performed one by This is one integrative solution one. As the section which develops to a climate change. Although Sales expansion of environmental contribution products, the business of the prefabricated Increased the house, interlayer Development center is organized in R&D expense is about house is undertaken in Japan and demand film, LED parts and the head office. Product corresponding 10 b i l l i o n ye n . S i n c e International T h a i l a n d n o w, t h e b u s i n e s s m a y for existing 3 to 6 Direct likely High the charge of nextto reduction target of the government the development agreements be undertaken in the country products / years generation battery after the Paris agreement is section is already required for ZEH in the future. This services material is assumed to developed. Use of sustainable organized, there is no becomes sales expansion. Moreover, be 200 billion yen. materials is also studied. Contribution additional cost. the Sekisui Chemical Group also to environment is calculated using s e l l s t h e i n t e r l aye r f i l m f o r g l a s s “P r o d u c t e nv i r o n m e n t a l i m p a c t which interrupts the heat for an a s s e s s m e n t n o t e” . A t t h e m o n t h l y automobile or buildings. And, we development meeting, progress of are performing development of the product development is checked from part for LED, and a next-generation zone of management. Environmental battery. The emission regulation by contribution of a product is counted international agreement leads an up by the environmental section based opportunity of these product sale. on sales data. And it is reported to the If a country with a reduction target zone of management. It is our longwill increase in the future, the need range plan to carry out the return of to our goods will be expanded. Our natural capital by the environmental sales are expanded when energyc o n t r i b u t i o n o f a p r o d u c t , e t c ., saving regulation is introduced into more than it used natural capital the automobile and the electric b y 2030. C o n t i n u i n g d e v e l o p m e n t product in which our products are of environmental products towards included. achievement of this target leads to maximization of the opportunity. By strengthening of regulation of air pollution, reduction of VO C ( s ) , r e d u c t i o n o f e m i s s i o n o f chlorofluorocarbon, and reduction of the excretions by combustion of fuel are required. Sekisui Chemical Group sells the pressure sensitive adhesive tape conver ted into the process which does not emission Sales expansion of our The Sekisui Chemical Group has VOC at the time of manufactures Increased adhesive tape, plastic completed the investment in pressure of craf t tapes , supreme tape. demand sponge products and sensitive adhesive tape and the Air pollution limits M o r e o v e r, w e a r e c a r r y i n g o u t for existing 1 to 3 Direct likely Mediumbatter y raw materials manufacturing process of plastic There is no additional the production and sales of the products / years high could be an opportunity s p o n g e . M o r e o v e r, w e h a v e b e e n cost. plastic sponge Softlon and services for a possible increase continuing R&D of the parts for the Fenovaboard that has no in sales of 10 billion yen batteries from before. This continuation chlorofluorocarbon emission in per year. is a management method. t h e m a n u f a c t u r i n g p r o c e s s . We Regulatory are also making the parts of the battery required for the car which does not take out the quality of an air pollutant. Strengthening of regulation will increase a demand for these products. If a carbon tax is introduced, fuel cost will increase and energy c o s t w i l l g o u p . Fo r t h i s r e a s o n , a product with suf f icient energysaving performance comes to be chosen. The Sekisui Chemical Group provides Sekisui Heim , which is Increased Sales expansion of Sekisui Chemical Group is continuing high energy-saving per formance, demand Sekisui Heim, and the R&D of ZEH, a interlayer film, LED Carbon taxes and realized ZEH(Net Zero Energy for existing 1 to 3 Direct likely Mediumparts for batteries parts, or next-generation battery parts There is no additional House) with the solar energy power products / years high estimates it as about from the former. Continuation of these cost. generation system. Moreover, we services 10 billion yen. R&D is a management method. sell the interlayer film for glass which intercepts the heat for a car o r b u i l d i n g s . A l s o, w e d e ve l o p e d t h e m a t e r i a l f o r n e x tg e n e ra t i o n batteries. Introduction of a carbon tax will increase the sales of these products. The maximum of the amount of emission is set up in a cap and trade scheme. For this reason, investment to reduce the amount of emission prospers. The Sekisui Chemical Increased Sales expansion Sekisui Chemical Group is continuing Cap and trade Group R&D and sells plastic demand 1 to 3 Mediumthermal insulation R&D of thermal insulation, LED parts, There is no additional schemes sponge softlon , a Fenovaboard , for existing years Direct likely high parts for LED and or next-generation battery parts from cost. and the interlayer film for glass products / batteries estimates it the former. Continuation of these R&D w h i c h i n te r r up t s h e at as t h e rm al services as about 10 billion yen. is a management method. insulation, LED parts and the parts of a next-generation battery. Expansion of a cap and trade scheme increases these sales. Grasp of energy use is needed in the emission reporting obligations. The Sekisui Chemical Group attaches HEMS(Home energy management system) to housing products, and Increased The Sekisui Chemical Group has been Emission reporting sells it. It can grasp and record demand 1 to 3 1 billion yen is performing R&D of HESM for some There is no additional obligations the amount of the energy used, for existing years Direct likely Low predicted as a HEMStime. Continuation of this R&D is a cost. a p r o d u c t i o n o f e l e c t r i c i t y, a n d products / related sales expansion. management method. purchase electric energy. An office services may also be provided with this product. Expansion of the emission reporting obligations increases the sales of these products. If fuel /energy taxes are introduced, fuel cost will increase and energy c o s t w i l l g o u p . Fo r t h i s r e a s o n , a product with suf f icient energysaving performance comes to be chosen. The Sekisui Chemical Group provides Sekisui Heim , which is Increased Sales expansion of Sekisui Chemical Group is continuing high energy-saving per formance, demand Sekisui Heim, and the R&D of ZEH, a interlayer film, LED Fuel /energy taxes and realized ZEH(Net Zero Energy for existing 1 to 3 Direct likely Mediumparts for batteries parts, or next-generation battery There is no additional and regulations House) with the solar energy power products / years high estimates it as about par ts from the former. Continuation cost. generation system. Moreover, we services 10 billion yen. of these R&D is a management sell the interlayer film for glass method. which intercepts the heat for a car o r b u i l d i n g s . A l s o, w e d e ve l o p e d t h e m a t e r i a l f o r n e x tg e n e ra t i o n batteries. Introduction of a carbon tax will increase the sales of these products. References 309 The prefabricated house Sekisui Heim of the Sekisui Chemical Group carries a solar energy power generation system, and Increased Sekisui Chemical Group is continuing Product efficiency has insulation proper ties, and its demand 100 billion yen is R&D of Sekisui Heim's energy regulations and energy-saving performance is high. for existing 1 to 3 Direct Very Mediumpredicted as a Sekisui saving, and visualization of energy There is no additional standards When the system of the subsidy to products / years likely high Heim sales expansion. Smar t Heim navi from the former. cost. the solar energy power generation services Continuation of these R&D is a system of a house is made or the management method. energy-saving standard of a house is enacted, Sekisui Heim's sales increase. The prefabricated house Sekisui Heim of the Sekisui Chemical Group has released the evaluation result about the high energy-saving Into the Sekisui Chemical Group, I have per formance. Moreover, also with many evaluation results about Sekisui other environmental contribution When the system of an H e i m ' s e n e r g ys av i n g p e r f o r m a n c e . Calculation of the data products, use of natural capital Increased environmental label is Moreover, they are released by Press of an environmental Product labelling a n d e va l u a t i o n o f e n v i r o n m e n t a l demand 1 to 3 made and we perform a Releases. label and the cost of regulations and performance are carried out one by for existing years Direct likely High label display, the sales We a r e c a r r y i n g o u t c a l c u l a t i o n o f verif ication estimate standards one. When an environmental label is products / expansion is about the contribution of environmental it as about 10 million institutionalized, we use data in the services 10 billion yen. contribution products, and visualization yen every year. Company, are receiving verification one by one. Continuation of these if needed and can display a product activities is a management method. label promptly. As a result, sales increase to the customer who thinks especially environmental performance as important. A voluntar y agreement is decided When a voluntary The plant and research institute in among the local governments, a g r e e m e n t i s Japan are creating the environmental the contents and results are Increased determined and the site report irrespective of the existence Additional cost Voluntary released, and when it is able to demand 1 to 3 release of reduction of of a voluntary agreement. An estimates it as about agreements be shown that the environmental for existing years Direct likely High environmental impacts environmental impact is shown in the 10 m i l l i o n ye n e ve r y i m p a c t i s d e c r e a s i n g , e va l u a t i o n products / is continued, sales report. It is reported also to the local year. of the environment of a company services expansion estimates government. Continuation of these increases. And those who choose it as about 100 million activities is a management method. our products increase. yen every year. If environmental regulation is made, The Sekisui Chemical Group has a plant in order to follow it, installation and As compared with in each country. an improvement of equipment are the case where A possibility that new environmental needed. The Sekisui Chemical Group e n v i r o n m e n t a l regulation will be made in non-OECD performs environmental assessment impact reduction country is high. Irrespective of a Gneral also in a country without is not considered, countr y, the Sekisui Chemical Group Additional cost environmental environmental regulation at the Reduced 1 to 3 Very Mediumreduction of the cost performs an environmental impact estimates it as about regulations, time of plant construction or capital capital costs years Direct likely high of an equipment assessment at the time of installation 10 m i l l i o n ye n e ve r y including planning investment. Equipment of a low improvement when of equipment. Moreover, we think that year. environmental impact is installed e n v i r o n m e n t a l the Sekisui Chemical Group is asked for using the procedure. Then, only the regulation is made continuation of supply of the product minimum correspondence is needed estimates it as 10 of high environmental per formance. even if regulation is possible. This million yen generally Continuation of these activities is a serves as an opportunity to reduce a every year. management method. cost of capital. It is the feature that the prefabricated house Sekisui Heim of the Sekisui Chemical Group has a s o l a r e n e r g y p o w e r g e n e ra t i o n The Sekisui Chemical Group sells s y s t e m a n d a s t o r a g e b a t t e r y. Increased When the target of Sekisui Heim who carries a solar Renewable energy Moreover, we developed the nextdemand 1 to 3 a renewable energy energy power generation system and a There is no additional regulation generation battery. When the target for existing years Direct likely Medium ratio is decided, sales storage battery. Development of a nextcost. of a renewal energy rate is decided products / expansion estimates it generation battery is also continued. by the government, Sekisui Heim's services as 10 billion yen. Continuation of these activities is a b u y e r m a y g e t a s u b s i d y. U s e o f management method. a next-generation battery may increase. As a result, the sales of our company increase. Direct / Magnitude Estimated financial Opportunity driver Description Potential impact Timeframe Likelihood Management method Cost of management Indirect of impact implications The Sekisui Chemical Group sells the water supply infrastructure and Sekisui Chemical Group continues the product which collects water. R&D and the business over supply There are a pipe for water service, safe water, storage and drainage for a joint, a valve, etc. in water supply 60 ye a rs or more , a n d h a s a ll th e se products. Also there are product solutions, and the scale is the largest in w h i c h c o l l e c t s wa t e r. I n t h e a r e a Japan. In order to expand the product whose precipitation decreased, of this f ield, Urban Infrastructure & supply of safe water becomes a Environmental Products Company pressing subject. Sekisui Chemical invested in the Shiga-Ritto plant Group has a business of a water 7 billion yen, and has expanded s u p p l y i n f r a s t r u c t u r e . We m a k e development organization. Sekisui solution supply immediately to Chemical has the system Cross-Wave the area where safe water supply w h i c h s t o r e s r a i n t e m p o r a r i l y. We is required. Flood damage and a a l s o h ave S P R o f t h e p r o d u c t w h i c h R&D expense is about mudslide may occur in the area Increased reforms an inner side, without digging 5 billion yen. There are Change in which precipitation increased. demand 3 to 6 V e r y Sales expansion of 10 u p t h e s e w e r p i p e . A n d i n 2017 w e already development mean (average) In that case, collecting water for existing years Direct likely High billion yen is expected started sale for the product Infra organization and sales precipitation underground in a hurry, or pouring products / with a related product. Guard which repairs the inner side of organization and there water downstream promptly is services concrete piping. This makes digging up is no additional cost. r e q u i r e d . We h a v e a p r o d u c t o f of the ground unnecessary and attains Cross-wave and a Rain-station e x t e n s i o n o f l i f e s p a n o f a d ra i n a g e about underground storage of water. pipe. These are products which protect M o r e o v e r, w e h a v e t h e v a r i o u s a city from increase of precipitation. materials for sewer infrastructure. The operating department for Fu r t h e r m o r e , w e h ave a s o l u t i o n developing these products and ser vice of sewer pipeline renewal expanding sale was organized in that (SPR). Construction of accident c o m p a n y. D e v e l o p m e n t p r o j e c t a n d prevention occurs in the area which a sales plan are confirmed by the precipitation increases. For this zone of management every month. reason, the opportunity for our Management method is to continue products to be used increases. For R & D a n d t h e b u s i n e s s , o f s u p p l y, this reason, change of precipitation storage and drainage of water. serves as an opportunity to increase the sales of our company. The Sekisui Chemical Group has the product Ribcool which airconditions by carrying out heat Increased changes is exchange in underground. This demand Sales expansion of 1 Since development of the products mean (average) p r o d u c t r e d u c e s a i rc o n d i t i o n i n g for existing 1 to 3 Direct V e r y Mediumi s f i n i s h e d ye t , i m p r o ve m e n t o f t h e There is no additional years likely high billion yen is expected products according to each case is the cost. temperature energies. For this reason, the sales products / with a related product. of this product may be expanded in services method of opportunity management. the situation from which average temperature changes. The Sekisui Chemical Group has the heat insulation products Sof tlon and a Fenovaboard. We also have a water supply pipe and building materials excellent in heat resistance or refractoriness. Increased Change in The prefabricated house Sekisui demand Sales expansion of 1 Since development of the products temperature Heim is excellent in insulation for existing 1 to 3 Direct likely Mediumbillion yen is expected i s f i n i s h e d ye t , i m p r o ve m e n t o f t h e There is no additional extremes properties. When a severe change products / years high with a related product. products according to each case is the cost. of temperature extremes increases, services method of opportunity management. insulation properties and heat resistance of a product are required. M o r e o v e r, w h e n h o t c l i m a t e continues, the possibility of a fire increases. These change increases sales. References 310 O u r p r o d u c t C r o s s Wa ve w h i c h collects water underground can respond to over f low of a f lood or Increased Change in a s e we r by us ing collected water demand Sales expansion of 1 Since development of the products precipitation at the time of local severe rain. for existing 1 to 3 Direct Very Mediumbillion yen is expected i s f i n i s h e d ye t , i m p r o ve m e n t o f t h e There is no additional pattern M o r e o v e r, c o l l e c t e d w a t e r c a n products / years likely high with a related product. products according to each case is the cost. be used at the time of a water services method of opportunity management. shortage. Therefore, sales are expanded in the situation where the precipitation pattern changes. The Sekisui Chemical Group sells the water supply infrastructure and the product which collects water. There are a pipe for water service, a joint, a valve, etc. in water supply products. There are Cross-wave , Rain-station and Panel tank as Increased Change in a product which collects water. If demand Sales expansion of 10 Since development of the products precipitation precipitation extremes and droughts for existing 3 to 6 Direct Very Mediumbillion yen is expected i s f i n i s h e d ye t , i m p r o ve m e n t o f t h e There is no additional extremes and changes, the demand of the product products / years likely high with a related product. products according to each case is the cost. droughts which supplies safe water will services method of opportunity management. increase. The product which collects water for reuse of water, and the product for draining water early Physical also come to be required. Change of precipitation extremes and droughts brings about the opportunity of sales expansion. The Sekisui Chemical Group sells the prefabricated house Sekisui Heim. In it, the cold district-oriented house which also bears snowy weight is included by thermally insulated. Increased M o r e ove r, w e h ave a s o l u t i o n f o r demand Sales expansion of 10 Since development of the products Snow and ice constructing water, electricity, and for existing 3 to 6 Direct likely Mediumbillion yen is expected i s f i n i s h e d ye t , i m p r o ve m e n t o f t h e There is no additional a telephone cable in underground. products / years high with a related product. products according to each case is the cost. This serves as a solution which services method of opportunity management. maintains a life and business, when traff ic stops at snow or the Ice Storm. For this reason, if the influence of snow or ice increases, sales will increase. T h e g e n e ra t i o n f r e q u e n c y o f t h e typhoon or hurricane goes up, the opportunity for an agricultural Increased Induced changes house and housing materials demand Sales expansion of 10 Since development of the products in natural (drainspout etc.) to be destroyed for existing 1 to 3 Direct Very Mediumbillion yen is expected i s f i n i s h e d ye t , i m p r o ve m e n t o f t h e There is no additional resources will increase. So, the agricultural products / years likely high with a related product. products according to each case is the cost. film, the drainspout for housing, and services method of opportunity management. the demand of housing reformation increase. Therefore, sales are expanded in such a situation. Direct / Magnitude Estimated financial Opportunity driver Description Potential impact Timeframe Likelihood Management method Cost of management Indirect of impact implications Sekisui Chemical Group decided upon the long-term vision in 2014. We do a return to natural capital by a product, environmental impact reduction, and environmental contribution activities to use of the natural capital in a business. Return rate to natural capital is disclosed in a CSR report every year. In order to calculate the return of natural capital, the environmental Sekisui Chemical Group performed contribution of a product is calculated GHG emission reduction activities, and environmental impacts, such and has already released the as greenhouse gas emission, are activity situation for many years. measured. We understand that activity The disclosure The Sekisui Chemical Group of the increase in the return to natural i n c l u d i n g t h e released the environmental longcapital has led to the reputation of calculation and the term vision in 2014. We calculate Increased Sekisui Chemical Group. In order to CSR report of the the natural capital which I use with demand 1 to 3 Very MediumSales expansion of 10 increase the return of natural capital amount of returns of Reputation a business. And we do the return for existing years Direct likely high billion yen is expected by design, we made the environmental natural capital cost of the natural capital to the earth products / with a related product. mid-term plan including the sales of about 1 billion yen. by three activities, environmental services environmental contribution products, The system is already contribution products, and emission reduction of GHG. The made and there is no environmental impact reduction present mid-term plan is raising the additional cost. activities, and nature conservation return rate to natural capital to 90% activities. Our product is chosen as by 2020, and making it not less than a customer when these activities are 100% by 2030. Progress of activity is evaluated by a market and people. reported to a zone of management by the environmental subcommittee for every half a year, and correction of a plan is directed if needed. And a plan and a result are disclosed in a CSR report. The effort for the return to natural capital leads also to emission reduction of GHG, and ser ves as the way of maximization of an opportunity to maintain the reputation of our company as a result. At the situation in which the climate The Sekisui Chemical Group is tackling change is advancing, the customer visualization of the contribution to the will choose the more sustainable environment of our environmental products when they choose the Increased contribution products. Moreover, we Changing product. For example, in energy use demand Sales expansion of 10 have authorized the product which consumer or use material, what was converted for existing 1 to 3 Direct Very Mediumbillion yen is expected reduces the GHG emission at the time There is no additional behaviour into the renewable resource is products / years likely high with a related product. of a customer's use for environmental cost. chosen from fossil resources. services c o n t r i b u t i o n p r o d u c t s . We c o n t i n u e Moreover, what has the few amount conversion for material or use energy Other of the energy used, and what has to a renewable resource, promoting the few amount of the resources these activities. That is a management used are chosen. method. The Sekisui Chemical Group is manufacturing and selling the prefabricated house Sekisui Heim. By a climate change, change of The Sekisui Chemical Group develops vegetation, geographical feature, the solution which makes environment and an ecosystem may change in a house comfortable, and is eating habits. In addition, change continuing taking it in to Sekisui Heim. of people's occupation, change of T h e a i r c o n d i t i o n i n g a n d ve n t i l a t i n g activity hours and family structure system comfortable Airy is so. are predicted. These lead to change Thereby, the air in a house is circulated o f p e o p l e ' s w i s h t o a h o u s e . Fo r Increased and temperature and humidity are Induced changes example, the solution comfortable demand Sales expansion of 10 maintained comfor tably. The Sekisui in human Airy is taken in by Sekisui Heim to for existing 3 to 6 Direct likely High billion yen is expected Chemical Group founds a living There is no additional and cultural people's potential need that nature products / years with a related product. environment research institute, and cost. environments and clean air circulate about the services is studying change of the liking to a i r e nv i r o n m e n t o f a h o u s e . T h i s people's house, and the culture of a has gained the customer's support. house. The result is used for R&D of M o r e o v e r, t h e S e k i s u i C h e m i c a l housing products. Furthermore, we are Group has a living environment u n d e r t a k i n g t h e h o u s i n g r e n ova t i o n research institute. The research b u s i n e s s . T h a t i s , w e h ave a m e a n s institute is continuing research to get to know the favorite change to of the liking to people's dwelling, people's house. That is a management and change of life culture. If it can method. continue supplying people and the house corresponding to change of culture, sales will increase. References 311 The Sekisui Chemical Group has a housing business. And we are manufacturing and selling the plastic Sekisui Chemical Group is developing article used in a life and industry. A and selling environmental contribution climate change may change a life Increased products, and recognizes it as being Fluctuating style, family structure, the liking demand Sales expansion of 10 e v a l u a t e d f r o m s o c i e t y. W h i l e a socio-economic to people's product, and industry, for existing 3 to 6 Direct likely Medium billion yen is expected life style and industry change, it There is no additional conditions for example, f isher y industr y and products / years with a related product. is a management method for us cost. agriculture. However, the possibility services to correspond to change, to plan is uncertain. If the Sekisui Chemical environmental contribution products, Group follows in footsteps of change and to continue R&D. of a life style or industr y and can provide service with a product, sales will increase. The Sekisui Chemical Group has the business of the diagnostic product to Under the physical inf luence by a infection, and a diagnostic system. climate change, an epidemic may And we have the business of the break out the area, or a life place prefabricated house which can shorten may disappear by a rise in the sea Increased c o n s t r u c t i o n t i m e s h a r p l y. T h a t i s , Increasing level. In that case, a humanitarian demand Sales expansion of 1 the contribution of our products is humanitarian activity is increased. If the Sekisui for existing 3 to 6 Direct likely Mediumbillion yen is expected p o s s i b l e t o g e n e ra t i n g o f i n f e c t i o n , There is no additional demands Chemical Group has it recognized products / years high with a related product. a n d r e s e r va t i o n o f a l i f e p l a c e . T h e cost. to contribute to the area, the services Sekisui Chemical Group performs the reputation of the Company in the environmental contribution activities, area is maintainable. And it is an such as afforestation activities opportunity to increase sales. etc. in all the places of business. Continuation of these activities is a management method to the increase in a humanitarian demands. References 312 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Basic Policies The Company sets forth as its basic policy for corporate governance the promotion of sustainable corporate growth and the increase of corporate value. To realize this, the Company will enhance the transparency/fairness of management, pursue prompt decision-making, and continue to fulfill the expectations of “customers,” “shareholders,” “employees,” “business partners,” and “local communities and the environment,” the five major categories of stakeholders that the Company values most, through the creation of value to society. SEKISUI Corporate Governance Principles The Company has established and disclosed the Sekisui Corporate Governance Principles for the purpose of further evolving its corporate governance initiatives and communicating our corporate governance approach and initiatives to our stakeholders. In addition to the above Principles, the status of the Company’s initiatives and its approach with respect to all 78 items of the Corporate Governance Code, consisting of the General Principles, Principles and Supplementary Principles, are summarized and disclosed in the form of the Initiatives to Each of Principles of the Corporate Governance Code. Corporate Governance Report (June 28, 2018) (pdf:548KB) http://www.sekisuichemical.com/about/outline/governance/pdf/20180628cgre.pdf SEKISUI Corporate Governance Principles(June 27, 2018) (pdf:254KB) http://www.sekisuichemical.com/about/outline/governance/pdf/20180627cgpe.pdf Initiatives to Each of Principles of the Corporate Governance Code(June 27, 2018) (pdf:260KB) http://www.sekisuichemical.com/about/outline/governance/pdf/20180627cgie.pdf References 313 Corporate Governance Systems Organizational Structure As an organizational structure under the Companies Act, the Company has chosen to be a company with Audit & Supervisory Board. Under the Divisional Company System, the Company has adopted the Executive Officer System in order to clearly distinguish the business execution function from the decision-making function in management. Corporate Governance System Chart References 314 Board of Directors Roles and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors continually strives to strengthen its role as a body responsible for decision-making concerning the Company’s fundamental policies and upper-level management issues, and supervising the execution of business. The Board includes three Outside Directors to ensure transparency in management and fairness in business decisions and operations. Composition of the Board of Directors The number of directors shall not exceed 15, and 2 or more of them shall be independent outside directors. The Board of Directors of the Company shall consist of directors who have an excellent character, insight, and a high moral standard in addition to knowledge, experience, and competence. In addition, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, including Outside of them, shall attend the meetings of the Board of Directors. The Company ensures diversity among board members and keeps the number of directors at an optimal level for appropriate decision-making that is commensurate with the business domain and size. The presidents of the division companies who are the top management of each business and senior corporate officers with significant experience and strong expertise are appointed as inside directors. Together with the outside directors who have broad knowledge and experience and Audit & Supervisory Board Members with strong expertise, they effectively perform the roles and responsibilities of the Board of Directors, taking the balance with respect to diversity, optimal size, and capabilities. Outside Directors The Company appoints to the Board three Outside Directors with verified independence from the Company who contribute to the enhancement of corporate value by providing advice and oversight based on their extensive administrative experience and specialized knowledge. The Outside Directors provide counsel based on their diverse and objective perspectives on priority management issues, such as global development strategy, business model revisions, and strengthening of CSR management. Kunio Ishizuka, Outside Director Mr. Ishizuka is Senior Advisor of Isetan Mitsukoshi Holdings Limited. Since he has provided advice with respect to the business management of the Company and supervised business execution appropriately by leveraging his abundant knowledge of busi ness management and leadership fostered through his position as a management executive of a leading retail and service com pany, he is expected to contribute to further enhancing the corporate value of the Sekisui Chemical Group. Yutaka Kase, Outside Director Mr. Kase is Senior Corporate Advisor of Sojitz Corporation. Since he has provided advice with respect to the business manage ment of the Company and supervised business execution appropriately by leveraging his abundant experience and past achieve ments regarding global corporate management and business strategy fostered through his position as a corporate manager of a general trading company, he is expected to contribute to further enhancing the corporate value of the Sekisui Chemical Group. References 315 Hiroshi Oeda, Outside Director Mr. Oeda serves as a Corporate Special Advisor of Nisshin Seifun Group Inc. The Company expects him to leverage his abundant experience and skill regarding global corporate management, business strategies and overseas M&A, fostered through having been a management executive of the largest milling company in Japan, provide advice with respect to the business management of the Company and supervise business execution appropriately and be able to contribute to enhancing the corporate value of the Sekisui Chemical Group. Nominating and Remuneration Advisory Committee The Company has established an optional advisory committee concerning nomination and remuneration to further enhance the fairness and transparency of management. The Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee deliberates matters related to the nomination and dismissal of senior executives, including representative directors, the nomination of candidates for Director, enhancing the effectiveness of the Board of Directors, including the system of remuneration and levels of remuneration for Directors, as well as the commissioning of and dealings with advisors or executive advisors, including former representative directors and presidents, and submits recommendations and advice to the Board of Directors. The Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee comprises five members, the majority of whom are independent outside board members. The Chairperson is elected from the independent outside board members. Director Compensation The remuneration, etc., for Directors of the Company consists of basic remuneration, bonus and share-based com pensation (excluding Outside Directors), whereas the remuneration for Audit & Supervisory Board Members con sists of base remuneration and bonus (excluding Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members). The basic remuneration is provided in a flat amount commensurate with the roles and responsibilities of each Di rector within the limit of the officers’ remuneration allowance. Directors are obliged to allocate a certain amount of the base remuneration to purchase the shares of the Company through the Officers Stock Ownership Plan with the aim of enhancing management awareness of placing an emphasis on the stock price. The bonus represents the performance-based remuneration, the amount of which is determined based on the pay ment standards linked to the business performance of the Company and each divisional company, the dividend policy and ROE (return on equity). The share-based compensation plan is an incentive plan aimed at further raising motivation to contribute to the improvement of midand long-term business performance and improve the Group’s corporate value, under which the number of shares to be granted is determined in accordance with the position of Directors (excluding Outside Directors). Said plan has a structure enabling Directors to receive a benefit at the time of retirement for the results for which they contributed to enhancing the Company’s midand long-term corporate value in the form of the Company’s shares reflecting such enhancement in share value, thereby enhancing the link with midand long-term shareholders’ value. References 316 Compensation in Fiscal 2017 (Millions of yen) Share-based Basic remunerat i o n Bonus Stock options Total compensation Number Number Number Number Number of of of of of eligible Amount eligible Amount eligible Amount eligible Amount eligible Amount officers officers officers officers officers (persons) (persons) (persons) (persons) (persons) Directors 10 327 8 182 8 68 9 1 10 579 (Of which 2 24 1 0 2 24 external Directors) Audit & Supervisory 6 78 2 14 6 92 Board Members (Of which external Audit & 3 28 3 28 Super visory Board Members) (Notes) 1. The number of eligible officers includes one Audit & Supervisory Board Member who retired at the closing of the 95th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 28, 2017. 2. The amount paid to Directors does not include the portion of employee’s salary (including bonus) amounting to 142 million yen for Directors who concurrently serve as employees. 3. We are not granting shares since we have transferred to the share-based compensation system in June 2016, and the number of Stock Option above shows the booked amount necessary for the accounting processing of fiscal 2017 from the shares granted in the past fiscal years. Notice of Convocation of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders http://www.sekisuichemical.com/ir/library/notice_of_convocation/index.html References 317 Director Company Stock Ownership Guidelines In addition to having introduced, for Directors (excluding Outside Directors) and division company operating officers, a share-based compensation plan to further raise motivation to contribute to the improvement of midand long-term business performance and improve the Group’s corporate value, the Company has established “Company Stock Ownership Guidelines” for those who are holding more than a certain number of shares. Executive Officer System and Executive Committee To maximize corporate value, the Company has built its management structure based on a system of three division companies. Together with assigning to each division company operating officers specializing in business execution, an Executive Committee has been established to serve as the top decision-making body in each division company. Executive Committee members, whose term of office is deemed to be for one year, are appointed by resolution of the Board of Directors. By transferring authority to the division companies, the Board of Directors strives to achieve continual improvements in corporate value as an organization responsible for decisions on basic policies of the Sekisui Chemical Group’s management as well as high-level management decision-making and supervision of business execution. References 318 Management System References 319 Auditing System Approach to Appointment of Audit & Supervisory Board Members To enhance the internal audits that form part of internal control, the Company is working to appoint talented people who possess exceptional corporate management as well as finance and accounting knowledge to corporate auditor positions. In fiscal 2017, a total of five corporate auditors, consisting of two full-time corporate auditors and three part-time outside auditors, were appointed. For the two full-time corporate auditor positions, the Company appointed the former heads of the Corporate Audit Department and Corporate Finance & Accounting Department. One of the outside auditors appointed is Mr. Yasuhiro Nishi, who possesses experience as a certified public accountant and from having worked for an auditing company. Internal Control System In May 2006, the Board of Directors resolved to adopt a fundamental policy regarding the establishment of an internal control system for ensuring the appropriateness of the Group’s business activities. Based on the Corporate Activity Guidelines set forth in accordance with the Group management principles, the Company seeks to realize collaborative interaction concerning the supervision, directives, and communications of the Sekisui Chemical Group (the Company and its subsidiaries), and Sekisui Chemical’s duties include providing guidance and counsel, and undertaking evaluations of all Sekisui Chemical Group members to ensure that their business activities are being conducted in an appropriate manner. Compliance To further strengthen the Group’s compliance activities, the CSR Committee, chaired by the president, deliberates the Fundamental Compliance Policies, which are subject to approval by the Board of Directors. In addition, the Compliance Sub-committee supervises compliance activities group wide, and conducts activities to highlight the importance of compliance as a fundamental aspect of our corporate culture. References 320 Risk Management Sekisui Chemical maintains a companywide risk management structure for integrated management of measures to prevent risk events from occurring (risk management) and to respond with risk events occur (crisis management). The Risk Management Group of the Human Resources Department maintains and refines the risk management structure and disseminates information to all directors, executive officers, and employees of the Company and the Group companies. In fiscal 2017, some 170 task forces are working to reduce and eliminate risk by analyzing and assessing conditions and implementing risk management measures followed by periodic reviews and implementation of the PDCA cycle of risk management for ongoing improvement. The Risk Management Group addresses risk expediently and systematically, reports to each subcommittee of the CSR Committee, and considers measures for implementation throughout the Company. Crisis management activities are carried out following the Sekisui Chemical Group Crisis Management Guidelines. Risk management officers of each department regularly hold crisis management liaison meetings to research incidents and reinforce practices. The Company’s overseas crisis management activities are overseen by the Global Crisis Management Office and Regional Crisis Management Responsibility in each of the Company’s nine regions in line with the Sekisui Chemical Group Global Crisis Management Guidelines. Information Disclosure and Communication with Stakeholders In order to deepen mutual trust with all of our shareholders, we believe it is important not only to actively disclose information in a timely and appropriate manner, but also to enhance two-way communications with our shareholders. To steadily put this belief into practice throughout the Group, we established the “Principle of Corporate Information Disclosure” in December 2005 and simultaneously, beefed up our internal information disclosure framework. For instance, we have set up the “Corporate Information Disclosure Regulations” which specify the content and system of disclosure. In order to pursue this principle further, that is to actively disclose more information, since fiscal year 2006 we have been holding meetings with the staff who are responsible for information disclosure at the respective divisions. In Sekisui Chemical Group, the Investor Relations Group within the Business Strategy Department is working hard to strengthen two-way communications with our shareholders and investors, not only by disclosing financial statements in a timely and appropriate manner but also by actively reflecting our shareholders’ voice in our management. For example, we hold quarterly briefings on financial results where our management explains these figures. Also, we pay heed to the voice of capital markets by holding one-on-one meetings with analysts and investors. To ensure information is provided in a fair manner, the Group posts its financial statements and results briefings on the Company website in Japanese and English simultaneously and additionally provides audio recordings of the briefing and a transcript of the question and answer session. References 321 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL http://www.sekisuichemical.com/ For further information contact: CSR Management Office, Business Strategy Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) TEL.: +81-3-5521-0839 E-mail: csr@sekisui.com CSR Report 2018 (PDF) has been reviewed for assurance by an independent third party and as a result has been granted the sustainability report review and registration logo. This demonstrates that this report satises the necessary criteria established by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (J-SUS; http://www.j-sus.org/) for the use of this logo, intended to assure the reliability of sustainability information. Date of issue: July 2018; 1st printing (Previous report published June 2017/Next report scheduled to be published in July 2019)
