THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION I am pleased to reconfirm Aston Martin Lagonda Ltd.’s commitment to the United Nations Global Compact Initiative and our continued support of its 10 Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This document provides an update on our activities to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Over the past twelve months we have taken significant steps with the implementation of our first Sustainability Strategy, which has these principals at its heart. Our achievements are published in detail on an annual basis in our Sustainability Report. We continue to commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders, using our primary channels of communication, new sustainability website and our annual sustainability report. Sincerely yours, Dr. Andy Palmer CMG President and Chief Executive Officer THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017/18 03 ASTON MARTIN LAGONDA LTD. ASTON MARTIN LAGONDA LTD. ASTON MARTIN LAGONDA LTD. Aston Martin, an iconic British marque founded in 1913 by Robert Bamford and Lionel Martin from a humble workshop on Henniker Mews in London, their vision was to develop cars with impeccable design and supreme performance. These cars captivated the public’s imagination and still command the same emotive fascination over 100 years later. Today, Aston Martin is the only independent British luxury automotive manufacturer, championing not only breakthroughs in cutting edge design such as the new DB11 and Vantage, but also new technologies through research, development and deployment of lightweight materials and powertrain solutions. The company acts as an essential bridge for the migration of technology from the race track to the road, this is emphasised in the Aston Martin Valkyrie hypercar being developed with Red Bull Advanced Technologies. Being independent is not without its unique challenges as every other similarly-sized luxury/sport car manufacturer is part of a much larger corporation, enabling them access to ‘off-the-shelf’ technical solutions from their parent group or to pool their CO2 emissions against lower emitting vehicles in their group brand portfolio. The future for Aston Martin is bright under President and CEO Dr Andy Palmer CMG, who took over the helm of the company in late 2014. Dr Palmer’s first task upon joining Aston Martin was to set about reinventing the company as a sustainable luxury business. This new luxury business will have a broader portfolio of products offering cutting-edge technologies, combined with the very best of design and British craftsmanship, a key aspect synonymous with the Aston Martin brand. These new products are being developed under the largest investment plan in the company’s history. By the end of this decade, all sports cars in the current range will be replaced, starting with the DB11, with each of these models having a striking level of design differentiation while still remaining unmistakeably an Aston Martin. Added to this will be up to three additional model lines taking the company into new market segments. These additional products will underpin the company’s future growth and sustainability, making it more globally relevant. 04 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017/18 05 OUR APPROACH TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES OUR APPROACH TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES OUR APPROACH TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES In late 2014 under the leadership of new President and CEO Dr Andy Palmer To ensure a coherent implementation of the 10 To roll out this strategy and ensure that all initiatives principles, the company decided to approach its were employee borne, we set up a Sustainability CMG, Aston Martin signed up to the UN Global Compact program, this marked implementation in three distinct phases. Working Group, which is responsible for implementation the company’s first step on integrating Sustainability at the heart of its operations. 1. The first phase would analyse the business and of the various initiatives across the business. At this point we identified five major stakeholders, which could guide the direction develop a sustainability strategy, with the 10 Now in its third year, the UN Global Compact principles and the stakeholders at its core. 10 principles remain at the core of the company’s of our CSR policy, these being: approach to sustainability and its engagement with 2. The second sought to implement this strategy its stakeholders. throughout the business, through the company’s • Customers policy deployment mechanism Plus Alpha. • Employees 3. The third stage focused on directed initiatives outside the business, throughout our operations • Shareholders around the world. This was supported through greater communication of our Sustainability agenda • Suppliers and the development of our first Sustainability • Society (globally and locally) Report published in October 2016. 06 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017/18 07 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation Aston Martin supports the Universal Declaration of All employees of Aston Martin are expected to adhere Human Rights and has implemented policies which to these policies. A system has been established to support the protection of such rights and avoidance of solicit employees’ annual confirmation that they are human rights abuses where they may inter-relate with aware of and adhere to the code of conduct. Aston Martin’s business activities. All Aston Martin suppliers are expected to comply with For example, the Aston Martin Standards of Corporate the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide and Conduct sets out expected standards of conduct and to supply goods on standard terms and conditions. behaviour for employees to adopt in relations with Failure to do so could result in the termination of one another and in pursuing Aston Martin’s business business with Aston Martin. interests generally. This covers policies on subjects such as discrimination, harassment as well as conflicts Measurement of interest and anti-bribery. In the past year Aston Martin has not been the In addition, all Aston Martin suppliers are expected subject of any investigations, legal claims or other to comply with the Aston Martin Responsible action relating to human rights. Procurement Guide. The guide expects that our Aston Martin measures production first tier supplier suppliers treat their employees fairly and do not compliance to the Aston Martin Responsible tolerate bullying and harassment or discrimination of Procurement Guide using a ‘Supplier Performance workers or others. The company’s standard terms Rating System’. and conditions for the purchase of parts also require suppliers to prohibit child labour in their own business and supply chains and to comply with all laws relevant to their businesses. 08 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017/18 09 LABOUR PRINCIPLES LABOUR PRINCIPLES LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation Aston Martin supports the International Labour All employees of Aston Martin are expected to Organisation Core Conventions. adhere to anti-discrimination and equal opportunities policies and confirm annually that they are aware of Aston Martin acknowledges every employee’s right to and adhere to these policies. In addition, an employee be a member of a trade union and voluntarily recognises training programme regarding equal opportunities has the independent trade union ‘Unite’ for collective been implemented. bargaining and employee representation purposes. All Aston Martin employees are able to join a trade Aston Martin has issued policies to all employees and union of their choice. The company participates in other staff regarding the importance of upholding equal regular collective bargaining with one recognised opportunities and the prohibition of discrimination and Union, ‘Unite’ in the UK and also recognises such harassment in the workplace on grounds of gender, union for the purposes of representation of employees race, disability, age, sexual orientation and religion. in the workplace. All Aston Martin suppliers are expected to comply with All Aston Martin suppliers are expected to comply with the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide. the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide and This guide expects that our suppliers do not use to supply goods on standard terms and conditions. child labour or forced labour, are committed to equal opportunities and ensure that employees have the right Measurement to freedom of association and collective bargaining. In the past year Aston Martin has not been the subject of any investigations, legal claims or other action relating to these labour principles. Aston Martin measures production first tier supplier compliance to the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide using the ‘Supplier Performance Rating System’. 10 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017/18 11 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Aston Martin is committed to on-going reductions in Annual targets are set by Aston Martin and plans are energy and resource consumption in the manufacture put in place to reduce energy and water consumption and operation of its products as set out in the as well as waste and solvent emissions from the Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Aston Martin Environmental Policy 2016. In addition, manufacturing facility. environmental responsibility; and it is committed to a reduction in its carbon footprint, Aston Martin operates and maintains an environmental whilst complying with all relevant legislation and system in line with ISO14001:2004 and are actively Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion striving to achieve results above and beyond the working through the transition to ISO14001:2015. legal minimum wherever possible. In 2017, the of environmentally friendly technologies company started working with the Carbon Trust All Aston Martin suppliers are expected to comply with to assess the company’s performance and secure the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide. Carbon Trust accreditation. Aston Martin will continue to source and invest in new technologies to improve fuel efficiency and environmental output of its products. All Aston Martin suppliers are expected to comply with the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide. This policy requires that our suppliers, where possible, are certified to ISO14001:2004 (and the transition to ISO14001:2015); and minimise resource consumption, waste and emissions. 12 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017/18 13 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Measurement 2015 2015 15,559,841 Kwh 28 From a product perspective Aston Martin continually 0 % % invests in new technologies and makes improvements Environmental targets are regularly assessed and to drive efficiency in its products. results reported to the board of Aston Martin and published annually through our Sustainability Report. In 2016 Aston Martin launched the all-new DB11, with In 2017 Aston Martin saw a significant increase in technologies such as cylinder deactivation and stop WASTE SENT TO GAS production volumes caused by demand for new start, contributing to class-leading CO2 emissions, circa LANDFILL SITES USAGE 30% lower than its predecessor. This is the first in a products. This has had a negative impact on our energy range of new products to be rolled out by Aston Martin 2016 2016 and water consumption as outlined below; over the coming years including the relaunch of the • R  eduction 2016 to 2017 – 0% to landfill; therefore 100% of waste in 2017 was either reused, recycled or recovered. Lagonda brand as a Luxury Electric Vehicle brand. This demonstrates our commitment to continuous environmental improvement, a commitment that is 100 % of waste in 2016 was either 11,222,667 Kwh illustrated by our fleet CO2 (Europe) levels today being reused, recycled or recovered. • Increase in electricity consumption within the Gaydon operation by 7% from 2016 (10,222,682 38% lower than in 2000. kWh to 10,964,753 kWh) Aston Martin measures production first tier supplier • R  educed its gas consumption within the Gaydon compliance to the Aston Martin Responsible operation by 28% from 2016. (15,559,841 Kwh Procurement Guide using the ‘Supplier Performance 10,964,753 Kwh 13,387 m3 to 11,222,667 Kwh) Rating System’. 2016 2016 • Increase in water consumption within the Gaydon operation by 7% from 2016. (12,565 m3 to ELECTRICITY WATER 13,387 m3). USAGE USAGE • Increase in VOC (solvent) emissions from its paint shop operation by 27% from 2015. (26 g/m² to 33 g/m²) 2017 saw a significant increase in production volumes 2015 7 % 10,222,682 Kwh 2015 7 % 12,565 m3 which has had an impact on our environmental figures. 33g/m² 2016 VOC (SOLVENT) EMISSIONS 2015 27 % 26g/m² 14 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017/18 15 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation Aston Martin recognises the terms of the UK Bribery All employees of Aston Martin are expected to adhere Act and has issued policies prohibiting employees to these policies; and confirm annually that they are from participating in any activity amounting to bribery, aware of and adhere to the code of conduct. or permitting a business partner to undertake such All Aston Martin suppliers are expected to comply with activity in Aston Martin’s name or for its benefit. the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide. Aston Martin also supports the UN Convention against Corruption. Measurement Aston Martin has also issued policies and procedures In the past year Aston Martin has not been the subject regarding standards expected of employees in terms of of any investigations, legal claims or other action acceptance of gifts and hospitality from third parties. relating to the matters covered by these principles. All Aston Martin suppliers are expected to comply Aston Martin measures production first tier supplier with the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide. compliance to the Aston Martin Responsible This policy confirms that Aston Martin has a Procurement Guide using the ‘Supplier Performance zero-tolerance approach to all forms of bribery and Rating System’. corruption and expects that our suppliers adopt the same stance. 16 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017/18 17 ASTON MARTIN LAGONDA LIMITED, BANBURY ROAD, GAYDON, WARWICKSHIRE CV35 0DB, ENGLAND WWW.ASTONMARTIN.COM
