Sustainability Communication on Progress UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UNGC Human rights ■ When selecting employees and determining their assignment in the company, Geberit attaches 1 G4-EC5 great importance to qualifications appropriate to the task description. According to an annual survey of all Geberit Group companies, applicable local minimum wages are well met. This con­ siderably reduces the risk of human rights violations. Principle 1: ■ The current Code of Conduct, which was revised in 2015, was communicated to all employees. 1 Code of Support and In this Code, Geberit undertakes to be an exemplary, reliable and fair business partner and em­ respect the Conduct for ployer at all times. As a fair partner, Geberit recognises all laws, directives and internationally protection of recognised standards as well as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and Employees internationally complies with them in full. All new employees at Geberit are trained on the Code of Conduct as 1 G4-HR2 proclaimed part of the Welcome events. human rights. ■ Compliance with the Code of Conduct is monitored Group-wide as part of an annual survey. 1 Society Verification is supplemented by internal audits on site. ■ The Geberit Integrity Line gives all employees the opportunity to report irregularities anony­ mously. ■ With respect to human rights violations, the greatest risk for Geberit lies with suppliers, who 1 Sustainability can be influenced only indirectly. Geberit does all it can to minimise this risk and requires that strategy business partners and suppliers comply with comprehensive standards. ■ The Code of Conduct for Suppliers is intended to ensure that Geberit’s suppliers act in accor­ 1 Code of Principle 2: dance with internal and external guidelines, such as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Conduct for Human Rights and the ILO core labour standards. As of the end of 2017, a total of 1,379 suppli­ Make sure the ers had signed the Code of Conduct for Suppliers. This equates to over 90% of the total pro­ Suppliers company is curement value. not complicit in human ■ In 2017, risk management relating to environmental and occupational safety aspects for suppli­ 1 Chapter 14.2 rights abuses. ers was expanded to include the material groups of the former Sanitec and was systematically evaluated. The number of suppliers in the highest risk category rose to 192, which corresponds to around 8% of the procurement value of Geberit. In 2017, four third-party audits were carried out at suppliers in Bulgaria and China. The results showed that the majority of occupational safety and environmental standards are complied with. Appropriate corrective measures are agreed in cases of non-compliance. Labour practices Principle 3: ■ No rights with respect to exercising freedom of association or collective bargaining as defined 1 Chapter 11.3 in the ILO core labour standards are subject to restriction at the Geberit Group. This is verified Uphold the annually as part of a Group-wide survey. No restrictions were in effect in 2017. freedom of association ■ 8,781 employees, corresponding to 75% of all employees, are currently covered by collective 1 G4-11 and the agreements. In Germany, Austria, Switzerland, France, Italy, Ukraine, Finland and Sweden, over effective 90% of employees are subject to a collective labour or wage agreement. There are no collec­ recognition of tive agreements with employees in place in the USA and China. the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: ■ Geberit’s exposure with respect to forced and child labour is considered low because of its in­ dustry sector and the countries in which business activities are carried out, as well as its high Uphold the quality requirements. elimination of all forms of ■ Forced and child labour are categorically rejected at Geberit. According to the annual Group1 Chapter 11.4 wide survey, no cases of forced or child labour were discovered in 2017, nor were any cases re­ forced and vealed during the course of the audits performed among the suppliers. The basic principles es­ 1 Chapter 11.5 compulsory labour. tablished in the Code of Conduct for Suppliers expressly include compliance with the ILO core labour standards for the exclusion of forced and child labour. Principle 5: Uphold the effective abolition of child labour. ■ The Geberit Code of Conduct clearly specifies how employees are to behave and how Geberit 1 Code of assumes responsibility as an employer in order to counteract discrimination in adherence with Conduct for Principle 6: the ILO core labour standards. During the reporting year, two cases of sexual harassment and Employees four cases of bullying were reported. These were settled following discussions with the parties Uphold the concerned or are still under investigation. elimination of discrimination ■ Geberit’s personnel policy and recruitment practices do not differentiate between members of 1 G4-HR3 in respect of the local community and other applicants or employees. employment ■ Protection of the principles of equality is anchored in the Geberit Code of Conduct. This in­ 1 Chapter 11.2 and cludes the prohibition of discrimination against any employee on the basis of gender. Fair and occupation. equal pay for men and women is a matter of course at Geberit, as was verified and documented 1 Chapter 10.4, in 2017 as part of the annual Group-wide survey. The proportion of female employees as of the 10.5 end of 2017 was 23%; in management this figure was 8.4%. Geberit Annual Report 2017 Sustainability Communication on Progress UN Global Compact Environmental protection ■ With the precautionary approach in mind, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors op­ 1 G4-46 erates an extensive system for monitoring and controlling the risks (incl. environmental risks) linked to the business activities. ■ Geberit has long stood for a high level of environmental awareness and been committed to 1 Geberit environmentally friendly, resource-efficient production as well as to the development of wa­ Compass ter-saving and sustainable products. This is also defined as a management principle in the Geberit Compass. Environmental criteria are considered in all decision-making processes. A 1 Environmental Principle 7: demonstrably high standard is achieved in this regard, one which often exceeds statutory re­ policy quirements. Support a precautionary ■ The carbon footprint over the entire value chain – from the provision of raw materials, com­ 1 Carbon approach to bustibles and fuels, the manufacture of products at Geberit, logistics and use, right through footprint environmental to disposal – reveals that product use (69%) and the provision of raw materials (16.3%) are by challenges. far the largest sources of CO2 emissions. ■ In 2017, CO2 emissions amounted to 242,796 tonnes, corresponding to a decrease of 2.9%. 1 G4-EC2 CO2 emissions per net sales (currency-adjusted) fell by 5.1% (in organic terms 5.8%), mean­ ing that Geberit slightly exceeded its long-term target of 5% per year. ■ A long-term CO2 target was established in 2016 that is compatible with the two-degree tar­ 1 Chapter 9.4 get set out in the Paris Agreement (science-based). Within this context, Geberit plans to re­ duce its absolute CO2 emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) by 6% between 2015 and 2021 to under 240,000 tonnes (based on organic growth). ■ The Geberit Group has a Group certificate in accordance with ISO 9001 (quality), ISO 14001 1 ISO (environment) and OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety) that is valid until the end of certificate 2018. The annual preparation of a corporate eco-balance has been an established part of Geberit’s environmental management since 1991. The total environmental impact was re­ 1 Chapter 9 duced by 3.7% in 2017. The environmental impact per net sales (currency-adjusted) dropped 1 Sustainability by 5.8% (in organic terms 6.1%), meaning that Geberit slightly exceeded its long-term target Strategy of 5% per year. This progress is founded largely on continuous improvements in efficiency at the energy-intensive ceramics plants. Principle 8: ■ Geberit places its faith in energy saving and energy efficiency. In addition to process optimi­ 1 Chapter 9.2 Undertake sation – particularly in the newly acquired plants – important measures include the continu­ initiatives to ous modernisation of the infrastructure and machine fleet, the optimisation of the kilns used 1 G4-EN19 promote for ceramic production, the improved use of waste heat (heat recovery) as well as the careful greater use of compressed air. environmental responsibility. ■ As part of the long-term CO2 strategy, specific goals for the share of renewable energy 1 G4-EN19 sources by 2021 were also established: 45% for electricity and 10% for combustibles. The share of purchased green electricity increased by 3 GWh to 47 GWh in 2017. In total, renew­ able energy sources account for 39% of electricity and 5.3% of combustibles. ■ Geberit regards eco-design as the key to environmentally friendly products. Beginning with 1 Chapter 9.6 the development process, the most environmentally friendly materials and functional princi­ ples are used, risks are minimised and high resource efficiency is pursued. Eco-design is also implemented in product modifications and technology projects. Every new product is to be better than its predecessor with respect to environmental aspects. ■ The water footprint throughout the Geberit value chain shows that nearly 100% of the water 1 SDGconsumption is attributable to the use of Geberit products by customers. Water-saving solu­ Reporting Principle 9: tions can therefore exert a major impact: all dual-flush and flush-stop cisterns produced since 1998 have saved around 2,650 million cubic metres of water in 2017 alone. 1 Water Encourage the footprint development and diffusion of ■ Geberit supports the economical use of water in the sanitary industry and played a key role in 1 G4-EC8 environmentally establishing the European Bathroom Forum (EBF) in 2017. The focus here was on the launch friendly of a new European water label for a wide range of sanitary products. technologies. ■ Green building is a market of the future experiencing strong growth throughout the world. As 1 Reference a leading system provider of sanitary solutions, Geberit is already offering suitable products magazine for this purpose. Anti-corruption ■ As a long-term member of Transparency International Switzerland, Geberit is committed to 1 Chapter 12.1 high standards in combating corruption. In addition to the Code of Conduct, there are addi­ Principle 10: tional guidelines on prevention and employees receive training in this area. Work against ■ In 2017, the Internal Audit Department audited a total of 23 companies. No case of corrup­ corruption in all tion was discovered in 2017. its forms, ■ Since 2017, an Integrity Line has been available to suppliers for anonymously reporting irreg­ 1 Chapter 14.2 including ularities in the procurement process. In the reporting year, one case that was deemed mater­ extortion and ial was reported. Appropriate steps are being taken to investigate this matter. bribery. ■ As a rule, Geberit does not make donations to parties or politicians. All donations are neutral from a party political point of view. This was verified and documented as part of the annual Group-wide survey. Geberit Annual Report 2017
