UN Global Compact Communication on Progress “This year I have spent much of my time reflecting upon our culture and how we describe our approach to business. Hundreds across the firm fed in to a process from which emerged a clear purpose: delivering legal certainty in a changing world. Responsible business is at the core of our refreshed values, driving how we will achieve our strategic ambition. On behalf of the firm, I reiterate the commitment of Linklaters LLP to the ten principles of the Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals, both of which have been instrumental in highlighting where our skills, expertise and resources can make the greatest impact. We are proud to be part of such a force for good.” Charlie Jacobs, Senior Partner and Chairman As an important part of the firm’s new strategy, defining our purpose Over the past 12 months, we have seen client engagement in our and values led to conversations across the business on our role activity grow, from volunteering collaborations to sharing knowledge in society and how that relates to our day-to-day work. Agreeing a on carbon disclosure to paying a living wage. We recognise the short expression of this was challenging but important and so we importance of working together; though we are leaders in some are delighted to share the results in this year’s Communication on areas, we have much to learn in others and such sharing of best Progress. Of course, we see this as a first step in consolidating our practice is to the benefit of all. Indeed, as we remain Participant current position and in setting out new aspirations for the years signatories, we are delighted now to be fully part of the UNGC ahead. We are currently developing new three-year plans for each network and look forward to collaborations in local groups and of our community investment, pro bono and corporate responsibility global initiatives in the year ahead. programmes and these will set challenging new targets for our business. We look forward to reporting on their progress next year. Key contacts:  Owen Clay, Partner, Chair of Corporate Responsibility Committee owen.clay@linklaters.com Matt Sparkes, Global Head of Corporate Responsibility matthew.sparkes@linklaters.com 1. Human Rights – Linklaters supports and respects the Internal training also took place this year through a series of protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. sessions across our global network to raise awareness of business Our statement of intent on human rights makes explicit our and human rights concepts amongst our broader legal and commitment and clarifies our ambition. The statement endorses business teams, enabling them better to identify business and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human human rights issues when working on transactions. We are asked Rights and supports the principles contained within the increasingly to share expertise in this area through participation at International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour conferences and through dedicated seminars. Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and This year we have raised the importance of human rights as an Rights at Work. The statement is approved at the highest level, is issue within our supply chain. Our Sustainable Procurement Policy publicly available and is communicated internally and externally. and Statement is available online and sets out our commitment to It remains under regular review, as does the extensive supporting responding to human rights concerns, not only in the selection of material provided for additional internal guidance. suppliers but also in their ongoing management. Though currently Our international Business and Human Rights Group continues to initially focused on suppliers to our UK offices, we are now advise clients on developing human rights policies, due diligence, extending its scope to cover our international offices as well. impact assessments and supply chain risk management. In This year we also signed Hong Kong’s Fair Hiring Pledge which particular, we advise many large multi-national corporations on expresses our support for the fair hiring of domestic workers by our the implementation of the Guiding Principles and on the nonemployees. The Fair Employment Foundation has run training in our financial disclosure requirements around human rights policies Hong Kong office on fair hiring practices. and considerations. Recent work includes assisting a number of Commitment: We will maintain the momentum of recent work by companies in the energy, infrastructure and shipping sectors on establishing sustainable procurement as a norm across our office human rights due diligence for the purposes of M&A transactions; network and, with the help of internal experts, ensuring that our advising a major ICT company on the design and implementation approach remains appropriate and effective. of a global human rights compliance programme; advising lenders and sponsors on the management of human rights risk in 3. L  inklaters upholds the freedom of association and the effective project finance documentation and assisting several companies in recognition of the right to collective bargaining. their engagement with supranational human rights bodies. We have a firm-wide policy in place that we maintain employment We continue to provide pro bono advice on dozens of matters arrangements and agreements that do not prohibit or discourage related to human rights every year. During 2017 these included: freedom of association or collective bargaining. >> work with the Cyrus R. Vance Center for International Justice Commitment: We will continue to implement this policy across all and the International Committee of the Red Cross on the our operations. development of a case study on best practice in relation to the 4. Linklaters upholds the elimination of all forms of compulsory management of security-related business and human rights or forced labour, and risks in the extractives sector >> alongside a number of firms and in conjunction with Advocates 5. Linklaters  upholds the effective abolition of child labour. for International Development, Saraficom, the Law Society We have a firm-wide policy in place that we will not use, be of Kenya and the UN Global Compact Network Kenya, our complicit in, or knowingly benefit from forced, compulsory or lawyers volunteered in Nairobi to deliver business and human child labour. We will engage our people on the basis of recognised rights training to members of the Kenyan in-house legal partnership, employment, collaboration and consultancy community. The training introduced delegates to the global arrangements established through national law and practice. frameworks which exist for the management of corporate For several years, we have been advising clients on the implications human rights risks, including the UN Guiding Principles and of the UK Modern Slavery Act. Now in force, we have also been with a particular focus on access to remedy and operational reviewing our own operations to ensure that we are already level grievance mechanisms complying with the new legislation, not only in setting out a policy, >> our lawyers participating in the pilot phase of the International but also in monitoring our suppliers and by being prepared to take Bar Association’s “Eyewitness to Atrocities” programme, action where we have concerns. In 2016 and 2017 we published reviewing footage submitted via an app and translating it our own Modern Slavery Statement (expanded, in fact, to cover into objective legal terms for use in international investigations broader human rights) and we also produced an interactive guide to and prosecutions the legislation which is freely available on our website. Our priority Commitment: We will review our internal guidance to ensure it in the first year was our most high-risk supply chains in London, remains relevant and, in particular, the processes we have in place notably in catering (sourcing of food), merchandise and IT. We have to monitor the firm’s performance in addressing human rights risks. now begun to extend this scope to include our international offices. We are committed to sharing our commercial expertise pro bono Again, pro bono activities support this principle. Examples from and will continue to grow this aspect of our programme. Asia include: 2. Linklaters  makes sure that it is not complicit in human >> our longstanding support at a legal advice centre in Hong Kong rights abuses. where issues of forced labour among domestic workers are frequent. These experiences have reinforced our commitment In line with the UN Guiding Principles, we strive to avoid causing or to tackling some of the root causes through our broader contributing to adverse human rights impacts on our people and, pro bono programme through the running of our offices, those who work for us through our supply chain. We also commit to addressing such impacts >> we have maintained our support for Thomson Reuters annual immediately should they occur. Anti-Slavery Summit where we spoke this year on a panel session considering “Increasing Slavery Regulations” We encourage our people to consider potential or actual adverse human rights impacts in their work. Our internal guidance on >> we co-authored a report with Liberty Asia on the gap between human rights at the firm provides for a discussion of actual and Thai laws combatting human trafficking and their actual potential human rights impacts as part of existing consideration of enforcement – “Legal Analysis of Human Trafficking in Thailand” wider business risk and reputational issues, particularly for higher Commitment: We will continue to extend the reach of our modern risk areas. Our Business and Human Rights Group has extensive slavery and human rights policy through our supply chain. We will expertise in how multi-national corporations should address human build on our expertise in this principle and use that to inform our rights risks and opportunities in their operations and is often asked own practice as well as that of pro bono clients. to give training to clients. 6. Linklaters upholds the elimination of discrimination in respect >> Engage D&I partners and D&I champions – leverage the global of employment and occupation. network of D&I partners and appoint senior leaders to support Linklaters opposes all forms of unlawful discrimination. We the priority diversity strands (eg include executive committees are committed to providing equal opportunity to everyone in and our director group). Create D&I champions at all levels of the all aspects of work including: recruitment, selection, training, firm – we can learn from Dispute Resolution in London, where promotion, redeployment, performance improvement measures, associates are leading diversity strands, in conjunction with local disciplinary and grievance procedures, redundancy situations and network groups terms and conditions of employment. We believe that individuals >> Increase scrutiny to the diversity mix of lateral hires – leverage should be treated on their merits and that employment-related this as an opportunity to increase the number of female decisions should be based on objective job-related criteria such partners in the firm. The same principle applies to other as aptitude and skills. Additionally, Linklaters is committed to strands of diversity ensuring that all professional dealings with third parties will be Commitment: We commit to gathering data, training and educating free from any discriminatory behaviours. our people, and sponsoring our D&I Action Plan at the most senior We are committed to ensuring a safe working environment, level to continue to be a responsible business for our people, our free from bullying or harassment. Our bullying and harassment clients and our communities. policy (applicable to employees and contractors) sets out the 7. L  inklaters supports a precautionary approach to responsibilities of individuals and managers in reducing workplace environmental challenges. bullying/harassment, as well as explaining what support is available. The policy is published on our intranet, and is regularly referred to The Environment and Climate Change Group advises clients on in core skills training for managers and in internal communications. climate change, policy, emissions abatement, product stewardship and decommissioning legacy management. The group is well We know that a policy is not enough and are exploring further known for its stand-alone expertise across law, regulation and soft support to ensure that everyone feels empowered to raise law application to environment issues, and functions seamlessly concerns. As we roll out our new culture and values, we have with market-leading corporate, projects, financial regulatory and been openly communicating with our people regarding the derivatives teams. revelations of sexual harassment in various industries. We have been working to ensure that the channels for escalating any In support of the cutting-edge expertise Linklaters lawyers inappropriate behaviour make it as easy as possible to do so. provide, the firm-wide Environmental Policy commits each of our property and operational teams to minimising the harmful There are several support mechanisms available to employees, effects of our operations on the environment and ensures including an Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) which we focus on a programme of continual improvement in our offers confidential, expert advice and emotional support for any environmental performance. A consistent approach to managing employees should they have any personal or work-related concerns. this has been achieved throughout the firm-wide Environmental Naturally, the firm has an internal global whistle-blowing policy Management System (EMS), with the governance of this system which is regularly reviewed to ensure that it provides the most overseen by a sub-committee of the Partnership Board, the effective means for employees to raise concerns in the public Corporate Responsibility Committee. The in-house environmental interest, while protecting them against suffering any detriment sustainability and energy team drive the objectives and targets as a result of making a relevant disclosure. which address our most significant environmental impacts: climate This is all underpinned by our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) change (through the procurement and use of office space and/or Strategy and Action Plan. As a responsible business, we believe it is buildings), our use of resources (such as office supplies and water), important that we represent the diversity of our people, our clients business travel and our generation and disposal of waste. and our communities and create an environment where all our In establishing two-way communication with stakeholders, people have fair and equal opportunities to realise their potential. Linklaters discloses environmental performance in the Carbon Our Global D&I Strategy and Action Plan help us to give people Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply Chain module; last year an enhanced understanding of D&I through specific initiatives, achieving an Aand placing the firm in a leading position for the training, engagement and communications. Our strategy is legal sector globally. governed by our most senior leadership bodies – Executive Despite reducing overall environmental impacts over the last eight Committee, Partnership Board and our People Committee. years, (36% electricity reductions and 10% business travel), we Key activities in our D&I Action Plan to eliminate discrimination in acknowledge emissions reductions are now harder to achieve our workplace include: than ever before. To combat this, the firm became Carbon Neutral >> Set targets – in addition to our gender targets, establish targets in 2017, offsetting the unavoidable emissions resulting from our for other diversity strands operations through buying carbon credits from the Gold Standard, VER Gyapa Stoves project in Ghana. >> Develop global metrics – measure progress with a diversity scorecard for each business unit and business team and Commitment: We will continue to advise our clients on develop an inclusion index for the firm environmental issues and we will commit to a further three years of carbon neutrality to mitigate the risks of the carbon emissions >> Collect global data – measure how effectively we attract, retain resulting from our operations. and progress diverse talent against each of our priority diversity strands. We must navigate any legal restrictions to collecting 8. L  inklaters undertakes initiatives to promote greater data and build our people’s trust and confidence to declare their environmental responsibility. personal diversity data and their understanding of why we need We are one of only two global law firms to have achieved ISO this information 14001 certification of our Environmental Management System >> Start early – educate our people about the importance of D&I at (EMS) comprehensively across our global operations. As the firm, from when they start with the firm and at every stage innovative, early adopters, the firm’s operational teams continue of their careers, including pre-joining. Offer career development to implement initiatives, investing a further £250,000 in energy support to men and women at every stage efficiency upgrades over the last 12 months, reducing carbon >> Continue to deliver unconscious bias and inclusive leadership emissions by up to 750 tonnes of CO2e per year. Further, training – support each office to develop a locally relevant D&I within the EMS all locations with 30 people or more maintain plan. Embed diversity and inclusion in all our learning and an environmental risk register which is linked to compliance development programmes obligations and best practice environmental management. In addressing the lifecycle perspective of purchases, the global 10. L  inklaters works against corruption in all its forms, including printer fleet has been a focus this last year. We aim to assess the extortion and bribery. impacts of our indirect procurement of raw non-renewable material Linklaters’ work in risk, regulation and governance addresses and our contribution to carbon emissions through our supply many of the most critical challenges faced by our clients, bringing chain, and to manage our output of hazardous waste. As a result, a together a broad range of expertise, specialist knowledge, and print reduction programme has commenced; this aims to highlight innovative thinking to enable us to offer holistic advice in any the technology available to our people and to reduce printing and, given situation. Of particular note is the team’s work advising on therefore, overall consumption. the application of anti-bribery frameworks in new and developing We continue to work with our clients, staff and suppliers to markets. Recent matters have included: ensure the evolving green and circular economies prosper. Every >> performing a governance review of a multi-national company year, we communicate and report our results, achievements operating in the FMCG sector, which included an assessment of and new initiatives using the vehicle of the UN Environment its policies and procedures for the management of anti-bribery Programme’s World Environment Day (WED). With the support of and corruption risk our global network of over 150 environmental representatives and >> advising an oil and gas services company in connection with champions, 2017 saw 21 teams around the world take part. the second ever civil recovery settlement obtained by the SFO As executive members of the Legal Sustainability Alliance, We have further expertise in governance in international we communicate and report our environmental performance development and this year ran our final annual conference publicly every year. Engaging with other firms across the sector, in Oxford on this issue. The theme of the 2017 Advancing our in-house team shares best practice and drives continual Good Governance seminar was “Risk, Governance and the improvement across the legal profession. Challenge of Migration.” Recent crises linked to refugee flows As supply chain partners to the clients we advise, we communicate and migration have exposed the failure of current models of and report into a number of sustainability reporting portals. global governance to address a highly complex spectrum of risks, In addition to CDP we report into the Ecovadis sustainability including xenophobia, political unrest, corruption and poverty. benchmarking platform; scoring 80 out of 100, we outperformed The 2017 seminar took a focused look at the specific political, other businesses in our category for Environment. This progress is developmental, economic, security and humanitarian risks arising shared with the relevant clients and used to advance environmental from the refugee and migration crises, and considered new responsibility within our own operations and supply chain. models of governance which might be able to address those risks Commitment: We will complete our three-year firm-wide sustainably and resolve the root causes creating such risks. transition from ISO 14001:2004 to ISO 14001:2015. We will use In providing advice to clients on these themes, we must, of the UNEP World Environment Day to engage with our clients and course, take steps to encourage our people to show leadership staff on environmental issues, and we will continue to report and in every jurisdiction in which we operate. ‎We have robust communicate with our interested parties eg clients, regulators policies and procedures on anti-bribery and corruption and and other stakeholders. these are under regular review. Our people are encouraged to 9. Linklaters encourages the development and diffusion of raise concerns quickly and confidentially, and our Risk function environmentally friendly technologies. provides 24/7 support to our lawyers wherever they may be. In 2016, we brought together many of our policies into a single Linklaters’ expertise in environmentally friendly technology document – “Our Ethical Code” – which included significant covers a full spectrum of relevant projects, including onshore and guidance on anti-bribery and corruption matters including offshore wind, solar, biomass, biofuels, wave/tidal, geothermal, whistle-blowing. hydropower, waste and waste to energy. By way of example, we recently advised Anglian Water on its £250m debut issuance Commitment: We will use the recent uplift in internal awareness of Green Bonds, the first such issuance by a UK utility. The of “Our Ethical Code” to ensure that our advice to clients is transaction was structured to meet the requirements of the reflected in our own response to bribery and corruption risk. 2017 Green Bond Principles as published by ICMA and enables Anglian Water to issue Green Bonds under its note programme as part of its whole business securitisation financing. As well as external alignment, we have reviewed our own environmental sustainability programme against the Sustainable Development Goals. We have identified the goals with greatest alignment to this part of our business: affordable and clean energy (Goal 7), responsible consumption and production (Goal 12), and climate action (Goal 13). Examples include how we are committed to procuring 100% renewable power to our operations. In financial year 2016/2017, 60% of Linklaters electricity was sourced from renewable supplies, with plans to increase this as opportunities for renewable tariffs become available in the jurisdictions where we operate around the world. Further, as we advance through technology, improvements have been made to both how our people work and how we consume resources, using 8% less paper over the same reporting year. Commitment: We will continue to implement environmentally efficient technologies in our operations at every opportunity, and willingly share our experience and/or learn from others to encourage adoption of similar schemes by us and others. linklaters.com GC11968_F/01.18 Linklaters LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC326345. It is a law firm authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. The term partner in relation to Linklaters LLP is used to refer to a member of the LLP or an employee or consultant of Linklaters LLP or any of its affiliated firms or entities with equivalent standing and qualifications. A list of the names of the members of Linklaters LLP and of the non-members who are designated as partners and their professional qualifications is open to inspection at its registered office, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, England or on www.linklaters.com and such persons are either solicitors, registered foreign lawyers or European lawyers. Please refer to www.linklaters.com/regulation for important information on our regulatory position.
